The structural complexity of the brain depends on precise molecular and cellular regulatory mechanisms orchestrated by regional morphogenetic organizers. The thalamic organizer is the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI), a transverse linear neuroepithelial domain in the alar plate of the diencephalon. Because of its production of Sonic hedgehog, ZLI acts as a morphogenetic signaling center. Shh is expressed early on in the prosencephalic basal plate and is then gradually activated dorsally within the ZLI. The anteroposterior positioning and the mechanism inducing Shh expression in ZLI cells are still partly unknown, being a subject of controversial interpretations. For instance, separate experimental results have suggested that juxtaposition of prechordal (rostral) and epichordal (caudal) neuroepithelium, anteroposterior encroachment of alar lunatic fringe (L-fng) expression, and/or basal Shh signaling is required for ZLI specification. Here we investigated a key role of Wnt signaling in the molecular regulation of ZLI positioning and Shh expression, using experimental embryology in ovo in the chick. Early Wnt expression in the ZLI regulates Gli3 and L-fng to generate a permissive territory in which Shh is progressively induced by planar signals of the basal plate.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results not only in motor deficits, but produces, in many patients, excruciating chronic pain (SCI pain). We have previously shown, in a rodent model, that SCI causes suppression of activity in the GABAergic nucleus, the zona incerta (ZI), and concomitant increased activity in one of its main targets, the posterior nucleus of the thalamus (PO); the increased PO activity is correlated with the maintenance and expression of hyperalgesia after SCI. Here, we test the hypothesis that SCI causes a similar pathological increase in other thalamic nuclei regulated by the ZI, specifically the mediodorsal thalamus (MD), which is involved in the emotional-affective aspects of pain. We recorded single and multiunit activity from MD of either anesthetized or awake rats, and compared data from rats with SCI with data from sham-operated controls (anesthetized experiments) or with data from the same animals prelesion (awake experiments). Consistent with our hypothesis, MD neurons from rats with SCI show significant increases in spontaneous firing rates and in the magnitude and duration of responses to noxious stimuli. In a subset of anesthetized animals, similar changes in activity of MD neurons were produced by pharmacologically inactivating ZI in naive rats, suggesting that the changes in the MD after SCI are related to suppressed inhibition from the ZI. These data support our hypothesis that SCI pain results, at least in part, from a loss of inhibition to thalamic nuclei associated with both the sensory-discriminative and emotional-affective components of pain.
During corticogenesis, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP; ADCYAP1) may contribute to proliferation control by activating PAC1 receptors of neural precursors in the embryonic ventricular zone. PAC1 receptors, specifically the hop and short isoforms, couple differentially to and activate distinct pathways that produce pro- or anti-mitogenic actions. Previously, we found that PACAP was an anti-mitogenic signal from embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5) onward both in culture and in vivo and activated cAMP signaling through the short isoform. However, we now find that mice deficient in PACAP exhibited a decrease in the BrdU labeling index (LI) in E9.5 cortex, suggesting that PACAP normally promotes proliferation at this stage. To further define mechanisms, we established a novel culture model in which the viability of very early cortical precursors (E9.5 mouse and E10.5 rat) could be maintained. At this stage, we found that PACAP evoked intracellular calcium fluxes and increased phospho-PKC levels, as well as stimulated G1 cyclin mRNAs and proteins, S-phase entry, and proliferation without affecting cell survival. Significantly, expression of hop receptor isoform was 24-fold greater than the short isoform at E10.5, a ratio that was reversed at E14.5 when short expression was 15-fold greater and PACAP inhibited mitogenesis. Enhanced hop isoform expression, elicited by in vitro treatment of E10.5 precursors with retinoic acid, correlated with sustained pro-mitogenic action of PACAP beyond the developmental switch. Conversely, depletion of hop receptor using short-hairpin RNA abolished PACAP mitogenic stimulation at E10.5. These observations suggest that PACAP elicits temporally specific effects on cortical proliferation via developmentally regulated expression of specific receptor isoforms.
Intelligent behavior requires integrating several sources of information in a meaningful fashion-be it context with stimulus or shape with color and size. This requires the underlying neural mechanism to respond in a different manner to similar inputs (discrimination), while maintaining a consistent response for noisy variations of the same input (generalization). We show that neurons that mix information sources via random connectivity can form an easy to read representation of input combinations. Using analytical and numerical tools, we show that the coding level or sparseness of these neurons' activity controls a trade-off between generalization and discrimination, with the optimal level depending on the task at hand. In all realistic situations that we analyzed, the optimal fraction of inputs to which a neuron responds is close to 0.1. Finally, we predict a relation between a measurable property of the neural representation and task performance.
Behavioral states often preferentially enhance specific classes of behavior and suppress incompatible behaviors. In the nervous system, this may involve upregulation of the efficacy of neural modules that mediate responses to one stimulus and suppression of modules that generate antagonistic or incompatible responses to another stimulus. In Aplysia, prestimulation of egestive inputs [esophageal nerve (EN)] facilitates subsequent EN-elicited egestive responses and weakens ingestive responses to ingestive inputs [Cerebral-Buccal Interneuron (CBI-2)]. However, a single state can also promote incompatible behaviors in response to different stimuli. This is the case in Aplysia, where prestimulation of CBI-2 inputs not only enhances subsequent CBI-2-elicited ingestive responses, but also strengthens EN-elicited egestive responses. We used the modularly organized feeding network of Aplysia to characterize the organizational principles that allow a single network state to promote two opposing behaviors, ingestion and egestion, without the two interfering with each other. We found that the CBI-2 prestimulation-induced state upregulates the excitability of neuron B65 which, as a member of the egestive module, increases the strength of egestive responses. Furthermore, we found that this upregulation is likely mediated by the actions of the neuropeptides FCAP (Feeding Circuit Activating Peptide) and CP2 (Cerebral Peptide 2). This increased excitability is mediated by a form of modulation that we refer to as &quot;latent modulation&quot; because it is established during stimulation of CBI-2, which does not activate B65. However, when B65 is recruited into EN-elicited egestive responses, the effects of the latent modulation are expressed as a higher B65 firing rate and a resultant strengthening of the egestive response.
Endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) is a well-known modulator of nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord of rodents. It arises mainly from a sparse population of cholinergic interneurons located in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. This population was thought to be absent from the spinal cord of monkey, what might suggest that spinal ACh would not be a relevant clinical target for pain therapy. In humans, however, pain responses can be modulated by spinal ACh, as evidenced by the increasingly used analgesic procedure (for postoperative and labor patients) consisting of the epidural injection of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine. The source and target of this ACh remain yet to be elucidated. In this study, we used an immunolabeling for choline acetyltransferase to demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of a plexus of cholinergic fibers in laminae II-III of the dorsal horn of the macaque monkey. Moreover, we show the presence of numerous cholinergic cell bodies within the same laminae and compared their density and morphological properties with those previously described in rodents. An electron microscopy analysis demonstrates that cholinergic boutons are presynaptic to dorsal horn neurons as well as to the terminals of sensory primary afferents, suggesting that they are likely to modulate incoming somatosensory information. Our data suggest that this newly identified dorsal horn cholinergic system in monkeys is the source of the ACh involved in the analgesic effects of epidural neostigmine and could be more specifically targeted for novel therapeutic strategies for pain management in humans.



How categories are represented continues to be hotly debated across neuroscience and psychology. One topic that is central to cognitive research on category representation but underexplored in neurobiological research concerns the internal structure of categories. Internal structure refers to how the natural variability between-category members is coded so that we are able to determine which members are more typical or better examples of their category. Psychological categorization models offer tools for predicting internal structure and suggest that perceptions of typicality arise from similarities between the representations of category members in a psychological space. Inspired by these models, we develop a neural typicality measure that allows us to measure which category members elicit patterns of activation that are similar to other members of their category and are thus more central in a neural space. Using an artificial categorization task, we test how psychological and physical typicality contribute to neural typicality, and find that neural typicality in occipital and temporal regions is significantly correlated with subjects' perceptions of typicality. The results reveal a convergence between psychological and neural category representations and suggest that our neural typicality measure is a useful tool for connecting psychological and neural measures of internal category structure.
The development of new therapeutic approaches, combining efficacy and safety against intestinal inflammation, notably inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), has emerged as an important goal due to the significant side effects and the lack of effectiveness of standard current therapies. Recently, several studies described the health-promoting effects of red wine, including anti-inflammatory properties, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its beneficial role remain largely unknown. Red wine is rich in phenolic compounds and it has been suggested that the positive effect of red wine intake might be attributed not only to the antioxidant properties of these compounds but also to the modulation of signalling cascades in connection with physiological and pathophysiological conditions such as inflammatory processes. This study assesses the potential anti-inflammatory action of a red wine extract (RWE) enriched in polyphenols in a cellular model of intestinal inflammation using cytokines-stimulated HT-29 colon epithelial cells. RWE suppressed cytokines-induced IB degradation and interleukin-8 production in a dose-dependent manner. Coherently, key inflammatory mediators downstream NF-B activation; notably cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase were maintained at low levels by RWE in the presence of the cytokines. Additionally, RWE inhibited both the increase of nitric oxide derived from iNOS and of protein tyrosine nitration, a biomarker of nitrosative stress that typically requires the reaction of nitric oxide with the superoxide radical. Taken together, the anti-inflammatory action of RWE, mechanistically supported by the modulation of cascades orchestrated by NF-B and involving nitric oxide, suggests that RWE (a readily straightforward preparation when compared with the purification of specific compounds) may represent a simple and inexpensive therapeutic strategy in the context of intestinal inflammation.



Scale-free fluctuations are ubiquitous in behavioral performance and neuronal activity. In time scales from seconds to hundreds of seconds, psychophysical dynamics and the amplitude fluctuations of neuronal oscillations are governed by power-law-form long-range temporal correlations (LRTCs). In millisecond time scales, neuronal activity comprises cascade-like neuronal avalanches that exhibit power-law size and lifetime distributions. However, it remains unknown whether these neuronal scaling laws are correlated with those characterizing behavioral performance or whether neuronal LRTCs and avalanches are related. Here, we show that the neuronal scaling laws are strongly correlated both with each other and with behavioral scaling laws. We used source reconstructed magneto- and electroencephalographic recordings to characterize the dynamics of ongoing cortical activity. We found robust power-law scaling in neuronal LRTCs and avalanches in resting-state data and during the performance of audiovisual threshold stimulus detection tasks. The LRTC scaling exponents of the behavioral performance fluctuations were correlated with those of concurrent neuronal avalanches and LRTCs in anatomically identified brain systems. The behavioral exponents also were correlated with neuronal scaling laws derived from a resting-state condition and with a similar anatomical topography. Finally, despite the difference in time scales, the scaling exponents of neuronal LRTCs and avalanches were strongly correlated during both rest and task performance. Thus, long and short time-scale neuronal dynamics are related and functionally significant at the behavioral level. These data suggest that the temporal structures of human cognitive fluctuations and behavioral variability stem from the scaling laws of individual and intrinsic brain dynamics.
Recent evidence has implicated the endocannabinoid (eCB) system in nicotine addiction. The eCB system also has an important role in reward mechanisms, and nicotine addiction has been associated with aberrant reward processing. Motivated by this evidence, we tested the hypothesis that eCB modulation of reward processing is altered in subjects with a nicotine addiction (NAD). For this purpose, we compared reward-related activity in NAD with healthy controls (HC) in a pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study using (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) administration to challenge the eCB system. Eleven HC and 10 NAD participated in a 3-T functional MRI (fMRI) study with a double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled design, using a Monetary Incentive Delay (MID) paradigm with three reward levels. Reward activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and caudate putamen during anticipation and feedback of reward was compared after THC and placebo. fMRI results indicated a significant reduction of reward anticipation activity in the NAcc in NAD after THC administration, which was not present in HC. This is indicated by a significant group by drug by reward interaction. Our data show that THC significantly reduces the NAcc response to monetary reward anticipation in NAD. These results suggest that nicotine addiction is associated with altered eCB modulation of reward processing in the NAcc. This study adds important human data to existing evidence implicating the eCB system in nicotine addiction.

Cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) affects membrane fluidity and permeability by catalyzing the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids. We hypothesize that cPLA2 deficiency induces rigidity and architectural changes in cell membranes, especially in large cortical neurons. These membrane changes are discernible using light and electron microscopy. Through careful comparison with wild-type counterparts, we observed significant morphological changes in cortical neurons of cPLA2 knockout mice. These changes included the following: (1) increased numbers of nucleoli and enlarged nuclei, (2) narrower spaces between the inner and outer nuclear membranes, (3) reduced numbers of nuclear pores and altered nuclear pore structure, and (4) morphological changes in synaptic clefts. These results further suggest that cPLA2 and its cleaved arachidonic acids play important roles in cortical neuronal maturation and in normal neurochemical processes.
It has been shown that sex steroid hormones have profound neuroprotective effects in experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI). Because the endogenous hormone levels are proven to differ with estrous cycle stage, we evaluated whether estrous cycle stage affects various outcomes following diffuse TBI. TBI was induced by Marmarou's method in normal cycling and in ovariectomized rats with physiologically relevant restoration of hormonal levels by hormone capsule implantation. Intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) were measured before and different times after TBI and brain edema was assessed at 24h after trauma. Results indicated that after TBI, water content (WC) in traumatic proestrous (TP) rats was less than the one in traumatic non-proestrous (TNP) and ovariectomized (TOVX) and also in high estradiol (HE) and progesterone (HP) was statistically less than in TBI untreated groups.There was no significant difference in WC between high doses hormone treated and TP and also between TNP, TOVX, low estradiol (LE) and progesterone (LP) groups. At 4h and 24h after trauma, there was a significant difference in ICP between TP, HE and HP compared to TNP and other TBI nontreated groups. Also in these times, the CPP increased in TP and hormone treated groups compared with TOVX, but the difference between TNP and TOVX was not significant. The results indicate that the estrous cycle has a prominent role in TBI outcome's and the difference in female sex steroid levels might be the reason of the different neuroprotective effects in proestrous and non-proestrous groups.
While several behavioral and neuroscience studies have explored visual, auditory, and cross-modal illusions, information about the phenomenology and neural correlates of somatosensory illusions is meager. By combining psychophysics and somatosensory evoked potentials, we explored in healthy humans the neural correlates of 2 compelling tactuo-proprioceptive illusions, namely Aristotle (1 object touching the contact area between 2 crossed fingers is perceived as 2 lateral objects) and Reverse illusions (2 lateral objects are perceived as 1 between crossed-fingers object). These illusions likely occur because of the tactuo-proprioceptive conflict induced by fingers being crossed in a non-natural posture. We found that different regions in the somatosensory stream exhibit different proneness to the illusions. Early electroencephalographic somatosensory activity (at 20 ms) originating in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) reflects the phenomenal rather than the physical properties of the stimuli. Notably, later activity (around 200 ms) originating in the posterior parietal cortex is higher when subjects resist the illusions. Thus, while S1 activity is related to illusory perception, PPC acts as a conflict resolver that recodes tactile events from somatotopic to spatiotopic frames of reference and ultimately enables veridical perception.
Patterning of embryonic blood vessels occurs in association with nerves. In this issue of Developmental Cell, Li et al. (2013) report that nerve-derived chemokine Cxcl12 (also known as SDF-1), acting through its receptor Cxcr4, initiates blood vessel remodeling along cutaneous nerve trajectories to establish the proper pattern of cutaneous arteries.
Acupuncture stimulations at GB34 and LR3 inhibit the reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in the parkinsonism animal models. Especially, behavioral tests showed that acupuncture stimulations improved the motor dysfunction in a previous study by almost 87.7%. The thalamus is a crucial area for the motor circuit and has been identified as one of the most markedly damaged areas in Parkinson's disease (PD), so acupuncture stimulations might also have an effect on the thalamic damage. In this study, gene expression changes following acupuncture at the acupoints were investigated in the thalamus of a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism model using a whole transcript array. It was confirmed that acupuncture at these acupoints could inhibit the decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase in the thalamic regions of the MPTP model, while acupuncture at the non-acupoints could not suppress this decrease by its level shown in the acupoints. GeneChip gene array analysis showed that 18 (5 annotated genes: Dnase1l2, Dusp4, Mafg, Ndph and Pgm5) of the probes down-regulated in MPTP, as compared to the control, were exclusively up-regulated by acupuncture at the acupoints, but not at the non-acupoints. In addition, 14 (3 annotated genes; Serinc2, Sp2 and Ucp2) of the probes up-regulated in MPTP, as compared to the control, were exclusively down-regulated by acupuncture at the acupoints, but not at the non-acupoints. The expression levels of the representative genes in the microarray were validated by real-time RT-PCR. These results suggest that the 32 probes (8 annotated genes) which are affected by MPTP and acupuncture may be responsible for exerting the inhibitory effect of acupuncture in the thalamus which can be damaged by MPTP intoxication.

During the last decade one of the most contentious and heavily studied topics in the attention literature has been the role that working memory representations play in controlling perceptual selection. The hypothesis has been advanced that to have attention select a certain perceptual input from the environment, we only need to represent that item in working memory. Here we summarize the work indicating that the relationship between what representations are maintained in working memory and what perceptual inputs are selected is not so simple. First, it appears that attentional selection is also determined by high-level task goals that mediate the relationship between working memory storage and attentional selection. Second, much of the recent work from our laboratory has focused on the role of long-term memory in controlling attentional selection. We review recent evidence supporting the proposal that working memory representations are critical during the initial configuration of attentional control settings, but that after those settings are established long-term memory representations play an important role in controlling which perceptual inputs are selected by mechanisms of attention.
BACKGROUND:: Preoperative embolization of meningiomas remains contentious, with persisting uncertainty over the safety and efficacy of this adjunctive technique. OBJECTIVE:: To evaluate the safety of presurgicalembolization of meningiomas and its impact on subsequent transfusion requirement, with respect to the extent of embolization and technique used. METHODS:: 117 consecutive patients between 2001 and 2010 were referred for embolization of presumed intracranial meningioma prior to surgical resection. Glue and/or particles were used to devascularize the tumor in 107 patients, all of whom went on to operative resection. The extent and nature of embolization-related complications, degree of angiographic devascularization, and the intraoperative blood transfusion requirements were analyzed. RESULTS:: Mean blood transfusion requirement during surgery was 0.8 units per case (range 1-14 units). Blood transfusion was significantly lower in patients whose meningiomas were completely, angiographicallydevascularized (P= .035). Four patients had complications as a direct result of the embolization procedure. These included intratumoral haemorrhage in two, sixth cranial nerve palsy in one, and scalp necrosis requiring reconstructive surgery in a further patient. CONCLUSION:: The complication rate was 3.7%. No relationship between the embolic agent and the degree of devascularization was observed. Achieving a complete devascularization resulted in a lower blood transfusion requirement, considered an indirect measure of operative blood loss. This series demonstrates that pre-operative meningiomaembolization is safe and may reduce operative blood loss. We present distal intratumoral injection of liquid embolic as a safe and effective alternative to more established particle embolization techniques.
The serotonin system originates from a small number of neurons (a few hundred thousand of the 100 billion in man) located in the midbrain raphe nuclei, that project widely throughout the central nervous system to influence a large array of inter-related biological functions, not least of which are circuits involved in mood and emotion. The serotonin hypothesis of depression has postulated that a reduction in serotonin leads to increased predisposition to depression. Indeed, it has become evident from therapeutic strategies that affect serotonin activity, that alterations in serotonin may not only predispose to depression, but also to aggressive behaviour, impulsivity, obsessive-compulsive behaviour and suicide. Many potential mechanisms known to alter the genes that regulate the serotonin system, including developmental epigenetic modifications, are presented, as additional evidence implicating the serotonin system. This second issue of two special issues of Philosophical Transactions B presents a series of reviews, perspectives and new findings that argue that the serotonin hypothesis remains an important idea that continues to guide research into the aetiology and treatment of depression.

Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), generated by PI 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K), regulates many critical cellular events. PIP(2) is also known to mediate plasma membrane localization of the Toll/IL-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor protein (TIRAP), required for the MyD88-dependent Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signaling pathway. Microglia are the primary immune competent cells in brain tissue, and TLR4 is important for microglial activation. However, a functional role for PIP5K and PIP(2) in TLR4-dependent microglial activation remains unclear. Here, we knocked down PIP5K, a PIP5K isoform, in a BV2 microglial cell line using stable expression of lentiviral shRNA constructs or siRNA transfection. PIP5K knockdown significantly suppressed induction of inflammatory mediators, including IL-6, IL-1, and nitric oxide, by lipopolysaccharide. PIP5K knockdown also attenuated signaling events downstream of TLR4 activation, including p38 MAPK and JNK phosphorylation, NF-B p65 nuclear translocation, and IB- degradation. Complementation of the PIP5K knockdown cells with wild type but not kinase-dead PIP5K effectively restored the LPS-mediated inflammatory response. We found that PIP5K and TIRAP colocalized at the cell surface and interacted with each other, whereas kinase-dead PIP5K rendered TIRAP soluble. Furthermore, in LPS-stimulated control cells, plasma membrane PIP(2) increased and subsequently declined, and TIRAP underwent bi-directional translocation between the membrane and cytosol, which temporally correlated with the changes in PIP(2). In contrast, PIP5K knockdown that reduced PIP(2) levels disrupted TIRAP membrane targeting by LPS. Together, our results suggest that PIP5K promotes TLR4-associated microglial inflammation by mediating PIP(2)-dependent recruitment of TIRAP to the plasma membrane.
Myocardin (Mycd), a key factor in smooth muscle cell differentiation, is constitutively located in the nucleus, whereas myocardin-related transcription factors A and B (MRTF-A/B) reside mostly in the cytoplasm and translocate to the nucleus in a Rho-dependent manner. Here, we investigated the nuclear export of Mycd family members. They possess two leucine-rich sequences: L1 in the N terminus and L2 in the Gln-rich domain. Although L2 (but not L1) served as a CRM1-binding site for Mycd, CRM1-mediated nuclear export did not affect its subcellular localization. Serum response factor (SRF) competitively inhibited Mycd/CRM1 interaction. Furthermore, such interaction was autonomously inhibited. The N terminus of Mycd bound intramolecularly to Mycd, resulting in masking L2. In contrast, the CRM1-binding affinity of MRTF-A was much higher than that of Mycd because both L1 and L2 of MRTF-A served as functional CRM1-binding sites, and the autoinhibition observed in the Mycd/CRM1 interaction was absent in the MRTF-A/CRM1 interaction. Additionally, because the SRF-binding affinity of MRTF-A was lower than that of Mycd, the inhibitory effect of SRF on the MRTF-A/CRM1 interaction was weak. Thus, MRTF-A is much more likely to be exported from the nucleus. These differences could be the reason for the distinct subcellular localization of Mycd and MRTF-A.
Environmental sounds can be powerful alarm signals. Hence, attentional orienting towards their location might occur extremely rapidly. Here, we used the beep probe task to investigate attentional biases to negative, positive and taboo sounds. While both left-presented negative and taboo sounds elicited attentional avoidance, taboo but not negative sounds triggered Inhibition of Return. Moreover, taboo sounds slowed participants' responses, whatever the sound and beep locations. Positive sounds had no effect. Interestingly, although spatial effects specific to taboo sounds were related to their disgusting nature, their non-spatial effects were linked to their shocking/surprising trait. This is the first evidence of emotional sounds' influence on spatial attentional orienting and of the involved emotional dimensions.
C. elegans is used extensively as a model system in the neurosciences due to its well defined nervous system. However, the seeming simplicity of this nervous system in anatomical structure and neuronal connectivity, at least compared to higher animals, underlies a rich diversity of behaviors. The usefulness of the worm in genome-wide mutagenesis or RNAi screens, where thousands of strains are assessed for phenotype, emphasizes the need for computational methods for automated parameterization of generated behaviors. In addition, behaviors can be modulated upon external cues like temperature, O(subscript)2(/subscript) and CO(subscript)2(/subscript) concentrations, mechanosensory and chemosensory inputs. Different machine vision tools have been developed to aid researchers in their efforts to inventory and characterize defined behavioral &quot;outputs&quot;. Here we aim at providing an overview of different worm-tracking packages or video analysis tools designed to quantify different aspects of locomotion such as the occurrence of directional changes (turns, omega bends), curvature of the sinusoidal shape (amplitude, body bend angles) and velocity (speed, backward or forward movement).
How synaptic neuropil is formed within the CNS is poorly understood. The retinal inner plexiform layer (IPL) is positioned between the cell bodies of amacrine cells (ACs) and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). It consists of bipolar cell (BC) axon terminals that synapse on the dendrites of ACs and RGCs intermingled with projections from Mller glia (MG). We examined whether any of these cellular processes are specifically required for the formation of the IPL. Using genetic and pharmacological strategies, we eliminated RGCs, ACs, and MG individually or in combination. Even in the absence of all of these partner cells, an IPL-like neuropil consisting of only BC axon terminals still forms, complete with presynaptic specializations and sublaminar organization. Previous studies have shown that an IPL can form in the complete absence of BCs; therefore, we conclude that neither presynaptic nor postsynaptic processes are individually essential for the formation of this synaptic neuropil.
Autoinflammatory diseases are rare illnesses characterized by apparently unprovoked inflammation without high-titer auto-antibodies or antigen-specific T cells. They may cause neurological manifestations, such as meningitis and hearing loss, but they are also characterized by non-neurological manifestations. In this work we studied a 30-year-old man who had a chronic disease characterized by meningitis, progressive hearing loss, persistently raised inflammatory markers and diffuse leukoencephalopathy on brain MRI. He also suffered from chronic recurrent osteomyelitis of the mandible. The hypothesis of an autoinflammatory disease prompted us to test for the presence of mutations in interleukin-1-pathway genes and to investigate the function of this pathway in the mononuclear cells obtained from the patient. Search for mutations in genes associated with interleukin-1-pathway demonstrated a novel NLRP3 (CIAS1) mutation (p.I288M) and a previously described MEFV mutation (p.R761H), but their combination was found to be non-pathogenic. On the other hand, we uncovered a selective interleukin-6 hypersecretion within the central nervous system as the likely pathogenic mechanism. This is also supported by the response to the anti-interleukin-6-receptor monoclonal antibody tocilizumab, but not to the recombinant interleukin-1-receptor antagonist anakinra. Exome sequencing failed to identify mutations in other genes known to be involved in autoinflammatory diseases. We propose that the disease described in this patient might be a prototype of a novel category of autoinflammatory diseases characterized by prominent neurological involvement.

The application of microfluidics to neuroscience applications has always appealed to neuroscientists because of the capability to control the cellular microenvironment in both a spatial and temporal manner. Recently, there has been rapid development of biological micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS) for both fundamental and applied neuroscience research. In this review, we will discuss the applications of BioMEMS to various topics in the field of neuroscience. The purpose of this review is to summarise recent advances in the components and design of the BioMEMS devices, in vitro disease models, electrophysiology and neural stem cell research. We envision that microfluidics will play a key role in future neuroscience research, both fundamental and applied research.
Promoting axon regeneration following injury is one of the ultimate challenges of neuroscience, and understanding the mechanisms that regulate axon growth and guidance is essential to achieve this goal. During development axons are directed over relatively long distances by a precise extracellular distribution of chemical signals in the embryonic nervous system. Multiple guidance proteins, including netrins, slits, semaphorins, ephrins and neurotrophins have been identified as key players in this process. During the last decade, engineered cell culture substrates have been developed to investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying axon guidance. This review is focused on the biological insights that have been achieved using new techniques that attempt to mimic in vitro the spatial patterns of proteins that growth cones encounter in vivo.



Two recent Phase II results show opposing outcomes for the potential of activators of mGlu2 in the treatment of schizophrenia. The first outcome revealed that Eli Lilly's mGlu2/3 agonist, pomaglumetad methionil (LY2140023), failed to meet the primary efficacy end point. The second report showed the mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator (PAM) from Addex (ADX71149) in conjunction with Janssen Research &amp; Development met the primary objectives of safety, tolerability and demonstrated an effect on negative symptoms in patients.

Increasing evidence shows that adult neurogenesis of hippocampal granule cells is advantageous for learning and memory. We examined at which stage of structural maturation and age new granule cells can be activated by strong synaptic stimulation. High-frequency stimulation of the perforant pathway in urethane-anesthetized rats elicited expression of the immediate early genes c-fos, Arc, zif268 and pCREB133 in almost 100% of mature, calbindin-positive granule cells. In contrast, it failed to induce immediate early gene expression in immature doublecortin-positive granule cells. Furthermore, doublecortin-positive neurons did not react with c-fos or Arc expression to mild theta-burst stimulation or novel environment exposure. Endogenous expression of pCREB133 was increasingly present in young cells with more elaborated dendrites, revealing a close correlation to structural maturation. Labeling with bromodeoxyuridine revealed cell age dependence of stimulation-induced c-fos, Arc and zif268 expression, with only a few cells reacting at 21 days, but with up to 75% of cells activated at 35-77 days of cell age. Our results indicate an increasing synaptic integration of maturing granule cells, starting at 21 days of cell age, but suggest a lack of ability to respond to activation with synaptic potentiation on the transcriptional level as long as immature cells express doublecortin.
Calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) is key for long-term potentiation of synaptic AMPA receptors. Whether CaMKII is involved in activity-dependent plasticity of other ionotropic glutamate receptors is unknown. We show that repeated pairing of pre- and postsynaptic stimulation at hippocampal mossy fibre synapses induces long-term depression of kainate receptor (KAR)-mediated responses, which depends on Ca(2+) influx, activation of CaMKII, and on the GluK5 subunit of KARs. CaMKII phosphorylation of three residues in the C-terminal domain of GluK5 subunit markedly increases lateral mobility of KARs, possibly by decreasing the binding of GluK5 to PSD-95. CaMKII activation also promotes surface expression of KARs at extrasynaptic sites, but concomitantly decreases its synaptic content. Using a molecular replacement strategy, we demonstrate that the direct phosphorylation of GluK5 by CaMKII is necessary for KAR-LTD. We propose that CaMKII-dependent phosphorylation of GluK5 is responsible for synaptic depression by untrapping of KARs from the PSD and increased diffusion away from synaptic sites.

During an early epoch of development, the brain is highly adaptive to the stimulus environment. Exposing young animals to a particular tone, for example, leads to an enlarged representation of that tone in primary auditory cortex. While the neural effects of simple tonal environments are well characterized, the principles that guide plasticity in more complex acoustic environments remain unclear. In addition, very little is known about the perceptual consequences of early experience-induced plasticity. To address these questions, we reared juvenile rats in complex multitone environments that differed in terms of the higher-order conditional probabilities between sounds. We found that the development of primary cortical acoustic representations, as well as frequency discrimination ability in adult animals, were shaped by the higher-order stimulus statistics of the early acoustic environment. Our results suggest that early experience-dependent cortical reorganization may mediate perceptual changes through statistical learning of the sensory input.
Calcium-regulated exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells and neurons is accompanied by the redistribution of phosphatidylserine (PS) to the extracellular space, leading to a disruption of plasma membrane asymmetry. How and why outward translocation of PS occurs during secretion are currently unknown. Immunogold labeling on plasma membrane sheets coupled with hierarchical clustering analysis demonstrate that PS translocation occurs at the vicinity of the secretory granule fusion sites. We found that altering the function of the phospholipid scramblase-1 (PLSCR-1) by expressing a PLSCR-1 calcium-insensitive mutant or by using chromaffin cells from PLSCR-1/ mice prevents outward translocation of PS in cells stimulated for exocytosis. Remarkably, whereas transmitter release was not affected, secretory granule membrane recapture after exocytosis was impaired, indicating that PLSCR-1 is required for compensatory endocytosis but not for exocytosis. Our results provide the first evidence for a role of specific lipid reorganization and calcium-dependent PLSCR-1 activity in neuroendocrine compensatory endocytosis.
Humans are willing to incur personal costs to punish others who violate social norms. Such &quot;costly punishment&quot; is an important force for sustaining human cooperation, but the causal neurobiological determinants of punishment decisions remain unclear. Using a combination of behavioral, pharmacological, and neuroimaging techniques, we show that manipulating the serotonin system in humans alters costly punishment decisions by modulating responses to fairness and retaliation in the striatum. Following dietary depletion of the serotonin precursor tryptophan, participants were more likely to punish those who treated them unfairly, and were slower to accept fair exchanges. Neuroimaging data revealed activations in the ventral and dorsal striatum that were associated with fairness and punishment, respectively. Depletion simultaneously reduced ventral striatal responses to fairness and increased dorsal striatal responses during punishment, an effect that predicted its influence on punishment behavior. Finally, we provide behavioral evidence that serotonin modulates specific retaliation, rather than general norm enforcement: depleted participants were more likely to punish unfair behavior directed toward themselves, but not unfair behavior directed toward others. Our findings demonstrate that serotonin modulates social value processing in the striatum, producing context-dependent effects on social behavior.
Learning to read proceeds smoothly for most children, yet others struggle to translate verbal language into its written form. Poor readers often have a host of auditory, linguistic, and attention deficits, including abnormal neural representation of speech and inconsistent performance on psychoacoustic tasks. We hypothesize that this constellation of deficits associated with reading disorders arises from the human auditory system failing to respond to sound in a consistent manner, and that this inconsistency impinges upon the ability to relate phonology and orthography during reading. In support of this hypothesis, we show that poor readers have significantly more variable auditory brainstem responses to speech than do good readers, independent of resting neurophysiological noise levels. Thus, neural variability may be an underlying biological contributor to well established behavioral and neural deficits found in poor readers.
Natural acoustic stimuli contain slow temporal fluctuations, and the modulation of ongoing slow-wave activity by bottom-up and top-down factors plays essential roles in auditory cortical processing. However, the spatiotemporal pattern of intrinsic slow-wave activity across the auditory cortical modality is unknown. Using in vivo voltage-sensitive dye imaging in anesthetized guinea pigs, we measured spectral tuning to acoustic stimuli across several core and belt auditory cortical areas, and then recorded spontaneous activity across this defined network. We found that phase coherence in spontaneous slow-wave (delta-theta band) activity was highest between regions of core and belt areas that had similar frequency tuning, even if they were distant. Further, core and belt regions with high phase coherence were phase shifted. Interestingly, phase shifts observed during spontaneous activity paralleled latency differences for evoked activity. Our findings suggest that the circuits underlying this intrinsic source of slow-wave activity support coordinated changes in excitability between functionally matched but distributed regions of the auditory cortical network.
Human observers are extremely adept at correctly interpreting the visual input that they receive despite its inherent ambiguity. There are, however, situations in which no single, valid interpretation exists and perception oscillates. Such situations offer insight into the processes underlying perception, as they reveal the conditions under which our percept can alter in the presence of an unchanging physical stimulus. Many studies have focused on perceptual switching during binocular and monocular rivalry, or when viewing ambiguous figures. The majority of these studies have focused on bistable phenomena. In this paper we report the study of a range of ambiguous stimuli that provoke tristable perception, thereby providing a more exacting test bed for current models. We find that subjects spontaneously move from periods of bistable to tristable perception and that this results in a characteristic change in the rate of perceptual switching. In contrast to reports for bistable stimuli, we find only weak evidence for consistency in the relative switch rates of individuals across our test stimuli and explain why our results are inconsistent with the theory of interhemispheric switching. We go on to describe how the results are, instead, largely consistent with models of rivalry based on mutual inhibition and adaptation.

Gaze fixation is an active process, with the incessant occurrence of tiny eye movements, including microsaccades. While the retinal consequences of microsaccades may be presumed minimal because of theirminute size, a significant perceptual consequence of these movements can also stem from active extraretinal mechanisms associated with corollaries of their motor generation. Here I show that prior to microsaccade onset, spatial perception is altered in a very specific manner: foveal stimuli are erroneously perceived as more eccentric, whereas peripheral stimuli are rendered more foveal. The mechanism for this perceptual &quot;compression of space&quot; is consistent with a spatially specific gain modulation of visual representations caused by the upcoming eye movements, as is hypothesized to happen for much larger saccades. I then demonstrate that this perimicrosaccadic perceptual alteration has at least one important functional consequence: it mediates visual-performance alterations similar to ones classically attributed to the cognitive process of covert visual attention.
Gamma components of the local field potential (LFP)are elevated during cognitive and perceptual processes. It has been suggested that gamma power indicates the strength of neuronal population synchrony, which influences the relaying of signals between cortical areas. However, the relationship between coordinated spiking activity and gamma remains unclear, and the influence on corticocortical signaling largely untested. We investigated these issues by recording from neuronal populations in areas V1 and V2 of anesthetized macaque monkeys. We found that visual stimuli that induce a strong, coherent gamma rhythm result in enhanced pairwise and higher-order V1 synchrony. This is associated with stronger coupling of V1-V2 spiking activity, in a retinotopically specific manner. Coupling is more strongly related to the gamma modulation of V1 firing than to the downstream V2 rhythm. Our results thus show that elevated gamma power is associated with stronger coordination of spiking activity both within and between cortical areas.
Although we have convincing evidence that attention to auditory stimuli modulates neuronal responses at or before the level of primary auditory cortex (A1), the underlying physiological mechanisms are unknown. We found that attending to rhythmic auditory streams resulted in the entrainment of ongoing oscillatory activity reflecting rhythmic excitability fluctuations in A1. Strikingly, although the rhythm of the entrained oscillations in A1 neuronal ensembles reflected the temporal structure of the attended stream, the phase depended on the attended frequency content. Counter-phase entrainment across differently tuned A1 regions resulted in both the amplification and sharpening of responses at attended time points, in essence acting as a spectrotemporal filter mechanism. Our data suggest that selective attention generates a dynamically evolving model of attended auditory stimulus streams in the form of modulatory subthreshold oscillations across tonotopically organized neuronal ensembles in A1 that enhances the representation of attended stimuli.
A noncoding repeat expansion in the C9orf72 gene is the most common genetic cause of frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this issue of Neuron, Ash etal. (2013) show that despite being noncoding the repeats are translated, leading to widespread neuronal aggregates of the translated proteins.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are devastating neurodegenerative disorders with clinical, genetic, and neuropathological overlap. Hexanucleotide (GGGGCC) repeat expansions in a noncoding region of C9ORF72 arethe major genetic cause of FTD and ALS (c9FTD/ALS). The RNA structure of GGGGCC repeats renders these transcripts susceptible to an unconventional mechanism of translation-repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation. Antibodies generated against putative GGGGCC repeat RAN-translated peptides (anti-C9RANT) detected high molecular weight, insoluble material in brain homogenates, and neuronal inclusions throughout the CNS of c9FTD/ALS cases. C9RANT immunoreactivity was not found in other neurodegenerative diseases, including CAG repeat disorders, or in peripheral tissues of c9FTD/ALS. The specificity of C9RANT for c9FTD/ALS is a potential biomarker for this most common cause of FTD and ALS. These findings have significant implications for treatment strategies directed at RAN-translated peptides and their aggregation and the RNA structures necessary for their production.


Microelectrode biosensors are a promising technique to probe the brain interstitial fluid and estimate the extracellular concentration of neurotransmitters like glutamate. Their selectivity is largely based on maintaining high substrate specificity for the enzymes immobilized on microelectrodes. However, the effect of enzyme immobilization on substrate specificity is poorly understood. Furthermore, the accuracy of biosensor measurements for brain biological extracts has not been reliably established in comparison with conventional analytical techniques. In this study, microelectrode biosensors were prepared using different enzyme immobilization methods, including glutaraldehyde, a conventional cross-linker, and poly(ethylene glycol) diglycidyl ether (PEGDE), a milder immobilization reagent. Glutaraldehyde, but not PEGDE, significantly decreased the apparent substrate specificity of glutamate and glucose oxidase. For glutaraldehyde prepared biosensors, detection of secondary substrates by glutamate oxidase increased, resulting in a significant overestimate of glutamate levels. This effect was not observed with PEGDE-based biosensors, and when brain microdialysates were analyzed, the levels of glutamate detected by biosensors were consistent with those detected by capillary electrophoresis. In addition, basal concentrations of glutamate detected in vivo were approximately 10-fold lower than the levels detected with glutaraldehyde-based biosensors (e.g., 1.2 M vs 16 M, respectively). Overall, enzyme immobilization can significantly impact substrate specificity, and PEGDE is well-suited for the preparation of stable and selective biosensors. This development questions some of the previous biosensor studies aimed at detecting glutamate in the brain and opens new possibilities for specific neurotransmitter detection.
The pharmacology and regulation of Transient Receptor Potential Ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) ion channel activity is intricate due to the physiological function as an integrator of multiple chemical, mechanical, and temperature stimuli as well as differences in species pharmacology. In this study, we describe and compare the current inhibition efficacy of human TRPA1 on three different TRPA1 antagonists. We used a homology model of TRPA1 based on Kv1.2 to select pore vestibule residues available for interaction with ligands entering the vestibule. Site-directed mutation constructs were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and their functionality and pharmacology assessed to support and improve our homology model. Based on the functional pharmacology results we propose an antagonist-binding site in the vestibule of the TRPA1 ion channel. We use the results to describe the proposed intravestibular ligand-binding site in TRPA1 in detail. Based on the single site substitutions, we designed a human TRPA1 receptor by substituting several residues in the vestibule and adjacent regions from the rat receptor to address and explain observed species pharmacology differences. In parallel, the lack of effect on HC-030031 inhibition by the vestibule substitutions suggests that this molecule interacts with TRPA1 via a binding site not situated in the vestibule.
Many cellular structures and organelles are too small to be properly resolved by conventional light microscopy. This is particularly true for dendritic spines and glial processes, which are very small, dynamic, and embedded in dense tissue, making it difficult to image them under realistic experimental conditions. Two-photon microscopy is currently the method of choice for imaging in thick living tissue preparations, both in acute brain slices and in vivo. However, the spatial resolution of a two-photon microscope, which is limited to ~350 nm by the diffraction of light, is not sufficient for resolving many important details of neural morphology, such as the width of spine necks or thin glial processes. Recently developed superresolution approaches, such as stimulated emission depletion microscopy, have set new standards of optical resolution in imaging living tissue. However, the important goal of superresolution imaging with significant subdiffraction resolution has not yet been accomplished in acute brain slices. To overcome this limitation, we have developed a new microscope based on two-photon excitation and pulsed stimulated emission depletion microscopy, which provides unprecedented spatial resolution and excellent experimental access in acute brain slices using a long-working distance objective. The new microscope improves on the spatial resolution of a regular two-photon microscope by a factor of four to six, and it is compatible with time-lapse and simultaneous two-color superresolution imaging in living cells. We demonstrate the potential of this nanoscopy approach for brain slice physiology by imaging the morphology of dendritic spines and microglial cells well below the surface of acute brain slices.


The Epstein-Barr virus induced gene 2 (EBI2) was recently identified as the first oxysterol-activated 7TM receptor. EBI2 is essential for B cell trafficking within lymphoid tissues and thus the humoral immune response in general. Here we characterize the antagonism of the non-peptide molecule GSK682753A, which blocks oxysterol-induced G-protein activation, -arrestin recruitment and B-cell chemotaxis. We furthermore demonstrate that activation triggers pertussis toxin-sensitive MAP kinase phosphorylation, which is also inhibited by GSK682753A. Thus, EBI2 signalling in B cells mediates key phenotypic functions via signalling pathways amenable to manipulation providing additional therapeutic options for inhibiting EBI2 activity.
We report changes of the content of anionic phospholipids in Bacillus subtilis in response to hypoxic conditions and inhibition of terminal respiration. Cardiolipin accumulates rapidly when bacteria are suspended in non-growth medium under reduced aeration or exposed to the inhibitor cyanide; the increase of cardiolipin occurs at the expense of its precursor phosphatidylglycerol and is temperature-dependent. Depending on the extent of hypoxic stress, membranes containing different levels of cardiolipin can be isolated from B. subtilis cells. The NADH oxidase activity in cardiolipin-enriched membranes is cyanide-resistant; furthermore O2 consumption measurements indicated that cardiolipin-enriched cells are resistant to cyanide. Results point out a possible interdependence between the effect of cyanide on cardiolipin metabolism and the effect of cardiolipin on the effectiveness of cyanide inhibition.
Phencyclidine (PCP) mimics many aspects of schizophrenia, yet the underlying mechanism of neurochemical adaptation for PCP is unknown. We therefore used proteomics to study changes in the medial prefrontal cortex in animals with PCP-induced behavioural deficits. Male Wistar rats were injected with saline or 5mg/kg phencyclidine for 5 days followed by two days of washout. Spontaneous alternation behaviour was tested in a Y-maze and then proteins were extracted from the medial prefrontal cortex. 2D-DIGE analysis followed by spot picking and protein identification with mass spectrometry then provided a list of differentially expressed proteins. Treatment with 5mg/kg phencyclidine decreased the percentage of correct alternations in the Y-maze compared to saline-treated controls. Proteomics analysis of the medial prefrontal cortex found upregulation of 6 proteins (synapsin-1, Dpysl3, Aco2, Fscn1, Tuba1c, and Mapk1) and downregulation of 11 (Bin1, Dpysl2, Sugt1, ApoE, Psme1, ERp29, Pgam1, Uchl1, Ndufv2, Pcmt1, and Vdac1). A trend to upregulation was observed for Gnb4 and Capza2, while downregulation trends were noted for alpha-enolase and Fh. Many of the hits in this study concur with recent postmortem data from schizophrenic patients and this further validates the use of phencyclidine in preclinical translational research.
An issue of increasing theoretical and translational importance is to understand the conditions under which learned fear can be suppressed, or even eliminated. Basic research has pointed to extinction, in which an organism is exposed to a fearful stimulus (such as a context) in the absence of an expected aversive outcome (such as a shock). This extinction process results in the suppression of fear responses, but is generally thought to leave the original fearful memory intact. Here, we investigate the effects of extinction during periods of memory lability on behavioral responses and on expression of the immediate-early gene c-Fos within fear conditioning and extinction circuits. Our results show that long-term extinction is impaired when it occurs during time periods during which the memory should be most vulnerable to disruption (soon after conditioning or retrieval). These behavioral effects are correlated with hyperactivation of medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala subregions associated with fear expression rather than fear extinction. These findings demonstrate that behavioral experiences during periods of heightened fear prevent extinction and prolong the conditioned fear response.

The study of natural images and how our brain processes them has been an area of intense research in neuroscience, psychology, and computer science. We introduced a unique approach to studying natural images by decomposing images into a hierarchy of layers at different logarithmic intensity scales and mapping them to a quasi-2D magnet. The layers were in different phases: &quot;cold&quot; and ordered at large-intensity scales, &quot;hot&quot; and disordered at small-intensity scales, and going through a second-order phase transition at intermediate scales. There was a single &quot;critical&quot; layer in the hierarchy that exhibited long-range correlation similar to that found in the 2D Ising model of ferromagnetism at the critical temperature. We also determined the interactions between layers mapped from natural images and found mutual inhibition that generated locally &quot;frustrated&quot; antiferromagnetic states. Almost all information in natural images was concentrated in a few layers near the phase transition, which has biological implications and also points to the hierarchical origin of scale invariance in natural images.
During the development of the central nervous system (CNS), oligodendrocytes wrap their plasma membrane around axons to form a multilayered stack of tightly attached membranes. Although intracellular myelin compaction and the role of myelin basic protein has been investigated, the forces that mediate the close interaction of myelin membranes at their external surfaces are poorly understood. Such extensive bilayer-bilayer interactions are usually prevented by repulsive forces generated by the glycocalyx, a dense and confluent layer of large and negatively charged oligosaccharides. Here we investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying myelin adhesion and compaction in the CNS. We revisit the role of the proteolipid protein and analyze the contribution of oligosaccharides using cellular assays, biophysical tools, and transgenic mice. We observe that differentiation of oligodendrocytes is accompanied by a striking down-regulation of components of their glycocalyx. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments indicate that the adhesive properties of the proteolipid protein, along with the reduction of sialic acid residues from the cell surface, orchestrate myelin membrane adhesion and compaction in the CNS. We suggest that loss of electrostatic cell-surface repulsion uncovers weak and unspecific attractive forces in the bilayer that bring the extracellular surfaces of a membrane into close contact over long distances.
Overproduction of nitric oxide (NO) can cause neuronal damage, contributing to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases and stroke (i.e., focal cerebral ischemia). NO can mediate neurotoxic effects at least in part via protein S-nitrosylation, a reaction that covalently attaches NO to a cysteine thiol (or thiolate anion) to form an S-nitrosothiol. Recently, the tyrosine phosphatase Src homology region 2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP-2) and its downstream pathways have emerged as important mediators of cell survival. Here we report that in neurons and brain tissue NO can S-nitrosylate SHP-2 at its active site cysteine, forming S-nitrosylated SHP-2 (SNO-SHP-2). We found that NMDA exposure in vitro and transient focal cerebral ischemia in vivo resulted in increased levels of SNO-SHP-2. S-Nitrosylation of SHP-2 inhibited its phosphatase activity, blocking downstream activation of the neuroprotective physiological ERK1/2 pathway, thus increasing susceptibility to NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. These findings suggest that formation of SNO-SHP-2 represents a key chemical reaction contributing to excitotoxic damage in stroke and potentially other neurological disorders.
A recurring issue in neuroscience concerns evidence as to whether two or more brain regions implement qualitatively different functions. Here we introduce the application of state-trace analysis to measures of neural activity, illustrating how this analysis can furnish compelling evidence for qualitatively different functions, even when the precise &quot;neurometric&quot; mapping between function and brain measure is unknown. In doing so, we address a long-standing debate about the brain systems supporting human memory: whether the hippocampus and the perirhinal cortex, two key components of the medial temporal lobe memory system, provide qualitatively different contributions to recognition memory. An alternative account has been that both regions support a single shared function, such as memory strength, with the apparent dissociations obtained by previous neuroimaging studies merely reflecting different, nonlinear neurometric mappings across regions. To adjudicate between these scenarios, we analyze intracranial electroencephalographic data obtained directly from human hippocampus and perirhinal cortex during a recognition paradigm and apply state-trace analysis to responses evoked by the retrieval cue as a function of different types of memory judgment. Assuming only that the neurometric mapping in each region is monotonic, any unidimensional theory (such as the memory-strength account) will produce a monotonic state trace. Critically, results showed a nonmonotonic state trace; that is, activity levels in the two regions did not show the same relative ordering across memory conditions. This nonmonotonic state trace demonstrates that there are at least two different functions implemented across the hippocampus and perirhinal cortex, allowing formal rejection of a single-process account of medial temporal lobe contributions to recognition memory.
Proper synaptic function requires the spatial and temporal compartmentalization of RNA metabolism via transacting RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Loss of RBP activity leads to abnormal posttranscriptional regulation and results in diverse neurological disorders with underlying deficits in synaptic morphology and transmission. Functional loss of the 68-kDa RBP Src associated in mitosis (Sam68) is associated with the pathogenesis of the neurological disorder fragile X tremor/ataxia syndrome. Sam68 binds to the mRNA of -actin (actb), an integral cytoskeletal component of dendritic spines. We show that Sam68 knockdown or disruption of the binding between Sam68 and its actb mRNA cargo in primary hippocampal cultures decreases the amount of actb mRNA in the synaptodendritic compartment and results in fewer dendritic spines. Consistent with these observations, we find that Sam68-KO mice have reduced levels of actb mRNA associated with synaptic polysomes and diminished levels of synaptic actb protein, suggesting that Sam68 promotes the translation of actb mRNA at synapses in vivo. Moreover, genetic knockout of Sam68 or acute knockdown in vivo results in fewer excitatory synapses in the hippocampal formation as assessed morphologically and functionally. Therefore, we propose that Sam68 regulates synapse number in a cell-autonomous manner through control of postsynaptic actb mRNA metabolism. Our research identifies a role for Sam68 in synaptodendritic posttranscriptional regulation of actb and may provide insight into the pathophysiology of fragile X tremor/ataxia syndrome.
Ocular dominance plasticity in the developing primary visual cortex is initiated by monocular deprivation (MD) and consolidated during subsequent sleep. To clarify how visual experience and sleep affect neuronal activity and plasticity, we continuously recorded extragranular visual cortex fast-spiking (FS) interneurons and putative principal (i.e., excitatory) neurons in freely behaving cats across periods of waking MD and post-MD sleep. Consistent with previous reports in mice, MD induces two related changes in FS interneurons: a response shift in favor of the closed eye and depression of firing. Spike-timing-dependent depression of open-eye-biased principal neuron inputs to FS interneurons may mediate these effects. During post-MD nonrapid eye movement sleep, principal neuron firing increases and becomes more phase-locked to slow wave and spindle oscillations. Ocular dominance (OD) shifts in favor of open-eye stimulation--evident only after post-MD sleep--are proportional to MD-induced changes in FS interneuron activity and to subsequent sleep-associated changes in principal neuron activity. OD shifts are greatest in principal neurons that fire 40-300 ms after neighboring FS interneurons during post-MD slow waves. Based on these data, we propose that MD-induced changes in FS interneurons play an instructive role in ocular dominance plasticity, causing disinhibition among open-eye-biased principal neurons, which drive plasticity throughout the visual cortex during subsequent sleep.
Mounting evidence suggests that immune disturbances in early life may be implicated in the etiology of non-affective psychoses. Our aim was to assess the levels of neonatal acute phase proteins (APPs), central to innate immune function as well as central nervous system development, in neonatal dried blood spots and their association with later risk of non-affective psychoses. This case-control study included 196 individuals with a verified register-based diagnosis of non-affective psychosis and 502 controls matched on age, sex and hospital of birth. Concentrations of nine different APPs were measured in eluates from dried blood spots using a bead-based multiplex assay. Odds ratios (OR) for non-affective psychoses were calculated for log(2)-transformed (continuous) as well as tertiles of APP concentrations. In continuous analysis, higher concentrations of two APPs, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA; OR: 0.90, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.85-0.96) and serum amyloid P (SAP; OR: 0.88, 95% CI: 0.78-0.99) were protective in terms of risk of non-affective psychosis. These relationships were not affected by the addition of covariates relevant to maternal health, pregnancy and delivery to the model. Tertile analysis confirmed a protective relationship for higher levels of tPA and SAP, as well as for procalcitonin (highest tertile OR: 0.54, 95% CI:0.32-0.91). Our results suggest that persons who develop non-affective psychoses have lower levels of certain APPs at the time of birth. These differences may render individuals more susceptible to infectious diseases or cause deficiencies in pathways critical for neurodevelopment.
Pain is a subjective experience that protects the body. This function implies a special relation between the brain mechanisms underlying pain perception and representation of the body. All sensory systems involve the body for the trivial reason that sensory receptors are located in the body. The nociceptive system of detecting noxious stimuli comprises two classes of peripheral afferents, A and C nociceptors, that cover almost the entire body surface. We review evidence from experimental studies of pain in humans and other animals suggesting that A skin nociceptors project to a spatially-organised, somatotopic map in the primary somatosensory cortex. While therelation between pain perception and homeostatic regulation of bodily systems is widely acknowledged, the organization of nociceptive information into spatial maps of the body has received little attention. Importantly, the somatotopic neural organization of pain systems can shed light on pain-related plasticity and pain modulation. Finally, we show that the neural coding of noxious stimuli, and consequent experience of pain, are both strongly influenced when cognitive representations of the body are activated by viewing the body, as opposed to viewing another object - an effect we term 'visual analgesia'. We argue that pain perception involves some of the representational properties of exteroceptive senses, such as vision and touch. Pain, however, has the unique feature that the content of representation is the body itself, rather than any external object of perception. We end with some suggestions regarding how linking pain to body representation could shed light on clinical conditions, notably chronic pain.
A new study has used optogenetic methods to stimulate prefrontal-brainstem neuromodulatory pathways while animals face environmental stressors, the results providing further compelling evidence that prefrontal control of neuromodulatory function can have a dramatic effect on motivated behavior.
A new electrophysiological study in rodents demonstrates that taste-odor convergence occurs in posterior piriform olfactory cortex and calls for a reformulation of classic models of the central representation of flavor.
Silent reading is a private experience that plays out in our imagination. Although we might primarily read for content, recent human brain neuroimaging and neuronal recording work is revealing the inner processes at play. Some of these involve experiencing voices.


Selective attention is often considered the &quot;gateway&quot; to visual working memory (VWM). However, the extent to which we can voluntarily control which of an object's features enter memory remains subject to debate. Recent research has converged on the concept of VWM as a limited commodity distributed between elements of a visual scene. Consequently, as memory load increases, the fidelity with which each visual feature is stored decreases. Here we used changes in recall precision to probe whether task-irrelevant features were encoded into VWM when individuals were asked to store specific feature dimensions. Recall precision for both color and orientation was significantly enhanced when task-irrelevant features were removed, but knowledge of which features would be probed provided no advantage over having to memorize both features of all items. Next, we assessed the effect an interpolated orientation-or color-matching task had on the resolution with which orientations in a memory array were stored. We found that the presence of orientation information in the second array disrupted memory of the first array. The cost to recall precision was identical whether the interfering features had to be remembered, attended to, or could be ignored. Therefore, it appears that storing, or merely attending to, one feature of an object is sufficient to promote automatic encoding of all its features, depleting VWM resources. However, the precision cost was abolished when the match task preceded the memory array. So, while encoding is automatic, maintenance is voluntary, allowing resources to be reallocated to store new visual information.

The translational potential of pre-clinical stroke research depends on the accuracy of experimental modeling. Cerebral perfusion monitoring in animal models of acute ischemic stroke allows to confirm successful arterial occlusion and exclude subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral perfusion monitoring can also be used to study intracranial collateral circulation, which is emerging as a powerful determinant of stroke outcome and a possible therapeutic target. Despite a recognized role of Laser Doppler perfusion monitoring as part of the current guidelines for experimental cerebral ischemia, a number of technical difficulties exist that limit its widespread use. One of the major issues is obtaining a secure and prolonged attachment of a deep-penetration Laser Doppler probe to the animal skull. In this video, we show our optimized system for cerebral perfusion monitoring during transient middle cerebral artery occlusion by intraluminal filament in the rat. We developed in-house a simple method to obtain a custom made holder for twin-fibre (deep-penetration) Laser Doppler probes, which allow multi-site monitoring if needed. A continuous and prolonged monitoring of cerebral perfusion could easily be obtained over the intact skull.
Rats learn to prefer flavors associated with postingestive effects of nutrients. The physiological signals underlying this postingestive reward are unknown. We have previously shown that rats readily learn to prefer a flavor that was consumed early in a multi-flavored meal when glucose is infused intragastrically (IG), suggesting rapid postingestive reward onset. The present experiments investigate the timing of postingestive fat reward, by providing distinctive flavors in the first and second halves of meals accompanied by IG fat infusion. Learning stronger preference for the earlier or later flavor would indicate when the rewarding postingestive effects are sensed. Rats consumed sweetened, calorically-dilute flavored solutions accompanied by IG high-fat infusion (+ sessions) or water (- sessions). Each session included an &quot;Early&quot; flavor for 8min followed by a &quot;Late&quot; flavor for 8min. Learned preferences were then assessed in two-bottle tests (no IG infusion) between Early(+) vs. Early(-), Late(+) vs. Late(-), Early(+) vs. Late(+), and Early(-) vs. Late(-). Rats only preferred Late(+), not Early(+), relative to their respective (-) flavors. In a second experiment rats trained with a higher fat concentration learned to prefer Early(+) but more strongly preferred Late(+). Learned preferences were evident when rats were tested deprived or recently satiated. Unlike with glucose, ingested fat appears to produce a slower-onset rewarding signal, detected later in a meal or after its termination, becoming more strongly associated with flavors towards the end of the meal. This potentially contributes to enhanced liking for dessert foods, which persists even when satiated.
The lateral septum has been extensively implicated in regulating anxiety-related defensive behaviors in the rat. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) contributes to anxiety, likely through activity at the NPY Y1 and/or Y2 receptor binding sites. Although the lateral septum contains the highest density of Y2 receptors in brain, the involvement of this receptor in anxiety-related defensive behaviors is not clear. Thus, the purpose of the current study was to characterize lateral septal Y2 receptor contributions to rats' defensive responses to threat and/or potentially threatening environments. We investigated this by infusing the NPY Y2 agonist NPY13-36 into the lateral septum and testing rats across a battery of animal models of anxiety (Experiment 1). To verify the role of Y2 in mediating the observed effects, rats were pre-infused with the potent and highly selective Y2 antagonist BIIE 0246 prior to infusion with NPY13-36 (Experiment 2). Infusions of NPY13-36 into the lateral septum increased rats' open-arm exploration in the elevated plus-maze test (p&lt;0.01) and decreased the proportion of rats' that buried (p&lt;0.05) as well as their latency to initiate burying in the shock-probe burying test (p&lt;0.01). By contrast, NPY13-36 did not affect either anxiety- or appetite-related responses in the novelty-induced suppression of feeding test (all ps&gt;0.3; Experiment 1). Pre-treatment with the Y2 antagonist BIIE 0246 prevented the anxiolytic-like actions of NPY13-36 in the plus-maze but not in the shock-probe test (Experiment 2). Thus, it appears that the anxiolytic-like actions of lateral septal NPY13-36 are mediated by the Y2 receptor in a test-specific manner.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the MECP2. Several genes have been shown to be MECP2 targets. We previously identified FXYD1 (encoding phospholemman; a protein containing the motif phenylalanine-X-tyrosine-aspartate), a gene encoding a transmembrane modulator of the Na, K-ATPase (NKA) enzyme, as one of them. In the absence of MECP2, FXYD1 expression is increased in the frontal cortex (FC) of both RTT patients and Mecp2(Bird) null mice. Here, we show that Fxyd1 mRNA levels are also increased in the FC and hippocampus (HC) of male mice carrying a truncating mutation of the Mecp2 gene (Mecp2(308)). To test the hypothesis that some of the behavioral phenotypes seen in these Mecp2 mutants could be ameliorated by genetically preventing the Fxyd1 response to MECP2 deficiency, we crossed Fxyd1 null male mice with Mecp2(308) heterozygous females and behaviorally tested the adult male offspring. Mecp2(308) mice had impaired HC-dependent novel location recognition, and this impairment was rescued by deletion of both Fxyd1 alleles. No other behavioral or sensorimotor impairments were rescued. These results indicate that reducing FXYD1 levels improves a specific cognitive impairment in MECP2-deficient mice.
Dietary fructose can benefit or hinder glycemic control, depending on the quantity consumed, and these contrasting effects are reflected by alterations in postprandial hepatic glycogen synthesis. Recently, we showed that H enrichment of glycogen positions 5 and 2 from deuterated water (HO) informs direct and indirect pathway contributions to glycogenesis in naturally feeding rats. Inclusion of position 6(S) H enrichment data allows indirect pathway sources to be further resolved into triose phosphate and Krebs cycle precursors. This analysis was applied to six rats that had fed on standard chow (SC) and six rats that had fed on SC plus 35% sucrose in their drinking water (HS). After 2 wk, hepatic glycogenesis sources during overnight feeding were determined by HO administration and postmortem analysis of glycogen H enrichment at the conclusion of the dark period. Net overnight hepatic glycogenesis was similar between SC and HS rodents. Whereas direct pathway contributions were similar (403  71 mol/g dry wt HS vs. 578  76 mol/g dry wt SC), triose phosphate contributions were significantly higher for HS compared with SC (382  61 vs. 87  24 mol/g dry wt, P &lt; 0.01) and Krebs cycle inputs lower for HS compared with SC (110  9 vs. 197  32 mol/g dry wt, P &lt; 0.05). Analysis of plasma glucose H enrichments at the end of the feeding period also revealed a significantly higher fractional contribution of triose phosphate to plasma glucose levels in HS vs. SC. Hence, the H enrichment distributions of hepatic glycogen and glucose from HO inform the contribution of dietary fructose to hepatic glycogen and glucose synthesis.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal disorder characterized by abdominal pain in association with altered bowel movements. The underlying mechanisms of visceral hypersensitivity remain elusive. This study was designed to examine the role for sodium channels in a rat model of chronic visceral hyperalgesia induced by neonatal maternal deprivation (NMD). Abdominal withdrawal reflex (AWR) scores were performed on adult male rats. Colon-specific dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were labeled with DiI and acutely dissociated for measuring excitability and sodium channel current under whole-cell patch-clamp configurations. The expression of Na(V)1.8 was analyzed by Western blot and quantitative real-time PCR. NMD significantly increased AWR scores, which lasted for ~6 wk in an association with hyperexcitability of colon DRG neurons. TTX-resistant but not TTX-sensitive sodium current density was greatly enhanced in colon DRG neurons in NMD rats. Compared with controls, activation curves showed a leftward shift in NMD rats whereas inactivation curves did not differ significantly. NMD markedly accelerated the activation time of peak current amplitude without any changes in inactivation time. Furthermore, NMD remarkably enhanced expression of Na(V)1.8 at protein levels but not at mRNA levels in colon-related DRGs. The expression of Na(V)1.9 was not altered after NMD. These data suggest that NMD enhances TTX-resistant sodium activity of colon DRG neurons, which is most likely mediated by a leftward shift of activation curve and by enhanced expression of Na(V)1.8 at protein levels, thus identifying a specific molecular mechanism underlying chronic visceral pain and sensitization in patients with IBS.
In this study we challenge the widely accepted suggestion that visual perception, but not visual control of action, processes object shape in a holistic manner (Ganel and Goodale, 2003, Nature). The finding that perceptual judgments but not visuomotor acts, such as grasping are affected by variations along an irrelevant object dimension (Garner-interference) is held up as strong evidence that vision for perception and vision for action are processed within different areas of the human brain. Here, we suggest that it is possible to explain the observed dissociation without recourse to functional and/or neurological dissociations between vision for perception and vision for action. In three experiments, we demonstrate that it is possible to either elicit or eliminate a Garner-interference effect in a perceptual task by varying the temporal profile of the perceptual response. Additionally, we show that it is also possible to induce a Garner-interference effect in a visuomotor task when the task is designed in a way which discourages participants from making online changes to their ongoing motor response. We suggest that the crucial factor for the occurrence of a Garner-interference is whether reaction time is measured such that it actually reflects the total duration of the response selection processes or not. According to our results, it seems therefore no longer appropriate to use the Garner-paradigm in support of the notion that the processing mechanisms in perception and action are dissociated.
Neuroadaptations associated with behavioral sensitization induced by repeated exposure to methamphetamine (MA) appear to be involved in compulsive drug pursuit and use. Increased histone acetylation, an epigenetic effect resulting in altered gene expression, may promote sensitized responses to psychostimulants. The role of histone acetylation in the expression and acquisition of MA-induced locomotor sensitization was examined by measuring the effect of histone deacetylase inhibition by sodium butyrate (NaB). For the effect on expression, mice were treated repeatedly with MA (10 days of 2mg/kg MA) or saline (10 days), and then vehicle or NaB (630 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was administered 30 min prior to MA challenge and locomotor response was measured. NaB treatment increased the locomotor response to MA in both acutely MA treated and sensitized animals. For acquisition, NaB was administered 30 min prior to each MA exposure (10 days of 1 or 2mg/kg), but not prior to the MA challenge test. Treatment with NaB during the sensitization acquisition period significantly increased locomotor activation by MA in sensitized mice only. NaB alone did not significantly alter locomotor activity. Acute NaB or MA, but not the combination, increased striatal acetylation at histone H4. Repeated treatment with MA, but not NaB or MA plus NaB, increased striatal acetylation at histone H3. Although increased histone acetylation may alter the expression of genes involved in acute locomotor response to MA and in the acquisition of MA-induced sensitization, results for acetylation at H3 and H4 showed little correspondence with behavior.
Promoting the rewiring of lesioned motor tracts following a spinal cord injury is a promising strategy to restore motor function. For instance, axonal collaterals may connect to spared, lesion-bridging neurons, thereby establishing a detour for descending signals and thus promoting functional recovery. In our rat model of cervical spinal cord injury, we attempted to promote targeted rewiring of the unilaterally injured corticospinal tract (CST) via the spared reticulospinal tract (RtST). To promote new connections between the two tracts in the brainstem, we administered viral vectors producing two neurotrophins. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a known promotor of collateral growth, was expressed in the motor cortex, and neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), which has chemoattractive properties, was expressed in the reticular formation. Because rehabilitative training has proven to be beneficial in promoting functionally meaningful plasticity following injury, we added training in a skilled reaching task. Different neurotrophin or control treatments with or without training were evaluated. As hypothesized, improvements of motor performance with the injured forelimb following neurotrophin treatment alone were absent or modest compared to untreated controls. In contrast, we found a significant synergistic effect on performance when BDNF treatment was combined with training. The mechanism of this recovery remains unidentified, as histological analyses of CST and RtST collateral projections did not reveal differences among treatment groups. In conclusion, we demonstrate that following a cervical spinal lesion, rehabilitative training is necessary to translate effects of BDNF into functional recovery by mechanisms which are likely independent of collateral sprouting of the CST or RtST into the gray matter.
Excessive generation of free radicals is regarded as a major detrimental factor in cerebral ischemic insults. Neurons are particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress due to their limited anti-oxidant capacity. As an important source of antioxidants in the brain, astroglia are now thought to be attractive targets for pharmacological interventions to reduce neuronal oxidative stress in ischemic stroke. In the present study, we synthesized a novel antioxidant, the (1S)-(-)-verbenone derivative LMT-335, and investigated its anti-ischemic activities. In rat cortical neuronal/glial co-cultures, LMT-335 significantly reduced oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)/reoxygenation (R)-induced neuronal injury. Although it did not inhibit N-methyl-d-aspartate-induced excitotoxicity, LMT-335 significantly reduced OGD/R-evoked intracellular oxidative stress. However, the oxygen radical absorbance capacity assay and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl assay showed that the free radical scavenging activities of LMT-335 were lower than those of trolox. Instead, LMT-335 significantly increased the astroglial expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a well-known anti-oxidant stress protein, as evidenced by immunocytochemistry and immunoblot analyses. Moreover, a selective HO-1 inhibitor, tin protoporphyrin IX (SnPP), significantly blocked the anti-ischemic effect of LMT-335. The present findings indicate that LMT-335 exerts neuroprotective effects against OGD/R by up-regulation of HO-1 in astroglial cells. Our data suggest that astroglial HO-1 represents a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of ischemic stroke.
Although the recreational drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is often described as a selective serotonergic neurotoxin, some research has challenged this view. The objective of this study was to determine the influence of MDMA on subsequent levels of two different markers of dopaminergic function, the dopamine transporter (DAT) as well as dopamine and its major metabolites. In experiment I, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered either a low or moderate dose MDMA binge (2.5 or 5.0mg/kg4 with an inter-dose interval of 1h) or saline, and were killed 1 week later. The moderate dose dramatically reduced [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding to striatal DAT by 73.7% (P0.001). In experiment II, animals were binged with a higher dose of MDMA (10mg/kg4) to determine the drug's effects on concentrations of serotonin (5-HT), dopamine, and their respective major metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the striatum and frontal cortex 1 week later. As expected, MDMA significantly reduced 5-HT and 5-HIAA (50%) in these structures, while only a marginal decrease in dopamine was noted in the striatum. In contrast, levels of DOPAC (34.3%, P&lt;0.01) and HVA (33.5%, P&lt;0.001) were reduced by MDMA treatment, suggesting a decrease in dopamine turnover. Overall, these findings indicate that while serotonergic markers are particularly vulnerable to MDMA-induced depletion, significant dopaminergic deficits may also occur under some conditions. Importantly, DAT expression may be more vulnerable to perturbation by MDMA than dopamine itself.
We assessed the role of rare copy number variants (CNVs) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) using intensity data from 3260 AD cases and 1290 age-matched controls from the genome-wide association study (GWAS) conducted by the Genetic and Environmental Risk for Alzheimer's disease Consortium (GERAD). We did not observe a significant excess of rare CNVs in cases, although we did identify duplications overlapping APP and CR1 which may be pathogenic. We looked for an excess of CNVs in loci which have been highlighted in previous AD CNV studies, but did not replicate previous findings. Through pathway analyses, we observed suggestive evidence for biological overlap between single nucleotide polymorphisms and CNVs in AD susceptibility. We also identified that our sample of elderly controls harbours significantly fewer deletions &gt;1 Mb than younger control sets in previous CNV studies on schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (P = 8.9  10(-4) and 0.024, respectively), raising the possibility that healthy elderly individuals have a reduced rate of large deletions. Thus, in contrast to diseases such as schizophrenia, autism and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, CNVs do not appear to make a significant contribution to the development of AD.

GPR17 is a G-protein-coupled receptor that is activated by two classes of molecules: uracil-nucleotides and cysteinyl-leukotrienes. GPR17 is required for initiating the differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursors but has to be down-regulated to allow cells to undergo terminal maturation. Although a great deal has been learned about GPR17 expression and signaling, no information is currently available about the trafficking of native receptors after the exposure of differentiating oligodendrocytes to endogenous agonists. Here, we demonstrate that neuron-conditioned medium induces the transcriptionally mediated, time-regulated expression of GPR17 in Oli-neu, an oligodendrocyte precursor cell line, making these cells suitable for studying the endocytic traffic of the native receptor. Agonist-induced internalization, intracellular trafficking, and membrane recycling of GPR17 were analyzed by biochemical and immunofluorescence assays using an ad hoc-developed antibody against the extracellular N-terminal of GPR17. Both UDP-glucose and LTD(4) increased GPR17 internalization, although with different efficiency. At early time points, internalized GPR17 co-localized with transferrin receptor, whereas at later times it partially co-localized with the lysosomal marker Lamp1, suggesting that a portion of GPR17 is targeted to lysosomes upon ligand binding. An analysis of receptor recycling and degradation demonstrated that a significant aliquot of GPR17 is recycled to the cell surface. Furthermore, internalized GPR17 displayed a co-localization with the marker of the &quot;short loop&quot; recycling endosomes, Rab4, while showing very minor co-localization with the &quot;long loop&quot; recycling marker, Rab11. Our results provide the first data on the agonist-induced trafficking of native GPR17 in oligodendroglial cells and may have implications for both physiological and pathological myelination.
In the central nervous system (CNS), fast neuronal signals are facilitated by the oligodendrocyte-produced myelin sheath. Oligodendrocyte turnover or injury generates myelin debris that is usually promptly cleared by phagocytic cells. Failure to remove dying oligodendrocytes leads to accumulation of degraded myelin, which, if recognized by the immune system, may contribute to the development of autoimmunity in diseases such as multiple sclerosis. We recently identified low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1) as a novel phagocytic receptor for myelin debris. Here, we report characterization of the LRP1 interactome in CNS myelin. Fusion proteins were designed corresponding to the extracellular ligand-binding domains of LRP1. LRP1 partners were isolated by affinity purification and characterized by mass spectrometry. We report that LRP1 binds intracellular proteins via its extracellular domain and functions as a receptor for necrotic cells. Peptidyl arginine deiminase-2 and cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase are novel LRP1 ligands identified in our screen, which interact with full-length LRP1. Furthermore, the extracellular domain of LRP1 is a target of peptidyl arginine deiminase-2-mediated deimination in vitro. We propose that LRP1 functions as a receptor for endocytosis of intracellular components released during cellular damage and necrosis.
Dynamin-associated protein 160 kDa (Dap160)/intersectin interacts with several synaptic proteins and affects endocytosis and synapse development. The functional role of the different protein interaction domains is not well understood. Here we show that Drosophila Dap160 lacking the dynamin-binding SH3 domains does not affect the development of the neuromuscular junction but plays a key role in synaptic vesicle recycling. dap160 mutants lacking dynamin-interacting domains no longer accumulate dynamin properly at the periactive zone, and it becomes dispersed in the bouton during stimulation. This is accompanied by a reduction in uptake of the dye FM1-43 and an accumulation of large vesicles and membrane invaginations. However, we do not observe an increase in the number of clathrin-coated intermediates. We also note a depression in evoked excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) during high-rate stimulation, accompanied by aberrantly large miniature EJPs. The data reveal the important role of Dap160 in the targeting of dynamin to the periactive zone, where it is required to suppress bulk synaptic vesicle membrane retrieval during high-frequency activity.
We have found a previously unreported precerebellar nucleus located among the emerging fibers of the motor root of the trigeminal nerve in the mouse, which we have called the interfascicular trigeminal nucleus (IF5). This nucleus had previously been named the tensor tympani part of the motor trigeminal nucleus (5TT) in rodent brain atlases, because it was thought to be a subset of small motor neurons of the motor trigeminal nucleus innervating the tensor tympani muscle. However, following injection of retrograde tracer in the cerebellum, the labeled neurons in IF5 were found to be choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) negative, indicating that they are not motor neurons. The cells of IF5 are strongly labeled in mice from Wnt1Cre and Atoh1 CreER lineage fate mapping, in common with the major precerebellar nuclei that arise from the rhombic lip and that issue mossy fibers. Analysis of sections from mouse Hoxa3, Hoxb1, and Egr2 Cre labeled lineages shows that the neurons of IF5 arise from rhombomeres caudal to rhombomere 4, most likely from rhombomeres 6-8. We conclude that IF5 is a significant precerebellar nucleus in the mouse that shares developmental gene expression characteristics with mossy fiber precerebellar nuclei that arise from the caudal rhombic lip.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and nonmotor impairments, including constipation. The hallmark pathological features of Parkinson's disease are Lewy bodies and neurites, of which aggregated -synuclein is a major constituent. Frequently, Lewy pathology is identified in the distal gut of constipated Parkinson's disease patients. The neurons that innervate the distal gut that express -synuclein have not been identified. We used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry and anterograde tracing to quantify which neurons projecting to the guinea pig rectum and human colon expressed -synuclein in their axons. -Synuclein-immunoreactivity was present in 24  0.7% of somatostatin (SOM)-immunoreactive (IR) varicosities; 20  4.3% of substance P (SP)-IR varicosities and 9  1.3% vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-IR varicosities in guinea pig rectal myenteric ganglia. However, -synuclein-immunoreactivity was localized in significantly more vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT)-IR varicosities (88  3%, P &lt; 0.001). Of SOM-IR, SP-IR, and VIP-IR varicosities that lacked VAChT-immunoreactivity, only 1  0.3%, 0  0.3%, and 0% contained -synuclein-immunoreactivity, respectively. 71  0.8% of VAChT-IR varicosities in myenteric ganglia of human colon were -synuclein-IR. In guinea pig rectal myenteric ganglia, -synuclein- and VAChT-immunoreactivity coexisted in 15  1.4% of biotinamide-labeled extrinsic varicosities; only 1  0.3% of biotinamide-labeled extrinsic varicosities contained -synuclein-immunoreactivity without VAChT-immunoreactivity. -Synuclein expression in axons to the distal gut correlates closely with expression of the cholinergic marker, VAChT. This is the first report of cell-selective -synuclein expression in the nervous system. Our results suggest cholinergic neurons in the gut may be vulnerable in Parkinson's disease.
The input-output properties of motoneurons are dynamically regulated. This regulation depends, in part, on the relative location of excitatory and inhibitory synapses, voltage-dependent and -independent channels, and neuromodulatory synapses on the dendritic tree. The goal of the present study was to quantify the number and distribution of synapses from two powerful neuromodulatory systems that originate from noradrenergic (NA) and serotonergic (5-HT) neurons. Here we show that the dendritic trees of motoneurons innervating a dorsal neck extensor muscle, splenius, in the adult cat are densely, but not uniformly innervated by both NA and 5-HT boutons. Identified splenius motoneurons were intracellularly stained with Neurobiotin. Using 3D reconstruction techniques we mapped the distributions of contacts formed by NA and 5-HT boutons on the reconstructed dendritic trees of these motoneurons. Splenius motoneurons received an average of 1,230 NA contacts (range = 647-1,507) and 1,582 5-HT contacts (range = 1,234-2,143). The densities of these contacts were 10 (NA) to 6 (5-HT)-fold higher on small compared to large-diameter dendrites. This relationship largely accounts for the bias of NA and 5-HT contacts on distal dendrites and is partially responsible for the higher density of NA contacts on dendrites located more than 200 m dorsal to the soma. These results suggest that the neuromodulatory actions of NA and 5-HT are compartmentalized and regulate the input-output properties of motoneurons according to precisely arranged interactions with voltage-dependent and -independent channels that are primarily located on small-diameter dendrites.
Corticothalamic (CT) feedback outnumbers thalamocortical projections and regulates sensory information processing at the level of the thalamus. It is well established that EphA7, a member of EphA receptor family, is involved in the topographic mapping of CT projections. The aim of the present study was to dissect the precise impact of EphA7 on each step of CT growth. We used in utero electroporation-mediated EphA7 overexpression in developing somatosensory CT axons to dissect EphA7/ephrin-A-dependent mechanisms involved in regulating both initial targeting and postnatal growth of the CT projections. Our data revealed that topographic maps of cortical afferents in the ventrobasal complex and medial part of the posterior complex in the thalamus become discernible shortly after birth and are fully established by the second postnatal week. This process starts with the direct ingrowth of the CT axons to the designated areas within target thalamic nuclei and by progressive increase of axonal processes in the terminal zones. Large-scale overproduction and elimination of exuberant widespread axonal branches outside the target zone was not observed. Each developmental event was coordinated by spatially and temporally different responsiveness of CT axons to the ephrin-A gradient in thalamic nuclei, as well as by the matching levels of EphA7 in CT axons and ephrin-As in thalamic nuclei. These results support the concept that the topographic connections between the maps in the cerebral cortex and corresponding thalamic nuclei are genetically prespecified to a large extent, and established by precise spatiotemporal molecular mechanisms that involve the Eph family of genes.
The medial nucleus (Me) is a superficial component of the amygdaloid complex. Here we assessed the density and morphology of the neurons and glial cells, the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity, and the ultrastructure of the synaptic sites in the human Me. The optical fractionator method was applied. The Me presented an estimated mean neuronal density of 1.53  10 neurons/mm (greater in the left hemisphere), more glia (72% of all cells) than neurons, and a nonneuronal:neuronal ratio of 2.7. Golgi-impregnated neurons had round or ovoid, fusiform, angular, and polygonal cell bodies (10-30 m in diameter). The length of the dendrites varied, and pleomorphic spines were found in sparsely spiny or densely spiny cells (1.5-5.2 spines/dendritic m). The axons in the Me neuropil were fine or coarsely beaded, and fibers showed simple or notably complex collateral terminations. The protoplasmic astrocytes were either isolated or formed small clusters and showed GFAP-immunoreactive cell bodies and multiple branches. Furthermore, we identified both asymmetrical (with various small, clear, round, electron-lucent vesicles and, occasionally, large, dense-core vesicles) and symmetrical (with small, flattened vesicles) axodendritic contacts, also including multisynaptic spines. The astrocytes surround and may compose tripartite or tetrapartite synapses, the latter including the extracellular matrix between the pre- and the postsynaptic elements. Interestingly, the terminal axons exhibited a glomerular-like structure with various asymmetrical contacts. These new morphological data on the cellular population and synaptic complexity of the human Me can contribute to our knowledge of its role in health and pathological conditions.
Visually guided collision avoidance is of paramount importance in flight, for instance to allow escape from potential predators. Yet, little is known about the types of collision-avoidance behaviors that may be generated by flying animals in response to an impending visual threat. We studied the behavior of minimally restrained locusts flying in a wind tunnel as they were subjected to looming stimuli presented to the side of the animal, simulating the approach of an object on a collision course. Using high-speed movie recordings, we observed a wide variety of collision-avoidance behaviors including climbs and dives away from - but also towards - the stimulus. In a more restrained setting, we were able to relate kinematic parameters of the flapping wings with yaw changes in the trajectory of the animal. Asymmetric wing flapping was most strongly correlated with changes in yaw, but we also observed a substantial effect of wing deformations. Additionally, the effect of wing deformations on yaw was relatively independent of that of wing asymmetries. Thus, flying locusts exhibit a rich range of collision-avoidance behaviors that depend on several distinct aerodynamic characteristics of wing flapping flight.
Opioid and tachykinin receptors (TACRs) are closely related in addiction and pain processes. In zebrafish, opioid receptors have been cloned and characterized both biochemically and pharmacologically. However, the tacr1 gene has not yet been described in zebrafish. The aim of this research was to identify the tacr1 gene, study the effects of cocaine on tacr1, and analyze the interaction between tacr1 and opioid receptors. We have identified a duplicate of tacr1 gene in zebrafish, designated as tacr1a and tacr1b. Phylogenetic analyses revealed an alignment of these receptors in the Tacr1 fish cluster, with a clear distinction from other TACR1s of amphibians, birds, and mammals. Our qPCR results showed that tacr1a and tacr1b mRNAs are expressed during embryonic development. Whole-mount in situ hybridization showed tacr1 expression in the CNS and in the peripheral tissues. Cocaine (1.5 M) induced an upregulation of tacr1a and tacr1b at 24 and 48 h post-fertilization (hpf; except for tacr1a at 48hpf, which was downregulated). By contrast, HEK-293 cells transfected with tacr1a and tacr1b and exposed to cocaine showed a downregulation of tacr1s. The knockdown of ZfDOR2 and ZfMOR, opioid receptors, induced a down- and upregulation of tacr1a and tacr1b respectively. In conclusion, tacr1a and tacr1b in zebrafish are widely expressed throughout the CNS and peripherally, suggesting a critical role of these tacr1s during embryogenesis. tacr1a and tacr1b mRNA expression is altered by cocaine exposure and by the knockdown of opioid receptors. Thus, zebrafish can provide clues for a better understanding of the relationship between tachykinin and opioid receptors in pain and addiction during embryonic development.
Methadone is known to exert modulatory effects on the immune system. We investigated the potential effects of methadone on infiltration of inflammatory cells into the spinal cord, as well as the proliferative and cytokine responses of T cells in MOG(35-55)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice. Methadone significantly suppressed clinical signs of the disease and level of inflammatory cytokines (p&lt;0.05) produced by T cells. Moreover, invasion of inflammatory cells into the spinal cord was significantly decreased by methadone (p&lt;0.05). Our data point to therapeutic effects of methadone and highlight the beneficial role of opioid receptor signaling in the context of autoimmune neuroinflammation.
In a rat model of global fetal and perinatal asphyxia, we investigated if asphyxia and long-lasting brain tolerance to asphyxia (preconditioning) are mediated by modifications in inflammatory cytokines and ceramide metabolism genes in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and caudate-putamen at the age of 8months. Most significant changes were found in prefrontal cortex, with reduced LAG1 homolog ceramide synthase 1 expression after both types of asphyxia. Additionally, sphingosine kinase 1 was upregulated in those animals that experienced the combination of fetal and perinatal asphyxia (preconditioning), suggesting increased cell proliferation. While cytokine levels are normal, levels of ceramide genes were modulated both after fetal and perinatal asphyxia in the adult prefrontal cortex. Moreover, the combination of two subsequent asphyctic insults provides long-lasting neuroprotection in the prefrontal cortex probably by maintaining normal apoptosis and promoting cell proliferation. Better understanding of the effects of asphyxia on ceramide metabolism will help to understand the changes leading to brain tolerance and will open opportunities for the development of new neuroprotective therapies.
Accurately measuring the volume of tissue damage in experimental lesion models is crucial to adequately control for the extent and location of the lesion, variables that can dramatically bias the outcome of preclinical studies. Many of the current commonly used techniques for this assessment, such as measuring the lesion volume with primitive software macros and plotting the lesion location manually using atlases, are time-consuming and offer limited precision. Here we present an easy to use semi-automated computational method for determining lesion volume and location, designed to increase precision and reduce the manual labor required. We compared this novel method to currently used methods and demonstrate that this tool is comparable or superior to current techniques in terms of precision and has distinct advantages with respect to user interface, labor intensiveness and quality of data presentation.
Independent component analysis (ICA) is a suitable method for decomposing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity into spatially independent patterns. Practice has revealed that low-pass filtering prior to ICA may improve ICA results by reducing noise and possibly by increasing source smoothness, which may enhance source independence; however, it eliminates useful information in high frequency features and it amplifies low signal fluctuations leading to independence loss. On the other hand, high-pass filtering may increase the independence by preserving spatial information, but its denoising properties are weak. Thus, such filtering strategies did not lead to simultaneous enhancements in independence and noise reduction; therefore, band-pass filtering or more sophisticated filtering methods are expected to be more appropriate. We used advanced wavelet filtering procedures, such as wavelet-based methods relying upon hard and soft coefficient thresholding and non-stationary Gaussian modelling based on geometrical prior information, to denoise artificial and real fMRI data. We compared the performance of these methods with the performance of traditional Gaussian smoothing techniques. First, we demonstrated both analytically and empirically the consistent performance increase of spatial filtering prior to ICA using spatial correlation and statistical sensitivity as quality measures. Second, all filtering methods were computationally efficient. Finally, denoising using low-pass filters was needed to improve ICA, suggesting that noise reduction may have a more significant effect on the component independence than the preservation of information contained within high frequencies.
Episodic memory is defined as the conscious recollection of a personal event (What) in its spatial (Where) and contextual (Which context) environment. In existing approaches, human episodic memory is either explored separately from real-life situations or is not fully controlled. In this study, we propose an intermediate approach, inspired by animal studies, that permits the control of the encoding and recall phases, while still being ecologically valid. As odors are known to be especially evocative reminders, we explored the memory of olfactory episodes. During trial-unique encoding, participants freely explored three episodes, one episode per day, each composed of three unnamable odors (What) that were positioned at specific locations on a board (Where) within a visual context (Which context). On the fourth day, both old and new odors were presented, and when an odor was recognized, the participants had to remember both its spatial location and the visual context in which it occurred. In Experiment 1, the participants were highly proficient at recognizing odors, and they recall the spatio-contextual environment associated with these odors in approximately half of the trials. To adapt the recall procedure to the constraints of fMRI, we conducted Experiment 2 demonstrating that trial repetition did not disturb the memory process. Thus, we first validated our protocol, which investigates the memory of olfactory episodes in a fully controlled way that is as close as possible to real-life situations. Then, we demonstrated the adaptability of our protocol for the future exploration of the neural networks implicated in episodic recall.
Many experiments in neuroscience have compared the strength of association between neural spike trains and rhythms present in local field potential (LFP) recordings. The measure employed in these comparisons, &quot;spike-field coherence&quot;, is a frequency dependent measure of linear association, and is shown to depend on overall neural activity (Lepage et al., 2011). Dependence upon overall neural activity, that is, dependence upon the total number of spikes, renders comparison of spike-field coherence across experimental context difficult. In this paper, an inferential procedure based upon a generalized linear model is shown to be capable of separating the effects of overall neural activity from spike train-LFP oscillatory coupling. This separation provides a means to compare the strength of oscillatory association between spike train-LFP pairs independent of differences in spike counts. Following a review of the generalized linear modelling framework of point process neural activity a specific class of generalized linear models are introduced. This model class, using either a piece-wise constant link function, or an exponential function to relate an LFP rhythm to neural response, is used to develop hypothesis tests capable of detecting changes in spike train-LFP oscillatory coupling. The performance of these tests is validated, both in simulation and on real data. The proposed method of inference provides a principled statistical procedure by which across-context change in spike train-LFP rhythmic association can be directly inferred that explicitly handles between-condition differences in total spike count.
Post-traumatic hypopituitarism (PTHP) has been linked to disability and decreased quality of life. However, no studies have addressed the long-term consequences of PTHP in adults with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) only. In this study, we evaluated the relationship between pituitary function, quality of life, and functioning in 51 patients (16-65 years of age) with severe TBI who were admitted to Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg from 1999 to 2002. The patients were assessed once, 2-10 years after trauma. Data from the time of injury were collected retrospectively to adjust for injury severity. Outcome measures included hormonal testing, the Short Form-36 Health Survey, the Glasgow outcome scale-extended, and a self-report questionnaire specifically designed for this study and based on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health. Of 51 patients, 14 (27.5%) presented with PTHP, and 11 (21.6%) had isolated growth hormone deficiency. Patients with PTHP were more often overweight at follow-up (p=0.01); the higher body mass index was partially explained by PTHP (R2 change=0.07, p=0.001). Otherwise no significant correlation was found among PTHP, functioning, or patient-reported quality of life. This study-which is unique in the homogeneity of the patients, the long follow-up time, and the use of injury severity as an outcome predictor-did not confirm results from previous studies linking PTHP to a worse outcome. Therefore, screening for PTHP might be restricted to specific subgroups such as overweight patients, indicating growth hormone deficiency.

Our current knowledge of the role of astrocytes in health and disease states supports the view that many physiological brain functions and neurological diseases are finely tuned, and in certain cases fully determined, by the continuous cross-talk between astrocytes and neurons. This novel way of interpreting brain activity as a dynamic and reciprocal interplay between astrocytic and neuronal networks has also influenced our understanding of epilepsy, not only forcing a reinterpretation of old findings, but also being a catalyst for novel experimentation. In this review, we summarize some of the recent studies that highlight these novel distinct contributions of astrocytes to the expression of convulsive and non-convulsive epileptiform discharges and seizures. The emerging picture suggests a general framework based on bilateral signalling between astrocytes and neurons for a fuller understanding of epileptogenic and epileptic mechanisms in the brain network. Astrocytes potentially represent targets for the development of those novel chemical entities with improved efficacy for the treatment of convulsive and non-convulsive epilepsy that expert groups have recognized as one of the key priorities for the management of epilepsy.
In different animal models of focal epilepsy, seizure-like ictal discharge propagation is transiently opposed by feedforward inhibition. The specific cellular source of this signal and the mechanism by which inhibition ultimately becomes ineffective are, however, undefined. We used a brain slice model to study how focal ictal discharges that were repetitively evoked from the same site, and at precise times, propagate across the cortex. We used Ca(2+) imaging and simultaneous single/dual cell recordings from pyramidal neurons (PyNs) and different classes of interneurons in rodents, including G42 and GIN transgenic mice expressing the green fluorescence protein in parvalbumin (Pv)-fast spiking (FS) and somatostatin (Som) interneurons, respectively. We found that these two classes of interneurons fired intensively shortly after ictal discharge generation at the focus. The inhibitory barrages that were recorded in PyNs occurred in coincidence with Pv-FS, but not with Som interneuron burst discharges. Furthermore, the strength of inhibitory barrages increased or decreased in parallel with increased or decreased firing in Pv-FS interneurons but not in Som interneurons. A firing impairment of Pv-FS interneurons caused by a membrane depolarization was found to precede ictal discharge onset in neighbouring pyramidal neurons. This event may account for the collapse of local inhibition that allows spatially defined clusters of PyNs to be recruited into propagating ictal discharges. Our study demonstrates that Pv-FS interneurons are a major source of the inhibitory barrages that oppose ictal discharge propagation and raises the possibility that targeting Pv-FS interneurons represents a new therapeutic strategy to prevent the generalization of human focal seizures.
Time representation is an important element of cerebellar neural processing, but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. We demonstrate that the major mossy fibre input system originating from the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN) can represent sensory event timing over hundreds of milliseconds. In vivo, cerebellar-projecting LRN neurons discharge extremely regularly with a clock-like rhythm. In response to stimulation of a wide peripheral receptive field, firing briefly pauses then resumes with precise timing. The precision of post-stimulus spikes and the regularity of firing mean that the stimulus timing is represented by LRN spike timing over hundreds of milliseconds. In an arithmetic progression model of LRN neuron firing, highly predictable post-stimulus spike timing is modulated by changing the variability of the first post-inhibitory spike and of the subsequent interspike intervals. From in vitro analysis we show that the Ca(2+)-activated small-conductance K(+) current (SK) contributes to interspike interval regularity and that the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)) contributes to short-latency, high-precision post-hyperpolarisation spike timing. Consistent with this, we demonstrate in vivo that resumption of firing becomes more sharply timed after longer stimulus-evoked pauses. Thus, I(h) is a potential conductance that could mediate the precisely timed resumption of firing after the pause. Through the widespread projections of LRN neurons, these properties may enable the LRN to provide precisely timed signals to the cerebellum over a prolonged period following a stimulus, which may also both activate and sustain oscillatory processes in the cerebellar cortex.
The striatum of the basal ganglia is conserved throughout the vertebrate phylum. Tracing studies in lamprey have shown that its afferent inputs are organized in a manner similar to that of mammals. The main inputs arise from the thalamus (Th) and lateral pallium (LPal; the homologue of cortex) that represents the two principal excitatory glutamatergic inputs in mammals. The aim here was to characterize the pharmacology and synaptic dynamics of afferent fibres from the LPal and Th onto identified striatal neurons to understand the processing taking place in the lamprey striatum. We used whole-cell current-clamp recordings in acute slices of striatum with preserved fibres from the Th and LPal, as well as tract tracing and immunohistochemistry. We show that the Th and LPal produce monosynaptic excitatory glutamatergic input through NMDA and AMPA receptors. The synaptic input from the LPal displayed short-term facilitation, unlike the Th input that instead displayed strong short-term synaptic depression. There was also an activity-dependent recruitment of intrastriatal oligosynaptic inhibition from both inputs. These results indicate that the two principal inputs undergo different activity-dependent short-term synaptic plasticity in the lamprey striatum. The difference observed between Th and LPal (cortical) input is also observed in mammals, suggesting a conserved trait throughout vertebrate evolution.
Synaptic transmission at central synapses has usually short latency and graded amplitude, thereby regulating threshold crossing and the probability of action potential generation. In the granular layer of the vestibulo-cerebellum, unipolar brush cells (UBCs) receive a giant synapse generating a stereotyped excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP)-burst complex with early-onset (2 ms) and high reliability. By using patch-clamp recordings in cerebellar slices of the rat vestibulo-cerebellum, we found that mossy fibre bundle stimulation also evoked (in 80% of cases) a late-onset burst (after tens to hundreds of milliseconds) independent of EPSP generation. Different from the early-onset, the late-onset burst delay decreased and its duration increased by raising stimulation intensity or the number of impulses. Although depending on synaptic activity, the late-onset response was insensitive to perfusion of APV ((2R)-5-amino-phosphonopentanoate), NBQX (2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-tetrahydrobenzo(f)quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide) and MCPG ((RS)--methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine) and did not therefore depend on conventional glutamatergic transmission mechanisms. The late-onset response was initiated by a slow depolarizing ramp driven by activation of an H-current (sensitive to ZD7288 and Cs(+)) and of a TRP- (transient receptor potential) current (sensitive to SKF96365), while the high voltage-activated and high voltage-activated Ca(2+) currents (sensitive to nimodipine and mibefradil, respectively) played a negligible role. The late-onset burst was occluded by intracellular cAMP. These results indicate that afferent activity can regulate H- and TRP-current gating in UBCs generating synaptically driven EPSP-independent responses, in which the delay rather than amplitude is graded with the intensity of the input pattern. This modality of synaptic transmission may play an important role in regulating UBC activation and granular layer functions in the vestibulo-cerebellum.
Small-conductance calcium-activated potassium (SK) channels mediate medium after-hyperpolarization (AHP) conductances in neurons throughout the central nervous system. However, the expression profile and subcellular localization of different SK channel isoforms in lumbar spinal -motoneurons (-MNs) is unknown. Using immunohistochemical labelling of rat, mouse and cat spinal cord, we reveal a differential and overlapping expression of SK2 and SK3 isoforms across specific types of -MNs. In rodents, SK2 is expressed in all -MNs, whereas SK3 is expressed preferentially in small-diameter -MNs; in cats, SK3 is expressed in all -MNs. Function-specific expression of SK3 was explored using post hoc immunostaining of electrophysiologically characterized rat -MNs in vivo. These studies revealed strong relationships between SK3 expression and medium AHP properties. Motoneurons with SK3-immunoreactivity exhibit significantly longer AHP half-decay times (24.67 vs. 11.02 ms) and greater AHP amplitudes (3.27 vs. 1.56 mV) than MNs lacking SK3-immunoreactivity. We conclude that the differential expression of SK isoforms in rat and mouse spinal cord may contribute to the range of medium AHP durations across specific MN functional types and may be a molecular factor distinguishing between slow- and fast-type -MNs in rodents. Furthermore, our results show that SK2- and SK3-immunoreactivity is enriched in distinct postsynaptic domains that contain Kv2.1 channel clusters associated with cholinergic C-boutons on the soma and proximal dendrites of -MNs. We suggest that this remarkably specific subcellular membrane localization of SK channels is likely to represent the basis for a cholinergic mechanism for effective regulation of channel function and cell excitability.
GABA(A) receptors are critically involved in hippocampal oscillations. GABA(A) receptor 1 and 2 subunits are differentially expressed throughout the hippocampal circuitry and thereby may have distinct contributions to oscillations. It is unknown which GABA(A) receptor  subunit controls hippocampal oscillations and where these receptors are expressed. To address these questions we used transgenic mice expressing GABA(A) receptor 1 and/or 2 subunits with point mutations (H101R) that render these receptors insensitive to allosteric modulation at the benzodiazepine binding site, and tested how increased or decreased function of  subunits affects hippocampal oscillations. Positive allosteric modulation by zolpidem prolonged decay kinetics of hippocampal GABAergic synaptic transmission and reduced the frequency of cholinergically induced oscillations. Allosteric modulation of GABAergic receptors in CA3 altered oscillation frequency in CA1, while modulation of GABA receptors in CA1 did not affect oscillations. In mice having a point mutation (H101R) at the GABA(A) receptor 2 subunit, zolpidem effects on cholinergically induced oscillations were strongly reduced compared to wild-type animals, while zolpidem modulation was still present in mice with the H101R mutation at the 1 subunit. Furthermore, genetic knockout of 2 subunits strongly reduced oscillations, whereas knockout of 1 subunits had no effect. Allosteric modulation of GABAergic receptors was strongly reduced in unitary connections between fast spiking interneurons and pyramidal neurons in CA3 of 2H101R mice, but not of 1H101R mice, suggesting that fast spiking interneuron to pyramidal neuron synapses in CA3 contain 2 subunits. These findings suggest that 2-containing GABA(A) receptors expressed in the CA3 region provide the inhibition that controls hippocampal rhythm during cholinergically induced oscillations.
An enhanced tonic GABA(A) inhibition in the thalamus plays a crucial role in experimental absence seizures and has been attributed, on the basis of indirect evidence, to a dysfunction of the astrocytic GABA transporter-1 (GAT-1). Here, the GABA transporter current was directly investigated in thalamic astrocytes from a well-established genetic model of absence seizures, the genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS), and its non-epileptic control (NEC) strain. We also characterized the novel form of GABAergic and glutamatergic astrocyte-to-neuron signalling by recording slow outward currents (SOCs) and slow inward currents (SICs), respectively, in thalamocortical (TC) neurons of both strains. In patch-clamped astrocytes, the GABA transporter current was abolished by combined application of the selective GAT-1 and GAT-3 blocker, NO711 (30 m) and SNAP5114 (60 m), respectively, to GAERS and NEC thalamic slices. NO711 alone significantly reduced (41%) the transporter current in NEC, but had no effect in GAERS. SNAP5114 alone reduced by half the GABA transporter current in NEC, whilst it abolished it in GAERS. SIC properties did not differ between GAERS and NEC TC neurons, whilst moderate changes in SOC amplitude and kinetics were observed. These data provide the first direct demonstration of a malfunction of the astrocytic thalamic GAT-1 transporter in absence epilepsy and support an abnormal astrocytic modulation of thalamic ambient GABA levels. Moreover, while the glutamatergic astrocyte-neuron signalling is unaltered in the GAERS thalamus, the changes in some properties of the GABAergic astrocyte-neuron signalling in this epileptic strain may contribute to the generation of absence seizures.
Cerebral cortex is a highly sophisticated computing machine, feeding on information provided by the senses, which is integrated with other, internally generated patterns of neural activity, to trigger behavioural outputs. Bit by bit, we are coming to understand how this may occur, but still, the nature of the 'cortical code' remains one of the greatest challenges in science. As with other great scientific challenges of the past, fresh insights have come from a coalescence of different experimental and theoretical approaches. These theoretical considerations are typically reserved for cortical function rather than cortical pathology. This approach, though, may also shed light on cortical dysfunction. The particular focus of this review is epilepsy; we will argue that the information capacity of different brain states provides a means of understanding, and even assessing, the impact and locality of the epileptic pathology. Epileptic discharges, on account of their all-consuming and stereotyped nature, represent instances where the information capacity of the network is massively compromised. These intense discharges also prevent normal processing in surrounding territories, but in a different way, through enhanced inhibition in these territories. Information processing is further compromised during the period of post-ictal suppression, during interictal bursts, and also at other times, through more subtle changes in synaptic function. We also comment on information processing in other more physiological brain states.
Temporal order discrimination in rats was analyzed using a radial maze. The task consisted of a study phase in which two to five items (arms) were presented sequentially and, after a delay, a test phase in which two of these were simultaneously presented and the rat had to choose the arm presented earlier in the study phase. Acquisition of the task was better as the number of items in the study phase increased when the total study phase length was constant (4 min). Interval length between items in the study phase did not affect the acquisition regardless of the number of items. Additionally, discrimination performance was better when two items with more intervening items in the study phase (temporal lag) were used for the test. However, this tendency was obtained only when the last item of the study phase was included in the test pair. Results suggest that the number of items presented in the sequence, but not interval length between items, is an important factor in temporal order memory, and that a larger number of intervening items, as well as containing the last item in the study phase, contributes to the occurrence of the temporal lag effect.

The postnatal period of neurodevelopment has been implicated in a number of brain disorders including autism and schizophrenia. Rodent models have proven to be invaluable in advancing our understanding of the human brain, and will almost certainly play a pivotal role in future studies on postnatal neurodevelopment. The growing field of magnetic resonance microscopy has the potential to revolutionize our understanding of neurodevelopment, if it can be successfully and appropriately assimilated into the vast body of existing neuroscience research. In this study, we demonstrate the utility of a developmental neuro-ontology designed specifically for tracking regional changes in MR biomarkers throughout postnatal neurodevelopment. Using this ontological classification as a segmentation guide, we track regional changes in brain volume in rats between postnatal day zero and postnatal day 80 and demonstrate differential growth rates in axial versus paraxial brain regions. Both the ontology and the associated label volumes are provided as a foundation for future MR-based studies of postnatal neurodevelopment in normal and disease states.
Diffusion MRI allows the structural connectivity of the whole brain (the 'tractogram') to be estimated in vivo non-invasively using streamline tractography. The biological accuracy of these data sets is however limited by the inherent biases associated with the reconstruction method. Here we propose a method to retrospectively improve the accuracy of these reconstructions, by selectively filtering out streamlines from the tractogram in a manner that improves the fit between the streamline reconstruction and the underlying diffusion images. This filtering is guided by the results of spherical deconvolution of the diffusion signal, hence the acronym SIFT: spherical-deconvolution informed filtering of tractograms. Data sets processed by this algorithm show a marked reduction in known reconstruction biases, and improved biological plausibility. Emerging methods in diffusion MRI, particularly those that aim to characterise and compare the structural connectivity of the brain, should benefit from the improved accuracy of the reconstruction.
The investigation of brain activity using naturalistic, ecologically-valid stimuli is becoming an important challenge for neuroscience research. Several approaches have been proposed, primarily relying on data-driven methods (e.g. independent component analysis, ICA). However, data-driven methods often require some post-hoc interpretation of the imaging results to draw inferences about the underlying sensory, motor or cognitive functions. Here, we propose using a biologically-plausible computational model to extract (multi-)sensory stimulus statistics that can be used for standard hypothesis-driven analyses (general linear model, GLM). We ran two separate fMRI experiments, which both involved subjects watching an episode of a TV-series. In Exp 1, we manipulated the presentation by switching on-and-off color, motion and/or sound at variable intervals, whereas in Exp 2, the video was played in the original version, with all the consequent continuous changes of the different sensory features intact. Both for vision and audition, we extracted stimulus statistics corresponding to spatial and temporal discontinuities of low-level features, as well as a combined measure related to the overall stimulus saliency. Results showed that activity in occipital visual cortex and the superior temporal auditory cortex co-varied with changes of low-level features. Visual saliency was found to further boost activity in extra-striate visual cortex plus posterior parietal cortex, while auditory saliency was found to enhance activity in the superior temporal cortex. Data-driven ICA analyses of the same datasets also identified &quot;sensory&quot; networks comprising visual and auditory areas, but without providing specific information about the possible underlying processes, e.g., these processes could relate to modality, stimulus features and/or saliency. We conclude that the combination of computational modeling and GLM enables the tracking of the impact of bottom-up signals on brain activity during viewing of complex and dynamic multisensory stimuli, beyond the capability of purely data-driven approaches.
The effectiveness of placebo treatments depends on the recipient's expectations, which are at least in part shaped by previous experiences. Thus, positive past experience together with an accordant verbal instruction should enhance outcome expectations and subsequently lead to higher placebo efficacy. This should be reflected in subjective valuation reports and in activation of placebo-related brain structures. We tested this hypothesis in a functional magnetic resonance imaging study, where subjects experienced different levels of pain relief and conforming information about price levels for two placebo treatments during a manipulation phase, thereby establishing a weak and a strong placebo. As expected, both placebos led to a significant pain relief and the strong placebo induced better analgesic efficacy. Individual placebo value estimates reflected treatment efficacy, i.e. subjects were willing to pay more money for the strong placebo even though pain stimulation was completed at this time. On the neural level, placebo effects were associated with activation of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, the anterior insula, and the ventral striatum and deactivations in the thalamus and secondary somatosensory cortex. However, only placebo-related responses in rostral anterior cingulate cortex were consistent across both the anticipation of painful stimuli and their actual administration. Most importantly, rostral anterior cingulate cortex responses were higher for the strong placebo, thus mirroring the behavioral effects. These results directly link placebo analgesia to anticipatory activity in the ventral striatum, a region involved in reward processing, and highlight the role of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, as its activity consistently scaled with increasing analgesic efficacy.
Perception has been identified by the NIMH-sponsored Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) group as a useful domain for assessing cognitive deficits in patients with schizophrenia. Specific measures of contrast gain derived from recordings of steady-state visual evoked potentials (ssVEP) have demonstrated neural deficits within the visual pathways of patients with schizophrenia. Psychophysical measures of contrast sensitivity have also shown functional loss in these patients. In the current study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used in conjunction with ssVEP and contrast sensitivity testing to elucidate the neural underpinnings of these deficits. During fMRI scanning, participants viewed 1) the same low and higher spatial frequency stimuli used in the psychophysical contrast sensitivity task, at both individual detection threshold contrast and at a high contrast; and 2) the same stimuli used in the ssVEP paradigm, which were designed to be biased toward either the magnocellular or parvocellular visual pathway. Patients showed significant impairment in contrast sensitivity at both spatial frequencies in the psychophysical task, but showed reduced occipital activation volume for low, but not higher, spatial frequency at the low and high contrasts tested in the magnet. As expected, patients exhibited selective deficits under the magnocellular-biased ssVEP condition. However, occipital lobe fMRI responses demonstrated the same general pattern for magnocellular- and parvocellular-biased stimuli across groups. These results indicate dissociation between the fMRI measures and the psychophysical/ssVEP measures. These latter measures appear to have greater value for the functional assessment of the contrast deficits explored here.
The role of experience in the development of brain mechanisms for face recognition is intensely debated. Experience with subordinate- and individual-level classification of faces is thought, by some, to be foundational in the development of the specialization of face recognition. Studying children with extremely intense interests (EII) provides an opportunity to examine experience-related changes in non-face object recognition in a population where face expertise is not fully developed. Here, two groups of school-aged children -one group with an EII with Pokmon cards and another group of age-matched controls - underwent fMRI while viewing faces, Pokmon characters, Pokmon objects, and Digimon characters. Pokmon objects were non-character Pokmon cards that experts do not typically individuate during game play and trading. Neither experts nor controls had previous experience with Digimon characters. As expected, experts and controls showed equivalent activation in the fusiform face area (FFA) with face stimuli. As predicted by the expertise hypothesis, experts showed greater activation than controls with Pokmon characters, and showed greater activation with Pokmon characters than Pokmon objects. Experts and controls showed equivalent activation with Digimon characters. However, heightened activation with Digimon characters in both groups suggested that there are other strong influences on the activation of the FFA beyond stimulus characteristics, experience, and classification level. By demonstrating the important role of expertise, the findings are inconsistent with a purely face-specific account of FFA function. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of the effects of expertise and categorization level on activation in the FFA in a group of typically developing children.
Flow is a subjective experience of high but effortless attention, enjoyment, and low self-awareness that can occur during the active performance of challenging tasks. The dispositional proneness to experience flow is associated with personality traits that are known to be influenced by dopaminergic neural systems. Here, for the first time, we investigated relations between flow proneness and dopaminergic function. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that the availability of dopamine D2-receptors in the striatum is positively associated with flow proneness. Striatal D2-receptor availability was measured in a sample of 25 healthy adults using positron emission tomography and [(11)C]raclopride. Flow proneness was measured using the Swedish Flow Proneness Questionnaire. As hypothesized, there was a significant correlation (r=.41) between striatal D2-receptor availability and flow proneness. An exploratory analysis of striatal subregions showed that the relation was mainly driven by the dorsal striatum, with a significantly higher correlation in the putamen than in the ventral striatum. The findings constitute the first demonstration of an association between flow proneness and dopaminergic function. We suggest that the proneness to experience flow is related to personality dimensions that are under dopaminergic control and characterized by low impulsiveness, stable emotion, and positive affect.
Endoxifen (EDX) is a key active metabolite of tamoxifen (TAM) with higher affinity and specificity to estrogen receptors that also inhibits aromatase activity. It is safe and well tolerated by healthy humans, but its use requires toxicological characterization. In this study, the effects of EDX on mitochondria, the primary targets for xenobiotic-induced toxicity, were monitored to clarify its potential side effects. EDX up to 30 nmol/mg protein did not affect the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. At 50 nmol EDX/mg protein, EDX decreased the ADP phosphorylation rate and a partial collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential (), that parallels a state 4 stimulation, was observed. As the stimulation of state 4 was not inhibited by oligomycin and 50 nmol EDX/mg protein caused a slight decrease in the light scattering of mitochondria, these data suggest that EDX promotes membrane permeabilization to protons, whereas TAM at the same concentration induced mitochondrial membrane disruption. Moreover, EDX at 10 nmol/mg protein prevented and reversed the Ca(2+)-induced depolarization of  and the release of mitochondrial Ca(2+), similarly to cyclosporine A, indicating that EDX did not affect Ca(2+) uptake, but directly interfered with the proteins of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) megacomplex, inhibiting MPT induction. At this concentration, EDX exhibited antioxidant activity that may account for the protective effect against MPT pore opening. In conclusion, EDX within the range of concentrations reached in tissues did not significantly damage the bioenergetic functions of mitochondria, contrarily to the prodrug TAM, and prevented the MPT pore opening and the oxidative stress in mitochondria, supporting that EDX may be a less toxic drug for women with breast carcinoma.
The nervous system is the target for acute encephalitic viral infections, as well as a reservoir for persisting viruses. Intrathecal antibody (Ab) synthesis is well documented in humans afflicted by infections associated with neurological complications, as well as the demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis. This review focuses on the origin, recruitment, maintenance, and biological relevance of Ab-secreting cells (ASC) found in the central nervous system (CNS) following experimental neurotropic RNA virus infections. We will summarize evidence for a highly dynamic, evolving humoral response characterized by temporal alterations in B cell subsets, proliferation, and differentiation. Overall local Ab plays a beneficial role via complement-independent control of virus replication, although cross or self-reactive Ab to CNS antigens may contribute to immune-mediated pathogenesis during some infections. Importantly, protective Ab exert anti-viral activity not only by direct neutralization, but also by binding to cell surface-expressed viral glycoproteins. Ab engagement of viral glycoproteins blocks budding and mediates intracellular signaling leading to restored homeostatic and innate functions. The sustained Ab production by local ASC, as well as chemokines and cytokines associated with ASC recruitment and retention, are highlighted as critical components of immune control.

Numerous studies have shown that people adjust their intake directly to that of their eating companions. A potential explanation for this modelling effect is that the eating behaviour of others operates as an external eating cue that stimulates food intake. The present study explored whether this cue-reactive mechanism can account for modelling effects on intake. It was investigated whether attentional bias towards dynamic eating cues and impulsivity would influence the degree of modelling. Participants completed one individual session and one session in which an experimental confederate accompanied them. In the first session, eye movements were recorded as an index of attentional bias to dynamic eating cues. In addition, self-reported impulsivity and response inhibition were assessed. The second session employed a between-participants design with three experimental conditions in which participants were exposed to a same-sex confederate instructed to eat nothing, a low or a large amount of M&amp;Ms. A total of eighty-five young women participated. The participants' self-reported impulsivity determined the occurrence of modelling; only low-impulsive women adjusted their intake to that of their eating companion. Attention towards eating cues and response inhibition, however, did not moderate modelling of food intake. The present study suggests that cue-reactive mechanisms may not underlie modelling of food intake. Instead, the results emphasise the importance of social norms in explaining modelling effects, whereas it is suggested that the degree of impulsivity may play a role in whether or not women adhere to the intake norms set by their eating companion.
p11, through unknown mechanisms, is required for behavioral and cellular responses to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). We show that SMARCA3, a chromatin-remodeling factor, is a target for the p11/annexin A2 heterotetrameric complex. Determination of the crystal structure indicates that SMARCA3 peptide binds to a hydrophobic pocket in the heterotetramer. Formation of this complex increases the DNA-binding affinity of SMARCA3 and its localization to the nuclear matrix fraction. In the dentate gyrus, both p11 and SMARCA3 are highly enriched in hilar mossy cells and basket cells. The SSRI fluoxetine induces expression of p11 in both cell types and increases the amount of the ternary complex of p11/annexin A2/SMARCA3. SSRI-induced neurogenesis and behavioral responses are abolished by constitutive knockout of SMARCA3. Our studies indicate a central role for a chromatin-remodeling factor in the SSRI/p11 signaling pathway and suggest an approach to the development of improved antidepressant therapies. PAPERCLIP:
Cross-modal plasticity following peripheral sensory loss enables deprived cortex to provide enhanced abilities in remaining sensory systems. These functional adaptations have been demonstrated in cat auditory cortex following early-onset deafness in electrophysiological and psychophysical studies. However, little information is available concerning any accompanying structural compensations. To examine the influence of sound experience on areal cartography, auditory cytoarchitecture was examined in hearing cats, early-deaf cats, and cats with late-onset deafness. Cats were deafened shortly after hearing onset or in adulthood. Cerebral cytoarchitecture was revealed immunohistochemically using SMI-32, a monoclonal antibody used to distinguish auditory areas in many species. Auditory areas were delineated in coronal sections and their volumes measured. Staining profiles observed in hearing cats were conserved in early- and late-deaf cats. In all deaf cats, dorsal auditory areas were the most mutable. Early-deaf cats showed further modifications, with significant expansions in second auditory cortex and ventral auditory field. Borders between dorsal auditory areas and adjacent visual and somatosensory areas were shifted ventrally, suggesting expanded visual and somatosensory cortical representation. Overall, this study shows the influence of acoustic experience in cortical development, and suggests that the age of auditory deprivation may significantly affect auditory areal cartography.

We used the perceptual reports of nonhuman primates to perform psychophysical calibrations of S-cone isolating stimuli. S-cone stimuli were calibrated separately at several spatial locations for each monkey. To do this we exploited the effect of transient tritanopia, which causes a selective decrease of sensitivity in the observer's S-cone channel. At the start of each transient tritanopia trial monkeys were visually adapted to a bright yellow background. This type of adaptation is known to induce transient tritanopia. Calibrated S-cone isolating stimuli were determined by finding a near S-cone stimulus whose detection threshold was maximally elevated during transient tritanopia. At the start of each control trial, monkeys were adapted to a bright white background. In these trials, monkeys' detection thresholds for near S-cone stimuli were unchanged. We found that S-cone isolating stimuli could be determined at most locations tested in each monkey. Calibrated S-cone stimuli were particular to both spatial location and animal. To understand the visual system as a whole in vivo requires physiological methods not possible in human subjects. The present results open the door to novel behavioral and physiological experiments by showing that S-cone isolating stimuli can be calibrated in monkeys.
The basal ganglia are subcortical nuclei that control voluntary actions, and they are affected by a number of debilitating neurological disorders. The prevailing model of basal ganglia function proposes that two orthogonal projection circuits originating from distinct populations of spiny projection neurons (SPNs) in the striatum--the so-called direct and indirect pathways--have opposing effects on movement: activity of direct-pathway SPNs is thought to facilitate movement, whereas activity of indirect-pathway SPNs is presumed to inhibit movement. This model has been difficult to test owing to the lack of methods to selectively measure the activity of direct- and indirect-pathway SPNs in freely moving animals. Here we develop a novel in vivo method to specifically measure direct- and indirect-pathway SPN activity, using Cre-dependent viral expression of the genetically encoded calcium indicator (GECI) GCaMP3 in the dorsal striatum of D1-Cre (direct-pathway-specific) and A2A-Cre (indirect-pathway-specific) mice. Using fibre optics and time-correlated single-photon counting (TCSPC) in mice performing an operant task, we observed transient increases in neural activity in both direct- and indirect-pathway SPNs when animals initiated actions, but not when they were inactive. Concurrent activation of SPNs from both pathways in one hemisphere preceded the initiation of contraversive movements and predicted the occurrence of specific movements within 500ms. These observations challenge the classical view of basal ganglia function and may have implications for understanding the origin of motor symptoms in basal ganglia disorders.





Callosal connections of the occipital lobes, coursing in the splenium of the corpus callosum, have long been thought to be crucial for interactions between the cerebral hemispheres in vision in both experimental animals and humans. Yet the callosal connections of the temporal and parietal lobes appear to have more important roles than those of the occipital callosal connections in at least some high-order interhemispheric visual functions. The partial intermixing and overlap of temporal, parietal and occipital callosal connections within the splenium has made it difficult to attribute the effects of splenial pathological lesions or experimental sections to splenial components specifically related to select cortical areas. The present review describes some current contributions from the modern techniques for the tracking of commissural fibers within the living human brain to the tentative assignation of specific visual functions to specific callosal tracts, either occipital or extraoccipital.
Although rhodopsin is essential for sensing light for vision, it also mediates light-induced apoptosis of photoreceptors in mouse. RPE65, which catalyzes isomerization of all-trans retinyl fatty acid esters to 11-cis-retinol (11cROL) in the visual cycle, controls the rhodopsin regeneration rate and photoreceptor susceptibility to light-induced degeneration. Mutations in RPE65 have been linked to blindness in affected children. Despite such importance, the mechanism that regulates RPE65 function remains unclear. Through unbiased expression screening of a bovine retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cDNA library, we have identified elongation of very long-chain fatty acids-like 1 (ELOVL1) and fatty acid transport protein 4 (FATP4), which each have very long-chain fatty acid acyl-CoA synthetase (VLCFA-ACS) activity, as negative regulators of RPE65. We found that the VLCFA derivative lignoceroyl (C24:0)-CoA inhibited synthesis of 11cROL, whereas palmitoyl (C16:0)-CoA promoted synthesis of 11cROL. We further found that competition of FATP4 with RPE65 for the substrate of RPE65 was also involved in the mechanisms by which FATP4 inhibits synthesis of 11cROL. FATP4 was predominantly expressed in RPE, and the FATP4-deficient RPE showed significantly higher isomerase activity. Consistent with these results, the regeneration rate of 11-cis-retinaldehyde and the recovery rate for rod light sensitivity were faster in FATP4-deficient mice than wild-type mice. Moreover, FATP4-deficient mice displayed increased accumulation of the cytotoxic all-trans retinaldehyde and hypersusceptibility to light-induced photoreceptor degeneration. Our findings demonstrate that ELOVL1, FATP4, and their products comprise the regulatory elements of RPE65 and play important roles in protecting photoreceptors from degeneration induced by light damage.
Ototoxicity is a main dose-limiting factor in the clinical application of aminoglycoside antibiotics. Despite longstanding research efforts, our understanding of the mechanisms underlying aminoglycoside ototoxicity remains limited. Here we report the discovery of a novel stress pathway that contributes to aminoglycoside-induced hair cell degeneration. Modifying the previously developed bioorthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging method, we used click chemistry to study the role of protein synthesis activity in aminoglycoside-induced hair cell stress. We demonstrate that aminoglycosides inhibit protein synthesis in hair cells and activate a signaling pathway similar to ribotoxic stress response, contributing to hair cell degeneration. The ability of a particular aminoglycoside to inhibit protein synthesis and to activate the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway correlated well with its ototoxic potential. Finally, we report that a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug known to inhibit ribotoxic stress response also prevents JNK activation and improves hair cell survival, opening up novel strategies to prevent and treat aminoglycoside ototoxicity.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) holds a strategic position in the hypothalamus. It is adjacent to the third ventricle; hence, it can directly access the ionic composition of the CSF. MnPO neurons play a critical role in hydromineral homeostasis regulation by acting as central sensors of extracellular Na(+) concentration ([Na(+)](ext)). The mechanism underlying Na(+) sensing involves the atypical Na(+) channel, Na(X). Here we sought to determine whether Na(+) influx in Na(+) sensors is actively regulated via interaction with other membrane proteins involved in cellular Na(+) homeostasis, such as Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. The Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase role was investigated using patch-clamp recordings in rat MnPO dissociated neurons. Na(+) current evoked with hypernatriuric solution was diminished in the absence of ATP/GTP, indicating that Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase play a central role in [Na(+)](ext) detection. Specific blockers of 1 and 3 isoforms of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, ouabain or strophanthidin, inhibited this Na(+) current. However, strophanthidin, which selectively blocks the 1 isoform, was more effective in blocking Na(+) current, suggesting that the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase-1 isoform is specifically involved in [Na(+)](ext) detection. Although strophanthidin did not alter either the membrane resistance or the Na(+) reversal potential, the conductance and the permeability of the Na(X) channel decreased significantly. Our results suggest that Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase interacts with the Na(X) channel and regulates the high [Na(+)](ext)-evoked Na(+) current via influencing the Na(+) influx rate. This study describes a novel intracellular regulatory pathway of [Na(+)](ext) detection in MnPO neurons. The 1 isoform of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase acts as a direct regulatory partner of the Na(X) channel and influences Na(+) influx via controlling the Na(+) permeability of the channel.
Neuritic dystrophy is one of the important pathological features associated with amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-dependent neuronal dysfunctions. We reported previously that reticulon-3 (RTN3) immunoreactive dystrophic neurites (RIDNs) are abundantly present in the hippocampus of AD patients, in AD mouse models, and in aged wild-type mice. Transgenic mice overexpressing the human RTN3 transgene spontaneously develop RIDNs in their hippocampi, and the formation of RIDNs correlates with the appearance of RTN3 aggregation. To further elucidate whether the formation of RIDNs is reversible, we generated transgenic mice expressing wild-type human RTN3 under the control of a tetracycline-responsive promoter. Treatment with doxycycline for 2 months effectively turned off expression of the human RTN3 transgene, confirming the inducible nature of the system. However, the formation of hippocampal RIDNs was dependent on whether the transgene was turned off before or after the formation of RTN3 aggregates. When transgenic human RTN3 expression was turned off at young age, formation of RIDNs was essentially eliminated compared with the vehicle-treated transgenic mice. More importantly, a fear conditioning study demonstrated that contextual associative learning and memory in inducible transgenic mice was improved if the density of RIDNs was lowered. Additional mechanistic study suggested that a reduction in BDNF levels in transgenic mice might contribute to the reduced learning and memory in transgenic mice overexpressing RTN3. Hence, we conclude that age-dependent RIDNs cannot be effectively cleared once they have formed, and we postulate that successful prevention of RIDN formation should be initiated before RTN3 aggregation.
Evidence for coexpression of two or more classic neurotransmitters in neurons has increased, but less is known about cotransmission. Ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons corelease dopamine (DA), the excitatory transmitter glutamate, and the inhibitory transmitter GABA onto target cells in the striatum. Olfactory bulb (OB) short axon cells (SACs) form interglomerular connections and coexpress markers for DA and GABA. Using an optogenetic approach, we provide evidence that mouse OB SACs release both GABA and DA onto external tufted cells (ETCs) in other glomeruli. Optical activation of channelrhodopsin specifically expressed in DAergic SACs produced a GABA(A) receptor-mediated monosynaptic inhibitory response, followed by DA-D(1)-like receptor-mediated excitatory response in ETCs. The GABA(A) receptor-mediated hyperpolarization activates I(h) current in ETCs; synaptically released DA increases I(h), which enhances postinhibitory rebound spiking. Thus, the opposing actions of synaptically released GABA and DA are functionally integrated by I(h) to generate an inhibition-to-excitation &quot;switch&quot; in ETCs. Consistent with the established role of I(h) in ETC burst firing, we show that endogenous DA release increases ETC spontaneous bursting frequency. ETCs transmit sensory signals to mitral/tufted output neurons and drive intraglomerular inhibition to shape glomerulus output to downstream olfactory networks. GABA and DA cotransmission from SACs to ETCs may play a key role in regulating output coding across the glomerular array.
Learning constitutes a fundamental property of the human brain-yet an unresolved puzzle is the profound variability of the learning success between individuals. Here we highlight the relevance of individual ongoing brain states as sources of the learning variability in exposure-based somatosensory perceptual learning. Electroencephalogram recordings of ongoing rhythmic brain activity before and during learning revealed that prelearning parietal alpha oscillations as well as during-learning stimulus-induced contralateral central alpha changes are predictive for the learning outcome. These two distinct alpha rhythm sources predicted up to 64% of the observed learning variability, one source representing an idling state with posteroparietal focus and a potential link to the default mode network, the other representing the sensorimotor mu rhythm, whose desynchronization is indicative for the degree of engagement of sensorimotor neuronal populations during application of the learning stimuli. Unspecific effects due to global shifts of attention or vigilance do not explain our observations. Our study thus suggests a brain state-dependency of perceptual learning success in humans opening new avenues for supportive learning tools in the clinical and educational realms.
Large-scale covariance of cortical thickness or volume in distributed brain regions has been consistently reported by human neuroimaging studies. The mechanism of this population covariance of regional cortical anatomy has been hypothetically related to synchronized maturational changes in anatomically connected neuronal populations. Brain regions that grow together, i.e., increase or decrease in volume at the same rate over the course of years in the same individual, are thus expected to demonstrate strong structural covariance or anatomical connectivity across individuals. To test this prediction, we used a structural MRI dataset on healthy young people (N = 108; aged 9-22 years at enrollment), comprising 3-6 longitudinal scans on each participant over 6-12 years of follow-up. At each of 360 regional nodes, and for each participant, we estimated the following: (1) the cortical thickness in the median scan and (2) the linear rate of change in cortical thickness over years of serial scanning. We constructed structural and maturational association matrices and networks from these measurements. Both structural and maturational networks shared similar global and nodal topological properties, as well as mesoscopic features including a modular community structure, a relatively small number of highly connected hub regions, and a bias toward short distance connections. Using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data on a subset of the sample (N = 32), we also demonstrated that functional connectivity and network organization was somewhat predictable by structural/maturational networks but demonstrated a stronger bias toward short distance connections and greater topological segregation. Brain structural covariance networks are likely to reflect synchronized developmental change in distributed cortical regions.
Dendrite and synapse development are critical for establishing appropriate neuronal circuits, and disrupted timing of these events can alter neural connectivity. Using microarrays, we have identified a nuclear factor I (NFI)-regulated temporal switch program linked to dendrite formation in developing mouse cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). NFI function was required for upregulation of many synapse-related genes as well as downregulation of genes expressed in immature CGNs. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that a central feature of this program was temporally regulated NFI occupancy of late-expressed gene promoters. Developing CGNs undergo a hyperpolarizing shift in membrane potential, and depolarization inhibits their dendritic and synaptic maturation via activation of calcineurin (CaN) (Okazawa et al., 2009). Maintaining immature CGNs in a depolarized state blocked NFI temporal occupancy of late-expressed genes and the NFI switch program via activation of the CaN/nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic (NFATc) pathway and promotion of late-gene occupancy by NFATc4, and these mechanisms inhibited dendritogenesis. Conversely, inhibition of the CaN/NFATc pathway in CGNs maturing under physiological nondepolarizing conditions upregulated the NFI switch program, NFI temporal occupancy, and dendrite formation. NFATc4 occupied the promoters of late-expressed NFI program genes in immature mouse cerebellum, and its binding was temporally downregulated with development. Further, NFI temporal binding and switch gene expression were upregulated in the developing cerebellum of Nfatc4 (-/-) mice. These findings define a novel NFI switch and temporal occupancy program that forms a critical link between membrane potential/CaN and dendritic maturation in CGNs. CaN inhibits the program and NFI occupancy in immature CGNs by promoting NFATc4 binding to late-expressed genes. As maturing CGNs become more hyperpolarized, NFATc4 binding declines leading to onset of NFI temporal binding and the NFI switch program.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is unique among a broad range of hyperalgesic agents in that it induces hyperalgesia in rats that is markedly enhanced by repeated mechanical stimulation at the site of administration. Antagonists to the ET-1 receptors, ET(A) and ET(B), attenuated both initial as well as stimulation-induced enhancement of hyperalgesia (SIEH) by endothelin. However, administering antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to attenuate ET(A) receptor expression on nociceptors attenuated ET-1 hyperalgesia but had no effect on SIEH, suggesting that this is mediated via a non-neuronal cell. Because vascular endothelial cells are both stretch sensitive and express ET(A) and ET(B) receptors, we tested the hypothesis that SIEH is dependent on endothelial cells by impairing vascular endothelial function with octoxynol-9 administration; this procedure eliminated SIEH without attenuating ET-1 hyperalgesia. A role for protein kinase C (PKC), a second messenger implicated in the induction and maintenance of chronic pain, was explored. Intrathecal antisense for PKC did not inhibit either ET-1 hyperalgesia or SIEH, suggesting no role for neuronal PKC; however, administration of a PKC inhibitor at the site of testing selectively attenuated SIEH. Compatible with endothelial cells releasing ATP in response to mechanical stimulation, P2X(2/3) receptor antagonists eliminated SIEH. The endothelium also appears to contribute to hyperalgesia in two ergonomic pain models (eccentric exercise and hindlimb vibration) and in a model of endometriosis. We propose that SIEH is produced by an effect of ET-1 on vascular endothelial cells, sensitizing its release of ATP in response to mechanical stimulation; ATP in turn acts at the nociceptor P2X(2/3) receptor.

Repeated injections of morphine into the ventral pallidum of laboratory rats results in the development and expression of motor sensitization. Although morphine and [D-Ala, N-MePhe, Gly(ol)]-enkephalin (DAMGO) both activate -opioid receptors, their influence on receptor-mediated signaling differs; therefore, we determined if they differentially influenced ventral pallidal-mediated motor sensitization. Repeated intraventral pallidal injections of DAMGO led to the development of motor sensitization and this behavior persisted for at least 18 days. When DAMGO-sensitized rats were challenged with a morphine treatment (either in the ventral pallidum or systemically), the resulting motor response was similar to that seen in rats with a history of intrapallidal saline, that is, cross-sensitization did not occur. As DAMGO and morphine likely activate different arms of the heterologous signal transduction system associated with -opioid receptors, these observations may reflect behavioral consequences of biased agonism at these receptors.


Resolving conflicting sensory and motor representations is a core function of cognitive control, but it remains uncertain to what degree control over different sources of conflict is implemented by shared (domain general) or distinct (domain specific) neural resources. Behavioral data suggest conflict-control to be domain specific, but results from neuroimaging studies have been ambivalent. Here, we employed multivoxel pattern analyses that can decode a brain region's informational content, allowing us to distinguish incidental activation overlap from actual shared information processing. We trained independent sets of &quot;searchlight&quot; classifiers on functional magnetic resonance imaging data to decode control processes associated with stimulus-conflict (Stroop task) and ideomotor-conflict (Simon task). Quantifying the proportion of domain-specific searchlights (capable of decoding only one type of conflict) and domain-general searchlights (capable of decoding both conflict types) in each subject, we found both domain-specific and domain-general searchlights, though the former were more common. When mapping anatomical loci of these searchlights across subjects, neural substrates of stimulus- and ideomotor-specific conflict-control were found to be anatomically consistent across subjects, whereas the substrates of domain-general conflict-control were not. Overall, these findings suggest a hybrid neural architecture of conflict-control that entails both modular (domain specific) and global (domain general) components.


The elderly have comparatively worse cognitive impairments from traumatic brain injury (TBI) relative to younger adults, but the molecular mechanisms that underlie this exacerbation of cognitive deficits are unknown. Experimental models of TBI have demonstrated that the cyclic AMP-protein kinase A (cAMP-PKA) signaling pathway is downregulated after brain trauma. Since the cAMP-PKA signaling pathway is a key mediator of long-term memory formation, we investigated whether the TBI-induced decrease in cAMP levels is exacerbated in aged animals. Aged (19 months) and young adult (3 months) male Fischer 344 rats received sham surgery or mild (1.4-1.6 atmospheres, atm) or moderate (1.7-2.1 atm) parasagittal fluid-percussion brain injury. At various time points after surgery, the ipsilateral parietal cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus were assayed for cAMP levels. Mild TBI lowered cAMP levels in the hippocampus of aged, but not young adult animals. Moderate TBI lowered cAMP levels in the hippocampus and parietal cortex of both age groups. In the thalamus, cAMP levels were significantly lowered after moderate, but not mild TBI. To determine if the TBI-induced decreases in cAMP had physiological consequences in aged animals, hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in the Schaffer collateral pathway of the CA1 region was assessed. LTP was significantly decreased in both young adult and aged animals after mild and moderate TBI as compared to sham surgery animals. Rolipram rescued the LTP deficits after mild TBI for young adult animals and caused a partial recovery for aged animals. However, rolipram did not rescue LTP deficits after moderate TBI in either young adult or aged animals. These results indicate that the exacerbation of cognitive impairments in aged animals with TBI may be due to decreased cAMP levels and deficits in hippocampal LTP.
Neuronal electrical activity has been known to affect the viability of neurons in the central nervous system. Here we show that long-lasting membrane depolarization induced by elevated extracellular K(+) recruits nitric oxide (NO)/soluble guanylyl cyclase/protein kinase G signaling pathway, induces 8-nitroguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-nitro-cGMP)-mediated protein S-guanylation, and confers dopaminergic neuroprotection. Treatment of primary mesencephalic cell cultures with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) for 72 h decreased the number of dopaminergic neurons, whereas the cell loss was markedly inhibited by elevated extracellular concentration of K(+) (+40 mM). The neuroprotective effect of elevated extracellular K(+) was significantly attenuated by tetrodotoxin (a Na(+) channel blocker), amlodipine (a voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel blocker), N()-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) (a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor), 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) (a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor), and KT5823 or Rp-8-bromo--phenyl-1,N(2)-ethenoguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate (Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS) (protein kinase G inhibitors). Elevated extracellular K(+) increased 8-nitro-cGMP production resulting in the induction of protein S-guanylation in cells in mesencephalic cultures including dopaminergic neurons. In addition, exogenous application of 8-nitro-cGMP protected dopaminergic neurons from MPP(+) cytotoxicity, which was prevented by zinc protoporphyrin IX, an inhibitor of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Zinc protoporphyrin IX also inhibited the neuroprotective effect of elevated extracellular K(+). On the other hand, KT5823 or Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS did not inhibit the induction of HO-1 protein expression by 8-nitro-cGMP, although these protein kinase G inhibitors abrogated the neuroprotective effect of 8-nitro-cGMP. These results suggest that protein S-guanylation (leading to HO-1 induction) as well as canonical protein kinase G signaling pathway plays an important role in NO-mediated, activity-dependent dopaminergic neuroprotection.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a disorder with a pronounced neurological phenotype and is caused mainly by mutations in the X-linked gene MECP2. A common feature of RTT is an abnormal electroencephalography and a propensity for seizures. In the current study we aimed to assess brain network excitability and seizure propensity in a mouse model of RTT. Mice in which Mecp2 expression was silenced (Mecp2(stop/y)) showed a higher seizure score (mean=6  0.8 compared to 40.2 in wild-type [WT]) and more rapid seizure onset (median onset=10 min in Mecp2(stop/y) and 32 min in WT) when challenged with the convulsant drug kainic acid (25mg/kg). Hippocampal slices from Mecp2(stop/y) brain displayed no spontaneous field potential activities under control conditions but showed higher power gamma frequency field potential oscillations compared to WT in response to kainic acid (400 nM) in vitro. Brain slices challenged with the GABA(A)-receptor antagonist bicuculline (0.1-10 M) and the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (1-50 M) also revealed differences between genotypes with hippocampal circuits from Mecp2(stop/y) mouse slices showing enhanced epileptiform burst duration and frequency. In contrast to these network level findings, single cell analysis of pyramidal cells by whole-cell patch clamp recording revealed no detectable differences in synaptic or biophysical properties between methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2)-containing and MeCP2-deficient neurons. These data support the proposal that loss of MeCP2 alters network level excitability in the brain to promote epileptogenesis.
Vascular dementia (VD), defined as a loss of memory and cognitive function resulting from vascular lesions in the brain, is the second-most-common cause of dementia in the elderly, after Alzheimer's disease. In recent years, research has focused on the pathogenesis of VD, and mitochondrial bioenergetic deficits have been suggested to contribute to VD onset. To further investigate the role of mitochondria in VD, we used a rat model of VD, which involved permanent bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries (with a 1-week interval between artery occlusion to avoid an abrupt reduction in cerebral blood flow) leading to chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. Prior to occlusion, male Wistar rats underwent 7 days of Morris water maze training. Only animals that could swim and passed the Morris water maze test were chosen for the study. After 5 days of Morris water maze training, mitochondria from the hippocampi of rats, which were randomly selected from animals that could complete the Morris water maze test, were isolated for functional assessment. Mitochondria isolated from the hippocampi of rats from the ischemia group had decreased pyruvate dehydrogenase protein levels, and increased oxidative stress, as manifested by increased hydrogen peroxide production. The ischemia group mitochondria also exhibited decreased respiration coupled to decreased expression and activity of the electron transport chain complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase). These results indicate that the mitochondrial oxidative metabolism is inhibited in the hippocampi of rats following chronic ischemia-induced VD. As the mitochondrial oxidative metabolism deficits, namely mitochondrial bioenergetic deficits directly affect the functions of neurons, it may contribute to VD onset.
Neurological deficit following cerebral infarction correlates with not only primary injury, but also secondary neuronal apoptosis in remote loci connected to the infarction. Netrin-1 is crucial for axonal guidance by interacting with its receptors, deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) and uncoordinated gene 5H (UNC5H). DCC and UNC5H are also dependence receptors inducing cell apoptosis when unbound by netrin-1. The present study is to investigate the role of netrin-1 and its receptors in ipsilateral ventroposterior thalamic nucleus (VPN) injury secondary to stroke in hypertensive rats. Renovascular hypertensive Sprague-Dawley rats underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of netrin-1 (600 ng/d for 7 days) or vehicle (IgG/Fc) was given 24h after MCAO. Neurological function was evaluated by postural reflex 8 and 14 days after MCAO. Then, immunoreactivity was determined in the ipsilateral VPN for NeuN, glial fibrillary acidic protein, netrin-1 and its receptors (DCC and UNC5H2), apoptosis was detected with Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated digoxigenin-dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and the expressions of caspase-3, netrin-1, DCC, and UNC5H2 were quantified by western blot analysis. MCAO resulted in the impaired postural reflex after 8 and 14 days, with decreased NeuN marked neurons and increased TUNEL-positive cells, as well as an up-regulation in the levels of cleaved caspase-3 and UNC5H2 protein in the ipsilateral VPN, without significant change in DCC or netrin-1 expression. By exogenous netrin-1 infusion, the number of neurons was increased in the ipsilateral VPN, and both TUNEL-positive cell number and caspase-3 protein level were reduced, while UNC5H2 expression remained unaffected, simultaneously, the impairment of postural reflex was improved. Taken together, the present study indicates that exogenous netrin-1 could rescue neuron loss by attenuating secondary apoptosis in the ipsilateral VPN after focal cerebral infarction, possibly via its receptor UNC5H2, suggesting that relative insufficiency of endogenous netrin-1 be an underlying mechanism of secondary injury in the VPN post stroke.
In this study, we assessed the effects of varying tetanus and test-pulse intensity on the magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the perforant path-dentate gyrus projection of urethane-anaesthetized rats. We developed a novel within-subjects procedure in which test-pulse-stimulation intensity (60-1000 A) was varied quasi-randomly under computer control throughout the recording period. After a baseline period, we applied a high-frequency tetanus, the intensity of which was varied over the same range as test-pulse intensity, but between subjects. The time-course of LTP was thus monitored continuously across a range of test-pulse intensities in each rat. Intense high-frequency tetanization at 1000 A resulted in a paradoxical depression of the dentate field excitatory post-synaptic potential (fEPSP) slope at the lowest test intensity used (60 A), but caused a potentiation at higher test intensities in the same animal. Moreover, intense tetanization induced less LTP than a moderate tetanus over most of the test-intensity range. Explanations for this pattern of data include a potentiation of feed-forward inhibition in conjunction with LTP of excitatory neurotransmission, or local tissue damage at the stimulation site. To address this issue, we conducted an additional experiment in which a second stimulating electrode was placed in the perforant path at a site closer to the dentate, in order to activate a common population of afferents at a location 'downstream' of the original stimulation site. After 1000-A tetanization of the original ('upstream') site, fEPSPs were again depressed in response to test stimulation of the upstream site, but only potentiation was observed in response to stimulation of the downstream site. This is consistent with the idea that the depression induced by intense tetanization results from local changes at the stimulation site. In conclusion, while tetanus intensity must exceed the LTP induction threshold, intensities above 500 A should be avoided; in the present study, tetanization at 250-500 A yielded maximal levels of LTP.
Loss of function mutations in THAP1 has been associated with primary generalized and focal dystonia in children and adults. THAP1 encodes a transcription factor (THAP1) that harbors an atypical zinc finger domain and plays a critical role in G(1)-S cell cycle control. Current thinking suggests that dystonia may be a neurodevelopmental circuit disorder. Hence, THAP1 may participate in the development of the nervous system. Herein, we report the neurodevelopmental expression patterns of Thap1 transcript and THAP1 protein from the early postnatal period through adulthood in the rat brain, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). We detected Thap1 transcript and THAP1-immunoreactivity (IR) in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, striatum, substantia nigra, thalamus, spinal cord and DRG. Thap1 transcript expression was higher in the brain than in spinal cord and DRG at P1 and P7 and declined to similar levels at P14 and later time points in all regions except the cerebellum, where it remained high through adulthood. In the brain, THAP1 expression was highest in early development, particularly in the cerebellum at P7. In addition to Purkinje cells in the cerebellum, THAP1-IR was also localized to pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex, relay neurons in the thalamus, medium spiny and cholinergic neurons in the striatum, dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, and pyramidal and interneurons in the hippocampus. In the cerebellar cortex, THAP1-IR was prominently distributed in the perikarya and proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells at early time-points. In contrast, it was more diffusely distributed throughout the dendritic arbor of adult Purkinje cells producing a moderate diffuse staining pattern in the molecular layer. At all time points, nuclear IR was weaker than cytoplasmic IR. The prominent cytoplasmic and developmentally regulated expression of THAP1 suggests that THAP1 may function as part of a cell surface-nucleus signaling cascade involved in terminal neural differentiation.
Approximately 50% of patients who survived after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) have cognitive or neurobehavioral dysfunction. The mechanisms are not known. NR2B, one of the subunits of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, has been proved to be an important factor for synapse function and behavior cognition. Experiment 1 aimed to investigate the timecourse of the NR2B expression in the cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum after SAH in rats. In experiment 2, we assessed the effect of Ro 25-6981 (a specific NR2B antagonist) on regulation of learning deficits and behavioral activity following SAH. All SAH animals were subjected to injection of autologous blood into the prechiasmatic cistern once on day 0. NR2B was assessed by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Cognitive and memory changes were investigated in the Morris water maze. As a result, the expression of NR2B was decreased remarkably in SAH groups compared with the control group and the low ebb was on days 1-3. The immunohistochemical staining demonstrated expression of NR2B was present mainly in the neurons in all of the three different regions, such as the cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. After Ro 25-6981 intraperitoneal administration, learning deficits induced by SAH was markedly aggravated and clinical behavior scale was also significantly decreased. Our results suggest that NR2B expression is down-regulated in the brain after experimental SAH and NR2B antagonism resulted in augmentation of the development of cognitive dysfunction after SAH.
Angiotensins (Angs) modulate blood pressure, hydro-electrolyte composition, and antinociception. Although Ang (5-8) has generally been considered to be inactive, we show here that Ang (5-8) was the smallest Ang to elicit dose-dependent responses and receptor-mediated antinociception in the rat ventrolateral periaqueductal gray matter (vlPAG). Ang (5-8) antinociception seems to be selective, because it did not alter blood pressure or act on vascular or intestinal smooth muscle cells. The non-selective Ang-receptor (Ang-R) antagonist saralasin blocked Ang (5-8) antinociception, but selective antagonists of Ang-R types I, II, IV, and Mas did not, suggesting that Ang (5-8) may act via an unknown receptor. Endopeptidase EP 24.11 and amastatin-sensitive aminopeptidase from the vlPAG catalyzed the synthesis (from Ang II or Ang III) and inactivation of Ang (5-8), respectively. Selective inhibitors of neuronal-nitric oxide (NO) synthase, soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) and a non-selective opioid receptor (opioid-R) inhibitor blocked Ang (5-8)-induced antinociception. In conclusion, Ang (5-8) is a new member of the Ang family that selectively and strongly modulates antinociception via NO-sGC and endogenous opioid in the vlPAG.
Fibronectin type III domain-containing 5 protein (Fndc5) or peroxisomal protein, is a type I membrane protein that has 209 amino acid residues. Previous studies by our group have shown an increase in its expression after retinoic acid treatment of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) during the process of neural differentiation, leading us to conclude that it might be involved in neurogenesis. In the present study, we have constructed an inducible short hairpin RNA (shRNA) vector that is expressed under induction by doxycycline. Next, we generated a stably transformed mESCs line that expressed shRNA against the Fndc5 gene. The knockdown of Fndc5 was performed in two stages of mESC neural differentiation during and post-neural progenitor (NP) formation. Our results indicated that in the process of NPs formation, decreased Fndc5 expression significantly reduced expression of NPs and mature neuronal markers which modulated neuronal differentiation. Decreased Fndc5 expression during the post-NPs formation stage also caused significant reduction in the levels of mature neuronal markers. Fndc5 knockdown during both stages significantly affected both neuronal and astrocytes maturation. We have concluded that Fndc5 expression is required for the appropriate neural differentiation of mESCs. These data confirm the importance of Fndc5 in the generation and development of the nervous system.
The sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) is a critical pathway by which sensory neurons sequester cytosolic Ca(2+) and thereby maintain intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. We have previously demonstrated decreased intraluminal endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) concentration in traumatized sensory neurons. Here we examine SERCA function in dissociated sensory neurons using Fura-2 fluorometry. Blocking SERCA with thapsigargin (1 M) increased resting [Ca(2+)](c) and prolonged recovery () from transients induced by neuronal activation (elevated bath K(+)), demonstrating SERCA contributes to control of resting [Ca(2+)](c) and recovery from transient [Ca(2+)](c) elevation. To evaluate SERCA in isolation, plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPase was blocked with pH 8.8 bath solution and mitochondrial buffering was avoided by keeping transients small ( 400 nM). Neurons axotomized by spinal nerve ligation (SNL) showed a slowed rate of transient recovery compared to control neurons, representing diminished SERCA function, whereas neighboring non-axotomized neurons from SNL animals were unaffected. Injury did not affect SERCA function in large neurons. Repeated depolarization prolonged transient recovery, showing that neuronal activation inhibits SERCA function. These findings suggest that injury-induced loss of SERCA function in small sensory neurons may contribute to the generation of pain following peripheral nerve injury.
Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability in industrialized countries. Although surviving patients exhibit a certain degree of restoration of function attributable to brain plasticity, the majority of stroke survivors has to struggle with persisting deficits. In order to potentiate post-stroke recovery, several rehabilitation therapies have been undertaken and many experimental studies have reported that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is central to many facets of neuroplastic processes. However, although BDNF role in brain plasticity is well characterized through strategies that manipulate its content, the involvement of this neurotrophin in spontaneous post-stroke recovery remains to be clarified. Besides, while the neuroplastic role of BDNF is restricted to its mature form, most studies investigating the proper effect of ischemia on post-stroke BDNF metabolism focused on mRNA or total protein expressions. In addition, these studies are mainly performed in brain regions collected either at or around the lesion site. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to investigate in both hemispheres, the long-term expression (up to one month) of both pro- and mature BDNF forms in rats subjected to photothrombotic ischemia. These assessments were performed in the cortex and in the hippocampus, two regions known to subserve functional recovery after stroke and were coupled to the study of synaptophysin expression, a marker of synaptogenesis. Our study reports that stroke induces an early and transient increase (4h) in mature BDNF expression in the cortex of both hemispheres that was associated with a delayed rise (30d) in synaptophysin levels ipsilateraly. In both hippocampal territories, the pattern of mature BDNF expression shows a more delayed increase (from 8 to 30d), which coincides with the evolution of synaptophysin expression. Interestingly, in these hippocampal territories, pro-BDNF levels evolve differently suggesting a differential gene regulation between the two hemispheres. While highlighting the complexity of changes in BDNF metabolism after stroke, our data suggest that BDNF involvement in spontaneous post-stroke plasticity is region-dependent.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) inhibitors administered prior to or immediately after experimental stroke confer acute neuroprotection. However, it remains unclear if delayed treatment with a PTEN inhibitor improves long-term functional recovery after stroke. We addressed the issue in this study. Adult male mice were subjected to 1h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) followed by treatment with a well-established PTEN inhibitor BPV or saline daily for 14 days, starting at 24h after MCAO. Functional recovery was assessed with behavioral tests and acute infarct volumes were analyzed histologically. Delayed BPV treatment did not reduce infarction during the acute phase, but significantly improved long-term functional recovery after MCAO. Since PTEN is a critical intrinsic inhibitory factor in axonal regeneration, we further examined BPV effects on axonal densities following MCAO using bielschowsky silver staining and immunohistochemistry with antibodies against myelin basic protein. Delayed BPV treatment significantly increased axon densities in the ischemic brain at 14 days after MCAO. Moreover, PTEN expression persistently remained high in the ischemic brain over 14 days after MCAO, and BPV treatment increased post-ischemic activation of Akt and mTOR in the ischemic brain. Akt and mTOR activation are the well-established cascades downstream to PTEN inhibition and have been shown to contribute to post-injury axonal regrowth in response to PTEN inhibition. Consistently, in an in vitro neuronal ischemia model, BPV enhanced axonal outgrowth of primary cortical neurons after oxygen-glucose deprivation and the enhancing effects were abolished by Akt/mTOR inhibition. In conclusion, delayed BPV treatment improved functional recovery from experimental stroke possibly via enhancing axonal growth and Akt/mTOR activation contributed to BPV-enhanced post-stroke axon growth.
Neurons within the superficial dorsal horn (SDH) of the rodent spinal cord exhibit distinct firing properties during early life. While this may reflect a unique combination of voltage-gated Na(+) (Na(v)) and voltage-independent (i.e. &quot;leak'') K(+) channels which strongly influence neuronal excitability across the CNS, surprisingly little is known about which genes encoding for Na(v) and leak K(+) channels are expressed within developing spinal pain circuits. The goal of the present study was therefore to characterize the transcriptional expression of these channels within the rat SDH at postnatal days (P) 3, 10, 21 or adulthood using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The results demonstrate that Na(v) isoforms are developmentally regulated at the mRNA level in a subtype-specific manner, as Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.3 decreased significantly from P3 to adulthood, while Na(v)1.1 was up-regulated during this period. The data also indicate selective, age-dependent changes in the mRNA expression of two-pore domain (K(2P)) K(+) channels, as TWIK-related acid-sensitive K(+) channels TASK-1 (KCNK3) and TASK-3 (KCNK9) were down-regulated during postnatal development in the absence of any changes in the tandem of pore domains in a weak inward rectifying K(+) channel (TWIK) isoforms examined (KCNK1 and KCNK6). In addition, a developmental shift occurred within the TREK subfamily due to decreased TREK-2 (KCNK10) mRNA within the mature SDH. Meanwhile, G-protein-coupled inward rectifying K(+) channels (K(ir)3.1 and K(ir)3.2) were expressed in the SDH at mature levels from birth. Overall, the results suggest that the transcription of ion channel genes occurs in a highly age-dependent manner within the SDH, raising the possibility that manipulating the expression or function of ion channels which are preferentially expressed within immature nociceptive networks could yield novel approaches to relieving pain in infants and children.
Nodal-related protein, Ndr2, and transcription factors such as Lmx1b, Otp, Nurr1 and Pitx3 are very important in the differentiation, function and maintenance of mesodiencephalic dopaminergic neurons, and are necessary for the activation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine (DA) transporter expression. Hence, the aim of the present work was to evaluate the effects of cocaine on the expression of genes related to the embryogenesis development of the dopaminergic system. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to cocaine hydrochloride at 5h post-fertilization (hpf), and collected at two important stages - 24 and 48hpf - to study the effects of cocaine on the expression of ndr2, the lmx1b.1, lmx1b.2, otpa, otpb, nurr1 transcription factors, and their target genes: TH and DA transporter expression. Our results by qPCR showed that cocaine affects the expression of these genes in different ways, depending on the stage of development. Furthermore by in situ hybridization we observed a change in the spatial distribution of lmx1b.1 and lmx1b.2 at both stages (24 and 48hpf) due to exposure to cocaine. We also show the importance of Lmx1b and Otp in th expression through the knockdown of Lmx1b.1 and Lmx1b.2, and of Otpa and Otpb. Additionally, cocaine produced an increase and a decrease in TH levels at 24 and at 48hpf, respectively, possibly due to the change in the expression of the transcription factors and ndr2 expression. We conclude that cocaine alters the correct development of dopaminergic system affecting the expression of transcription factors, during the embryogenesis.
This study was designed to examine the effects of chronic running exercise (Ex) on the hypobaric hypoxia-induced neuronal injury in the hippocampus. Male Wistar rats (9 weeks old) were caged in a hypoxic altitude chamber simulating the condition of 9,000 m high (0.303 atm) for 7h and the brains were examined at 0, 4, and 24h after treatment. Hypoxia challenge increased the levels of caspase 3 (mean  SEM, % of baseline control, 121.9  11.8, 152.3  15.3, 141.6  7.0 for 0, 4 and 24h, respectively, n=5) and induced apoptosis (cell number, 205.7  8.8, 342.3  33.4, 403.0  12.2 for 0, 4 and 24h vs. 7.7  1.4 baseline control, n=3) in the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. The expression levels (% of control for 0, 4 and 24h, respectively, n=5) of hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1; 150.5  8.1, 176.7  11.1, 136.2  13.3), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS; 163.4  9.6, 194.5  13.6, 163.7  10.9) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS; 139.4  9.5, 169.2  13.3, 134.3  13.0) and the degrees of microglia (cell number, 255.3  48.2, 349.0  57.3, 433.7  42.4 vs. 57.7  13.0 baseline control, n=3) and astrocyte (150.0  9.7, 199.3  10.8, 154.2  4.7) activation were increased by the hypoxia treatment, indicating that the brain was under hypoxic, oxidative and inflammatory stresses. Furthermore, the protein levels of hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF; 76.0  2.5, 76.1  7.1, 69.3  1.7 for 0, 4 and 24h, respectively, mean % of control  SEM, n=5) were reduced by the hypoxia treatment. Four weeks of treadmill Ex before hypoxia treatment significantly reduced the hypoxia-induced apoptosis (p&lt;0.001, n=3) in the hippocampal CA1 neurons. Ex decreased the hypoxia-induced elevations of HIF-1 (p&lt;0.001, n=5), nNOS (p&lt;0.001, n=5) and iNOS (p&lt;0.001, n=5) levels and activation of microglia (p=0.005, n=3) and astrocyte (p&lt;0.001, n=5) status; whereas the hypoxia-reduced BDNF protein levels (p=0.013, n=5) were restored. Taken together, our results show that chronic Ex protects hippocampal CA1 neurons against hypobaric hypoxia insult. Ex-enhanced bioenergetic adaptation and anti-oxidative capacity may prevent neurons from hypoxia-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, activation of the BDNF signaling pathway may be involved in the Ex-induced protection.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) provides information regarding white matter microstructure; however, macroscopic fiber architectures can affect DTI measures. A larger brain (fiber tract) has a 'relatively' smaller voxel size, and the voxels are less likely to contain more than one fiber orientation and more likely to have higher fractional anisotropy (FA). Previous DTI studies report left-to-right differences in the white matter; however, these may reflect true microscopic differences or be caused purely by volume differences. Using tract-based spatial statistics, we investigated left-to-right differences in white matter microstructure across the whole brain. Voxel-wise analysis revealed a large number of white matter volume asymmetries, including leftward asymmetry of the arcuate fasciculus and cingulum. In many white matter regions, FA asymmetry was positively correlated with volume asymmetry. Voxel-wise analysis with adjustment for volume asymmetry revealed many white matter FA asymmetries, including leftward asymmetry of the arcuate fasciculus and cingulum. The voxel-wise analysis showed a reduced number of regions with significant FA asymmetry compared with analysis performed without adjustment for volume asymmetry; however, the overall trend of the results was unchanged. The results of the present study suggest that these FA asymmetries are not caused by volume differences and reflect microscopic differences in the white matter.
There is accumulating evidence that glutamate and GABA release are key mechanisms of ischaemic events in the CNS. However, data on the expression of involved transporters for these mediators are inconsistent, potentially impeding further neuroprotective approaches. Here, we applied immunofluorescence labelling to characterise the expression pattern of vesicular glutamate (VGLUT) and GABA transporters (VGAT) after acute focal cerebral ischaemia and in two models of retinal ischaemia. Mice were subjected to filament-based focal cerebral ischaemia predominantly involving the middle cerebral artery territory, also leading to retinal ischaemia due to central retinal artery occlusion (CRAO). Alternatively, retinal ischaemia was induced by a transient increase of the intraocular pressure (HIOP). One day after ischaemia onset, diminished immunolabelling of neuronal nuclei and microtubule-associated protein 2-positive structures were found in the ipsilateral neocortex, subcortex and the retina, indicating neuronal degeneration. VGLUT1 expression did not change significantly in ischaemic tissues whereas VGLUT2 was down-regulated in specific areas of the brain. VGLUT3 expression was only slightly down-regulated in the ischaemia-affected neocortex, and was found to form clusters on fibrils of unknown origin in the ischaemic lateral hypothalamus. In contrast, retinae subjected to CRAO or HIOP displayed a rapid loss of VGLUT3-immunoreactivity. The expression of VGAT appears resistant to ischaemia as there was no significant alteration in all the regions analysed. In summary, these data indicate a region- and subtype-specific change of VGLUT expression in the ischaemia-affected CNS, whose consideration might help to generate specific neuroprotective strategies.
Three point mutations in the SNCA gene encoding -synuclein (aSyn) have been associated with autosomal dominant forms of Parkinson's disease. To better understand the role of the A30P mutant aSyn, we compared two transgenic mouse strains: a knock-in mouse with an introduced A30P point mutation in the wild-type (WT) gene (Snca(tm(A30P))) and a transgenic (Tg) mouse overexpressing the human A30P aSyn gene under the prion promoter [tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P)]. The brain aSyn load, motor performance, brain dopamine (DA) and sensitivity to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) were studied in these mice. aSyn was evidently accumulating with age in all mice, particularly in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg mice. There were no robust changes in basal locomotor activities of the mice of either line at 6 months, but after 1 year, tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg mice developed severe problems with vertical movements. However, the younger Tg mice had a reduced locomotor response to 1mg/kg of d-amphetamine. Snca(tm(A30P)) mice with the targeted mutation (Tm) were slightly hyperactive at all ages. Less 6-OHDA was required in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg (1 g) than in WT (3g) mice for an ipsilateral rotational bias by d-amphetamine. That was not seen with the Snca(tm(A30P)) strain. A small dose of 6-OHDA (0.33 g) led to contralateral rotations and elevated striatal DA in Tg/Tm mice of both lines but otherwise 6-OHDA-induced striatal DA depletion was similar in all mice, indicating no A30P-aSyn-related toxin sensitivity. 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/DA-ratio was elevated in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) mice, suggesting an enhanced DA turnover. This ratio and homovanillic acid/DA-ratio were declined in Snca(tm(A30P)) mice. Our results demonstrate that the two differently constructed A30P-aSyn mouse strains have distinct behavioral and biochemical characteristics, some of which are opposite. Since the two lines with the same background were not identically produced, the deviations found may be partially caused by factors other than aSyn-related genetic differences.
Progesterone has been shown to exert pleiotropic actions in the brain of both male and females. In particular, after traumatic brain injury (TBI), progesterone has important neuroprotective effects. In addition to intracellular progesterone receptors, membrane receptors of the hormone such as membrane progesterone receptor (mPR) may also be involved in neuroprotection. Three mPR subtypes (mPR, mPR, and mPR) have been described and mPR is best characterized pharmacologically. In the present study we investigated the distribution, cellular localization and the regulation of mPR in male mouse and rat brain. We showed by reverse transcription-PCR that mPR is expressed at similar levels in the male and female mouse brain suggesting that its expression may not be influenced by steroid levels. Treatment of males by estradiol or progesterone did not modify the level of expression of mPR as shown by Western blot analysis. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis showed a wide expression of mPR in particular in the olfactory bulb, striatum, cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus, septum, hippocampus and cerebellum. Double immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy analysis showed that mPR is expressed by neurons but not by oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. In the rat brain, the distribution of mPR was similar to that observed in mouse brain; and after TBI, mPR expression was induced in oligodendrocytes, astrocytes and reactive microglia. The wide neuroanatomical distribution of mPR suggests that this receptor may play a role beyond neuroendocrine and reproductive functions. However, in the absence of injury its role might be restricted to neurons. The induction of mPR after TBI in microglia, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, points to a potential role in mediating the modulatory effects of progesterone in inflammation, ion and water homeostasis and myelin repair in the injured brain.
We tested a hypothesis that the classical relation between movement time and index of difficulty (ID) in quick pointing action (Fitts' Law) reflects processes at the level of motor planning. Healthy subjects stood on a force platform and performed quick and accurate hand movements into targets of different size located at two distances. The movements were associated with early postural adjustments that are assumed to reflect motor planning processes. The short distance did not require trunk rotation, while the long distance did. As a result, movements over the long distance were associated with substantial Coriolis forces. Movement kinematics and contact forces and moments recorded by the platform were studied. Movement time scaled with ID for both movements. However, the data could not be fitted with a single regression: Movements over the long distance had a larger intercept corresponding to movement times about 140 ms longer than movements over the shorter distance. The magnitude of postural adjustments prior to movement initiation scaled with ID for both short and long distances. Our results provide strong support for the hypothesis that Fitts' Law emerges at the level of motor planning, not at the level of corrections of ongoing movements. They show that, during natural movements, changes in movement distance may lead to changes in the relation between movement time and ID, for example when the contribution of different body segments to the movement varies and when the action of Coriolis force may require an additional correction of the movement trajectory.
Pretreatment with estrogen has been shown to increase subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenesis and improve neurological outcome after cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury in mice. However, the potential of post-stroke estrogen administration to enhance neurogenesis is largely unknown. In this study, we explored whether post-stroke estradiol administration had any effect on SVZ neurogenesis in a rat model of permanent focal cerebral ischemia and elucidated the potential mechanism of its effects. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-280 g) were divided into sham-operated (n=10), control (n=40), and estradiol-treated (n=40) groups. 5-Bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to label proliferating cells. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect neurogenesis in the ischemic ipsilateral SVZ at 1, 3, 7 and 14 days following ischemia. The protein levels of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in ischemic ipsilateral SVZ were determined by Western blotting at 6, 12, 24 and 72h after ischemia. Improved behavioral deficits and reduced infarct size were seen in estradiol-treated rats (P&lt;0.05). Post-stroke estradiol administration increased BrdU-labeled cells, nestin-positive cells, doublecortin (DCX)-positive cells and BrdU+/DCX+ cells in the ischemic ipsilateral SVZ at all time points (P&lt;0.05). Treatment with estradiol also increased HIF-1 and VEGF protein levels in the ischemic ipsilateral SVZ at all time points examined (P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that post-stroke estradiol administration promotes SVZ neurogenesis in rats, probably by increasing HIF-1 and VEGF protein expression.
We investigated the effect of two well characterized preclinical animal models of depression - repeated injections of corticosterone (CORT) and repeated restraint stress - on markers of GABAergic and glutamatergic activity in the hippocampus and amygdala. Stress is an identified risk factor for the onset of major depression, but the neurobiological mechanisms by which stress may produce depressogenic effects are not clear. Rats received one of the following four treatments for 21 consecutive days: daily single CORT injections (40mg/kg), daily single vehicle injections, daily 6h of restraint stress, or daily handling. After the 21-day stress period, all rats were sacrificed and hippocampal and amygdalar tissue was collected and prepared for Western blot analyses. We examined the effect of CORT and restraint stress on glutamate decarboxylase (GAD)-65 and GAD67, as well as the 1, 2, 3, and 2-3 GABA(A) receptor subunits, and the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT)-2. We found that CORT significantly decreased GAD65 and the 2 receptor subunit and increased VGLUT2 within the hippocampus. We also found that CORT decreased GAD67 and the 2 receptor subunit in the amygdala. However, restraint stress had no significant effect on protein expression in either the hippocampus or the amygdala. These findings parallel our previous results showing that repeated CORT injections, but not restraint stress, increase depression-like behavior in rats, and suggest that the depressogenic effects of CORT may be related to alterations in GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission in stress-sensitive regions of the brain.
Ideomotor theory holds that the perception or anticipatory imagination of action effects activates motor tendencies toward the action that is known to produce these effects, herein referred to as ideomotor response activation (IRA). IRA presupposes that the agent has previously learned which action produces which effects, and that this learning process has created bidirectional associations between the sensory effect codes and the motor codes producing the sensory effects. Here, we refer to this process as ideomotor learning. In the presented fMRI study, we adopted a standard two-phase ideomotor learning paradigm; a mixed between/within-subjects design allowed us to assess the neural substrate of both, IRA and ideomotor learning. We replicated earlier findings of a hand asymmetry in ideomotor processing with significantly stronger IRA by left-hand than right-hand action effects. Crucially, we traced this effect back to more pronounced associative learning for action-contingent effects of the left hand compared with effects of the right hand. In this context, our findings point to the caudate nucleus and the angular gyrus as central structures of the neural network underlying ideomotor learning.
The serine protease subtilisin-A produces a long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic potentials in hippocampal slices which differs mechanistically from classical LTD. Since caspases have been implicated in hippocampal plasticity, this study examined a possible role for these enzymes in subtilisin-induced LTD. Subtilisin produced a concentration-dependent decrease in the size of field excitatory synaptic potentials (fEPSPs), which was not prevented or modified by the caspase inhibitors Z-VAD(OMe)-fmk and Z-DEVD-fmk. Similarly Z-VAD(OMe)-fmk did not modify the selective loss of protein expression produced by subtilisin. Subtilisin reduced the expression of procaspase-3 and caspase-9 but, while caspase-9 was converted to its conventionally activated form (39 kDa), caspase-3 was metabolised along a non-canonical pathway to a 29/30 kDa protein rather than the classical 17/19 kDa fragments. Both Z-VAD(OMe)-fmk and Z-DEVD-fmk were unable to prevent the reduced expression of Postsynaptic Density Protein-95, Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein-1 and Unco-ordinated 5H3 proteins produced by subtilisin, although MG132 did produce partial recovery from subtilisin-induced depression of fEPSPs. When tested on long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by theta stimulation in the stratum radiatum, MG132 inhibited the immediate increase in fEPSP size but generated a higher plateau LTP. Twin LTP stimulation generated a further increase in LTP amplitude in control slices but not in slices exposed to MG132. The results indicate that subtilisin does produce caspase activation but that this does not contribute to its induction of LTD. However, activation of the proteasome does contribute to subtilisin-induced LTD and may also play a modulatory role in electrically induced LTP.
Progranulin (PGRN), a multifunctional growth factor, appears to play a role in neurodegenerative diseases accompanied by neuroinflammation. In this study, we investigated the role of PGRN in neuroinflammation, especially in the activation of microglia, by means of experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the cerebral cortex of mice. The expression of GRN mRNA was increased in association with neuroinflammation after TBI. Double-immunohistochemical study showed that PGRN-immunoreactive (-IR) cells were mainly overlapped with CD68-IR cells, suggesting that the main source of PGRN was CD68-positive activated microglia. To investigate the role of PGRN in inflammatory responses related to activated microglia, we compared the immunoreactivity and expression of ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1), CD68, and CD11b as markers for activated microglia between wild-type (WT) and GRN-deficient (KO) mice. The number of Iba1- and CD11b-IR cells and gene expression of Iba1 and CD11b were not significantly different between WT and KO mice, while the number of CD68-IR cells and CD68 expression in KO mice were significantly greater than those in WT mice. Double-immunohistochemical study showed that CD68-IR microglia were also IR for TGF1, and TGF1 expression and Smad3 phosphorylation in KO mice were elevated compared to WT mice. Moreover, double-immunostaining between phospho-Smad3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein suggested increased TGF1-Smad3 signal mainly by astrocytes. The levels of protein carbonyl groups, which reflect protein oxidation, and laminin immunoreactivity, which is associated with angiogenesis, were also significantly increased in KO mice compared to WT mice. These results suggest that PGRN is produced in CD68-positive microglia and suppresses excessive inflammatory responses related to activated microglia after TBI in mice.
Peripheral nerve injury evokes rapid and complex changes in gene transcription and cellular signaling pathways. Understanding how these changes are functionally related is essential for developing new approaches that accelerate and improve nerve regeneration. Toward this goal we found that nerve injury induces a rapid and significant up-regulation of the transcription factor Sox11 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. Gain and loss of function studies have shown this increase is essential for normal axon regeneration. To determine how Sox11 impacts neuronal gene expression, DRG neurons were treated with Sox11 siRNA to identify potential transcriptional targets. One gene significantly reduced by Sox11 knockdown was TRAF (tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor)-associated NF-B activator (TANK). Here we show that TANK is expressed in DRG neurons, that TANK expression is increased in response to peripheral nerve injury and that Sox11 overexpression in vitro increases TANK expression. Injury and in vitro overexpression were also found to preferentially increase TANK transcript variant 3 and a larger TANK protein isoform. To determine if Sox11 regulates TANK transcription bioinformatic analysis was used to identify potential Sox-binding motifs within 5kbp of the TANK 5' untranslated region (UTR) across several mammalian genomes. Two sites in the mouse TANK gene were examined. Luciferase expression assays coupled with site-directed mutagenesis showed each site contributes to enhanced TANK promoter activity. In addition, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed direct Sox11 binding in regions containing the two identified Sox motifs in the mouse TANK 5'-UTR. These studies are the first to show that TANK is expressed in DRG neurons, that TANK is increased by peripheral nerve injury and that the regulation of TANK expression is, at least in part, controlled by the injury-associated transcription factor Sox11.
Quinolinic acid (QA)-induced overactivation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors yields excitotoxicity, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, which altogether contribute to trigger a wide variety of toxic pathways with biochemical, behavioral and neuropathological alterations similar to those observed in Huntington's disease. Noteworthy, in the brains of these patients, increased expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) levels can be found. It has been proposed that this enzyme can exert a dual role, as it can be either protective or deleterious to the CNS. While some evidence indicates that its overexpression affords cellular anti-oxidant protection due to decreased concentrations of its pro-oxidative substrate heme group, and increased bilirubin levels, other reports established that high HO-1 expression and activity may result in a pro-oxidizing atmosphere due to a release of Fe(2+). In this work, we examined the temporal evolution of oxidative damage to proteins, HO-1 expression, immunoreactivity, total activity, and cell death after 1, 3, 5 and 7 days of an intrastriatal QA infusion (240 nmol/l). QA was found to induce cellular degeneration, increasing carbonylated proteins and generating a transitory response in HO-1 mRNA, protein content, and immunoreactivity and activity in nerve cells. In order to study the role of HO-1 in the QA-induced cellular death, the tin protoporphyrin IX (SnPP), a well-known HO inhibitor, was administered to rats (30 mol/kg, i.p.). The administration of SnPP to animals treated with QA inhibited the HO activation, and exacerbated the striatal cell damage induced by QA. Our findings reveal a potential modulatory role of HO-1 in the toxic paradigm evoked by QA in rats. This evidence provides a valuable tool for further approaches on HO-1 regulation in neurotoxic paradigms.
Biofeedback training is an efficient means to gain control over a physiological function typically considered involuntary. Accordingly, learning to self-regulate nociceptive physiological activity may improve pain control by activating endogenous modulatory processes. The aim of the present study was to assess whether trial-by-trial visual feedback of nociceptive flexion reflex (RIII-reflex) responses (an index of spinal nociception) evoked by brief painful shocks applied to the sural nerve could be beneficial to guide participants in adopting strategies aiming at modulating pain perception. In order to determine specific changes induced by biofeedback, the modulation of RIII-reflex amplitude and pain ratings was compared following instructions to increase or decrease RIII-reflex amplitude in three groups, including a biofeedback group receiving a visual signal corresponding to the RIII-reflex amplitude (valid feedback), a sham biofeedback group (similar but invalid feedback), and a control group receiving no feedback. Results indicate that participants in all three groups could gain control over RIII-reflex (p&lt;0.001), resulting in the modulation of pain intensity (p&lt;0.001) and pain unpleasantness (p&lt;0.001). The biofeedback group was not significantly superior to the sham and the control groups in the modulation of RIII-reflex amplitude, pain intensity or unpleasantness. These results are consistent with the notion that RIII-reflex amplitude and pain perception can be modulated voluntarily by various cognitive strategies. However, immediate retrospective visual feedback of acute nociceptive responses presented iteratively in successive trials may not improve the efficacy of these self-regulation processes.
Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) has been proposed to have a neuroprotective effect on hippocampal neurons in animal models of epilepsy. However, the mechanisms of PARP-mediated epileptic neuron apoptosis in vitro are still not thoroughly understood. Therefore, we investigated the effect of PARP inhibition and the underlying mechanisms in the hippocampal neuronal culture model of acquired epilepsy which is generally accepted as the neuronal culture model of spontaneous seizure discharge in vitro. As a result, PARP was activated and the administration of 3,4-dihydro-5-[4-(1-piperidinyl)butoxy]-1(2H)-isoquinolinone (DPQ), an inhibitor of PARP, significantly decreased the percentage of neuron apoptosis induced by Mg(2+)-free treatment. Western blot and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) analysis showed that DPQ increased the phosphorylation of Akt and attenuated mitochondria-nucleus translocation of the apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Furthermore, wortmannin, an inhibitor of PI-3K, inhibited the translocation of AIF to the nucleus. The results of the present study demonstrated that the inhibition of PARP might have therapeutic value in seizure-induced hippocampal neuron damage in vitro via suppressing Akt-mediated AIF translocation.
The relationship between learning/memory performance and long-term potentiation (LTP) induction is ambiguous. Although a large body of data supports a strong correspondence between learning/memory performance and LTP, many studies have also provided evidence to the contrary. In this study, we found that 2-month-old senescence-accelerated mice/prone 8 (SAMP8 mice) displayed both impaired performance in a Morris Water Maze (MWM) and enhanced LTP compared to senescence-accelerated mice/resistance 1 (SAMR1). BALB/c mice challenged with Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) performed better in the shuttle-box test but displayed impaired LTP compared to intact animals. It is interesting that BALB/c mice challenged with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (IFA) performed better than intact animals, with no LTP impairment. Cytokine analysis showed no significant differences between the interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10) or TNF- content in the intact hippocampal tissues of either the SAMR1 and SAMP8 mice or the immune-challenged BALB/c and intact animals. Further analysis demonstrated that the increase in cytokine content was higher in the hippocampal tissues used for LTP recording in the SAMR1 and CFA-challenged animals compared to the SAMP8 and intact BALB/c mice. A correlation analysis demonstrated that pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-) displayed a negative correlation with LTP, while an anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) displayed a positive correlation with LTP. These results suggest that pro-inflammatory cytokines induced by LTP manipulation in experiments (e.g., via tissue injury caused by electrode insertion) may be one of the factors contributing to the observed lack of correspondence between memory/learning ability and LTP.
As a widely used intravenous short-acting anesthetic, propofol is recently indicated by clinical and animal studies for its abuse potential, but the mechanism underlying propofol abuse is largely unknown. This study examined the contribution of dopamine receptor subtype (D1 and D2 receptors) and neuroanatomical locus (i.e. nuclear accumbens) in the maintenance of propofol self-administration in rats. After the acquisition and maintenance of self-administration of propofol (1.7 mg/kg/infusion) under a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule of reinforcement over 14 days, rats were treated by either intraperitoneal injection or intra-nucleus accumbens (NAc) injection of D1 receptor antagonist (SCH23390) or D2 receptor antagonists (spiperone and eticlopride) 10 min prior to the subsequent propofol self-administration. We demonstrated (i) systemic administration of SCH23390 (10, 30, 100 g/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently decreased the rate of propofol-maintained self-administration, suggesting a critical role of the D1 receptor in mediating propofol self-administration; (ii) the blockade of the propofol self-administration by SCH23390 was specific since spiperone and eticlopride did not affect propofol self-administration and SCH23390 at these doses did not affect food-maintained responding under an FR5 schedule; (iii) intra-accumbenal injection of SCH23390 (2.5 g/site) but not eticopride (3.0 g/site) attenuated the propofol self-administration, localizing nuclear accumbal D1 receptors as a critical locus in the reinforcement of propofol. Together, these findings provide the first direct evidence that D1 receptors in nuclear accumbens play an important role in the maintenance of propofol self-administration.
Adderall is widely prescribed for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) though long term neurological effects of the main ingredient d-amphetamine are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to examine effects of clinically prescribed doses of d-amphetamine and one abuse dose administered from childhood to adulthood on adult hippocampal neurogenesis and activation of the granule layer of the dentate gyrus. Beginning in early adolescence (age 28 days) to adulthood (age 71), male C57BL/6J mice were administered twice daily i.p. injections of vehicle, 0.25, 0.5 or 2mg/kg d-amphetamine. Locomotor activity was measured in home cages by video tracking. At age 53-56, mice received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections to label dividing cells. Immunohistochemical detection of BrdU, neuronal nuclear protein (NeuN), doublecortin (DCX) and Ki67 was used to measure neurogenesis and cell proliferation at age 71. FosB was measured as an indicator of repeated neuronal activation. An additional cohort of mice was treated similarly except euthanized at age 58 to measure activation of granule neurons from d-amphetamine (by detection of c-Fos) and cell proliferation (Ki67) at a time when the fate of BrdU cells would have been determined in the first cohort. d-Amphetamine dose-dependently increased survival and differentiation of BrdU cells into neurons and increased number of DCX cells without affecting the number of Ki67 cells. Low doses of d-amphetamine decreased c-Fos and FosB in the granule layer. Only the high dose induced substantial locomotor stimulation and sensitization. Results suggest both therapeutic and abuse doses of d-amphetamine increase the number of new neurons in the hippocampus when administered from adolescence to adulthood by increasing survival and differentiation of cells into neurons not by increasing progenitor cell proliferation. Mechanisms for amphetamine-induced neurogenesis are unknown but appear activity independent. Results suggest part of the beneficial effects of therapeutic doses of d-amphetamine for ADHD could be via increased hippocampal neurogenesis.
Humanin (HN) has been identified as an endogenous peptide that inhibited AD-relevant neuronal cell death. HNG, a variant of HN in which the 14th amino acid serine was replaced with glycine, can reduce infarct volume and improve neurological deficits after ischemia/reperfusion injury. In this study, we aimed to examine the neuroprotective effect of HNG on traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice and explored whether the protective effect was associated with regulating apoptosis and autophagy. Compared to vehicle-treated groups, mice administered HNG intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) prior to TBI had decreased cells with plasmalemma permeability in the injured cortex and hippocampus (48 h, P&lt;0.01), reduced brain lesion volume (days 14 and 28, P&lt;0.05), improved motor performance (days 1-4, P&lt;0.05) and ameliorated performance in the Morris water maze test (days 11-13, P&lt;0.05) post TBI. Reduced lesion volume (day 14, P&lt;0.05) was also observed even when HNG was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) at 1h and 2h post TBI, and minor amelioration in motor and Morris water maze test deficits was also observed. Immunoblotting results showed that HNG pretreatment (i.c.v.) reversed TBI-induced cleavage of cysteinyl aspartate-specific protease-3 and poly ADPribose-polymerase and decline of Bcl-2, suppressed LC3II, Beclin-1 and vacuolar sorting protein 34 activation and maintained p62 levels in the injured cortex and hippocampus post TBI (compared with vehicle). In conclusion, HNG treatment improved morphological and functional outcomes after TBI in mice and the protective effect of HNG against TBI may be associated with down-regulating apoptosis and autophagy.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder manifesting in motor, cognitive and behavioral anomalies. Loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region of the brain is the hallmark feature of PD, which is attributed to oxidative and inflammatory stress besides other diverse factors and hence drugs targeting these pathways hold promise as neuro-therapeutics. The anti-oxidative as well as anti-inflammatory properties of sodium salicylate (SS), suggest its neuroprotective potentials in PD. Since PD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, the mechanistic basis for utilizing SS as a neuroprotectant in PD could be better understood in the chronic models. The present study utilizes a rotenone-based model of PD to evaluate the neuro-modulatory efficacy of SS. Subcutaneous injection of rotenone (2mg/kg body weight) was given to male SD rats every day, for a period of 5 weeks, which developed all the essential features of PD in these animals. Simultaneously, another group was injected SS intraperitoneally at the dose of 100mg/kg body weight, in addition to the rotenone. In the animals receiving rotenone+SS, significant improvement was observed in the various characteristic hallmarks of PD such as dopamine and tyrosine hydroxylase levels as well as the motor dysfunction symptoms. It attenuated the reactive oxygen species levels significantly but failed to reduce the levels of protein carbonylation and lipid peroxidation. However, SS effectively abridged the levels of inflammatory mediators like cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), nuclear factor kappa B and inducible nitric oxide synthase. Correspondingly, a significant decrease in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6, interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor- was also observed following SS co-treatment. Thus, neuroprotective efficacy of SS in this chronic model of PD can be largely attributed to its anti-inflammatory effects rather than its free radical-scavenging properties.
Better treatment of status epilepticus (SE), which typically becomes refractory after about 30 min, will require new pharmacotherapies. The effect of sec-butyl-propylacetamide (SPD), an amide derivative of valproic acid (VPA), on electrographic status epilepticus (ESE) was compared quantitatively to other standard-of-care compounds. Cortical electroencephalograms (EEGs) were recorded from rats during ESE induced with lithium-pilocarpine. Using a previously-published algorithm, the effects of SPD on ESE were compared quantitatively to other relevant compounds. To confirm benzodiazepine resistance, diazepam (DZP) was shown to suppress ESE when administered 15 min after the first motor seizure, but not after 30 min (100mg/kg). VPA (300 mg/kg) also lacked efficacy at 30 min. SPD (130 mg/kg) strongly suppressed ESE at 30 min, less after 45 min, and not at 60 min. At a higher dose (180 mg/kg), SPD profoundly suppressed ESE at 60 min, similar to propofol (100mg/kg) and pentobarbital (30 mg/kg). After 4-6h of SPD-induced suppression, EEG activity often overshot control levels at 7-12h. Valnoctamide (VCD, 180 mg/kg), an SPD homolog, was also efficacious at 30 min. SPD blocks pilocarpine-induced electrographic seizures when administered at 1h after the first motor seizure. SPD has a faster onset and greater efficacy than DZP and VPA, and is similar to propofol and pentobarbital. SPD and structurally similar compounds may be useful for the treatment of refractory ESE. Further development and use of automated analyses of ESE may facilitate drug discovery for refractory SE.
This review aims to characterize fatigue-related changes in corticospinal excitability and inhibition in healthy subjects. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been extensively used in recent years to investigate modifications within the brain during and after fatiguing exercise. Single-pulse TMS reveals reduction in motor-evoked potentials (MEP) when measured in relaxed muscle following sustained fatiguing contractions. This modulation of corticospinal excitability observed in relaxed muscle is probably not specific to the fatigue induced by the motor task. During maximal and submaximal fatiguing contractions, voluntary activation measured by TMS decreases, suggesting the presence of supraspinal fatigue. The demonstration of supraspinal fatigue does not eliminate the possibility of spinal contribution to central fatigue. Concomitant measurement of TMS-induced MEP and cervicomedullary MEP in the contracting muscle, appropriately normalized to maximal muscle compound action potential, is necessary to determine the relative contribution of cortical and spinal mechanisms in the development of central fatigue. Recent studies comparing electromyographic (EMG) responses to paired-pulse stimuli at the cortical and subcortical levels suggest that impaired motoneuron responsiveness rather than intracortical inhibition may contribute to the development of central fatigue. This review examines the mechanical and EMG responses elicited by TMS (single- and paired-pulse) and cervicomedullary stimulation both during and after a fatiguing exercise. Particular attention is given to the muscle state and the type of fatiguing exercise when assessing and interpreting fatigue-induced changes in these parameters. Methodological concerns and future research interests are also considered.
In adult mammals, newborn neural precursor cells (NPCs) derived from either the subventricular zone (SVZ) or the subgranular zone (SGZ) migrate into the olfactory bulb and the dentate gyrus (DG), respectively, where some of them mature into excitatory and inhibitory neurons. There is increasing evidence that this neurogenesis process is important for some types of learning and synaptic plasticity and vice versa. Survivin, a member of the inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (IAP) family, has been suggested to have a central role in the regulation of neurogenesis. The protein is abundantly expressed in nervous tissue during embryonic development while being restricted postnatally to proliferating and migrating NPCs in SVZ and SGZ. Here we examined adult Survivin(Camcre) mice with a conditional deletion of the survivin gene in embryonic neurogenic regions. Although the deletion of survivin had no effect on basic excitability in DG and CA1-region, there was a marked impairment of long-term potentiation (LTP) in these areas. Our data support a function of survivin in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning and underline the importance of adult brain neurogenesis for proper operation of the hippocampal tri-synaptic circuit and the physiological functions that depend on it.
Oxidative stress is a common harmful condition of several neurodegenerative diseases. Antioxidants represent the medical choice strategy for protection against this unbalanced oxidant-antioxidant status. The present study was undertaken to address the role of kaurane diterpenes foliol, linearol and sidol in the protection against H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress in the human astrocytoma U373-MG cell line and to establish the underlying mechanisms. U373-MG cells were pretreated with diterpenes (5 and 10 M, 24h) prior to H(2)O(2) exposition (1mM, 30 min). We found that linearol and sidol exerted a significant astroprotective action, and foliol was the least active one. Linearol and sidol especially increased cell viability as shown by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide and lactate dehydrogenase assay and attenuated morphological changes of U373-MG cells induced by H(2)O(2). Moreover, these compounds significantly decreased the level of intracellular reactive oxygen species, counteracted glutathione/oxidized glutathione changes, reduced lipid peroxidation and restored antioxidant and protein expression of antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase and hemooxigenase-1). Furthermore, these natural products increased Nrf2 nuclear levels, suggesting the activation of this master regulator of antioxidative gene expressions in the protective effect exhibited by the kaurane diterpenes studied. Collectively, these results suggest that the studied kaurane diterpenes, mainly linearol and sidol, protect U373-MG cells from H(2)O(2)-induced injury or degeneration presumably by antioxidant mechanisms. These compounds may be useful agents for counteracting the oxidative damage occurring during the pathological development of several CNS disorders.

The generation of 3D networks of primary neurons is a big challenge in neuroscience. Here, a novel method is presented for a 3D neuronal culture on superhydrophobic (SH) substrates. How nano-patterned SH devices stimulate neurons to build 3D networks is investigated. Scanning electron microscopy and confocal imaging show that soon after plating neurites adhere to the nanopatterned pillar sidewalls and they are subsequently pulled between pillars in a suspended position. These neurons display an enhanced survival rate compared to standard cultures and develop mature networks with physiological excitability. These findings underline the importance of using nanostructured SH surfaces for directing 3D neuronal growth, as well as for the design of biomaterials for neuronal regeneration.
Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) was initially identified and confirmed primarily by pathology, but is soon to be incorporated into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual criteria as a clinical disease entity. Despite these advances over more than 20 years, current data suggest that the sensitivity of accurate clinical diagnosis of DLB is still very low, although there is mounting evidence that supportive features may increase diagnostic accuracy. Although DLB remains easy to identify pathologically with different cellular pathologies differentiating it from other dementia syndromes, pathological identification using only Lewy body pathology has been shown to be inaccurate due to overlap with patients without dementia symptoms. A number of studies now suggest that a combination of cellular pathologies, which include -synuclein and -amyloid deposition as well as dopamine denervation, assist with differentiating this dementia syndrome from others. The clinical and pathological overlap with the tauopathy of Alzheimer's disease still remains to be clarified. To determine more robust and independent clinicopathological correlates from Alzheimer's disease, longitudinal prospective studies, using specific clinical batteries on dementia patients reaching the proposed criteria for DLB, with post-mortem assessment of the multiple pathologies associated with dementia, are required. Identifying genetic causes for DLB is another approach to investigate the pathogenesis of DLB. However this approach has been hindered to date by difficulties with identifying DLB clinically. The use of novel techniques is likely to advance knowledge on the pathogenesis of DLB and assist with redefining clinical and pathologic diagnostic criteria. To achieve the goal of more accurate clinical diagnosis of DLB, breakthroughs are necessary on the pathogenesis of DLB.
Dilating HIV vasculopathy can be a cause of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke in patients with HIV. Although first identified in children, this condition is increasingly being recognized in adults and has a dismal natural history under medical or expectant management. Vessel wall invasion by varicella zoster virus, HIV or Mycobacterium avium intracellulare complex (MAI) has been postulated as a possible etiology. We present a case of an adult patient with HIV and chronic disseminated MAI infection who presented with ischemic stroke and three fusiform cerebral aneurysms that were successfully treated with the pipeline embolization device (PED). Flow diversion may be a viable treatment option for patients presenting with this serious neurovascular condition when aneurysm location precludes parent vessel sacrifice or surgical bypass. In addition, platelet function testing with VerifyNow may be valuable in selecting the appropriate P2Y12 receptor antagonist to be used in order to prevent PED thrombosis, since some of the antiretroviral drugs may inhibit clopidogrel or prasugrel metabolism.


Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is recognized as a physiologic mediator produced in a variety of tissues. It is produced by three enzymes, cystathionine -synthase (CBS), cystathionine -lyase (CSE) and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST). However, the regulation of H(2)S production by CSE has not well been understood. Here we show that H(2)S producing activity of CSE is regulated by intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations. In the presence of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) CSE efficiently produces H(2)S at the steady-state low Ca(2+) concentrations but is suppressed at high Ca(2+) concentrations. In the absence of PLP H(2)S production maintains the suppressed levels at high Ca(2+) concentrations and decreased further at low Ca(2+) concentrations. These observations suggest that CSE produces H(2)S at the steady-state in cells and that the production is suppressed when the intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations are increased.


Ongoing network activity often manifests as irregular fluctuations in local field potentials (LFPs), a complex mixture of multicellular synaptic currents of varying locations and extensions. Among other conditions, for synchronously firing presynaptic units to generate sizable postsynaptic LFPs, their axonal territories should overlap. We have taken advantage of anatomical regularity of the rat hippocampus and combined multiple linear recordings and spatial discrimination techniques to separate pathway-specific LFPs with enough spatial resolution to discriminate postsynaptic regions of varying activation, and to investigate their presynaptic origin, chemical nature, and spatial extension. We identified 6 main excitatory and inhibitory LFP generators with different synaptic territories in principal cells and hippocampal subfields matching anatomical pathways. Some recognized pathways did not contribute notably to LFPs. Each showed different septo-temporal spatial modules over which the field potential fluctuations were synchronous. These modules were explained by either the strong overlap of synaptic territories of coactivated afferent neurons (e.g., CA3 clusters for CA1 Schaffer LFPs), or widespread coalescence of postsynaptic territories (granule cell somatic inhibition). We also show evidence that distinct modes of afferent synchronization generate stereotyped spatial patterns of synchronous LFPs in one pathway. Thus, studying spatial coherence of pathway-specific LFPs provides remote access to the dynamics of afferent populations.
Potassium (K(+)) channels are targets of reactive oxygen species in the aging nervous system. KCNB1 (formerly Kv2.1), a voltage-gated K(+) channel abundantly expressed in the cortex and hippocampus, is oxidized in the brains of aging mice and of the triple transgenic 3xTg-AD mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. KCNB1 oxidation acts to enhance apoptosis in mammalian cell lines, whereas a KCNB1 variant resistant to oxidative modification, C73A-KCNB1, is cytoprotective. Here we investigated the molecular mechanisms through which oxidized KCNB1 channels promote apoptosis. Biochemical evidence showed that oxidized KCNB1 channels, which form oligomers held together by disulfide bridges involving Cys-73, accumulated in the plasma membrane as a result of defective endocytosis. In contrast, C73A-mutant channels, which do not oligomerize, were normally internalized. KCNB1 channels localize in lipid rafts, and their internalization was dynamin 2-dependent. Accordingly, cholesterol supplementation reduced apoptosis promoted by oxidation of KCNB1. In contrast, cholesterol depletion exacerbated apoptotic death in a KCNB1-independent fashion. Inhibition of raft-associating c-Src tyrosine kinase and downstream JNK kinase by pharmacological and molecular means suppressed the pro-apoptotic effect of KCNB1 oxidation. Together, these data suggest that the accumulation of KCNB1 oligomers in the membrane disrupts planar lipid raft integrity and causes apoptosis via activating the c-Src/JNK signaling pathway.
The importance of E3 ubiquitin ligases, involved in the degradation of misfolded proteins or promotion of protein-protein interaction, is increasingly recognized in neurodegeneration. TDP-43 is a predominantly nuclear protein, which regulates the transcription of thousands of genes and binds to mRNA of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Parkin to regulate its expression. Wild type and mutated TDP-43 are detected in ubiquitinated forms within the cytosol in several neurodegenerative diseases. We elucidated the mechanisms of TDP-43 interaction with Parkin using transgenic A315T mutant TDP-43 (TDP43-Tg) mice, lentiviral wild type TDP-43, and Parkin gene transfer rat models. TDP-43 expression increased Parkin mRNA and protein levels. Lentiviral TDP-43 increased the levels of nuclear and cytosolic protein, whereas Parkin co-expression mediated Lys-48 and Lys-63-linked ubiquitin to TDP-43 and led to cytosolic co-localization of Parkin with ubiquitinated TDP-43. Parkin and TDP-43 formed a multiprotein complex with HDAC6, perhaps to mediate TDP-43 translocation. In conclusion, Parkin ubiquitinates TDP-43 and facilitates its cytosolic accumulation through a multiprotein complex with HDAC6.
We investigated suprathreshold binocular combination in humans with abnormal binocular visual experience early in life. In the first experiment we presented the two eyes with equal but opposite phase shifted sine waves and measured the perceived phase of the cyclopean sine wave. Normal observers have balanced vision between the two eyes when the two eyes' images have equal contrast (i.e., both eyes contribute equally to the perceived image and perceived phase = 0). However, in observers with strabismus and/or amblyopia, balanced vision requires a higher contrast image in the nondominant eye (NDE) than the dominant eye (DE). This asymmetry between the two eyes is larger than predicted from the contrast sensitivities or monocular perceived contrast of the two eyes and is dependent on contrast and spatial frequency: more asymmetric with higher contrast and/or spatial frequency. Our results also revealed a surprising NDE-to-DE enhancement in some of our abnormal observers. This enhancement is not evident in normal vision because it is normally masked by interocular suppression. However, in these abnormal observers the NDE-to-DE suppression was weak or absent. In the second experiment, we used the identical stimuli to measure the perceived contrast of a cyclopean grating by matching the binocular combined contrast to a standard contrast presented to the DE. These measures provide strong constraints for model fitting. We found asymmetric interocular interactions in binocular contrast perception, which was dependent on both contrast and spatial frequency in the same way as in phase perception. By introducing asymmetric parameters to the modified Ding-Sperling model including interocular contrast gain enhancement, we succeeded in accounting for both binocular combined phase and contrast simultaneously. Adding binocular contrast gain control to the modified Ding-Sperling model enabled us to predict the results of dichoptic and binocular contrast discrimination experiments and provides new insights into the mechanisms of abnormal binocular vision.
We investigated suprathreshold binocular combination, measuring both the perceived phase and perceived contrast of a cyclopean sine wave. We used a paradigm adapted from Ding and Sperling (2006, 2007) to measure the perceived phase by indicating the apparent location (phase) of the dark trough in the horizontal cyclopean sine wave relative to a black horizontal reference line, and we used the same stimuli to measure perceived contrast by matching the binocular combined contrast to a standard contrast presented to one eye. We found that under normal viewing conditions (high contrast and long stimulus duration), perceived contrast is constant, independent of the interocular contrast ratio and the interocular phase difference, while the perceived phase shifts smoothly from one eye to the other eye depending on the contrast ratios. However, at low contrasts and short stimulus durations, binocular combination is more linear and contrast summation is phase-dependent. To account for phase-dependent contrast summation, we incorporated a fusion remapping mechanism into our model, using disparity energy to shift the monocular phases towards the cyclopean phase in order to align the two eyes' images through motor/sensory fusion. The Ding-Sperling model with motor/sensory fusion mechanism gives a reasonable account of the phase dependence of binocular contrast combination and can account for either the perceived phase or the perceived contrast of a cyclopean sine wave separately; however it requires different model parameters for the two. However, when fit to both phase and contrast data simultaneously, the Ding-Sperling model fails. Incorporating interocular gain enhancement into the model results in a significant improvement in fitting both phase and contrast data simultaneously, successfully accounting for both linear summation at low contrast energy and strong nonlinearity at high contrast energy.
Face perception and emotion recognition have been extensively studied in the past decade; however, the relation between them is still poorly understood. A traditional view is that successful emotional categorization requires categorization of the stimulus as a 'face', at least at the basic level. Here we tested whether emotional information could still be recognized accurately without explicit categorization of a stimulus as a face. For this purpose we created a stimulus set in which facial stimuli expressing a range of happy-to-fear emotions were morphed into another object category (shoe). Interestingly, participants categorized emotions with great accuracy in stimuli that contained so little face information that they were explicitly categorized as shoes. Hence, our results show that accurate emotion categorization can take place in stimuli that contain surprisingly little face information. This finding raises interesting questions about the extent to which processes leading to emotion recognition and categorical face perception might be separable.
Hypoxia is an important pathogenic factor for the induction of vascular leakage and brain edema formation. Recent studies suggest a role for TNF- in the induction of brain edema. Ghrelin attenuates the synthesis of TNF- following subarachnoid hemorrhage and traumatic brain injury (TBI). Therefore, we examined the effects of ghrelin on the brain edema, serum TNF- levels and body weight in a systemic hypoxia model. Adult male Wistar rats were divided into acute and chronic controls, acute or chronic hypoxia and ghrelin-treated (80g/kg/ip/daily) acute or chronic hypoxia groups. Systemic hypoxia was induced in rats by a normobaric hypoxic chamber (O(2) 11%) for two days (acute) or ten days (chronic). Effect of ghrelin on brain edema and serum TNF- levels was assessed by dry-wet and ELISA method, respectively. The results showed that acute (P&lt;0.001) and chronic (P&lt;0.05) hypoxia caused an increase of brain water content. Administration of ghrelin only in the acute hypoxia group significantly (P&lt;0.001) reduced brain water content. Acute hypoxia caused an increase of serum TNF- level (P&lt;0.001) and ghrelin significantly (P&lt;0.001) reduced it. TNF- level in chronic hypoxia did not change significantly. Both acute and chronic hypoxia decreased body weight significantly (P&lt;0.001) and administration of ghrelin only could prevent further weight loss in chronic hypoxia group (P&lt;0.001). Our findings show that administration of ghrelin may be useful in reducing brain edema induced by acute systemic hypoxia and at least part of the anti-edematous effects of ghrelin is due to decrease of serum TNF- levels.
Vascular cognitive impairment-no dementia (VCI-ND) is a condition at risk for future dementia and should be the target of preventive strategies. Recently, an enhanced intracortical facilitation observed in VCI-ND patients was proposed as a candidate neurophysiological marker of the disease process. The aim of this study was to monitor the excitability of the motor cortex and the functioning of excitatory/inhibitory intracortical circuits in patients with VCI-ND after a follow-up period of approximately 2 years, in order to pick out early markers of disease progression into dementia. Nine patients and 9 age-matched controls were re-evaluated for single and paired pulse TMS measures of cortical excitability, as well as for neuropsycological and functional assessment. Compared to the first evaluation, patients showed a decrease of the median resting motor threshold (rMT). Patients exhibited a significant worsening at Stroop Color-Word Test Interference scores without substantial functional impairment. Our study represents the first evidence of a decrease of rMT in VCI-ND patients during the progression of cognitive impairment. This result might be considered an index of motor cortex plasticity and interpreted as a compensatory mechanism for the loss of motor cortex neurons.
Using an olfactory conditioning procedure, brain stimulation reward threshold measurements, and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated brain stimulation reward threshold change and fMRI neural activation in response to a cocaine-associated odor cue. In the first brain stimulation experiment, over 10 days of rate-frequency curve-shift testing, rats were administered intravenous cocaine (1.0mg/kg) paired with a contextual cue of peppermint odor previously placed in the operant chamber or they were given vehicle treatment (no cocaine) in the presence of no olfactory cue. Following a 14-day drug-free rest period, rats were again given the rate-frequency curve-shift threshold test with or without the odor cue. In a second experiment, rats were similarly conditioned with a peppermint odor but with intraperitoneally delivered cocaine (10mg/kg). After a 14 day rest period, rats were imaged on a 7-T MRI for their blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) in response to the cocaine-paired peppermint odor versus an unpaired neutral lemon odor. In the brain stimulation experiment, expected significant reward threshold shifts were produced by cocaine and, importantly, about half that level of shift was produced by the paired contextual olfactory cue. In the fMRI experiment, the insular cortex showed a significantly greater BOLD activation in cocaine-treated versus saline-treated animals to the olfactory cue, but not with the unpaired lemon scent. These data are in agreement with previous studies suggesting a role of the insular cortex in attributing reward value (positive or negative) to conditioned odor stimuli.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of primary motor cortex (M1) modulate cortical excitability. Both techniques have been demonstrated to modulate chronic pain and experimental pain thresholds, but with inconsistent effects. Preconditioning M1 with weak tDCS (1mA) standardizes the effects of subsequent stimulation via rTMS on levels of cortical excitability. Here we examine whether 1Hz rTMS, primed with tDCS, could effectively standardize the modulation of pain thresholds. Thermal pain thresholds were determined using quantitative sensory testing (QST) of the palmar thenar of both hands in 12 healthy males pre and post tDCS - 1Hz rTMS over the hand area of the left M1. Cathodal tDCS preconditioning of 1Hz rTMS successfully reversed the normal suppressive effect of low frequency rTMS and effectively modulated cold and heat pain thresholds. Conversely, anodal tDCS - 1Hz rTMS led to a decrease in cold pain thresholds. Therefore, this study supports that preconditioning M1 using cathodal tDCS before subsequent stimulation via 1Hz rTMS facilitates the production of analgesia.
Interlimb neural linkages relay activity related to rhythmic arm movement to the lumbar spinal cord. This is detected by modulated reflex amplitudes in muscles remote from the rhythmic movement. Improved understanding of modulation in ankle flexor and extensor muscles due to rhythmic arm movement can be gained using modulation of spinal excitability as a probe. The modulatory effect of rhythmic arm movement on Ia reciprocal inhibition (RI) between functional antagonists at the ankle has not been studied. We investigated the influence of rhythmic arm cycling on short latency (55ms post-stimulus) RI between ankle flexor (tibialis anterior, TA) and extensor (soleus, SOL) muscles at varying (0.9, 1.0, 1.2, 1.5 and 2.0 motor threshold (MT)) stimulus intensities. We hypothesized that arm cycling would increase RI between antagonists, but that movement conditioning would vary depending on stimulus intensity used to evoke the RI response. Amplitude of RI deduced from suppression of ongoing EMG activity was compared in static and arm cycling conditions. Arm cycling significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased RI in SOL at 1.0MT, but had no effect in TA at any stimulus intensity (p&gt;0.05). Descending signals arising from rhythmic arm movement significantly alter transmission in RI pathways between ankle flexor and extensor muscles differentially. This may be due to differences in descending supraspinal inputs to ankle flexors vs. extensors, and could be related to functional requirements during locomotion.
The discrete functional classes of enteric neurons in the mammalian gastrointestinal tract have been successfully distinguished on the basis of the unique combination of molecules and enzymes in their cell bodies (&quot;chemical coding&quot;). Whether the same chemical coding exists in varicose axons of different functional classes has not been systematically tested. In this study, we quantified the coexistence of markers that define classes of nerve cell bodies in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum, in varicose axons of the same neurons. Profound differences between the combinations of immunohistochemical markers in myenteric nerve cell bodies and in their varicosities were identified. These discrepancies were particularly notable for classes of neurons that had previously been classified as cholinergic, based on immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in their cell bodies. To detect cholinergic varicose axons of enteric neurons in this study, we used antiserum against the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). ChAT-immunoreactivity has been reported to be consistently co-localized with 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in interneuronal cell bodies, yet only 295% (n=4) of 5-HT-immunoreactive varicosities contained vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Somatostatin coexists with ChAT-immunoreactivity in a class of descending interneuron but only 211% (n=4) of somatostatin-immunoreactive varicosities were VAChT-immunoreactive. Comparable discrepancies were also noted for non-cholinergic markers. The results suggest that chemical coding of cell bodies does not necessarily reflect chemical coding of varicose axon terminals and that the assumption that nerve cell bodies that contain ChAT are functionally cholinergic may be questionable.
Syndromes associated with multiple mtDNA deletions are due to different molecular defects that can result in a wide spectrum of predominantly adult-onset clinical presentations, ranging from progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) to multisystemic disorders of variable severity. The autosomal-dominant form of PEO is genetically heterogeneous. Recently, causative mutations have been reported in several nuclear genes that encode proteins of the mtDNA replisome machinery (POLG, POLG2, and C10orf2) or that are involved in pathways for the synthesis of deoxyribonuclotides (ANT1 and RRM2B). Despite these findings, putative mutations remain unknown in half of the subjects with PEO. We report the identification, by exome sequencing, of mutations in DNA2 in adult-onset individuals with a form of mitochondrial myopathy featuring instability of muscle mtDNA. DNA2 encodes a helicase/nuclease family member that is most likely involved in mtDNA replication, as well as in the long-patch base-excision repair (LP-BER) pathway. Invitro biochemical analysis of purified mutant proteins revealed a severe impairment of nuclease, helicase, and ATPase activities. These results implicate human DNA2 and the LP-BER pathway in the pathogenesis of adult-onset disorders of mtDNA maintenance.
Microarray analysis has been used to understand how gene regulation plays a critical role in neuronal injury, survival and repair following ischemic stroke. To identify the transcriptional regulatory elements responsible for ischemia-induced gene expression, we examined gene expression profiles of rat brains following focal ischemia and performed computational analysis of consensus transcription factor binding sites (TFBS) in the genes of the dataset. In this study, rats were sacrificed 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) stroke and gene transcription in brain tissues following ischemia/reperfusion was examined using Affymetrix GeneChip technology. The CONserved transcription FACtor binding site (CONFAC) software package was used to identify over-represented TFBS in the upstream promoter regions of ischemia-induced genes compared to control datasets. CONFAC identified 12 TFBS that were statistically over-represented from our dataset of ischemia-induced genes, including three members of the Ets-1 family of transcription factors (TFs). Microarray results showed that mRNA for Ets-1 was increased following tMCAO but not pMCAO. Immunohistochemical analysis of Ets-1 protein in rat brains following MCAO showed that Ets-1 was highly expressed in neurons in the brain of sham control animals. Ets-1 protein expression was virtually abolished in injured neurons of the ischemic brain but was unchanged in peri-infarct brain areas. These data indicate that TFs, including Ets-1, may influence neuronal injury following ischemia. These findings could provide important insights into the mechanisms that lead to brain injury and could provide avenues for the development of novel therapies.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a functional and structural barrier separating the intravascular and neuropil compartments of the brain. It characterizes the vascular bed and is essential for normal brain functions. Dysfunction in the BBB properties have been described in most common neurological disorders, such as stroke, traumatic injuries, intracerebral hemorrhage, tumors, epilepsy and neurodegenerative disorders. It is now obvious that the BBB plays an important role in normal brain activity, stressing the need for applicable imaging and assessment methods. Recent advancements in imaging techniques now make it possible to establish sensitive and quantitative methods for the assessment of BBB permeability. However, most of the existing techniques require complicated and demanding dynamic scanning protocols that are impractical and cannot be fulfilled in some cases. We review existing methods for the evaluation of BBB permeability, focusing on quantitative magnetic resonance-based approaches and discuss their drawbacks and limitations. In light of those limitations we propose two new approaches for BBB assessment with less demanding imaging sequences: the &quot;post-pre&quot; and the &quot;linear dynamic&quot; methods, both allow semi-quantitative permeability assessment and localization of dysfunctional BBB with simple/partial dynamic imaging protocols and easy-to-apply analysis algorithms. We present preliminary results and show an example which compares these new methods with the existing standard assessment method. We strongly believe that the establishment of such &quot;easy to use&quot; and reliable imaging methods is essential before BBB assessment can become a routine clinical tool. Large clinical trials are awaited to fully understand the significance of BBB permeability as a biomarker and target for treatment in neurological disorders.
Binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression. Using genome-wide chromatin-binding profiles, we describe binding of p53 also to regions located distantly from any known p53 target gene. Interestingly, many of these regions possess conserved p53-binding sites and all known hallmarks of enhancer regions. We demonstrate that these p53-bound enhancer regions (p53BERs) indeed contain enhancer activity and interact intrachromosomally with multiple neighboring genes to convey long-distance p53-dependent transcription regulation. Furthermore, p53BERs produce, in a p53-dependent manner, enhancer RNAs (eRNAs) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest. Thus, our results ascribe transcription enhancement activity to p53 with the capacity to regulate multiple genes from a single genomic binding site. Moreover, eRNA production from p53BERs is required for efficient p53 transcription enhancement.

Cellular reprogramming of somatic cells to patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) enables in vitro modelling of human genetic disorders for pathogenic investigations and therapeutic screens. However, using iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) to model an adult-onset heart disease remains challenging owing to the uncertainty regarding the ability of relatively immature iPSC-CMs to fully recapitulate adult disease phenotypes. Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy (ARVD/C) is an inherited heart disease characterized by pathological fatty infiltration and cardiomyocyte loss predominantly in the right ventricle, which is associated with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. Over 50% of affected individuals have desmosome gene mutations, most commonly in PKP2, encoding plakophilin-2 (ref. 9). The median age at presentation of ARVD/C is 26years. We used previously published methods to generate iPSC lines from fibroblasts of two patients with ARVD/C and PKP2 mutations. Mutant PKP2 iPSC-CMs demonstrate abnormal plakoglobin nuclear translocation and decreased -catenin activity in cardiogenic conditions; yet, these abnormal features are insufficient to reproduce the pathological phenotypes of ARVD/C in standard cardiogenic conditions. Here we show that induction of adult-like metabolic energetics from an embryonic/glycolytic state and abnormal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-) activation underlie the pathogenesis of ARVD/C. By co-activating normal PPAR-alpha-dependent metabolism and abnormal PPAR- pathway in beating embryoid bodies (EBs) with defined media, we established an efficient ARVD/C in vitro model within 2months. This model manifests exaggerated lipogenesis and apoptosis in mutant PKP2 iPSC-CMs. iPSC-CMs with a homozygous PKP2 mutation also had calcium-handling deficits. Our study is the first to demonstrate that induction of adult-like metabolism has a critical role in establishing an adult-onset disease model using patient-specific iPSCs. Using this model, we revealed crucial pathogenic insights that metabolic derangement in adult-like metabolic milieu underlies ARVD/C pathologies, enabling us to propose novel disease-modifying therapeutic strategies.
Chronic neuroinflammation is a common feature of the ageing brain and some neurodegenerative disorders. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the regulation of innate immunity in the central nervous system remain elusive. Here we show that the astrocytic dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) modulates innate immunity through B-crystallin (CRYAB), which is known to suppress neuroinflammation. We demonstrate that knockout mice lacking Drd2 showed remarkable inflammatory response in multiple central nervous system regions and increased the vulnerability of nigral dopaminergic neurons to neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced neurotoxicity. Astrocytes null for Drd2 became hyper-responsive to immune stimuli with a marked reduction in the level of CRYAB. Preferential ablation of Drd2 in astrocytes robustly activated astrocytes in the substantia nigra. Gain- or loss-of-function studies showed that CRYAB is critical for DRD2-mediated modulation of innate immune response in astrocytes. Furthermore, treatment of wild-type mice with the selective DRD2 agonist quinpirole increased resistance of the nigral dopaminergic neurons to MPTP through partial suppression of inflammation. Our study indicates that astrocytic DRD2 activation normally suppresses neuroinflammation in the central nervous system through a CRYAB-dependent mechanism, and provides a new strategy for targeting the astrocyte-mediated innate immune response in the central nervous system during ageing and disease.
Fish oil and conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) belong to a popular class of food supplements known as &quot;fat supplements&quot;, which are claimed to reduce muscle glycogen breakdown, reduce body mass, as well as reduce muscle damage and inflammatory responses. Sport athletes consume fish oil and CLA mainly to increase lean body mass and reduce body fat. Recent evidence indicates that this kind of supplementation may have other side-effects and a new role has been identified in steroidogenensis. Preliminary findings demonstrate that fish oil and CLA may induce a physiological increase in testosterone synthesis. The aim of this review is to describe the effects of fish oil and CLA on physical performance (endurance and resistance exercise), and highlight the new results on the effects on testosterone biosynthesis. In view of these new data, we can hypothesize that fat supplements may improve the anabolic effect of exercise.

Frontal variant frontotemporal dementia (fvFTD) can present with a range of social and cognitive impairments. Complicating this clinical picture is a group of non-progressive or 'phenocopy' patients. We present a patient and his father with very slowly progressive fvFTD over decades. Stable MRI and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging abnormalities were present in the presenting patient, with serial neuropsychological assessments that showed no significant change over 15 years. His father also had a 20-year history of functional decline, associated with neuropsychological evidence of change. Neuropathological confirmation of the condition of his father became available. This revealed gross bilateral frontal atrophy and spongiosis in the frontal cortical regions with mild neuronal loss and rounded ubiquitinated perinuclear inclusions, consistent with early stage frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin by current neuropathological criteria. The phenotype of frontal variant FTD is broad. Many patients present with frontal networks dysfunction. We present evidence that some patients with a very slow clinical progression do have FTD.
ABSTRACT: Large numbers of patients who survive critical illness are left with significant new cognitive impairments that are often severe and remain years after hospital discharge. In the previous issue of Critical Care, Guerra and colleagues assessed risk factors for the development of dementia after an intensive care unit (ICU) admission in a sample of older beneficiaries of Medicare. Older age was strongly associated with a diagnosis of dementia. The relationship between older age and development of dementia after critical illness has not previously been reported. After adjustment for known dementia risk factors, the multivariable analysis found that factors associated with the critical illness were associated with an increased risk of dementia. This study has several limitations - including use of ICD-9-CM codes that identified primarily neurodegenerative types of dementia, the lack of a control group, and a high mortality rate during the first 6 months after hospital discharge - which the authors acknowledge. An important additional limitation of the study by Guerra and colleagues and all previous post-ICU cognitive outcome studies is the inability to determine what role, if any, cognitive impairments that existed before the critical illness contribute to the diagnosis of new post-ICU dementia and whether such cognitive impairments are stable over time or are progressive like those observed in neurodegenerative diseases. Research is needed to answer questions regarding mechanisms of injury, medical and personal risk factors, and importantly the effect of interventions administered either during or after ICU treatment that may prevent or ameliorate such impairments.
PURPOSE: To conduct a systematic review of the literature to determine important clinical predictors of surgical outcome in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). METHODS: A literature search was performed using MEDLINE, MEDLINE in Process, EMBASE and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Selected articles were evaluated using a 14-point modified SIGN scale and classified as either poor (&lt;7), good (7-9) or excellent (10-14) quality of evidence. For each study, the association between various clinical factors and surgical outcome, evaluated by the (modified) Japanese Orthopaedic Association scale (mJOA/JOA), Nurick score or other measures, was defined. The results from the EXCELLENT studies were compared to the combined results from the EXCELLENT and GOOD studies which were compared to the results from all the studies. RESULTS: The initial search yielded 1,677 citations. Ninety-one of these articles, including three translated from Japanese, met the inclusion and exclusion criteria and were graded. Of these, 16 were excellent, 38 were good and 37 were poor quality. Based on the excellent studies alone, a longer duration of symptoms was associated with a poorer outcome evaluated on both the mJOA/JOA scale and Nurick score. A more severe baseline score was related with a worse outcome only on the mJOA/JOA scale. Based on the GOOD and EXCELLENT studies, duration of symptoms and baseline severity score were consistent predictors of mJOA/JOA, but not Nurick. Age was an insignificant predictor of outcome on any of the functional outcomes considered. CONCLUSION: The most important predictors of outcome were preoperative severity and duration of symptoms. This review also identified many other valuable predictors including signs, symptoms, comorbidities and smoking status.
Neuromodulation can dynamically alter neuronal and synaptic properties, thereby changing the behavioral output of a neural circuit. It is therefore conceivable that natural selection might act upon neuromodulation as a mechanism for sculpting the behavioral repertoire of a species. Here we report that the presence of neuromodulation is correlated with the production of a behavior that most likely evolved independently in two species: Tritonia diomedea and Pleurobranchaea californica (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Opisthobranchia, Nudipleura). Individuals of both species exhibit escape swimming behaviors consisting of repeated dorsal-ventral whole-body flexions. The central pattern generator (CPG) circuits underlying these behaviors contain homologous identified neurons: DSI and C2 in Tritonia and As and A1 in Pleurobranchaea. Homologs of these neurons also can be found in Hermissenda crassicornis where they are named CPT and C2, respectively. However, members of this species do not exhibit an analogous swimming behavior. In Tritonia and Pleurobranchaea, but not in Hermissenda, the serotonergic DSI homologs modulated the strength of synapses made by C2 homologs. Furthermore, the serotonin receptor antagonist methysergide blocked this neuromodulation and the swimming behavior. Additionally, in Pleurobranchaea, the robustness of swimming correlated with the extent of the synaptic modulation. Finally, injection of serotonin induced the swimming behavior in Tritonia and Pleurobranchaea, but not in Hermissenda. This suggests that the analogous swimming behaviors of Tritonia and Pleurobranchaea share a common dependence on serotonergic neuromodulation. Thus, neuromodulation may provide a mechanism that enables species to acquire analogous behaviors independently using homologous neural circuit components.
The expression of the ER and ER estrogen receptors in the hippocampus may be important in the etiology of age-related cognitive decline. To examine the role of ER and ER in regulating transcription and learning, ovariectomized wild-type (WT) and ER and ER knockout (KO) mice were used. Hippocampal gene transcription in young ERKO mice was similar to WT mice 6 h after a single estradiol treatment. In middle-age ERKO mice, hormone deprivation was associated with a decrease in the expression of select genes associated with the blood-brain barrier; cyclic estradiol treatment increased transcription of these select genes and improved learning in these mice. In contrast to ERKO mice, ERKO mice exhibited a basal hippocampal gene profile similar to WT mice treated with estradiol and, in the absence of estradiol treatment, young and middle-age ERKO mice exhibited preserved learning on the water maze. The preserved memory performance of middle-age ERKO mice could be reversed by lentiviral delivery of ER to the hippocampus. These results suggest that one function of ER is to regulate ER-mediated transcription in the hippocampus. This model is supported by our observations that knockout of ER under conditions of low estradiol allowed ER-mediated transcription. As estradiol levels increased in the absence of ER, we observed that other mechanisms, likely including ER, regulated transcription and maintained hippocampal-dependent memory. Thus, our results indicate that ER and ER interact with hormone levels to regulate transcription involved in maintaining hippocampal function during aging.
The formation of primary cilia is a highly choreographed process that can be disrupted in developing neurons by overexpressing neuromodulatory G-protein-coupled receptors GPCRs or by blocking intraflagellar transport. Here, we examined the effects of overexpressing the ciliary GPCRs, 5HT6 and SSTR3, on cilia structure and the differentiation of neocortical neurons. Neuronal overexpression of 5HT6 and SSTR3 was achieved by electroporating mouse embryo cortex in utero with vectors encoding these receptors. We found that overexpression of ciliary GPCRs in cortical neurons, especially 5HT6, induced the formation of long (&gt;30 m) and often forked cilia. These changes were associated with increased levels of intraflagellar transport proteins and accelerated ciliogenesis in neonatal neocortex, the induction of which required Kif3a, an anterograde motor critical for cilia protein trafficking and growth. GPCR overexpression also altered the complement of signaling molecules within the cilia. We found that SSTR3 and type III adenylyl cyclase (ACIII), proteins normally enriched in neuronal cilia, were rarely detected in 5HT6-elongated cilia. Intriguingly, the changes in cilia structure were accompanied by changes in neuronal morphology. Specifically, disruption of normal ciliogenesis in developing neocortical neurons, either by overexpressing cilia GPCRs or a dominant-negative form of Kif3a, significantly impaired dendrite outgrowth. Remarkably, coexpression of ACIII with 5HT6 restored ACIII to cilia, normalized cilia structure, and restored dendrite outgrowth, effects that were not observed in neurons coexpressing ACIII and dominant-negative form of Kif3a. Collectively, our data suggest the formation of neuronal dendrites in developing neocortex requires structurally normal cilia enriched with ACIII.
Developmental nicotine exposure (DNE) impacts central respiratory control in neonates born to smoking mothers. We previously showed that DNE enhances the respiratory motor response to bath application of AMPA to the brainstem, although it was unclear which brainstem respiratory neurons mediated these effects (Pilarski and Fregosi, 2009). Here we examine how DNE influences AMPA-type glutamatergic neurotransmission in the pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) and the hypoglossal motor nucleus (XIIMN), which are neuronal populations located in the medulla that are necessary for normal breathing. Using rhythmic brainstem slices from neonatal rats, we microinjected AMPA into the pre-BtC or the XIIMN while recording from XII nerve rootlets (XIIn) as an index of respiratory motor output. DNE increased the duration of tonic activity and reduced rhythmic burst amplitude after AMPA microinjection into the XIIMN. Also, DNE led to an increase in respiratory burst frequency after AMPA injection into the pre-BtC. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of XII motoneurons showed that DNE increased motoneuron excitability but did not change inward currents. Immunohistochemical studies indicate that DNE reduced the expression of glutamate receptor subunits 2 and 3 (GluR2/3) in the XIIMN and the pre-BtC. Our data show that DNE alters AMPAergic synaptic transmission in both the XIIMN and pre-BtC, although the mechanism by which this occurs is unclear. We suggest that the DNE-induced reduction in GluR2/3 may represent an attempt to compensate for increased cell excitability, consistent with mechanisms underlying homeostatic plasticity.
In the mouse model of Fragile X syndrome, the Fmr1 knock-out, local excitation of layer 4 fast-spiking (FS) inhibitory neurons is robustly decreased by 50%, but the mechanisms mediating this change are unknown. Here, we performed recordings in acutely prepared slices obtained from Fmr1 &quot;mosaic&quot; mice, where Fmr1 is deleted in about half of all neurons, and we found that loss of presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, Fmr1 fully recapitulates the deficit. The change in connection strength is primarily due to a decrease in release probability indicating that FMRP normally positively regulates these processes. This change in presynaptic neurotransmitter release is observed both in the mosaic mice and in the constitutive Fmr1 knock-out mice. Manipulations in release probability enabled both the mimic and rescue of the impaired function in this synaptic pathway. Loss of presynaptic Fmr1 has no effect on excitatory synapses onto excitatory neurons, indicating a target cell-specific function for presynaptic FMRP. Finally, we demonstrate that the excitation decrement onto FS neurons also exists in layer 5 of the Fmr1 knock-out, suggesting a widespread role for presynaptic Fmr1 in the excitation of inhibitory neurons. In summary, we identify a novel function for presynaptic FMRP in promoting presynaptic neurotransmitter release, and we show that loss of this function accounts for impaired excitation of neocortical FS inhibitory neurons. These changes may contribute to the cognitive dysfunction and circuit hyperexcitability associated with Fragile X syndrome, including patients with complete deletion of FMRP and those with mosaic expression of FMRP.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is associated with release of arachidonic acid, impaired neurovascular coupling, and reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF), caused by cortical vasoconstriction. We tested the hypothesis that the released arachidonic acid is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 enzyme to produce the vasoconstrictor 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE), and that this mechanism explains cortical vasoconstriction and vascular dysfunction after CSD. CSD was induced in the frontal cortex of rats and the cortical electrical activity and local field potentials recorded by glass microelectrodes, CBF by laser Doppler flowmetry, and tissue oxygen tension (tpO(2)) using polarographic microelectrodes. 20-HETE synthesis was measured in parallel experiments in cortical brain slices exposed to CSD. We used the specific inhibitor HET0016 (N-hydroxy-N'-(4-n-butyl-2-methylphenyl)formamidine) to block 20-HETE synthesis. CSD increased 20-HETE synthesis in brain slices for 120 min, and the time course of the increase in 20-HETE paralleled the reduction in CBF after CSD in vivo. HET0016 blocked the CSD-induced increase in 20-HETE synthesis and ameliorated the persistent reduction in CBF, but not the impaired neurovascular coupling after CSD. These findings suggest that CSD-induced increments in 20-HETE cause the reduction in CBF after CSD and that the attenuation of stimulation-induced CBF responses after CSD has a different mechanism. We suggest that blockade of 20-HETE synthesis may be clinically relevant to ameliorate reduced CBF in patients with migraine and acute brain cortex injuries.
When the CNS is injured, damaged axons do not regenerate. This failure is due in part to the growth-inhibitory environment that forms at the injury site. Myelin-associated molecules, repulsive axon guidance molecules, and extracellular matrix molecules including chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) found within the glial scar inhibit axon regeneration but the intracellular signaling mechanisms triggered by these diverse molecules remain largely unknown. Here we provide biochemical and functional evidence that atypical protein kinase C (PKC) and polarity (Par) complex proteins mediate axon growth inhibition. Treatment of postnatal rat neurons in vitro with the NG2 CSPG, a major component of the glial scar, activates PKC, and this activation is both necessary and sufficient to inhibit axonal growth. NG2 treatment also activates Cdc42, increases the association of Par6 with PKC, and leads to a Par3-dependent activation of Rac1. Transfection of neurons with kinase-dead forms of PKC, dominant-negative forms of Cdc42, or mutant forms of Par6 that do not bind to Cdc42 prevent NG2-induced growth inhibition. Similarly, transfection with either a phosphomutant Par3 (S824A) or dominant-negative Rac1 prevent inhibition, whereas expression of constitutively active Rac1 inhibits axon growth on control surfaces. These results suggest a model in which NG2 binding to neurons activates PKC and modifies Par complex function. They also identify the Par complex as a novel therapeutic target for promoting axon regeneration after CNS injury.
Functional variation in the gene encoding the presynaptic choline transporter (CHT) has been linked to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Here, we report that a heterozygous deletion in the CHT gene in mice (CHT(+/-)) limits the capacity of cholinergic neurons to sustain acetylcholine (ACh) release and attentional performance. Cortical microdialysis and amperometric methods revealed that, whereas wild-type and CHT(+/-) animals support equivalent basal ACh release and choline clearance, CHT(+/-) animals exhibit a significant inability to elevate extracellular ACh following basal forebrain stimulation, in parallel with a diminished choline clearance capacity following cessation of stimulation. Consistent with these findings, the density of CHTs in cortical synaptosomal plasma membrane-enriched fractions from unstimulated CHT(+/-) animals matched those observed in wild-type animals despite reductions in CHT levels in total extracts, achieved via a redistribution of CHT from vesicle pools. As a consequence, in CHT(+/-) animals, basal forebrain stimulation was unable to mobilize wild-type quantities of CHT to the plasma membrane. In behavioral studies, CHT(+/-) mice were impaired in performing a sustained attention task known to depend on cortical cholinergic activity. In wild-type mice, but not CHT(+/-) mice, attentional performance increased the density of CHTs in the synaptosomal membrane in the right frontal cortex. Basal CHT levels in vesicle-enriched membranes predicted the degree of CHT mobilization as well as individual variations in performance on the sustained attention task. Our findings demonstrate biochemical and physiological alterations that underlie cognitive impairments associated with genetically imposed reductions in choline uptake capacity.
Operant conditioning is a type of associative learning involving different and complex sensorimotor and cognitive processes. Because the hippocampus has been related to some motor and cognitive functions involved in this type of learning (such as object recognition, spatial orientation, and associative learning tasks), we decided to study in behaving mice the putative changes in strength taking place at the hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses during the acquisition and performance of an operant conditioning task. Mice were chronically implanted with stimulating electrodes in the Schaffer collaterals and with recording electrodes in the hippocampal CA1 area and trained to an operant task using a fixed-ratio (1:1) schedule. We recorded the field EPSPs (fEPSPs) evoked at the CA3-CA1 synapse during the performance of appetitive (going to the lever, lever press) and consummatory (going to the feeder, eating) behaviors. In addition, we recorded the local field potential activity of the CA1 area during similar behavioral displays. fEPSPs evoked at the CA3-CA1 synapse presented larger amplitudes for appetitive than for consummatory behaviors. This differential change in synaptic strength took place in relation to the learning process, depending mainly on the moment in which mice reached the selected criterion. Thus, selective changes in CA3-CA1 synaptic strength were dependent on both the behavior display and the learning stage. In addition, significant changes in theta band power peaks and their corresponding discrete frequencies were noticed during these behaviors across the sequence of events characterizing this type of associative learning but not during the acquisition process.
Previous work has revealed a remarkably direct neural correlate of decisions in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). Specifically, firing rate has been observed to ramp up or down in a manner resembling the accumulation of evidence for a perceptual decision reported by making a saccade into (or away from) the neuron's response field (RF). However, this link between LIP response and decision formation emerged from studies where a saccadic target was always stimulating the RF during decisions, and where the neural correlate was the averaged activity of a restricted sample of neurons. Because LIP cells are (1) highly responsive to the presence of a visual stimulus in the RF, (2) heterogeneous, and (3) not clearly anatomically segregated from large numbers of neurons that fail selection criteria, the underlying neuronal computations are potentially obscured. To address this, we recorded single neuron spiking activity in LIP during a well-studied moving-dot direction-discrimination task and manipulated whether a saccade target was present in the RF during decision-making. We also recorded from a broad sample of LIP neurons, including ones conventionally excluded in prior studies. Our results show that cells multiplex decision signals with decision-irrelevant visual signals. We also observed disparate, repeating response &quot;motifs&quot; across neurons that, when averaged together, resemble traditional ramping decision signals. In sum, neural responses in LIP simultaneously carry decision signals and decision-irrelevant sensory signals while exhibiting diverse dynamics that reveal a broader range of neural computations than previously entertained.
Temporal context, or adaptation, profoundly affects visual perception. Despite the strength and prevalence of adaptation effects, their functional role in visual processing remains unclear. The effects of spatial context and their functional role are better understood: these effects highlight features that differ from their surroundings and determine stimulus salience. Similarities in the perceptual and physiological effects of spatial and temporal context raise the possibility that they serve similar functions. We therefore tested the possibility that adaptation can enhance stimulus salience. We measured the effects of prolonged (40 s) adaptation to a counterphase grating on performance in a search task in which targets were defined by an orientation offset relative to a background of distracters. We found that, for targets with small orientation offsets, adaptation reduced reaction times and decreased the number of saccades made to find targets. Our results provide evidence that adaptation may function to highlight features that differ from the temporal context in which they are embedded.

Retinal specializations such as cone-photoreceptor opsin-expression gradients, as found in several vertebrate species, are intuitively considered detrimental to color vision. In mice, the majority of cones coexpress both &quot;blue&quot; and &quot;green&quot; opsin. The coexpression ratio changes along the dorsoventral axis, resulting in a &quot;green&quot;-dominant dorsal and a &quot;blue&quot;-dominant ventral retina. Here, we asked how these specializations affect chromatic processing, especially with respect to the opsin transitional zone, the band where opsin coexpression shifts from &quot;green&quot; to &quot;blue.&quot; Using electrophysiology, modeling, and calcium imaging, we found that &quot;alpha-like&quot; retinal ganglion cells, which previously have not been implicated in chromatic processing, display color-opponent responses when located in the vicinity of the opsin transitional zone. Moreover, direction-selective ganglion cells within this zone respond differentially to color sequences. Our data suggest that the dorsoventral opsin distribution, in combination with conventional spatiotemporal processing, renders mouse ganglion cell responses color-opponent without requiring cone-type selective connectivity.
The study of human cortical development has major implications for brain evolution and diseases but has remained elusive due to paucity of experimental models. Here we found that human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), cultured without added morphogens, recapitulate corticogenesis leading to the sequential generation of functional pyramidal neurons of all six layer identities. After transplantation into mouse neonatal brain, human ESC-derived cortical neurons integrated robustly and established specific axonal projections and dendritic patterns corresponding to native cortical neurons. The differentiation and connectivity of the transplanted human cortical neurons complexified progressively over several months in vivo, culminating in the establishment of functional synapses with the host circuitry. Our data demonstrate that human cortical neurons generated in vitro from ESC/iPSC can develop complex hodological properties characteristic of the cerebral cortex in vivo, thereby offering unprecedented opportunities for the modeling of human cortex diseases and brain repair.
Despite the best available medical treatments, many patients continue to be disabled by neurologic and psychiatric disorders, resulting in a large unmet need. Advances in imaging and neurophysiology over the last two decades have led to a reinterpretation of some neurologic and psychiatric conditions as primarily disorders of circuit function, or &quot;circuitopathies.&quot; These developments have been accompanied by advances in neurosurgical techniques with the increasingly widespread utilization of deep brain stimulation (DBS) to recalibrate dysfunctional circuits. The versatility of DBS as both a probe and modulator of neural circuits is making it a powerful tool to study the human brain, helping provide important details of the pathophysiology of circuit dysfunction. We are currently in a phase of active investigation to determine which circuits and disorders could be treated with DBS. Here we review recent advances in the DBS field and discuss potential future directions in targeted intracranial neuromodulation.
yurveda, the science (ved) of life (ayu), owing its origin to Veda, the oldest recorded wisdom of human civilization written in 3500 BCE, contains extensive knowledge of various diseases and their therapeutic approaches. It essentially relied on nature and the immune system of an individual, and therapeutic interventions were introduced only to augment the immune system. yurveda had eight specialties, including psycho-neuroscience (a combination of psychology, clinical psychology and psychiatry) and a unique promotive therapy encompassing nutrition, rejuvenation and geriatrics. The symptoms of various brain disorders, including memory disorder, were well defined. The goal of yurveda was to help an individual to achieve his cherished goal of leading a healthy life of 100 years. To achieve this, great emphasis was laid on nutrition, diet and a good conduct by the two great exponents of yurveda viz. Carak and Suruta. By following these regimens, an individual could lead a less stressful life free from emotional disturbances. Both Carak and Suruta had believed that these in combination with rasayana (rejuvenating) plants could enable an individual to lead a healthy life of 100 years.
A diverse number of diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and type 2 diabetes, are characterized by the formation of fibrillar protein aggregates termed amyloids. The precise mechanism by which aggregates are toxic remains unclear; however, these proteins have been shown to interact strongly with lipid membranes. We investigated morphological and mechanical changes in model lipid bilayers exposed to amyloid-forming proteins by reconstructing the tapping forces associated with atomic force microscopy (AFM) imaging in solution. Tip/sample tapping forces contain information regarding mechanical properties of surfaces. Interpretation of the mechanical changes in the bilayers was aided by numerical simulations of the entire AFM experiment. Amyloid-forming proteins disrupted distinct regions of the bilayer morphology, and these regions were associated with decreased Young's modulus and adhesive properties. These changes in bilayer mechanical properties upon exposure to amyloid-forming proteins may represent a common mechanism leading to membrane dysfunction in amyloid diseases.
The sigma-1 receptor is a ligand-regulated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident chaperone involved in the maintenance of cellular homeostasis. Coupling of the sigma-1 receptor with various ER and/or plasma membrane ion channels is associated with its ability to regulate the locomotor activity and cellular proliferation produced in response to sigma-1 receptor ligands. A number of endogenous small molecules bind to the sigma-1 receptor and have been shown to regulate its activity; these include progesterone, N,N-dimethyltryptamine, d-erythro-sphingosine, and/or other endogenous lipids. We previously reported the synthesis of long chain N-alkylamine derivatives and the characterization of the structure-activity relationship between the chain length of N-alkylamine and affinities at the sigma-1 receptor. Here, we present data demonstrating the photoincorporation of one of these N-alkylamine derivatives, N-[3-(4-nitrophenyl)propyl]-N-dodecylamine (4-NPPC12), to the sigma-1 receptor. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight and tandem mass spectrometry showed that 4-NPPC12 photoinserted at histidine 154 of the derivatized population of the sigma-1 receptor. Interestingly, light-dependent photoinsertion of 4-NPPC12 resulted in an enhanced electrophoretic mobility of only 50% of the derivatized receptor molecules as assessed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The proposed binding and reactivity of 4-NPPC12 evoke a ligand binding model for the sigma-1 receptor that likely involves a receptor dimer and/or oligomer.
Neuropepetide Y (NPY) is best known for its powerful stimulation of food intake and its effects on reducing energy expenditure. However, the pathways involved and the regulatory mechanisms behind this are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that NPY derived from the arcuate nucleus (Arc) is critical forthe control of sympathetic outflow and brown adipose tissue (BAT) function. Mechanistically,a key change induced by Arc NPY signaling is a marked Y1 receptor-mediated reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), which is also associated with a reduction in TH expression in the locus coeruleus (LC) and other regions in the brainstem. Consistent with this, Arc NPY signaling decreased sympathetically innervated BAT thermogenesis, involving the downregulation of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) expression in BAT. Taken together, these data reveal a powerful Arc-NPY-regulated neuronal circuit that controls BAT thermogenesis and sympathetic output via TH neurons.
The accumulation patterns and biosynthesis of compatible solutes in hyper/thermophiles have been extensively studied. However, there is little information available on their hydrolysis, leading us to search for enzymes for this activity. From the analysis of the genomes of several microorganisms known to accumulate -D-mannopyranosyl-(12)-D-glycerate (mannosylglycerate, MG) or -D-glucopyranosyl-(12)-D-glycerate (glucosylglycerate, GG) we were able to identify a likely candidate gene for the hydrolysis of these molecules. The Thermus thermophilus HB27 homologue encoded a putative enzyme with motifs of the GH63 and GH37 families of glycoside hydrolases. We expressed the gene from this thermophilic bacterium and from Rubrobacter radiotolerans, and confirmed that the recombinant enzymes, here designated mannosylglycerate hydrolase (MgH), specifically hydrolysed MG (or GG) to mannose (or glucose) and glycerate. Both enzymes were highly stable and maximally active at temperatures close to each organisms' optimal growth temperatures (half-lives of 15.4  0.5 h at 55 C and 16.1  0.4 h at 70 C) but at low pH (4.0-4.5). Cations were not required for their activity and each enzyme exhibited Michaelis-Menten kinetics at 50 C and 70 C, respectively, with comparable catalytic efficiencies towards MG and GG. Herein, we purified and characterized a novel and highly specific MG- and GG-hydrolyzing enzyme that represent an attractive tool for development of enzymatic assays for quantification of these solutes, which seem to be more prevalent in microorganisms than initially suspected.
Oxidative stress (OS) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a modulatory role in synaptic plasticity and signaling pathways. Mitochondria (MT), a major source of ROS because of their involvement in energy metabolism, are important for brain function. MT-generated ROS are proposed to be responsible for a significant proportion of OS and are associated with developmental abnormalities and aspects of cellular aging. The role of ROS and MT function in cognition of healthy individuals is relatively understudied. In this study, we characterized behavioral and cognitive performance of 5- to 6-month-old mice over-expressing mitochondrial catalase (MCAT). MCAT mice showed enhancements in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory in the water maze and contextual fear conditioning, and reduced measures of anxiety in the elevated zero maze. Catalase activity was elevated in MCAT mice in all brain regions examined. Measures of oxidative stress (glutathione, protein carbonyl content, lipid peroxidation, and 8-hydroxyguanine) did not significantly differ between the groups. The lack of differences in these markers of oxidative stress suggests that the differences observed in this study may be due to altered redox signaling. Catalase over-expression might be sufficient to enhance cognition and reduce measures of anxiety even in the absence of alteration in levels of OS.
Psycho-education is an established intervention for various physical and mental health conditions. This article describes a psycho-education programme developed for people with bipolar disorder. The courses appear to have been beneficial to participants and appraisal of the intervention is ongoing. One area that needs further consideration is whether courses should be run by a person who has bipolar disorder; the advantages and disadvantages of this are discussed.
This report represents a detailed description of experiments designed to replicate and extend the findings of a published study on the effects of treating the R6/2 Huntington's disease (HD) mouse model with ~300 CAG repeats using the pimelic diphenylamide histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, HDACi 4b (Thomas et al., 2008). In addition to testing the R6/2 mice, similar experiments examined the effects of the drug on a second transgenic HD mouse model, the N171-82Q mice. As in the original study, the drug was delivered in the drinking water. In the present study we tested larger groups of mice than in the original study. The results indicated that we were unable to replicate the significant behavioral effects of oral HDACi 4b treatment in the R6/2 mice. There were however, non-significant trends for the treated R6/2 mice to be less affected on some of the measures and there were instances of phenotype progression being delayed in these treated mice. In contrast, we did replicate the protection from striatal atrophy in the R6/2 mice. We also did not observe any beneficial effects of HDACi 4b treatment in the N171-82Q mice. Although the behavioral procedures were replicated and an automated activity assessment was added, there were several unexpected complications in terms of solubility of the drug, CAG repeat length differences and gender differences in progression of the phenotype that could have affected outcomes. Clearly more studies will have to be performed using other methods of delivery as well as assessing effects in more slowly progressing HD models to better evaluate the effects of this HDAC inhibitor.
Using riboprobe in situ hybridization, we studied the localization of the transcripts for the neuropeptide galanin and its receptors (GalR1-R3), tryptophan hydroxylase 2, tyrosine hydroxylase, and nitric oxide synthase as well as the three vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT 1-3) in the locus coeruleus (LC) and the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) regions of postmortem human brains. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was used also. Galanin and GalR3 mRNA were found in many noradrenergic LC neurons, and GalR3 overlapped with serotonin neurons in the DRN. The qPCR analysis at the LC level ranked the transcripts in the following order in the LC: galanin &gt; GalR3 &gt; GalR1 &gt; GalR2; in the DRN the ranking was galanin &gt; GalR3 &gt; GalR1 = GalR2. In forebrain regions the ranking was GalR1 &gt; galanin &gt; GalR2. VGLUT1 and -2 were strongly expressed in the pontine nuclei but could not be detected in LC or serotonin neurons. VGLUT2 transcripts were found in very small, nonpigmented cells in the LC and in the lateral and dorsal aspects of the periaqueductal central gray. Nitric oxide synthase was not detected in serotonin neurons. These findings show distinct differences between the human brain and rodents, especially rat, in the distribution of the galanin system and some other transmitter systems. For example, GalR3 seems to be the important galanin receptor in both the human LC and DRN versus GalR1 and -2 in the rodent brain. Such knowledge may be important when considering therapeutic principles and drug development.
Is the sense of fairness uniquely human? Human reactions to reward division are often studied by means of the ultimatum game, in which both partners need to agree on a distribution for both to receive rewards. Humans typically offer generous portions of the reward to their partner, a tendency our close primate relatives have thus far failed to show in experiments. Here we tested chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and human children on a modified ultimatum game. One individual chose between two tokens that, with their partner's cooperation, could be exchanged for rewards. One token offered equal rewards to both players, whereas the other token favored the chooser. Both apes and children responded like humans typically do. If their partner's cooperation was required, they split the rewards equally. However, with passive partners--a situation akin to the so-called dictator game--they preferred the selfish option. Thus, humans and chimpanzees show similar preferences regarding reward division, suggesting a long evolutionary history to the human sense of fairness.
A 54-year-old man presented with recurrent episodes of transient ischemic attacks and acute stroke secondary to a floating thrombus in the right vertebral artery (VA) with narrowing of the right VA. He was initially treated medically with anticoagulation, antiplatelets and statins but developed multiple fresh infarcts. He was then referred for endovascular treatment, which was performed in a novel way.
Adaptor protein containing a PH domain, PTB domain and leucine zipper motif (APPL1) is emerging as a critical regulator of various cellular processes in non-neuronal cells as well as in neurons where it localizes to dendritic spines and synapses. It regulates the development of these structures in hippocampal neurons. Although memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been attributed to disruption of synaptic plasticity, there is scant information on this protein in the human brain. In the present study, we immunohistochemically characterized the localization of APPL1 in AD and control brains. APPL1 accumulated perisomatically as granules around neurons within vulnerable sectors of the hippocampus (CA1 and subiculum) in AD brain, whilst APPL1-positive granules were rarely identified in control brains derived from elderly individuals with no known cognitive impairment. Interestingly, in the AD hippocampus, APPL1 also co-localized with perisomatic granules (non-plaque dystrophic dendrites) expressing glutamate receptor 2 and ubiquitin, suggesting the possible involvement of APPL1 in the synaptic modifications in AD. Thus, the immunohistochemical distribution of APPL1 in AD brain was distinct from that in non-AD control brains, suggesting that signaling via APPL1 might play a critical role in the memory impairment in AD.
Modulators of unconditioned fear are potential targets for developing treatments for anxiety disorders. We used blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) MRI to investigate the pattern of brain activity during the presentation of a predator odor (cat fur) and a repulsive novel odor, butyric acid (BA), to awake rats. We further tested whether odor-evoked BOLD activation involved oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin V(1a) receptors. Animals were subdivided into groups either administered an intracerebroventricular injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), an OT receptor antagonist or a V(1a) antagonist (125 ng/10 L each) 90 min before studies. BA odor evoked robust brain activation across olfactory, sensory, memory and limbic regions. The magnitude of BOLD activation across these regions was greater for BA than with cat fur. However, blockade of OT and V(1a) receptors differentially modulated odor evoked neural activity, particularly in the amygdala. OT and V(1a) antagonism preferentially modulated BOLD responding to BA in the cortical amygdala. While, OT and V(1a) antagonisms preferentially modulated BOLD responding to cat fur in the central amygdala. The data suggest that although OT receptors modulate BOLD activation in response to a novel and repulsive odor such as BA, vasopressin V(1a) receptors exert a modulatory influence on the neural response to a predator odor.
Evidence is accumulating that neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) respond during action observation, a property first shown for mirror neurons in monkey premotor cortex. We now show for the first time that the discharge of a major class of M1 output neuron, the pyramidal tract neuron (PTN), is modulated during observation of precision grip by a human experimenter. We recorded 132 PTNs in the hand area of two adult macaques, of which 65 (49%) showed mirror-like activity. Many (38 of 65) increased their discharge during observation (facilitation-type mirror neuron), but a substantial number (27 of 65) exhibited reduced discharge or stopped firing (suppression-type). Simultaneous recordings from arm, hand, and digit muscles confirmed the complete absence of detectable muscle activity during observation. We compared the discharge of the same population of neurons during active grasp by the monkeys. We found that facilitation neurons were only half as active for action observation as for action execution, and that suppression neurons reversed their activity pattern and were actually facilitated during execution. Thus, although many M1 output neurons are active during action observation, M1 direct input to spinal circuitry is either reduced or abolished and may not be sufficient to produce overt muscle activity.



A massive intronic GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9ORF72 has recently been identified as the most common cause of familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). We have previously demonstrated that C9ORF72 mutant cases have a specific pathological profile with abundant p62-positive, TDP-43-negative cytoplasmic and intranuclear inclusions within cerebellar granular cells of the cerebellum and pyramidal cells of the hippocampus in addition to classical TDP-43 pathology. Here, we report mixed tau and TDP-43 pathology in a woman with behavioural variant FTLD who had the C9ORF72 mutation, and the p.Ala239Thr variant in MAPT (microtubule associated protein tau) gene not previously associated with tau pathology. Two of her brothers, who carried the C9ORF72 mutation, but not the MAPT variant, developed classical ALS without symptomatic cognitive changes. The dominant neuropathology in this woman with FTLD was a tauopathy with Pick's disease-like features. TDP-43 labelling was mainly confined to Pick bodies, but p62-positive, TDP-43-negative inclusions, characteristic of C9ORF72 mutations, were present in the cerebellum and hippocampus. Mixed pathology to this degree is unusual. One might speculate that the presence of the C9ORF72 mutation might influence tau deposition in what was previously thought to be a &quot;benign&quot; variant in MAPT in addition to the aggregation of TDP-43 and other as yet unidentified proteins decorated with ubiquitin and p62.
An expanded GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat in C9ORF72 is the most common genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration associated with TDP-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP). In addition to TDP-43-positive neuronal and glial inclusions, C9ORF72-linked FTLD-TDP has characteristic TDP-43-negative neuronal cytoplasmic and intranuclear inclusions as well as dystrophic neurites in the hippocampus and cerebellum. These lesions are immunopositive for ubiquitin and ubiquitin-binding proteins, such as sequestosome-1/p62 and ubiquilin-2. Studies examining the frequency of the C9ORF72 mutation in clinically probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) have found a small proportion of AD cases with the mutation. This prompted us to systematically explore the frequency of Alzheimer-type pathology in a series of 17 FTLD-TDP cases with mutations in C9ORF72 (FTLD-C9ORF72). We identified four cases with sufficient Alzheimer-type pathology to meet criteria for intermediate-to-high-likelihood AD. We compared AD pathology in the 17 FTLD-C9ORF72 to 13 cases of FTLD-TDP linked to mutations in the gene for progranulin (FTLD-GRN) and 36 cases of sporadic FTLD (sFTLD). FTLD-C9ORF72 cases had higher Braak neurofibrillary tangle stage than FTLD-GRN. Increased tau pathology in FTLD-C9ORF72 was assessed with thioflavin-S fluorescent microscopy-based neurofibrillary tangle counts and with image analysis of tau burden in temporal cortex and hippocampus. FTLD-C9ORF72 had significantly more neurofibrillary tangles and higher tau burden compared with FTLD-GRN. The differences were most marked in limbic regions. On the other hand, sFTLD and FTLD-C9ORF72 had a similar burden of tau pathology. These results suggest FTLD-C9ORF72 has increased propensity for tau pathology compared to FTLD-GRN, but not sFTLD. The accumulation of tau as well as lesions immunoreactive for ubiquitin and ubiquitin-binding proteins (p62 and ubiquilin-2) suggests that mutations in C9ORF72 may involve disrupted protein degradation that favors accumulation of multiple different proteins.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) are relentlessly progressive neurodegenerative disorders with overlapping clinical, genetic and pathological features. Cytoplasmic inclusions of fused in sarcoma (FUS) are the hallmark of several forms of FTLD and ALS patients with mutations in the FUS gene. FUS is a multifunctional, predominantly nuclear, DNA and RNA binding protein. Here, we report that transgenic mice overexpressing wild-type human FUS develop an aggressive phenotype with an early onset tremor followed by progressive hind limb paralysis and death by 12 weeks in homozygous animals. Large motor neurons were lost from the spinal cord accompanied by neurophysiological evidence of denervation and focal muscle atrophy. Surviving motor neurons in the spinal cord had greatly increased cytoplasmic expression of FUS, with globular and skein-like FUS-positive and ubiquitin-negative inclusions associated with astroglial and microglial reactivity. Cytoplasmic FUS inclusions were also detected in the brain of transgenic mice without apparent neuronal loss and little astroglial or microglial activation. Hemizygous FUS overexpressing mice showed no evidence of a motor phenotype or pathology. These findings recapitulate several pathological features seen in human ALS and FTLD patients, and suggest that overexpression of wild-type FUS in vulnerable neurons may be one of the root causes of disease. Furthermore, these mice will provide a new model to study disease mechanism, and test therapies.



The superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) has been attributed much less clinical significance than the recurrent laryngeal nerve. It has sometimes been described as the 'neglected' nerve in thyroid surgery, although injury to this nerve can cause significant disability. The external branch of the SLN is the only motor supply to the cricothyroid muscle, which increases the tension of the ipsilateral vocal fold during highfrequency phonation, particularly in women and voice professionals. Damage to this nerve can manifest as ipsilateral cricothyroid muscle paralysis, and clinical symptoms may include a hoarse, breathy voice, frequent throat clearing, vocal fatigue or diminished vocal frequency range, especially when rising pitch. SLN paralysis can be a significant issue for those whose careers depend largely on a full range of voice. The famous opera soprano, Amelita Galli-Curci, suffered SLN injury during thyroid surgery with distressing consequences.
In this investigation, we report on 4 patients affected by incomplete partition type I submitted to cochlear implant at our institutions. Preoperative, surgical, mapping and follow-up issues as well as results in cases with this complex malformation are described. The cases reported in the present study confirm that cochlear implantation in patients with incomplete partition type I may be challenging for cochlear implant teams. The results are variable, but in many cases satisfactory, and are mainly related to the surgical placement of the electrode and residual neural nerve fibres. Moreover, in some cases the association of cochlear nerve abnormalities and other disabilities may significantly affect results.
Vocal load plays a significant role in the aetiology of voice disorders and influences the response to treatment. For this reason, many researchers have focused their attention on how a voice is used, especially when vocal load is increased, during working hours for instance. The majority of studies in this regard have been performed by recording vocal parameters for brief periods with the aid of microphones. The first devices produced recorded only a few parameters and for relatively short periods of time, and since microphones were used there was a problem with both privacy and background noise such as the inclusion of voices from nearby people. Recently, microprocessors that can monitor a voice for an entire day have been developed; these use miniaturised accelerometers as vocal sensors. The latest commerciallyavailable version is the Ambulatory Phonation Monitor (APM) (KayPENTAX, Lincoln Park, NJ, USA) which can record several vocal parameters for over 18 hours and supply a series of graphic representations of the variations in these parameters during the recording period. In particular, the APM permits recording vocal load by measuring the cycle dose and distance dose, and evaluates vocal intensity (dB sound pressure level [SPL]), fundamental frequency and total phonation time. This report describes the APM, the use of an accelerometer as a vocal sensor, the importance of its calibration and the parameters it records. In particular, details are given on phonation time, variations in frequency, vocal intensity, phonation density and vocal dose. The role of the APM in voice studies is also described, in addition to its potential clinical applications as demonstrated by the few reports available in the literature. We also discuss our experience with the device in groups of euphonic and dysphonic elementary school teachers.

The combination of technological advances, genomic sequences and market success is catalyzing rapid development of antibody-based therapeutics. Cell surface receptors and ion channel proteins are well known drug targets, but the latter has seen less success. The availability of crystal structures, better understanding of gating biophysics and validation of physiological roles now form an excellent foundation to pursue antibody-based therapeutics targeting ion channels to treat a variety of diseases.


The brain needs to track changes in the relation between action and effect. In two experiments, participants made voluntary keypress actions. In an adaptation phase, these actions were followed after a fixed interval by a tone. During a subsequent test phase, the duration of the interval was unexpectedly changed. We used time perception as an implicit marker of the experience of participants' control over the effect, and confirmed a temporal binding between actions and effects. On test trials, participants perceived tones to occur as shifted towards their time of occurrence in the preceding adaptation phase. Therefore, the perceived time of a tone was partly based on learning of an internal prediction, rather than on the time of actual sensory input. This predictive model is rapidly updated over a few trials (Experiment 1), and requires attention to the tones (Experiment 2). The brain learns action-effect relations. This predictive learning influences the perception of effects, and underlies some temporal illusions associated with action.
Older adults are known to have reduced inhibitory control and therefore to be more distractible than young adults. Recently, we have proposed that sensory modality plays a crucial role in age-related distractibility. In this study, we examined age differences in vulnerability to unimodal and cross-modal visual and auditory distraction. A group of 24 younger (mean age=21.7 years) and 22 older adults (mean age=65.4 years) performed visual and auditory n-back tasks while ignoring visual and auditory distraction. Whereas reaction time data indicated that both young and older adults are particularly affected by unimodal distraction, accuracy data revealed that older adults, but not younger adults, are vulnerable to cross-modal visual distraction. These results support the notion that age-related distractibility is modality dependent.

Aging has profound yet unpredictable effects on pain perception and incidence of anxiety disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying age-related pathologies are confounded by contradictory observations in rodent models. Therefore, the goal of our study was to test the hypothesis that genetic variability contributes to age-related pain behaviors and susceptibility to anxiety. To address this hypothesis, we examined pain and anxiety-like behavior in young or old Brown Norway (BN), Fisher 344, and BN/F344 (F1), three rat strains used in studies to evaluate the effect of aging. Mechanosensitive thresholds were assessed using the Von Frey assay, and visceral pain sensitivity was measured via the visceromotor response to colorectal distension. Anxiety-like behavior and exploration was quantified in the elevated plus maze. In the BN strain, old rats exhibited increased mechanosensitive thresholds compared to young rats; however, age did not affect visceral sensitivity in this strain. In F344-BN rats, the number of abdominal contractions induced by the highest colonic distension pressure was significantly lower in old rats. However, following colonic sensitization, a difference was no longer apparent. In the F-344 strain, visceral hypersensitivity following afferent sensitization was evident in young rats at all distension pressures but was not observed in older animals at 20mmHg. Aging significantly reduced maze exploration across all strains. Our data demonstrate that age- and strain-related alterations exist in pain behavior and highlight the effects of aging on exploratory behavior. These findings suggest that strain differences contribute to the controversial data on the effects of aging on pain perception.
Cortico-muscular coherence (CMC) at beta frequency (13-30Hz) occurs particularly during weak to moderate isometric contraction. It is a well-established measure of communication between the primary motor cortex (M1) and corresponding muscles revealing information about the integrity of the pyramidal system. Although the slowing of brain and muscle dynamics during healthy aging has been evidenced, functional communication as determined by CMC has not been investigated so far. Since decline of motor functions at higher age is likely to be associated with CMC changes, the present study aims at shedding light on the functionality of the motor system from a functional interaction perspective. To this end, CMC was investigated in 27 healthy subjects aging between 22 and 77years during isometric contraction of their right forearm. Neuromagnetic activity was measured using whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG). Muscle activity was measured by means of surface electromyography (EMG) of the right extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscle. Additionally, MEG-EMG phase lags were calculated in order to estimate conducting time. The analysis revealed CMC and M1 power amplitudes to be increased with age accompanied by slowing of M1, EMG, and CMC. Frequency changes were particularly found in subjects aged above 40years suggesting that at this middle age, neurophysiological changes occur, possibly reflecting an early neurophysiological marker of seniority. Since MEG-EMG phase lags did not vary with age, changes cannot be explained by alterations of nerve conduction. We argue that the M1 power amplitude increase and the shift towards lower frequencies might represent a neurophysiological marker of healthy aging which is possibly compensated by increased CMC amplitude.

Previous research has demonstrated that treatment with the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) of the GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B) PAM), rac-BHFF, suppressed lever-responding for alcohol and amount of self-administered alcohol in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. The present study was designed to extend the investigation on the anti-alcohol effects of rac-BHFF to alcohol drinking behavior. To this end, sP rats were exposed to the homecage, 2-bottle &quot;alcohol (10%, v/v) vs water&quot; choice regimen, with unlimited access for 24h/day. rac-BHFF was administered once daily and for 7 consecutive days at the doses of 0, 50, 100, and 200mg/kg (i.g.). Treatment with rac-BHFF resulted in an immediate, stable, and dose-related reduction in daily alcohol intake; the overall magnitude of reduction in alcohol intake averaged approximately 25%, 40%, and 65% in 50, 100, and 200mg/kg rac-BHFF-treated rat groups, respectively. An increase in daily water intake fully compensated the reduction in alcohol intake, so that daily total fluid intake was unaffected by treatment with rac-BHFF. Daily food intake tended to be reduced only by the highest dose of rac-BHFF. These results complement closely with previous data indicating that (a) rac-BHFF suppressed operant, oral alcohol self-administration in sP rats and (b) the prototypic GABA(B) PAMs, CGP7930 and GS39783, reduced alcohol drinking in sP rats. However, while the reducing effect of CGP7930 and GS39783 on the daily alcohol intake tended to vanish after the first 2-3 days of treatment, the reducing effect of rac-BHFF on daily alcohol intake remained unchanged over the entire 7-day treatment period. These data strengthen the hypothesis that GABA(B) PAMs may represent a step forward in the search for GABA(B) receptor ligands with therapeutic potential for alcoholism.







A general method is presented for the identification of radiometabolites in plasma of human and monkey subjects after administration of positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands. The radiometabolites are first produced in vitro, using liver microsomes, subsequently separated using fast radio-liquid chromatography (radio-LC), and individually collected and identified by ultra high-performance liquid chromatography/quadrupole-time of flight-mass spectrometry in MS and MS(E) mode. Fast radio-LC provided superior resolution compared to conventional radio-LC, resulting in separation of a greater number of metabolites. The radiometabolites produced in vivo are then compared to and identified based on the in vitro results. This approach was applied to three PET radioligands, [(11)C]flumazenil, [(18)F]FE-PE2I, and [(11)C]PBR28, resulting in the identification of five, two, and one radiometabolites, respectively. This procedure can easily be adopted to identify the radiometabolites produced in vivo from a variety of PET radioligands.




Myoblast fusion into functionally distinct myotubes, and their subsequent integration with the nervous system, is a poorly understood phenomenon with important applications in basic science research, skeletal muscle tissue engineering, and cell-based biosensor development. We have previously demonstrated the ability of microelectrode arrays (MEAs) to record the extracellular action potentials of myotubes, and we have shown that this information reveals the presence of multiple, electrophysiologically independent myotubes even in unstructured cultures where there is extensive physical contact between cells (Langhammer et al., Biotechnol Prog 27:891-895, 2011). In this paper, we explore the ability of microscale topographical trenches to guide the myoblast alignment and fusion processes and use our findings to create a substrate-embedded MEA containing topographical trenches that are able to direct myotube contractility to specific locations. By combining substrate-embedded MEA technology with topographical patterns, we have developed a lab-on-a-chip test bed for the non-invasive examination of myotubes.



Even though new prevention techniques have been developed and are being used during thoraco-abdominal aortic repairs, spinal cord infarction remains a severe and relatively frequent complication of aortic surgery. Infarctions in the territory of the anterior spinal artery are considered the most common. Different clinical pictures related to spinal cord transverse extension wounds are drawn up. In this paper, we present a case report of a subject having presented an isolated motor deficit of the lower limbs and a favorable prognosis, suggesting selective involvement of the anterior horns of the spinal cord subsequent to surgical repair of an aortic dissection. We wish to review the relevant anatomical, clinical and diagnostic characteristics along with current techniques of spinal cord ischemia prevention during and after surgery.

Aging is an inevitable process that is associated to loss of functional capacities in several body systems, like the cardiovascular, the skeletal muscle mass, the osteoarticular and the neuro-immune-endocrine systems. Changes appear due to interactions between genetic factors and way of life, such as diet and sedentary life style. This review shows evidence from the past twenty years concerning the importance of physical exercise to reduce the deleterious effects of aging, regarding the improvement in functional performance, the prevention of diseases and increased longevity. Moreover, physical exercise improves the cognitive function and the mood. Aerobic and strength training collaborate with the prevention and treatment of mental diseases, which are mostly prevalent in older adults, like major depression, dementia and Parkinson's disease. Several mechanisms of neurobiological action are proposed to explain how exercise can actually reduce the effects of aging.


This study was designed to investigate whether polymerized human placenta hemoglobin (PolyPHb) attenuated hemorrhagic shock-induced lung injury. A mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 30mmHg was maintained for 60 min. Then, all the rats were randomly resuscitated with hetastarch, whole blood, or PolyPHb. The result indicated that PolyPHb greatly improved the MAP and pulmonary function, and significantly reduced the release of inflammatory cytokines, histopathological changes, and pulmonary edema. Therefore, our findings suggest that PolyPHb could reduce pulmonary injury after hemorrhagic shock, and this effect was probably associated with the depressed inflammatory response.
MEF2C facilitates context-dependent fear conditioning (CFC) which is a salient aspect of hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. CFC might have played a crucial role in human evolution because of its advantageous influence on survival of species. In this study, we analyzed 23 orthologous mammalian gene sequences of MEF2C gene to examine the evidence for positive selection on this gene in Homo sapiens using Phylogenetic Analysis by Maximum Likelihood (PAML) and HyPhy software. Both PAML Bayes Empirical Bayes (BEB) and HyPhy Fixed Effects Likelihood (FEL) analyses supported significant positive selection on 4 codon sites in H. sapiens. Also, haplotter analysis revealed significant ongoing positive selection on this gene in Central European population. The study findings suggest that adaptive selective pressure on this gene might have influenced human evolution. Further research on this gene might unravel the potential role of this gene in learning and memory as well as its pathogenetic effect in certain hippocampal disorders with evolutionary basis like schizophrenia.
Research on the psychobiological sequelae of trauma has typically focused on long-term alterations in individuals with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Far less is known about the nature and course of psychobiological risk factors for PTSD during the acute aftermath of trauma. In this review, we summarize data from prospective studies focusing on the relationships among sympathetic nervous system activity, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function, coping strategies and PTSD symptoms during the early recovery (or non-recovery) phase. Findings from pertinent studies are integrated to inform psychobiological profiles of PTSD-risk in children and adults in the context of existing models of PTSD-onset and maintenance. Data regarding bidirectional relations between coping strategies and stress hormones is reviewed. Limitations of existing literature and recommendations for future research are discussed.
The KCNQ2/3 channel has emerged as a drug target for a number of neurological disorders including pain and epilepsy. Known KCNQ2/3 openers have effects on two distinct biophysical properties of the channel: (1) a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of channel activation (V(1/2)), and (2) an increase in channel open probability or peak whole-cell current. The current high-throughput screening assays for KCNQ2/3 openers measure changes of channel activity at sub-peak conductances and the output measure is a combination of effects on V(1/2) shift and peak current. Here, we describe a medium-throughput electrophysiological assay for screening KCNQ2/3 openers using the QPatch HT platform. We employed a double-pulse protocol that measures the shift in V(1/2) and the change in current amplitude at peak conductance voltage. Retigabine along with novel KCNQ2/3 openers were evaluated in this assay. Three classes of KCNQ2/3 openers were identified based on the hyperpolarizing shift in V(1/2) and the change in peak current. All three classes of compounds caused a hyperpolarizing shift in V(1/2), but they were differentiated by their respective effects on peak current amplitude (increase, decrease, or only modestly affecting peak current amplitude). KCNQ2/3 blockers were also identified with this assay. These compounds blocked currents without affecting voltage-dependent activation. In summary, we have developed a medium-throughput assay that can reliably detect changes in the biophysical properties of the KCNQ2/3 channel, V(1/2), and peak current amplitude, and therefore may serve as a reliable assay to evaluate KCNQ2/3 openers and blockers.
The addictive nature of nicotine remains a global health problem. Despite the availability of treatments for smoking cessation, relapse to smoking after quit attempts still remains very high. Here, we evaluated the effects of chronic nicotine in male C57BL/6J mice in an operant cognitive flexibility task that required the animals to progress sequentially through multiple phases including visual discrimination, strategy shifting and response reversal. As frontostriatal circuits involving discrete regions of dorsal striatum contribute directly to decision-making processes, and BDNF modulates synaptic plasticity and learning, we also assessed the effects of nicotine on striatal BDNF expression. Osmotic minipumps containing either of the two doses of nicotine (low: 6.3 mg/kg/day; high: 18 mg/kg/day) or saline (control) were implanted for chronic delivery that lasted 4 weeks. Nicotine-treated mice exhibited greater response accuracy during visual discrimination. Neither dose of nicotine affected learning of new egocentric response strategy during set-shifting. However, higher but not lower dose of nicotine impaired reversal learning by increasing perseverative responding to the previously non-reinforced stimulus. Furthermore, this effect was associated with reduced BDNF levels in the dorsal striatum. Collectively, these findings suggest that higher relapse rates often observed in high nicotine-dependent smokers may be attributed to impairments in inhibitory control processes. Moreover, striatal BDNF may play a critical role in nicotine-induced alterations in cognitive flexibility.
A reversible neuronal inactivation procedure was used to study the role of the medial orbital cortex (MO) and medial tip of the subthalamic nucleus (mSTN) in maintenance of cocaine self-administration studied under a second-order schedule of drug and cue presentation. Lidocaine or vehicle was infused 5-min before 1-h self-administration test sessions, using bilateral, asymmetric or unilateral manipulations. The results demonstrated that whether the MO was inactivated bilaterally, unilaterally or asymmetrically (with contralateral mSTN inactivation), cocaine seeking and cocaine intake were reduced. In contrast, bilateral mSTN inactivation did not impact cocaine seeking or cocaine intake, suggesting that the reductions in these measures following asymmetric inactivation may have been due to a unilateral influence of lidocaine in MO. Expression of c-Fos protein was measured in sites downstream of the STN to ensure that the lidocaine inactivation procedure was effective in selectively altering activity of neurons in mSTN. Cocaine-induced c-Fos protein expression was augmented only in the ipsilateral nucleus accumbens core after mSTN lidocaine pretreatment, consistent with the expectation that inactivation of mSTN would disinhibit nucleus accumbens core, but not shell, activity. The present investigation shows the critical importance of the MO for maintaining cocaine seeking and cocaine intake in rats, though its projections to mSTN appear to be unimportant for this purpose. Because cocaine seeking was impacted to such a great extent (45% of baseline, on average), it is likely that MO inactivation exerts its influence on maintenance of cocaine self-administration by interfering primarily with cue-controlled behavior rather than by modifying the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Local infusion of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol is used for reversible inactivation of septohippocampal brain structures associated with cognitive functions. However, information on the effective duration, affected processes and site(s) of action of muscimol in the hippocampus is lacking. Therefore, the dose- and time-dependent effects of bilateral dorsohippocampal infusion of muscimol (0.01-2.0 g/mouse) below the CA1 area were examined on processing of fear memory in male C57BL/6J mice. Infusion of muscimol 15 min-6 h but not 9 h or 24 h before training impaired conditioned context-dependent fear tested 24 h or 48 h after training. Post-training infusion of muscimol also impaired context-dependent fear when applied either 4 h or 6 h after training, although with lower efficacy. Muscimol was ineffective when administered immediately, 1 h or 24 h after training. Infusion of muscimol 15 min before training impaired context-dependent fear 4-6 h after training indicating preserved short-term but impaired long-term memory. Regardless of infusion time and dose, muscimol had no effect on tone-dependent (cued) fear memory. The impairment by the fluorescently-labeled muscimol-bodipy (5.3 g/mouse) were similar to those of an equimolar dose of muscimol (1 g/mouse). The distribution profile after local infusion indicated that muscimol-bodipy (5.3 g/mouse) was confined to the CA1 area of the dorsal hippocampus. These results demonstrated that GABA(A) receptor activation in the CA1 area of the dorsal hippocampus causes a long-term memory impairment of conditioned context-dependent fear mediated by a long-lasting (6 h) muscimol action most likely affecting consolidation processes.
Multiple studies have reported prenatal stress as a potential risk factor for the development of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In rodents, a significant reduction in sociability is seen in prenatally stressed offspring of genetically stress-susceptible dams. Certain dietary factors that contribute to stress reactivity may, therefore, exacerbate prenatal stress-mediated behavioral changes in adult offspring. Adults with a diet rich in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) display increased stress reactivity. In the current study, the effects of prenatal diet and prenatal stress on social behavior in adult offspring mice were examined. Pregnant C57BL/6J dams received either chronic variable stress or no stress, and were also placed on a control diet or a diet rich in omega-6 PUFAs, in a 22 design. We subsequently tested the adult offspring for sociability, anxiety, and locomotor behaviors using a 3-chambered social approach task, an elevated-plus maze, an open field task and a rotarod task. Results indicated that a maternal diet rich in omega-6 PUFAs during gestation and lactation produce changes in sociability consistent with those observed in ASD. Additionally, offspring exposed to a diet rich in omega-6 PUFAs during gestation and lactation had increased levels of anxiety in the elevated-plus maze. Prenatal stress had no effect on offspring behavior. These findings provide evidence for a possible environmental risk factor that contributes to the production of autistic-like behavior in mice.
The LRRTM family proteins have been shown to act as synaptogenic cell adhesion molecules via interaction with presynaptic neurexins and are associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. LRRTM1-knockout mice have subtle morphological deficits in excitatory hippocampal synapses and were suggested to have impaired cognitive function. Here we report that LRRTM1-knockout mice exhibit an extraordinary phenotype of avoiding small enclosures. In the light-dark box, the knockout mice escape to dark through a standard opening as quickly as wild-type littermates but avoid escaping through a small doorway. While all wild-type mice spontaneously enter a small tube, most knockout mice do not. This apparent aversion to enter narrow space may explain other abnormalities such as increased time in open arms in the elevated plus maze and less visits through a tunnel in the IntelliCage. Moreover, LRRTM1-knockout mice show increased social interaction, reduced nest building and MK801-induced locomotion, and slower swim speed but normal water maze learning. Since LRRTM1 is predominantly expressed in thalamus, hippocampus and limbic cortex, specific synaptic defects in those areas presumably cause these behavioural abnormalities.
It has been observed that men and women show performance differences in the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a task of decision-making in which subjects through exploration learn to differentiate long-term advantageous from long-term disadvantageous decks of cards: men choose more cards from the long-term advantageous decks than women within the standard number of 100 trials. Here, we aim at discussing psychological mechanisms and neurobiological substrates underlying sex differences in IGT-like decision-making. Our review suggests that women focus on both win-loss frequencies and long-term pay-off of decks, while men focus on long-term pay-off. Furthermore, women may be more sensitive to occasional losses in the long-term advantageous decks than men. As a consequence hereof, women need 40-60 trials in addition before they reach the same level of performance as men. These performance differences are related to differences in activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex as well as in serotonergic activity and left-right hemispheric activity. Sex differences in orbitofrontal cortex activity may be due to organisational effects of gonadal hormones early in life. The behavioural and neurobiological differences in the IGT between men and women are an expression of more general sex differences in the regulation of emotions. We discuss these findings in the context of sex differences in information processing related to evolutionary processes. Furthermore we discuss the relationship between these findings and real world decision-making.
Baumard et al. argue that partner choice leads to fairness and mutualism, which then form the basis for morality. I comment that mutualism takes us only so far, and I apply the theory of competitive altruism in arguing how strategic investment in behaviours which make one a desirable partner may drive moral conduct.
Revenge appears among a suite of social interactions that includes competition, alliance building (a prerequisite for tribal revenge raids), and so forth. Rather than a modular system directly reflecting evolutionary fitness constraints, revenge may be (another) social cost-benefit calculation involving potential or actual aggression and proximately controlled by individual personality characteristics and beliefs that can work against fitness.
A Commentary published in the October 2012 issue of Behavioral Neuroscience entitled &quot;SSRIs, Adolescents, and Aggression: Tempering Human Implications Regarding SSRI-Induced Aggression in Hamsters: Comment on Ricci and Melloni (2012)&quot;, presents an interpretation of findings from our report published in the same issue of Behavioral Neuroscience entitled &quot;Repeated Fluoxetine Administration During Adolescence Stimulates Aggressive Behavior and Alters Serotonin and Vasopressin Neural Development in Hamsters&quot;. The commentary was informative, especially in its review of the prescribing demographics for SSRIs in youth and its review of human and animal aggression subtypes, and in several instances offered alternative explanations and interpretations of evidence cited in our report, particularly regarding putative relationships between human and animal models of aggression. In our response, we reply to comments made by the authors regarding the animal model of choice for our studies, the methodologies employed and the greater implication(s) of our published study as well as offer a disparate view of the evidence cited by the authors in their commentary as they pertain to the relevance of the models of aggression used in our study.
The continued production of new dentate granule cells throughout life has led to the idea that neurogenesis critically modulates hippocampal memory function. Consistent with this view, many studies have shown that experimental reduction of adult neurogenesis impairs hippocampal memory formation. However, impairments are not universally observed following suppression of adult neurogenesis. A new article by Urbach et al. falls into this latter category. A global deletion of the cyclin D2--a cell cycle regulation gene--induces a profound reduction in adult neurogenesis. Yet, despite this reduction, this knockout mouse was able to acquire a hippocampus-dependent spatial memory normally. These results suggest that ongoing adult neurogenesis is not necessary for many forms of hippocampus-dependent learning, and in this commentary, I discuss the implications of these types of results for the field.
High- versus low-novelty exploration predicts a variety of behavioral differences. For example, rats selectively bred for high-novelty exploration (bred-high responders, bHR) exhibit exaggerated aggression, impulsivity, and proclivity to addictive behaviors compared with low-novelty reactive rats (bred-low responders, bLRs), which are characterized by a high anxiety/depressive-like phenotype. Since bHR/bLR rats exhibit differences in dopaminergic circuitry and differential response to rewarding stimuli (i.e., psychostimulants, food), the present study examined whether they also differ in another key hedonic behavior-sex. Thus, adult bHR/bLR males were given five 30-min opportunities to engage in sexual activity with a receptive female. Sexual behavior and motivation were examined and compared between the groups. The bHR/bLR phenotype affected both sexual motivation and behavior, with bLR males demonstrating reduced motivation for sex compared with bHR males (i.e., fewer animals copulated, longer latency to engage in sex). The bHR males required more intromissions at a faster pace per ejaculation than did bLR males. Thus, neurobiological differences that affect motivation for drugs of abuse, aggression, and impulsivity in rats also affect sexual motivation and performance.
Adolescence is a period of increased vulnerability to psychiatric illnesses such as addiction, mood disorders, and schizophrenia. Rats provide a useful animal model for investigating the differences in behavior and biology between adults and adolescents that stem from ongoing brain development. We developed the Cued Response Inhibition Task, or CRIT, to assess response inhibition and initiation processes by measuring the ability of rodents to withhold a response during an inhibitory cue and then to respond promptly after cue termination. We found no difference between adult and adolescent rats in the ability to appropriately inhibit a response during cue presentation. Adolescents, however, were unable to initiate a response as quickly as adults after cue termination. Further, we observed that this difference in responding was abolished after adolescent rats aged to adulthood with no additional training. In a separate experiment, adult and adolescent rats were trained in CRIT and then trained in another protocol in which the response inhibitory cue from CRIT was used as a Pavlovian cue predictive of reward. Adolescents demonstrated more reward-seeking behavior during the previously inhibitory Pavlovian cue than adults, indicative of greater behavioral flexibility. Taken together, these data suggest that, compared with adults, adolescent rats (a) are less able to initiate a response after response inhibition, (b) equally inhibit behavioral responses, and (c) are more adept at flexibly switching behavioral patterns. Furthermore, this study characterizes a task that is well suited for future pharmacological and electrophysiological investigations for assessing neuronal processing differences between adolescents and adults.
Rats are responsive to shock from an early age, but eyeblink conditioning to a tone-conditioned stimulus (conditional stimulus; CS) paired with a shock-unconditioned stimulus (US) does not emerge until postnatal Day 20 (P20). More generalized postural responses such as conditioned freezing can occur at P16. Using the same periorbital shock as both the CS and US in a US-US conditioning paradigm previously shown to be effective in adult animals, we found that shock-shock pairings with a 200-ms trace interval resulted in eyeblink conditioning in younger animals than previously thought. Some rat pups showed conditioned eyeblink responses as early as P12, and by P18, conditioned responses were fully developed in all animals. Unpaired control subjects confirmed that responding in paired subjects was associative. Although many stimuli can act as a CS in adults, the advantage of using US-US pairings is that responses to the first US ensure young rat pups are capable of detecting the stimulus-something that may not be true when auditory or visual stimuli are used early in the development of altricial animals. The US-US pairing paradigm could be used to study the ontogeny and neural substrates of learning and memory before other sensory systems mature, and evaluate learning and memory in animal models of early developmental disorders.
Fear extinction can be defined as the weakening of the expression of a conditioned response (CR) by extended experience of nonreinforcement. Conceptually, two distinct models have been invoked to account for extinction. R. A. Rescorla and A. R. Wagner (1972, A theory of Pavlovian conditioning: Variations in the effectiveness of reinforcement and nonreinforcement, in A. H. B. W. F. Prokasy (Ed.), Classical conditioning: II. Current research and theory, pp. 64-99, New York, NY, Appleton-Century-Crofts) postulated that the number of exposure trials is the primary determinant of CR decrement, whereas C. R. Gallistel and J. Gibbon (2000, Time, rate, and conditioning, Psychological Review, Vol. 107, pp. 289-344) proposed that the decisive event is the cumulated exposure time to the nonreinforced conditioned stimulus (CS) elapsed after the last CS reinforcement. We evaluated these two accounts in a human differential fear conditioning study in which CR was measured with the fear-potentiated startle response. Cumulated duration of nonreinforcement fails to explain our findings, whereas the number of trials appeared critical. In fact, many CS trials with a duration shorter than the acquisition CS duration facilitated within-session extinction, but this effect did not predict the recovery of fear.
Extensive research on the rabbit nictitating membrane response (NMR) has shown that the NMR reflex can become exaggerated following classical fear conditioning. This learning-related change is referred to as conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) and is observed in the absence of the conditioned stimulus. The aim of the current study was to examine the sensitivity of the CRM paradigm to serotonergic manipulation with fluoxetine, a commonly prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for anxiety disorders. To assess the effect of fluoxetine on exaggerated reflexive responding indicative of CRM and on conditioned cued fear, rabbits underwent delay NMR conditioning (pairings of tone and periorbital shock) and were tested for CRM, followed by 5 days of daily fluoxetine (0.03, 0.3, or 3.0 mg/kg) or saline injections. CRM was reassessed 1 day and 1 week later, followed by a retention test of conditioned responses (CRs) to the tone. Fluoxetine (3.0 mg/kg) enhanced CRM and retention of conditioned responses, a week after treatment ceased, and this is in agreement with the reports on increased anxiety-like behaviors in other animal models and humans. The CRM paradigm, therefore, may provide important insight into the mechanisms underlying the paradoxical selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor effects.
This study investigated whether the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) can induce compulsive checking in a large open field, as does the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole. To induce compulsive checking, male rats were exposed to eight injections of either 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg), quinpirole (0.2 mg/kg), or saline. Subsequently, to assess cross-sensitization, rats received an acute challenge of 8-OH-DPAT or quinpirole. The results showed that treatment with 8-OH-DPAT induces compulsive checking and may have a stronger effect on this behavior compared with quinpirole. However, there was no cross-sensitization between 8-OH-DPAT and quinpirole on measures of compulsive checking and locomotion. Moreover, the spatial distribution of locomotor paths in 8-OH-DPAT animals was more confined and invariant than in quinpirole rats; their rate of locomotor sensitization was also faster than that in quinpirole animals. Thus, although 8-OH-DPAT and quinpirole can induce compulsive checking in a large open field, the results suggest that they do so differently. It is suggested that 8-OH-DPAT and quinpirole probably produce compulsive behavior by acting on different parts of a security motivation circuit underlying obsessive-compulsive disorder. Quinpirole may induce compulsive checking behavior by directly driving dopaminergic activity mediating the motivational drive to check. Conversely, 8-OH-DPAT may perpetuate the activated motivational state by inhibiting the serotonergic-negative feedback signals that normally deactivate the obsessive-compulsive disorder circuit.
Previously, we have reported that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist-benzodiazepine veterinary anesthetic combination, zoletil, produced reward and reinforcement, but only in rats repeatedly pretreated with the drug and not in drug-nave rats. Therefore, we hypothesized that previous drug exposure plays an important role in the abuse of zoletil. In the present study, we examined whether pre-exposure to related substances, NMDA receptor antagonists (tiletamine, ketamine), and benzodiazepines (zolazepam, diazepam) predisposes animals to abuse zoletil. We examined whether animals repeatedly pretreated with tiletamine, ketamine, zolazepam, or diazepam, for 14 days, would show locomotor activation, place preference, and self-administration in response to zoletil. Place preference was observed in groups pretreated with either an NMDA receptor antagonist (ketamine) or a benzodiazepine (diazepam). However, locomotor activation and self-administration were only observed in rats pretreated with NMDA receptor antagonists (tiletamine and ketamine). These results show that pre-exposure to related substances might have induced neurobiological changes that consequently led to the expression of the rewarding and reinforcing effects of zoletil. This provides evidence that zoletil may be used as a substitute drug by abusers of NMDA receptor antagonists or benzodiazepines.
Do young children understand the numerical value of empty sets prior to developing a concept of symbolic zero? Are empty sets represented as mental magnitudes? In order to investigate these questions, we tested 4-year old children and adults with a numerical ordering task in which the goal was to select two stimuli in ascending numerical order with occasional empty set stimuli. Both children and adults showed distance effects for empty sets. Children who were unable to order the symbol zero (e.g., 0&lt;1), but who successfully ordered countable integers (e.g., 2&lt;4) nevertheless showed distance effects with empty sets. These results suggest that empty sets are represented on the same numerical continuum as non-empty sets and that children represent empty sets numerically prior to understanding symbolic zero.
The possibility to visualize and image the arrangement of proteins within the cell at the molecular level has always been an attraction for scientists in biological research. In particular, for signalling molecules such as GPCRs (G-protein-coupled receptors), the existence of protein aggregates such as oligomers or clusters has been the topic of extensive debate. One of the reasons for this lively argument is that the molecular size is below the diffraction-limited resolution of the conventional microscopy, precluding the direct visualization of protein super-structures. On the other hand, new super-resolution microscopy techniques, such as the PALM (photoactivated localization microscopy), allow the limit of the resolution power of conventional optics to be broken and the localization of single molecules to be determined with a precision of 10-20 nm, close to their molecular size. The application of super-resolution microscopy to study the spatial and temporal organization of GPCRs has brought new insights into receptor arrangement on the plasma membrane. Furthermore, the use of this powerful microscopy technique as a quantitative tool opens up the possibility for investigating and quantifying the number of molecules in biological assemblies and determining the protein stoichiometry in signalling complexes.
Receptor coupling to different G-proteins and -arrestins has been described for a number of GPCRs (G-protein-coupled receptors), suggesting a multi-state model of receptor activation in which each receptor can assume a number of different active conformations, each capable of promoting the coupling to a specific effector. Consistently, functional-selective ligands and biased agonists have been described to be able to induce and/or stabilize only a subset of specific active conformations. Furthermore, GPCR mutants deficient in selective coupling have been reported. Functional selective ligands and receptor mutants thus constitute unique tools to dissect the specific roles of different effectors, in particular among the Gi/o family. In the present mini-review, we focus on (i) the identification of functional selective OXT (oxytocin)-derived peptides capable of activating single Gi/o isoforms, namely Gi1 or Gi3; and (ii) the characterization of an SS (somatostatin) receptor SST5 mutant selectively impaired in its GoA coupling. These analogues and receptor mutants represent unique tools for examining the contribution of Gi/o isoforms in complex biological responses and open the way for the development of drugs with peculiar selectivity profiles.
The papers resulting from the recent Biochemical Society Focused Meeting 'G-Protein-Coupled Receptors: from Structural Insights to Functional Mechanisms' held in Prato in September 2012 are introduced in the present overview. A number of future goals for GPCR (G-protein-coupled receptor) research are considered, including the need to develop biophysical and computational methods to explore the full range of GPCR conformations and their dynamics, the need to develop methods to take this into account for drug discovery and the importance of relating observations on isolated receptors or receptors expressed in model systems to receptor function in vivo.

The numbers and types of ionotropic glutamate receptors at most vertebrate central excitatory synapses are altered as a function of changes in input activity patterns that occur during postnatal development. Activity-dependent developmental alterations in glutamate receptors underlie lasting changes in synaptic efficacy (plasticity) and metaplasticity (the plasticity of synaptic plasticity), which are critical elements of normal brain maturation. Understanding the specific involvement of glutamate receptors in synaptic development and function is made multiplicatively complex by the existence of a large number of glutamate receptor subunits, numerous subunit-specific amino acid sequences that regulate receptor function, and subunit-specific synaptic insertion restrictions imposed by associated anchoring proteins. Many receptor properties are altered when subunits are switched, so it is unclear which individual receptor property or properties underlie changes in synaptic function and plasticity during postnatal development. As a result, a more detailed understanding of the factors that regulate synaptic and cognitive development will involve mutations in glutamate receptor subunits that separate individual receptor properties and permit synaptic insertion at both immature and mature synapses in genetically modified organisms. This position paper focuses on structural modifications in N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) that occur during postnatal forebrain development and attempts to provide a method for pursuing a more complete understanding of the functional ramifications of developmental alterations in NMDAR subunit composition.
Itti and Koch's (Vision Research 40:1489-1506, 2000) saliency-based visual attention model is a broadly accepted model that describes how attention processes are deployed in the visual cortex in a pure bottom-up strategy. This work complements their model by modifying the color feature calculation. Evidence suggests that S-cone responses are elicited in the same spatial distribution and have the same sign as responses to M-cone stimuli; these cells are tentatively referred to as red-cyan. For other cells, the S-cone input seems to be aligned with the L-cone input; these cells might be green-magenta cells. To model red-cyan and green-magenta double-opponent cells, we implement a center-surround difference approach of the aforementioned model. The resulting color maps elicited enhanced responses to color salient stimuli when compared to the classic ones at high statistical significance levels. We also show that the modified model improves the prediction of locations attended by human viewers.


Behavior genetic studies of brain activity associated with complex cognitive operations may further elucidate the genetic and physiological underpinnings of basic and complex neural processing. In the present project, monozygotic (N=51 pairs) and dizygotic (N=48 pairs) twins performed a visual oddball task with dense-array EEG. Using spatial PCA, two principal components each were retained for targets and standards; wavelets were used to obtain time-frequency maps of eigenvalue-weighted event-related oscillations for each individual. Distribution of inter-trial phase coherence (ITC) and single trial power (STP) over time indicated that the early principal component was primarily associated with ITC while the later component was associated with a mixture of ITC and STP. Spatial PCA on point-by-point broad sense heritability matrices revealed data-derived frequency bands similar to those well established in EEG literature. Biometric models of eigenvalue-weighted time-frequency data suggest a link between physiology of oscillatory brain activity and patterns of genetic influence.
Recent studies suggest that individuals who are particularly concerned about infectious diseases show stronger preferences for exaggerated sex-typical characteristics in potential mates' faces. However, these studies have generally investigated individual differences in women's mate preferences and relied on questionnaires to assess disease-related concerns. Here we show that men's scores on the pathogen disgust subscale of the Three Domains of Disgust Scale are positively correlated with their preferences for femininity in women's faces and that this relationship is independent of the possible effects of both sexual and moral disgust. We then show that men with higher trait (i.e., average) salivary cortisol, a biomarker for immunosuppression, have stronger preferences for femininity in women's faces. Finally, we show that pathogen disgust is correlated with partnered men's femininity ratings of both their actual and ideal romantic partner. Together, these findings suggest that disease-related factors are important for individual differences in men's mate preferences.
Increased sensitivity to specific cues in the environment is common in anxiety disorders. This increase in sensory processing can emerge through attention processes that enhance discrimination of a cue from other cues as well as through augmented senses that reduce the absolute intensity of sensory stimulation needed for detection. Whereas it has been established that aversive conditioning can enhance odor quality discrimination, it is not known whether it also changes the absolute threshold at which an odor can be detected. In two separate experiments, we paired one odor of an indistinguishable odor pair with an aversive outcome using a classical conditioning paradigm. Ability to discriminate and to detect the paired odor was assessed before and after conditioning. The results demonstrate that aversive conditioning increases absolute sensory sensitivity to a predictive odor cue in an odor-specific manner, rendering the conditioned odor detectable at a significantly lower (20%) absolute concentration. As animal research has found long-lasting change in behavior and neural signaling resulting from conditioning, absolute threshold was also tested eight weeks later. Detection threshold had returned to baseline level at the eight week follow-up session suggesting that the change in detection threshold was mediated by a transient reorganization. Taken together, we can for the first time demonstrate that increasing the biological salience of a stimulus augments the individual's absolute sensitivity in a stimulus-specific manner outside conscious awareness. These findings provide a unique framework for understanding sensory mechanisms in anxiety disorders as well as further our understanding of mechanisms underlying classical conditioning.
Previous studies have shown that individuals with anxiety disorders exhibit deficits in fear inhibition and excessive generalization of fear, but little data exist on individuals at risk from these disorders. The present study examined the role of trait anxiety in the acquisition and generalization of fear in 126 healthy participants selected on the basis of their trait-anxiety scores. Measures of conditioning included fear-potentiated startle, skin conductance response and online risk ratings for the unconditioned stimulus. Contrary to our hypotheses, trait anxiety did not have any effect either on the acquisition or the generalization of fear. Our results suggest that these fear conditioning processes are not impaired in individuals at risk from anxiety.
This study investigated whether the mismatch negativity (MMN) event-related brain potential (ERP) could be evoked by purely top-down, attentional control. An infrequently occurring tone was designated as a target prior to presenting a randomized sequence of five equi-probably occurring tones. MMN elicitation to the tones categorized as &quot;high&quot;, &quot;medium&quot;, or &quot;low&quot; frequency, and designated as the target, would indicate that the change detection process can be driven solely by top-down control. However, MMNs were not elicited by the categorized tones. Only the N2b and P3b attention-driven target detection components were elicited. These results suggest that top-down factors alone cannot generate mismatch negativity. Standard formation by stimulus-driven factors is required.
The present study is the first to assess whether the neural correlates of cognitive control processes differ in adults with and without a behaviorally inhibited temperament during early childhood. Adults with and without childhood behavioral inhibition completed an emotional conflict task while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning. While no group differences in behavior were observed, adults with childhood behavioral inhibition, relative to adults without childhood behavioral inhibition, exhibited greater dorsomedial prefrontal cortex activity during conflict detection and greater putamen activity during conflict adaptation. Lifetime psychopathology predicted behavioral, but not brain-related, differences in conflict adaptation. These data suggest that the brain regions underlying cognitive control processes are differentially influenced by childhood behavioral inhibition, and may be differently related to psychopathology.
Bioengineered scaffolds have the potential to support and guide injured axons after spinal cord injury, contributing to neural repair. In previous studies we have reported that templated agarose scaffolds can be fabricated into precise linear arrays and implanted into the partially injured spinal cord, organizing growth and enhancing the distance over which local spinal cord axons and ascending sensory axons extend into a lesion site. However, most human injuries are severe, sparing only thin rims of spinal cord tissue in the margins of a lesion site. Accordingly, in the present study we examined whether template agarose scaffolds seeded with bone marrow stromal cells secreting Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) would support regeneration into severe, complete spinal cord transection sites. Moreover, we tested responses of motor axon populations originating from the brainstem. We find that templated agarose scaffolds support motor axon regeneration into a severe spinal cord injury model and organize axons into fascicles of highly linear configuration. BDNF significantly enhances axonal growth. Collectively, these findings support the feasibility of scaffold implantation for enhancing central regeneration after even severe central nervous system injury.
Compound L-368,899 was successfully alkylated with [(11)C]iodomethane to generate the oxytocin receptor selective (2R)-2-amino-N-((2S)-7,7-dimethyl-1-(((4-(o-tolyl)piperazin-1-yl)sulfonyl)methyl)bicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)-N-[(11)C]methyl-3-(methylsulfonyl)propanamide ([(11)C]1) with very high radiochemical purity and high specific activity. PET imaging studies were performed with [(11)C]1 to investigate brain penetration and oxytocin receptor uptake using rat and cynomolgus monkey models. For rat baseline scans, brain penetration was observed with [(11)C]1, but no specific uptake could be distinguished in the brain region. By administering a peptide oxytocin receptor selective antagonist for peripheral blocking of oxytocin receptors, the uptake of [(11)C]1 was amplified in the rat brain temporarily to enable some visual uptake within the rat brain. A baseline scan of [(11)C]1 in a cynomolgus monkey model resulted in no detectable specific uptake in anticipated regions, but activity did accumulate in the choroid plexus.

Patient anxiety and fear about an awake craniotomy can affect the patient's choice about having an operation despite comprehensive pre-operative counselling. We report three cases in which a family member came into theatre during the procedure to support the patient during surgery. All three cases, which involved intra-operative cortical and subcortical stimulations and intra-operative patient testing, were successfully completed with major tumour resections and no post-operative complications. We suggest that family support should be considered in patients who have extreme fear and anxiety about awake surgery.
Epidermoids of the brain are uncommon benign tumours. Their midline posterior fossa location is exceedingly rare. Fifteen patients with this condition were operated during a 14-year period. Majority of the patients presented in their middle age with mean duration of symptoms of 10 months. Gait imbalance was the commonest symptom observed. Seven patients had features suggestive of raised intracranial tension. Computed tomography scanning showed typical hypodense lesions. On MRI, tumours were hypo-intense on T1 weighted images and hyper-intense on T2 weighted images. All patients underwent microsurgical excision. We encountered certain complications in the post-operative period. This prompted us for a review of our case material and literature and is the basis of the present article. Implications of these findings are discussed.




Conversion of soluble -synuclein into insoluble and fibrillar inclusions is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies. Accumulating evidence points towards a relationship between its generation at nerve terminals and structural synaptic pathology. Little is known about the pathogenic impact of -synuclein conversion and deposition at nigrostriatal dopaminergic synapses in transgenic mice, mainly owing to expression limitations of the -synuclein construct. Here, we explore whether both the rat as a model and expression of the bacterial artificial chromosome construct consisting of human full-length wild-type -synuclein could exert dopaminergic neuropathological effects. We found that the human promoter induced a pan-neuronal expression, matching the rodent -synuclein expression pattern, however, with prominent C-terminally truncated fragments. Ageing promoted conversion of both full-length and C-terminally truncated -synuclein species into insolube and proteinase K-resistant fibres, with strongest accumulation in the striatum, resembling biochemical changes seen in human Parkinson's disease. Transgenic rats develop early changes in novelty-seeking, avoidance and smell before the progressive motor deficit. Importantly, the observed pathological changes were associated with severe loss of the dopaminergic integrity, thus resembling more closely the human pathology.
Carriers of mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) are at increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease. The frequency of GBA mutations in unselected Parkinson's disease populations has not been established. Furthermore, no previous studies have investigated the influence of GBA mutations on the natural history of Parkinson's disease using prospective follow-up. We studied DNA from 262 cases who had been recruited at diagnosis into one of two independent community-based incidence studies of Parkinson's disease. In 121 cases, longitudinal data regarding progression of motor disability and cognitive function were derived from follow-up assessments conducted every 18 months for a median of 71 months. Sequencing of the GBA was performed after two-stage polymerase chain reaction amplification. The carrier frequency of genetic variants in GBA was determined. Baseline demographic and clinical variables were compared between cases who were either GBA mutation carriers, polymorphism carriers or wild-type homozygotes. Cox regression analysis was used to model progression to major motor (Hoehn and Yahr stage 3), and cognitive (dementia) end-points in cases followed longitudinally. We show that in a representative, unselected UK Parkinson's disease population, GBA mutations are present at a frequency of 3.5%. This is higher than the prevalence of other genetic mutations currently associated with Parkinson's disease and indicates that GBA mutations make an important contribution to Parkinson's disease encountered in the community setting. Baseline clinical characteristics did not differ significantly between cases with and without GBA sequence variants. However, the hazard ratio for progression both to dementia (5.7, P = 0.003) and Hoehn and Yahr stage 3 (4.2, P = 0.003) were significantly greater in GBA mutation carriers. We also show that carriers of polymorphisms in GBA which are not generally considered to increase Parkinson's disease risk are at significantly increased risk of progression to Hoehn and Yahr stage 3 (3.2, P = 0.004). Our results indicate that genetic variation in GBA has an important impact on the natural history of Parkinson's disease. To our knowledge, this is the first time a genetic locus has been shown to influence motor progression in Parkinson's disease. If confirmed in further studies, this may indicate that GBA mutation status could be used as a prognostic marker in Parkinson's disease. Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms that underlie this effect will further our understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease and may in turn suggest novel therapeutic strategies.
Mutations in the TPM2 gene, which encodes -tropomyosin, are an established cause of several congenital skeletal myopathies and distal arthrogryposis. We have identified a TPM2 mutation, p.K7del, in five unrelated families with nemaline myopathy and a consistent distinctive clinical phenotype. Patients develop large joint contractures during childhood, followed by slowly progressive skeletal muscle weakness during adulthood. The TPM2 p.K7del mutation results in the loss of a highly conserved lysine residue near the N-terminus of -tropomyosin, which is predicted to disrupt head-to-tail polymerization of tropomyosin. Recombinant K7del--tropomyosin incorporates poorly into sarcomeres in C2C12 myotubes and has a reduced affinity for actin. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of patient muscle and primary patient cultured myotubes showed that mutant protein is expressed but incorporates poorly into sarcomeres and likely accumulates in nemaline rods. In vitro studies using recombinant K7del--tropomyosin and force measurements from single dissected patient myofibres showed increased myofilament calcium sensitivity. Together these data indicate that p.K7del is a common recurrent TPM2 mutation associated with mild nemaline myopathy. The p.K7del mutation likely disrupts head-to-tail polymerization of tropomyosin, which impairs incorporation into sarcomeres and also affects the equilibrium of the troponin/tropomyosin-dependent calcium switch of muscle. Joint contractures may stem from chronic muscle hypercontraction due to increased myofibrillar calcium sensitivity while declining strength in adulthood likely arises from other mechanisms, such as myofibre decompensation and fatty infiltration. These results suggest that patients may benefit from therapies that reduce skeletal muscle calcium sensitivity, and we highlight late muscle decompensation as an important cause of morbidity.
Neuronal transplantation has been proposed as a potential therapy to replace lost neurons in Huntington's disease. Transplant vascularization and trophic support are important for graft survival. However, very few studies have specifically addressed graft vascularization in patients with neurological disorders. In the present study, we analysed the vasculature of the host putamen and solid grafts of foetal striatal tissue transplanted into patients with Huntington's disease 9 and 12 years previously. Grafts were characterized by a significantly reduced number of large calibre blood vessels in comparison with the host brain. There were also significantly fewer astrocytes and gap junctions, suggesting a lack of functional blood-brain barrier components within the grafted tissue. Additionally, grafts demonstrated a nearly complete absence of pericytes (compared with the striatum) that are considered important for vascular stabilization and angiogenesis. Finally, the host striatum had a marked increase in atrophic astrocytes in comparison with controls and grafts. The extent to which the lower number of large calibre vessels and astrocytes within the transplants contributed to suboptimal graft survival is unknown. The marked increase in atrophic astrocytes in the host brain surrounding the grafts suggests that reduced host trophic support may also contribute to poor graft survival in Huntington's disease. A better understanding of the way in which these components support allografted tissue is critical to the future development of cell-based therapies for the treatment of Huntington's disease.
Multiple avenues of research including epidemiology, molecular genetics and cell biology have identified links between Parkinson's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Several recent discoveries have highlighted common cellular pathways that potentially relate neurodegenerative processes with abnormal mitochondrial function and abnormal glucose metabolism. This includes converging evidence identifying that peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-, a key regulator of enzymes involved in mitochondrial respiration and insulin resistance, is potentially pivotal in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. This evidence supports further study of these pathways, most importantly to identify neuroprotective agents for Parkinson's disease, and/or establish more effective prevention or treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus. In parallel with these advances, there are already randomized trials evaluating several established treatments for insulin resistance (pioglitazone and exenatide) as possible disease modifying drugs in Parkinson's disease, with only preliminary insights regarding their mechanisms of action in neurodegeneration, which may be effective in both disease processes through an action on mitochondrial function. Furthermore, parallels are also emerging between these same pathways and neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Our aim is to highlight this converging evidence and stimulate further hypothesis-testing studies specifically with reference to the potential development of novel neuroprotective agents in Parkinson's disease.
Chronic mood disorders have been associated with a shortened telomere, a marker of increased mortality rate and aging, and impaired cellular immunity. However, treatment may confound these relationships. We examined the relationship of glucose tolerance, white blood cell count and telomere length to depression in newly diagnosed, antidepressant-nave patients. Subjects with major depression (n=15), and matched healthy control subjects (n=70) underwent a two-hour oral glucose tolerance test and evaluation of blood cell count and telomere content. The depression group had significantly higher two-hour glucose concentrations and a lower lymphocyte count than control subjects (respective means [SD] for two-hour glucose were 125.0mg/dL [67.9] vs 84.6 [25.6] (p&lt;.001); for lymphocyte count 2.110(9)/L [0.6] vs 2.510(9)/L [0.7] p=.028). Telomere content was significantly shortened in the depression group (87.9 [7.6]) compared to control subjects (101.0 [14.3]; p&lt;0.01). Abnormal glucose tolerance, lymphopenia and a shortened telomere are present early in the course of depression independently of the confounding effect of antidepressant treatment, supporting the concept of major depression as an accelerated aging disease.
In this study we characterised the ability of the viral mimetic poly I:C to induce a neuroinflammatory response and induce symptoms of depression and anxiety in rats. Furthermore, the ability of poly I:C to deplete central tryptophan and serotonin via induction of indolamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO), and also the ability of poly I:C to impact upon expression of the neurotrophin BDNF and its receptor TrkB were examined as potential mechanisms to link inflammation to depression. Poly I:C induced a neuroinflammatory response characterised by increased expression of IL-1, IL-6, TNF- and CD11b in frontal cortex and hippocampus. In the first 24h following poly I:C administration rats displayed sickness behaviour characterised by reduced locomotor activity and weight gain. Anhedonia measured using the saccharin preference test was used as an indicator of depressive behaviour, and poly I:C induced depressive behaviour that persisted for up to 72h following administration. Anxiety was measured using the open field test and anxious behaviour was observed 24h following poly I:C, a time-point when sickness behaviour had resolved. These behavioural changes were accompanied by decreased expression of BDNF and TrkB in hippocampus and frontal cortex. In addition, poly I:C increased central IDO expression and increased concentrations of tryptophan, and its metabolite kynurenine. However this activation of the kynurenine pathway did not result in reduced central serotonin concentrations. These findings suggest that depressive and anxiety-like behaviours elicited by poly I:C are associated with a reduction in BDNF signalling, and activation of the kynurenine pathway, but not a reduction in serotonin.
Acute stressor exposure and immunogenic challenges can synergistically increase behavioral, endocrine and neuroinflammatory responses, but much less is known about how chronic stressors influence the actions of immune challenges. In the present investigation we assessed the influence of bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), administered on an acute chronic stressors backdrop, on sickness behavior, changes of circulating corticosterone and cytokine levels, and cytokine mRNA expression in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus. In this regard, it was of particular interest to determine whether the stressors would alter the temporal biological effects (onset and normalization) of LPS. There was a leftward shift in the temporal curve, in that sickness behavior, corticosterone and plasma IL-6 elevations among stressed mice appeared sooner after LPS treatment, but 3h after treatment corticosterone and IL-6 were lower than in nonstressed mice. In contrast, the stressor, especially when applied chronically, diminished the effects of LPS on TNF- over the course of measurement, whereas effects on IL-10 were enhanced. In contrast to these peripheral effects, central cytokine mRNA expression, especially IL-1 and TNF-, were diminished 1.5h following stressor and LPS administration, but were then synergistically enhanced at 3h compared to non-stressed controls. Although acute and chronic stressors provoked similar behavioral and neuroendocrine responses when combined with LPS, the effects of chronic stressors and LPS on brain cytokines were generally diminished, particularly in the PFC. The implications of the temporal changes related to stressors and immune activation are discussed, and several possible mechanisms for these effects are suggested.
Previous findings have linked lower socioeconomic status (SES) with elevated morbidity and mortality. Leukocyte telomere length (LTL), which also has been associated with age-related disease morbidity and mortality, is a marker of aging at the cellular level, making it a valuable early biomarker of risk and an indicator of biological age. It is hypothesized that SES will be associated with LTL, indicating that SES influences disease risk by accelerating biological aging. In the present sample we test for associations of childhood SES and adult SES (i.e. education, income, home ownership) with LTL, and examine whether these associations vary by racial/ethnic group. Analyses on 963 subjects (18.7% White, 53% Hispanics, and 28.5% African American) from the stress ancillary study of the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis revealed a significant difference in LTL between home owners and renters in Hispanic and White participants (p&lt;.05), but not amongst African Americans (p=.98). There were no linear associations of adult education or family income with LTL, however, there was an inverse association between father's education and LTL (p=.03). These findings suggest that for Whites and Hispanics renting vs. owning a home is associated with an older biological age; however we did not replicate previous findings linking education with LTL.
Exposure to stressors or trauma in the absence of pathogenic challenge can stimulate a systemic sterile inflammatory response characterized by high concentrations of blood and tissue cytokines, chemokines, and danger associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) such as heat shock protein-72 (Hsp72), and uric acid. The signaling pathways responsible for these responses remain unclear, however, the inflammasome may play a role. In vitro, DAMPs are known to stimulate the inflammasome in the presence of LPS to activate caspase-1 which cleaves immature precursors of interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-18 into their mature releasable forms. Furthermore, in vivo neutralization of the LPS selectively attenuates the stress-induced increase in the inflammasome-dependent cytokines IL-1 and IL-18. Thus, the current experiments tested the hypothesis that inflammasome-mediated processes are necessary for a systemic stress-induced inflammatory response to an acute stressor. The data presented (1) establish that male F344 rats exposed to an acute severe stressor (100 tail shocks) have elevated plasma concentrations of inflammatory proteins (IL-1, IL-18, IL-6, IL-10, and monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1), and DAMPs (uric acid and Hsp72); (2) demonstrate that inhibiting caspase-1 in vivo, using the caspase-1 inhibitor ac-YVAD-cmk, attenuates stress-induced production of IL-1, IL-18, and IL-6 in both the circulation and peripheral tissues; and (3) implicates the DAMPs uric acid and Hsp72 as important signals contributing to inflammasome-dependent inflammatory responses using a stepwise multiple regression. The results increase our mechanistic understanding of systemic sterile inflammatory responses, and provide novel evidence that the inflammasome may be an important pharmacological target for treatment of these conditions.
Delirium is a common and severe neuropsychiatric syndrome characterised by acute deterioration and fluctuations in mental status. It is precipitated mainly by acute illness, trauma, surgery, or drugs. Delirium affects around one in eight hospital inpatients and is associated with multiple adverse consequences, including new institutionalisation, worsening of existing dementia, and death. Patients with delirium show attentional and other cognitive deficits, altered alertness (mostly reduced, but some patients develop agitation and hyperactivity), altered sleep-wake cycle and psychoses. The pathways from the various aetiologies to the heterogeneous clinical presentations are hardly studied and are poorly understood. One of the key questions, which research is only now beginning to address, is how the factors determining susceptibility interact with the stimuli that trigger delirium. Inflammatory signals arising during systemic infection evoke sickness behaviour, a coordinated set of adaptive changes initiated by the host to respond to, and to counteract, infection. It is now clear that the same systemic inflammatory signals can have severe deleterious effects on brain function when occuring in old age or in the presence of neurodegenerative disease. Multiple animal studies now show that even mild acute systemic inflammation can induce exaggerated sickness behaviour responses and cognitive dysfunction in aged animals or those with prior degenerative pathology when compared to young and/or healthy controls. These findings appear highly promising in understanding aspects of delirium. In this review our aim is to describe and assess the parallels between exaggerated sickness behaviour in vulnerable animals and delirium in older humans. We discuss inflammatory and stress-related triggers of delirium in the context of new animal models that allow us to dissect some aspects of the mechanisms underpinning these episodes. We discuss some differences between the sickness behaviour syndrome model and delirium in the context of the complexity in the latter due to other factors such as prior pathology, psychological stress and drug effects. We conclude that, with appropriate caveats, the study of sickness behaviour in the vulnerable brain offers a promising route to uncover the mechanisms of this common and serious unmet medical need.
We investigated the consequences of premature birth on the functional neuroanatomy of the dorsal stream of visual processing. fMRI was recorded while sixteen healthy participants, 8 (two men) adults (19 years 6 months old, SD 10 months) born premature (mean gestational age 30 weeks), referred to as Premas, and 8 (two men) matched controls (20 years 1 month old, SD 13 months), performed a 1-back memory task of Object or Grip information using a hand grasping a drinking vessel as stimulus. While history of prematurity did not significantly affect task performance, Group by Task analysis of variance in regions of interest spanning the occipital, temporal and parietal lobes revealed main effects of Task and interactions between the two factors. Object processing activated the left inferior occipital cortex and bilateral ventral temporal regions, belonging to the ventral stream, with no effect of Group. Grip processing across groups activated the early visual cortex and the left supramarginal gyrus belonging to the dorsal stream. Group effect on the brain activity during Grip suggested that Controls represented the actions' goal while Premas relied more on low-level visual information. This shift from higher- to lower-order visual processing between Controls and Premas may reflect a more general trend, in which Premas inadequately recruit higher-order visual functions for dorsal stream task performance, and rely more on lower-level functions.
The nature of object-centred (allocentric) neglect and the possibility of dissociating it from egocentric (subject-centred) forms of neglect are controversial. Originally, allocentric neglect was described by Gainotti, D'Erme, Monteleone &amp; Silveri (1986) and Gainotti, Messerli, &amp; Tissot (1972) in patients who reproduced all the elements of a multi-object scene, but left unfinished the left side of one or more of them. More recently, however, Karnath, Mandler, and Clavagnier (2011) have claimed that the severity of allocentric neglect worsens when a complex 'object' shifts from an ipsilesional to a contralesional egocentric position. On the basis of these and of other clinical data, showing that allocentric and egocentric neglect are strongly associated, they have questioned the possibility of dissociating these two forms of neglect, suggesting that egocentric and allocentric neglect constitute different manifestations of the same disturbed system. Since these statements were inconsistent with the clinical findings which had prompted the construct of object-centred neglect, we checked in a group of right brain-damaged patients, who had copied the original multi-object scene, if the degree of neglect for the left side of figures varied as a function of their position on the horizontal axis. Furthermore, we reviewed all papers where copies of other multi-object scenes had been reported. Results of both studies failed to confirm the assumption of a relationship between spatial location of the stimulus and severity of object-centred neglect. This discrepancy between our data and those obtained by Karnath et al. (2011) could be due to the characteristics of stimuli and of procedures used to evaluate 'object-centred' neglect. If the stimulus is complex and the task requires its thorough exploration, the spatial location of the stimulus will influence the severity of 'object-centred neglect'. If, on the contrary, the stimulus is simple and can be identified with few eye fixations, the spatial location of the stimulus should not influence the severity of 'object-centred neglect'. In any case, our data confirm the possibility of dissociating allocentric from egocentric neglect.
It has been proposed that the right hemisphere (RH) is better suited to acquire novel material whereas the left hemisphere (LH) is more able to process well-routinized information. Here, we ask whether this potential dissociation also manifests itself in an implicit learning task. Using a lateralized version of the serial reaction time task (SRT), we tested whether participants trained in a divided visual field condition primarily stimulating the RH would learn the implicit regularities embedded in sequential material faster than participants in a condition favoring LH processing. In the first study, half of participants were presented sequences in the left (vs. right) visual field, and had to respond using their ipsilateral hand (unimanual condition), hence making visuo-motor processing possible within the same hemisphere. Results showed successful implicit sequence learning, as indicated by increased reaction time for a transfer sequence in both hemispheric conditions and lack of conscious knowledge in a generation task. There was, however, no evidence of interhemispheric differences. In the second study, we hypothesized that a bimanual response version of the lateralized SRT, which requires interhemispheric communication and increases computational and cognitive processing loads, would favor RH-dependent visuospatial/attentional processes. In this bimanual condition, our results revealed a much higher transfer effect in the RH than in the LH condition, suggesting higher RH sensitivity to the processing of novel sequential material. This LH/RH difference was interpreted within the framework of the Novelty-Routinization model [Goldberg, E., &amp; Costa, L. D. (1981). Hemisphere differences in the acquisition and use of descriptive systems. Brain and Language, 14(1), 144-173] and interhemispheric interactions in attentional processing [Banich, M. T. (1998). The missing link: the role of interhemispheric interaction in attentional processing. Brain and Cognition, 36(2), 128-157].
Early Symptomatic Syndromes Eliciting Neurodevelopmental Examinations (ESSENCE) has been proposed as a guide to the neurodevelopmental needs of the under 5s. The problems are their multiplicity, the presence of partial features of specific conditions e.g. autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and the young age of the children. For these reasons, child development teams often leave families to cope with very difficult situations. This paper includes epilepsy and the cerebral palsies to see if providing precise diagnostic categories and therapeutic targets can be achieved. It includes a discussion of causal sequences which have yet to be applied comprehensively to the neurodevelopment disorders.
SHANK3 is a synaptic scaffolding protein enriched in the postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses, and plays important roles in the formation, maturation, and maintenance of synapses. Haploinsufficiency of the SHANK3 gene causes a developmental disorder, 22q13.3 deletion syndrome (known as Phelan-McDermid syndrome), that is characterized by severe expressive language and speech delay, hypotonia, global developmental delay, and autistic behavior. Since several SHANK3 mutations have been identified in a particular phenotypic group in patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the SHANK3 is strongly suspected of being involved in the pathogenesis and neuropathology of ASD. Five CpG-islands have been identified in the SHANK3 gene, and tissue-specific expression of SHANK3 is regulated by DNA methylation in an epigenetic manner. Cumulative evidence has shown that several SHANK3 variants are expressed in the developing rodent brain and that their expression is regulated by DNA methylation of intragenic promoters. We identified novel SHANK3 transcripts whose transcription started at the vicinity of the CpG-island 2 in the mouse brain. Shank3 mutant mice exhibit autistic-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and repetitive behaviors. In this article we review recent findings in regard to higher brain functions of SHANK3, epigenetic regulation of SHANK3 expression, and SHANK3-related ASD that were obtained from genetic analyses in ASD patients, molecular biological studies using developing mouse brains, and studies of Shank3 mutant mice.
Although no pharmacological or behavioral therapy has currently proven effective for treating all core symptoms of autism, many dysfunctional behaviors may be treated pharmacologically. Drug treatments should always be part of a comprehensive management plan that includes behavioral and educational interventions, and should be focused on specific targets. Several classes of psychotropic medications have been used to decrease the wide range of &quot;maladaptive&quot; or &quot;interfering&quot; behaviors and associated medical problems that can interfere with relationships and physical health and hinder the implementation of various non-pharmacological interventions. Atypical neuroleptics have been shown to be useful in the treatment of behavioral symptoms in autism. Attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder medications may be effective for counteracting the additional features of hyperactivity and short attention span. Antiepileptic drugs and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have shown promising results, but there are no specific indications for them as of yet. With respect to potential drug targets, some clinical features are caused by a dysfunction in neurochemical signaling systems, and thus may improve with selective pharmacological interventions acting on specific abnormal neurobiological pathways. Recent animal studies can be useful models for understanding the common pathogenic pathways leading to autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), and have the potential to offer new biologically focused treatment options.
Visual speech inputs can enhance auditory speech information, particularly in noisy or degraded conditions. The natural statistics of audiovisual speech highlight the temporal correspondence between visual and auditory prosody, with lip, jaw, cheek and head movements conveying information about the speech envelope. Low-frequency spatial and temporal modulations in the 2-7 Hz range are of particular importance. Dyslexic individuals have specific problems in perceiving speech envelope cues. In the current study, we used an audiovisual noise-vocoded speech task to investigate the contribution of low-frequency visual information to intelligibility of 4-channel and 16-channel noise vocoded speech in participants with and without dyslexia. For the 4-channel speech, noise vocoding preserves amplitude information that is entirely congruent with dynamic visual information. All participants were significantly more accurate with 4-channel speech when visual information was present, even when this information was purely spatio-temporal (pixelated stimuli changing in luminance). Possible underlying mechanisms are discussed.
We conducted a single-dose, placebo-controlled, double-blind, dose-response study of NerBloc(rimabotulinumtoxinB) in patients with cervical dystonia (placebo, 2,500 U, 5,000 U, 10,000 U). The primary endpoint, the change in Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS)-total score at 4 weeks post dose from baseline, showed a significant improvement in all treatment groups (2,500 U, 5,000 U, 10,000 U) compared with the placebo group. As for the secondary endpoints, the change of TWSTRS subscales, severity, disability and pain scores, at 4 weeks post dose in 10,000 U group, showed a significant improvement compared with the placebo group, however, no significant differences were observed between 2,500 U or 5,000 U and placebo group. The subject's and physician's global assessments (visual analog scale; VAS) at 4 weeks post dose also showed significant improvement in all treatment groups relative to the placebo group, whereas subject's pain assessment (VAS) at 4 weeks post dose did not show significant improvement in any of treatment groups. The incidence rate of adverse events was not substantially different between the placebo group and 2,500 or 5,000 U group, but significantly higher in 10,000 U group than in the placebo group. Adverse events frequently observed in active drug groups included dry mouth/thirst and dysphagia, all of which were mild in severity. There were no adverse events that led to death, serious disorders or study discontinuations. The incidence rate of abnormal laboratory values did not show significant difference in any of parameters between the placebo group and any of treatment groups. NerBloc possessing muscle relaxing effect is expected to be a potential treatment to improve symptoms of cervical dystonia. Clinically recommended dose will range from 2,500 U to 10,000 U. In this study, 10,000 U group was the most effective and the effect lasted the longest. The efficacy and safety profile of NerBloc  in this study was similar to that in AN072-009 study conducted in the US.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) restricts the exchange of humoral factors and cells between the blood and brain and thus plays a crucial role in maintaining cerebral homeostasis. Disruption of the BBB has been considered the initial key step of the disease process in some inflammatory neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS), neuromyelitis optica (NMO), and neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE). In MS, the BBB may be impaired before the formation of demyelinating foci or T-cell infiltration around small vessels; however, once the BBB is disrupted, massive infiltration of T cells, augmented expression of adhesion molecules on the endothelial cell surface, and leakage of inflammatory cytokines and antibodies aggravate the MS lesions. Recently, the disease-specific and pathogenic autoantibody &quot;anti-AQP4&quot; was detected in the sera of NMO patients. Thus, the destruction of the BBB is an important step in the development of NMO because the circulating anti-AQP4 antibodies have to pass through the BBB to reach the astrocytic endfeet, where AQP4 is localized. Several studies have shown an association between anti-NR2 antibodies in the serum or cerebrospinal fluid of NPSLE patients and neuropsychological manifestations. These antibodies may be involved in the pathogenesis of NPSLE, and the leaky BBB that allows the intrusion of circulating anti-NR2 antibodies is considered to play a crucial role in the disease process. Although some medications, including glucocorticoids and type 1 interferons, are known to repair the integrity of the BBB in an additive manner, the development of a novel disease-specific therapy, which focuses on repairing the integrity of the BBB, is awaited.

Due to its relevance to clinical practice, extinction of learned fears has been a major focus of recent research. However, less is known about the means by which conditioned fears re-emerge (i.e., spontaneously recover) as time passes or contexts change following extinction. The periaqueductal gray represents the final common pathway mediating defensive reactions to fear and we have reported previously that the dorsolateral PAG (dlPAG) exhibits a small but reliable increase in neural activity (as measured by c-fos protein immunoreactivity) when spontaneous recovery (SR) of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) is reduced. Here we extend these correlational studies to determine if inducing dlPAG c-fos expression through electrical brain stimulation could cause a reduction in SR of a CTA. Male Sprague-Dawley rats acquired a strong aversion to saccharin (conditioned stimulus; CS) and then underwent CTA extinction through multiple non-reinforced exposures to the CS. Following a 30-day latency period after asymptotic extinction was achieved; rats either received stimulation of the dorsal PAG (dPAG) or stimulation of closely adjacent structures. Sixty minutes following the stimulation, rats were again presented with the saccharin solution as we tested for SR of the CTA. The brain stimulation evoked c-fos expression around the tip of the electrodes. However, stimulation of the dPAG failed to reduce SR of the previously extinguished CTA. In fact, dPAG stimulation caused rats to significantly suppress their saccharin drinking (relative to controls) - indicating an enhanced SR. These data refute a cause-and-effect relationship between enhanced dPAG c-fos expression and a reduction in SR. However, they highlight a role for the dPAG in modulating SR of extinguished CTAs.
In the last years, there has been a rising interest to find an objective method to estimate listening effort. Previously, we have shown that the wavelet phase synchronization stability (WPSS), gained from the instantaneous phase of auditory late responses (ALRs), could serve as a feasible measure for listening effort related factors. In the current study, we examined if the WPSS reflects the listening effort in young as well as middle-aged subjects and in persons with a different degree of hearing loss. To evoke ALR sequences, we generated syllabic paradigms with a different level of difficulty to evoke ALR sequences. We expected, due to the varying task demand, that the subjects require a measurable difference in the amount of effort to solve the paradigms. Additionally, a possible age and/or hearing loss related effect on the neural correlates of listening effort was investigated. The results indicate, that WPSS reflects the listening effort related factors needed to solve an auditory task. A further finding was that the reaction time data and the N1 wave amplitude information hardly yield any correlate of the invested listening effort. In addition, we noticed an age as well as hearing sensitivity related effect on the listening effort.
We reviewed novel brain stimulation approaches that modify neuroplasticity and are used in the treatment and study of schizophrenia. We searched PubMed and Scholars Portal using search terms related to schizophrenia, brain stimulation, and neuroplasticity. Various brain stimulation approaches simulating a range of experimental protocols that induce synaptic long-term potentiation or depression have been developed. By far, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been the most widely used in the field of schizophrenia. Its application has been associated with mixed results in treating treatment-resistant symptoms and cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia. Compared to the other approaches, rTMS is probably the least similar to plasticity-inducing cellular paradigms. Other approaches, such as paired associative stimulation, theta-burst stimulation, and transcranial direct current stimulation, are in their incipient stages in the study and treatment of schizophrenia, with promising early results. Numerous brain stimulation approaches have been developed to treat resistant dimensions of schizophrenia. Notwithstanding some promising reports, optimization of the methods and large randomized controlled trials are still needed.
Gene-environment interaction is a form of causal interplay, whereby genetic effects on phenotypic variation change as a function of environmental exposure. While conceptually appealing, there is still much debate on the veracity and the relevance of this form of etiological interdependence for psychiatric disorders. By focusing on panic disorder (PD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), this article outlines why gene-environment interaction is controversial, why it can be important for both researchers and clinicians, and how it is investigated by quantitative genetic, molecular genetic, and genomic strategies. It is suggested that gene-environment interaction effects are more reliable and meaningful when they can be harnessed to pinpoint specific biological pathways and mechanisms. In psychiatry, this can be guided by phenotypic dissection and realized by adopting intermediate phenotypes of a physiological nature, such as carbon dioxide sensitivity for PD, or gene expression profiling after stress for PTSD. A developmental framework of reference and the possibility of transferring the investigation to animal models are additional key elements in this debate.

Clinical studies with immunotherapies for cancer, including adoptive cell transfers of T cells, have shown promising results. It is now widely believed that recruitment of CD4(+) helper T cells to the tumor would be favorable, as CD4(+) cells play a pivotal role in cytokine secretion as well as promoting the survival, proliferation, and effector functions of tumor-specific CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Genetically engineered high-affinity T-cell receptors (TCRs) can be introduced into CD4(+) helper T cells to redirect them to recognize MHC-class I-restricted antigens, but it is not clear what affinity of the TCR will be optimal in this approach. Here, we show that CD4(+) T cells expressing a high-affinity TCR (nanomolar K (d) value) against a class I tumor antigen mediated more effective tumor treatment than the wild-type affinity TCR (micromolar K (d) value). High-affinity TCRs in CD4(+) cells resulted in enhanced survival and long-term persistence of effector memory T cells in a melanoma tumor model. The results suggest that TCRs with nanomolar affinity could be advantageous for tumor targeting when expressed in CD4(+) T cells.
Withaferin A (WA) is a bioactive compound derived from Withania somnifera. The antitumor activity of WA has been well studied in human cancer models; however, its chemopreventive potential is unclear. In the present study, we used the skin epidermal JB6 P+ cells, a well-established model for tumor promotion, and demonstrated that WA suppressed the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA)-induced cell transformation and cell proliferation. Interestingly, TPA inactivated isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1), which was reversed by WA. Similar results were also observed in mouse skin tissue. Therefore, we focused on metabolism as the potential mechanism of action. We found that mitochondrial functions were downregulated by TPA treatment, as indicated by reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, complex I activity and mitochondrial respiration. However, all of these downregulations were inhibited by WA. In addition, we examined the levels of -ketoglutarate, a product of IDH1, and WA blocked its reduction upon TPA treatment. Finally, we detected the lactate level as a glycolysis marker, and WA suppressed its elevation caused by tumor promoter treatment. Altogether, these results suggest that WA might exert its chemopreventive activity via inhibiting not only oncogenic activation, but also IDH1 inactivation and mitochondrial dysfunction in early tumorigenesis.
I have used Ca(2+)- and pH-sensitive microelectrodes in and on large neurones in isolated ganglia of Helix aspersa to measure changes in intracellular Ca(2+) (as V(Ca)) and surface pH caused by caffeine (20mM) application, and compared these changes with those caused by iontophoretic injection of Ca(2+). Mitochondrial uptake was blocked by pressure-injection of Ru360. In 8 experiments the mean increase in V(Ca) in response to caffeine was 27.32.8mV (SEM) equivalent to a peak tenfold increase in ionised Ca(2+). Iontophoretic injection of Ca(2+) into the same 8 cells showed that the caffeine responses were equivalent to those caused by an average injection charge of 23541nC. Surface pH changes produced by the PMCA pumping out Ca(2+) released by caffeine averaged 0.025.005 pH units (n=7), which was equivalent to surface pH changes induced by an average Ca(2+) injection charge of 30086nC. The average cell volume was 4.2nl. Assuming that the injection transport index was 0.48 as previously measured, these V(Ca) and pH changes suggest that the total Ca(2+) content released by caffeine was about 0.175mmol/l cell volume.
Motility of mitochondria, as well as their activity-dependent immobilization (&quot;trapping&quot;), is essential for neuronal function, but its regulation by cytoskeleton and relevance for glial cell signalling are unknown. Using time-lapse fluorescence imaging in rat cultured astrocytes, we evaluated the role of microtubules and actin filaments in motility of mitochondria in resting cells and during physiological or pathological Ca(2+) elevations. We found that mitochondria were significantly more aligned with microtubules than with actin filaments. Mitochondria were highly mobile under resting conditions at low intracellular free Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)). Activation of a moderate increase in [Ca(2+)](i) by either low-dose ionomycin or ATP immobilized mitochondria significantly but reversibly, without affecting mitochondrial morphology. A larger dose of ionomycin caused irreversible arrest and fragmentation of mitochondria. Disruption of microtubules completely arrested mitochondrial motility, while disruption of actin filaments had no effect on the basal mitochondrial motility at resting [Ca(2+)](i) levels but significantly reduced mitochondrial immobilization during [Ca(2+)](i) elevations. These results suggest that: (i) motility of astrocytic mitochondria is inversely related to [Ca(2+)](i), (ii) mitochondria require intact microtubules for their motility, and (iii) elevated [Ca(2+)](i) immobilizes mitochondria by strengthening their interaction with actin filaments.
An important role in the regulation of apoptotic calcium release is played by the ubiquitously expressed family of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R) channels. One model for IP(3)R activation during apoptosis is cleavage by the apoptotic protease caspase 3. Here we show that early elevations in cytosolic calcium during apoptosis do not require caspase 3 activity. We detected a robust increase in calcium levels in response to staurosporine treatment in primary human fibroblasts and HeLa cells in the presence of the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD, indicating that calcium release during the initiation of apoptosis occurs independently of caspase 3. Similar results were obtained with MCF-7 cells which lack caspase 3 expression. Stable expression of caspase 3 in MCF-7 cells and TAT-based transduction of the active recombinant caspase 3 directly into living MCF-7 cells had marginal effects on the early events leading to cytosolic calcium elevations and irreversible commitment to apoptotic cell death. Significantly, blocking IP(3) binding to the IP(3)R with an IP(3) sponge resulted in suppression of staurosporine-induced calcium release and cell death. Collectively, our results suggest that generation of IP(3) is sufficient for the initiation of apoptotic calcium signaling, and caspase 3-mediated truncation of IP(3)R channel is a consequence, not causative, of apoptotic calcium release.
Long-lasting synaptic plasticity involves changes in both synaptic morphology and electrical signaling (here referred to as structural and functional plasticity). Recent studies have revealed a myriad of molecules and signaling processes that are critical for each of these two forms of plasticity, but whether and how they are mechanistically linked to achieve coordinated changes remain controversial. It is well accepted that functional plasticity at the excitatory synapse is dependent upon the activities of glutamate receptors. While the activation of NMDARs (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors) and/or mGluRs (metabotropic glutamate receptors) is required for the induction of many forms of plasticity, AMPARs (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid receptors), the principal mediators of fast excitatory synaptic transmission, are the ultimate targets of modifications that express functional plasticity. Investigations exploring structural plasticity have been mainly focused on the small membranous protrusions on the dendrites called spines. The morphological regulation of these spines is mediated by the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, the predominant structural component of the synapse. In this regard, the Rho family of GTPases, particularly Rac1, RhoA and Cdc42, is found to be the central regulator of spine actin and structural plasticity of the synapse. It is thought that the collaborative interaction between functional and structural factors underlies the sustained or permanent nature of long-lasting synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), the most extensively studied forms of synaptic plasticity widely regarded as cellular mechanisms for learning and memory. However, data specifically pertaining to whether and how these two distinct components are linked at the molecular level remain sparse. In this regard, we have identified a number of synaptic proteins that are involved in both structural and functional changes during mGluR-dependent LTD (mGluR-LTD). Among these are the GluA2 (formerly called GluR2) subunit of AMPARs, Rac1 and Rac1-activated kinases. We have discovered that these proteins interact and reciprocally regulate each other, which led us to hypothesize that the GluA2-Rac1 interaction may serve as a coordinator between functional and morphological plasticity. In this review, we will briefly discuss the available evidence to support such a hypothesis.

Learning to predict rewarding and aversive outcomes is based on the comparison between predicted and actual outcomes (prediction error: PE). Recent electrophysiological studies reported that during a Pavlovian procedure some dopamine neurons code a classical PE signal while a larger population of dopaminergic neurons reflect a &quot;salient&quot; prediction error (SPE) signal, being excited both by unpredictable aversive events and by rewards. Yet, it is still unclear whether specific human brain structures receiving afferents from dopaminergic neurons code a SPE and whether this signal depends upon reinforcer type. Here, we used a model-based functional magnetic resonance imaging approach implementing a reinforcement learning model to compute the PE while subjects underwent a Pavlovian conditioning procedure with 2 types of rewards (pleasant juice and monetary gain) and 2 types of punishments (aversive juice and aversive picture). The results revealed that activity of a brain network composed of the striatum, anterior insula, and anterior cingulate cortex covaried with a SPE for appetitive and aversive juice. Moreover, amygdala activity correlated with a SPE for these 2 reinforcers and for aversive pictures. These results provide insights into the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the ability to learn stimuli-rewards and stimuli-punishments contingencies, by demonstrating that the network reflecting the SPE depends upon reinforcement's type.
It is known that the entorhinal cortex plays a crucial role in spatial cognition in rodents. Neuroanatomical and electrophysiological data suggest that there is a functional distinction between 2 subregions within the entorhinal cortex, the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC), and the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC). Rats with MEC or LEC lesions were trained in 2 navigation tasks requiring allothetic (water maze task) or idiothetic (path integration) information processing and 2-object exploration tasks allowing testing of spatial and nonspatial processing of intramaze objects. MEC lesions mildly affected place navigation in the water maze and produced a path integration deficit. They also altered the processing of spatial information in both exploration tasks while sparing the processing of nonspatial information. LEC lesions did not affect navigation abilities in both the water maze and the path integration tasks. They altered spatial and nonspatial processing in the object exploration task but not in the one-trial recognition task. Overall, these results indicate that the MEC is important for spatial processing and path integration. The LEC has some influence on both spatial and nonspatial processes, suggesting that the 2 kinds of information interact at the level of the EC.
Progress in understanding the roles of kainate receptors (KARs) in synaptic integration, synaptic networks, and higher brain function has been hampered by the lack of selective pharmacological tools. We have found that UBP310 and related willardiine derivatives, previously characterized as selective GluK1 and GluK3 KAR antagonists, block postsynaptic KARs at hippocampal mossy fiber (MF) CA3 synapses while sparing AMPA and NMDA receptors. We further show that UBP310 is an antagonist of recombinant GluK2/GluK5 receptors, the major population of KARs in the brain. Postsynaptic KAR receptor blockade at MF synapses significantly reduces the sustained depolarization, which builds up during repetitive activity, and impacts on spike transmission mediated by heterosynaptic signals. In addition, KARs present in aberrant MF synapses in the epileptic hippocampus were also blocked by UBP310. Our results support a specific role for postsynaptic KARs in synaptic integration of CA3 pyramidal cells and describe a tool that will be instrumental in understanding the physiopathological role of KARs in the brain.
The neuron-specific K-Cl cotransporter, KCC2, is highly expressed in the vicinity of excitatory synapses in pyramidal neurons, and recent in vitro data suggest that this protein plays a role in the development of dendritic spines. The in vivo relevance of these observations is, however, unknown. Using in utero electroporation combined with post hoc iontophoretic injection of Lucifer Yellow, we show that premature expression of KCC2 induces a highly significant and permanent increase in dendritic spine density of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in the somatosensory cortex. Whole-cell recordings revealed that this increased spine density is correlated with an enhanced spontaneous excitatory activity in KCC2-transfected neurons. Precocious expression of the N-terminal deleted form of KCC2, which lacks the chloride transporter function, also increased spine density. In contrast, no effect on spine density was observed following in utero electroporation of a point mutant of KCC2 (KCC2-C568A) where both the cotransporter function and the interaction with the cytoskeleton are disrupted. Transfection of the C-terminal domain of KCC2, a region involved in the interaction with the dendritic cytoskeleton, also increased spine density. Collectively, these results demonstrate a role for KCC2 in excitatory synaptogenesis in vivo through a mechanism that is independent of its ion transport function.
Understanding the evolution of regional and hemispheric asymmetries in the early stages of life is essential to the advancement of developmental neuroscience. By using 2 noninvasive optical methods, frequency-domain near-infrared spectroscopy and diffuse correlation spectroscopy, we measured cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation (SO(2)), blood volume (CBV), an index of cerebral blood flow (CBF(i)), and the metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2i)) in the frontal, temporal, and parietal regions of 70 premature and term newborns. In concordance with results obtained using more invasive imaging modalities, we verified both hemodynamic (CBV, CBF(i), and SO(2)) and metabolic (CMRO(2i)) parameters were greater in the temporal and parietal regions than in the frontal region and that these differences increased with age. In addition, we found that most parameters were significantly greater in the right hemisphere than in the left. Finally, in comparing age-matched males and females, we found that males had higher CBF(i) in most cortical regions, higher CMRO(2i) in the frontal region, and more prominent right-left CBF(i) asymmetry. These results reveal, for the first time, that we can detect regional and hemispheric asymmetries in newborns using noninvasive optical techniques. Such a bedside screening tool may facilitate early detection of abnormalities and delays in maturation of specific cortical areas.
It is normally obvious to listeners whether a human vocalization is intended to be heard as speech or song. However, the 2 signals are remarkably similar acoustically. A naturally occurring boundary case between speech and song has been discovered where a spoken phrase sounds as if it were sung when isolated and repeated. In the present study, an extensive search of audiobooks uncovered additional similar examples, which were contrasted with samples from the same corpus that do not sound like song, despite containing clear prosodic pitch contours. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show that hearing these 2 closely matched stimuli is not associated with differences in response of early auditory areas. Rather, we find that a network of 8 regions, including the anterior superior temporal gyrus (STG) just anterior to Heschl's gyrus and the right midposterior STG, respond more strongly to speech perceived as song than to mere speech. This network overlaps a number of areas previously associated with pitch extraction and song production, confirming that phrases originally intended to be heard as speech can, under certain circumstances, be heard as song. Our results suggest that song processing compared with speech processing makes increased demands on pitch processing and auditory-motor integration.
The cerebellum participates in multiple cognitive functions, including those that are sensitive to decline with aging, and is also vulnerable to atrophy with aging. However, few studies have examined structure-function relationships in older adults. We measured the cross-sectional area of four areas of the cerebellar vermis in 45 community-dwelling men aged 71-76, and correlated this with individual cognitive test scores and two cognitive factors derived from principal components analysis. Two out of the four areas showed positive correlations; vermis area 4 (lobules VIII-X) correlated at r = 0.47 (p = 0.001) with a general cognitive factor accounting for almost half of the cognitive test variance. These findings support the hypothesis that variations in cerebellar structure are associated with cognitive ability in older adults.
Disorders of balance and gait have been observed in patients with essential tremor (ET), but their association with tremor severity remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate postural instability and gait changes in ET patients and to investigate their relationship to tremor characteristics with regard to cerebellar dysfunction as a possible common pathogenetic mechanism in ET. Thirty ET patients (8F, mean (SD) age 55.8 (17.8), range 19-81 years) and 25 normal controls (7F, 53.0 (17.7), 19-81) were tested with the scales of Activities-specific Balance Confidence (ABC), Fullerton Advanced Balance (FAB), and International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS). Posturography and gait were assessed using a Footscan system. Tremor was evaluated by the Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Tremor Rating Scale (TRS) and accelerometry in five upper limb positions. A mean (SD) TRS sum score of 27.0 (13.2) corresponded to mild to moderate tremor severity in most patients. In comparison with controls, ET subjects exhibited lower tandem gait velocity (0.21 vs. 0.26 m/s, P = 0.028), more missteps (0.57 vs. 0.12, P = 0.039), and increased postural sway in tandem stance (sway area 301.1 vs. 202.9 mm(2), P = 0.045). In normal gait, step width increased with the midline tremor subscore of TRS (Pearson r = 0.60, P = 0.046). Moreover, significant correlations were found between age and quantitative measures of normal and tandem gait in ET patients but not in controls. ABC, FAB, and ICARS scores did not significantly differ between patients and controls. In conclusion, gait and balance alterations in ET patients occur even without subjective complaints. Their relationship with midline tremor and dependence on age suggest a connection with cerebellar dysfunction.
Efference copies of motor commands are used to update visual space across saccades, ultimately ensuring transsaccadic constancy of space. Thalamic lesions have been shown to impair efference copy-based saccadic updating in an oculomotor context, i.e., when two successive saccades are required. Moreover, the cerebellum has also been discussed as one possible source of saccade-related efference copy signals. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of thalamic and cerebellar lesions on saccadic updating in a perceptual context. To this end, seven patients with focal cerebellar lesions, seven patients with focal thalamic lesions and 11 healthy controls completed a perceptual localisation task in which the position of a target had to be updated across a single horizontal saccade, while saccade-related event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded. Contrary to the expectations, localisation precision in both patient groups did not differ from the respective controls. A positive ERP component with centroparietal distribution occurring from about 300 to 500 ms after saccade onset in the updating condition was observed equally pronounced in controls and thalamic lesion patients. In cerebellar lesion patients, there was evidence of a reduction of this relative positivity in the updating condition, particularly for leftward saccades. This finding suggests that cerebellar damage altered the neural processes underlying saccadic updating in a perceptual context without causing overt behavioural deficits.
The present study investigated the development of executive functions (EFs) and their associations with performance and behavior at school in 8-12-year-old children. The EFs were measured by computer-based n-back, Continuous Performance and Go/Nogo tasks. School performance was evaluated by Teacher Report Form (TRF) and behavior by TRF and Child Behavior Checklist. The studied dimensions of EF were cognitive efficiency/speed, working memory/attention and inhibitory control. Strong age effects were found for these cognitive abilities (p values &lt;0.01). Inhibitory control was associated with better adaptive functioning (learning, working hard and behaving well), academic performance and less psychiatric symptoms (p values &lt;0.05), specially in 8-9-year-old children. In this youngest age group low inhibitory control was also associated with teacher-reported inattention (p = 0.042). Low inhibitory control was associated with teacher- and parent-reported internalizing symptoms (p &lt; 0.01). These results suggest that maturational factors may underlie low adaptive functioning and psychiatric symptoms during early school years. Further studies are needed to evaluate the association between inhibition and emotional symptoms.

Dysaesthetic pain is a common neuropathic pain in patients with multiple sclerosis. Both tricyclic antidepressants (i.e., amitriptyline and duloxetine) and antiepileptic drugs (i.e., carbamazepine, gabapentin and pregabalin) represent first-line treatment of neuropathic pain. However, topiramate, an antiepileptic drug, also demonstrated clinical efficacy in these patients. In this report we describe the case of a 42-year-old woman with an 8-year history of multiple sclerosis who developed dysaesthetic pain in the lower limbs, and was successfully treated with topiramate at a final dose of 150 mg/day. About 8 months after beginning topiramate treatment, the patient had not shown any dysaesthetic pain, and no adverse events related to topiramate had been recorded.

This study investigated the formulation of verb argument structure in Catalan- and Spanish-speaking children with specific language impairment (SLI) and typically developing age-matched controls. We compared how language production can be guided by conceptual factors, such as the organization of the entities participating in an event and knowledge regarding argument structure. Eleven children with SLI (aged 3;8 to 6;6) and eleven control children participated in an eye-tracking experiment in which participants had to describe events with different argument structure in the presence of visual scenes. Picture descriptions, latency time and eye movements were recorded and analyzed. The picture description results showed that the percentage of responses in which children with SLI substituted a non-target verb for the target verb was significantly different from that for the control group. Children with SLI made more omissions of obligatory arguments, especially of themes, as the verb argument complexity increased. Moreover, when the number of arguments of the verb increased, the children took more time to begin their descriptions, but no differences between groups were found. For verb type latency, all children were significantly faster to start describing one-argument events than two- and three-argument events. No differences in latency time were found between two- and three-argument events. There were no significant differences between the groups. Eye-movement showed that children with SLI looked less at the event zone than the age-matched controls during the first two seconds. These differences between the groups were significant for three-argument verbs, and only marginally significant for one- and two-argument verbs. Children with SLI also spent significantly less time looking at the theme zones than their age-matched controls. We suggest that both processing limitations and deficits in the semantic representation of verbs may play a role in these difficulties.
The expected quality of care for epilepsy has increased sharply in the last two decades, informed and directed by published guidance. Meeting these demands has become possible only by providing adequate numbers of consultants and nurses with the relevant expertise, alongside improvements in investigative facilities. The increasing choice of AEDs has been helpful in improving treatment options. Both primary and secondary care have an important role to play in easing diagnosis of new cases and highlighting cases where improvement in control are needed.

Although the initiation of sexual behaviors in adolescence is normative, adverse sexual health outcomes disproportionately affect adolescents relative to adults. Efforts to improve sexual health and increase health promotion behaviors in adolescent populations have not been fully successful. In this paper, we propose that translational research that integrates insights from neuroscience, ecological systems theory, and decision science with adolescent sexual behavior research can lead to advances in our understanding of the etiology and prevention of sexual risk behaviors among adolescents. Moreover, these insights can be further translated to the design and implementation of clinical interventions that improve sexual health.

Orexin A and orexin B are hypothalamic neuropeptides initially identified as endogenous ligands for two orphan G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). They play critical roles in the maintenance of wakefulness by regulating function of monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons that are implicated in the regulation of wakefulness. Loss of orexin neurons in humans is associated with narcolepsy, a sleep disorder characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy, further suggesting the particular importance of orexin in the maintenance of the wakefulness state. These findings have encouraged pharmaceutical companies to develop drugs targeting orexin receptors as novel medications of sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy and insomnia. Indeed, phase III clinical trials were completed last year of suvorexant, a non-selective (dual) antagonist for orexin receptors, for the treatment of primary insomnia, and demonstrate promising results. The New Drug Application (NDA) for suvorexant has been submitted to the US FDA. Thus, the discovery of a critical role played by the orexin system in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness has opened the door of a new era for sleep medicine.


Understanding the neural mechanisms of object and face recognition is one of the fundamental challenges of visual neuroscience. The neurons in inferior temporal (IT) cortex have been reported to exhibit dynamic responses to face stimuli. However, little is known about how the dynamic properties of IT neurons emerge in the face information processing. To address this issue, we made a model of IT cortex, which performs face perception via an interaction between different IT networks. The model was based on the face information processed by three resolution maps in early visual areas. The network model of IT cortex consists of four kinds of networks, in which the information about a whole face is combined with the information about its face parts and their arrangements. We show here that the learning of face stimuli makes the functional connections between these IT networks, causing a high spike correlation of IT neuron pairs. A dynamic property of subthreshold membrane potential of IT neuron, produced by Hodgkin-Huxley model, enables the coordination of temporal information without changing the firing rate, providing the basis of the mechanism underlying face perception. We show also that the hierarchical processing of face information allows IT cortex to perform a &quot;coarse-to-fine&quot; processing of face information. The results presented here seem to be compatible with experimental data about dynamic properties of IT neurons.
The present study investigated the relationship between three different measures related to the affective empathy: facial expression detection in response to different emotional patterns (positive vs. negative), personal response to empathic scale [Balanced Emotional Empathy Scale (BEES)], and dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (dMPFC) contribution to mediate the facial detection task. Nineteen subjects took part in the study and they were required to recognize facial expression of emotions, after having empathized with these emotional cues. Repeated Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) method was used in the present research in order to produce a temporary virtual disruption of dMPFC activity. dMPFC disruption induced a worse performance, especially in response to negative expressions (i.e. anger and fear). High-BEES subjects paid a higher cost after frontal brain perturbation: they showed to be unable to correctly detect facial expressions more than low-BEES. Moreover, a &quot;negative valence effect&quot; was observed only for high-BEES, and it was probably related with their higher impairment to recognize negative more than positive expressions. dMPFC was found to support emotional facial expression recognition in an empathic condition, with a specific increased responsiveness for negative-valenced faces. The contribution of this research was discussed to explain the mechanisms underlying affective empathy based on rTMS application.
The identification of the ret oncogene by Masahide Takahashi and Geoffrey Cooper in 1985 was both serendipitous and paradigmatic ( Takahashi et al. 1985). By transfecting total DNA from a human lymphoma into mouse NIH3T3 cells, they obtained one clone, which in secondary transformants yielded more than 100-fold improvement in transformation efficiency. Subsequent investigations revealed that the ret oncogene was not present as such in the primary lymphoma, but was derived by DNA rearrangement during transfection from normal human sequences of the ret locus. At the time, activation by DNA rearrangement had not been previously described for a transforming gene with the NIH3T3 transfection assay. The discovery of ret opened a field of study that has had a profound impact in cancer research, developmental biology, and neuroscience, and that continues to yield surprises and important insights to this day.



Cognitive scientists typically classify cognitive processes as either controlled or automatic. Whereas controlled processes are slow and effortful, automatic processes are fast and involuntary. Over the past decade, we have propelled a research trajectory investigating how top-down influence in the form of suggestion can allow individuals to modulate the automaticity of cognitive processes. Here we present an overarching array of converging findings that collectively indicate that certain individuals can derail involuntary processes, such as reading, by &quot;unringing&quot; the proverbial bell. We examine replications of these effects from both our own laboratory and independent groups, and extend our Stroop findings to several other well-established automatic paradigms, including the McGurk effect. We thus demonstrate how, in the case of highly suggestible individuals, suggestion seems to wield control over a process that is likely even more automatic than the Stroop effect. Finally, we present findings from two novel experimental paradigms exploring the potential of shifting automaticity in the opposite direction - i.e., transforming, without practice, a controlled task into one that is automatic. Drawing on related evidence from the neuroscience of contemplative practices, we discuss how these findings pave the road to a more scientific understanding of voluntary control and automaticity, and expound on their possible experimental and therapeutic applications.
The neurophysiological substrates of hypnosis have been subject to speculation since the phenomenon got its name. Until recently, much of this research has been geared toward understanding hypnosis itself, including the biological bases of individual differences in hypnotizability, state-dependent changes in cortical activity occurring with the induction of hypnosis, and the neural correlates of response to particular hypnotic suggestions (especially the clinically useful hypnotic analgesia). More recently, hypnosis has begun to be employed as a method for manipulating subjects' mental states, both cognitive and affective, to provide information about the neural substrates of experience, thought, and action. This instrumental use of hypnosis is particularly well-suited for identifying the neural correlates of conscious and unconscious perception and memory, and of voluntary and involuntary action.
A study is reported of mathematical vocabulary and factual mathematical knowledge in PQ, a 22 year old with Down's syndrome (DS) who has a verbal mental age (MA) of 9 years 2 months and ST, a 15 year old with Williams syndrome (WS) who has a verbal MA of 9 years 6 months, matched to typically developing controls. The number of mathematical words contained within PQ's lexical stores was significantly reduced as reflected by performance on lexical decision. PQ was also impaired at both naming from descriptions and describing mathematical words. These results contrast with normal lexical decision and item descriptions for concrete words reported recently for PQ (Robinson and Temple, 2010). PQ's recall of mathematical facts was also impaired, whilst his recall of general knowledge facts was normal. This performance in DS indicates a deficit in both lexical representation and semantic knowledge for mathematical words and mathematical facts. In contrast, ST, the teenager with WS had good accuracy on lexical decision, naming and generating definitions for mathematical words. This contrasted with the atypical performance with concrete words recently reported for ST (Robinson and Temple, 2009). Knowledge of addition facts and general knowledge facts was also unimpaired for ST, though knowledge of multiplication facts was weak. Together the cases form a double dissociation and provide support for the distinct representation of mathematical and concrete items within the lexical-semantic system during development. The dissociations between mathematical and general factual knowledge also indicate that different types of factual knowledge may be selectively impaired during development. There is further support for a modular structure within which mathematical vocabulary and mathematical knowledge have distinct representations. This supports the case for the independent representation of factual and language-based knowledge within the semantic system during development.

The link between biometals and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been investigated with a focus on local metal accumulations. In this work, we have looked at systemic metal changes and computed a score (M-score) based on metal disarrangements to discriminate patients with AD from patients with vascular dementia (VaD) and from controls. We measured serum levels of iron, copper, ceruloplasmin, transferrin, and total antioxidant capacity (TAS), performed Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyping and calculated non-ceruloplasmin copper ('free' copper') levels, transferrin saturation, total iron binding capacity, and ceruloplasmin-transferrin ratio (Cp/Tf) in 93 patients with AD, 45 patients with VaD, and 48 controls. All subjects underwent biochemical, neuroimaging and cognitive evaluations. Significant differences were observed among the tested groups for the levels of copper, free copper, peroxides, and TAS and for the Cp/Tf with disparity in couple comparison. On this basis we created the M-score as linear combination of biometal variables and APOE genotype. Besides its ability to discriminate AD patients vs. controls (ROC AUC=90%), M-score was able to distinguish AD vs. VaD (ROC AUC=79%). Moreover, we calculated the sensitivity and the specificity for M-score and for the other significant variables: M-score reached the highest sensitivity without a relevant loss in terms of specificity. When we compared M-score with APOE genotype and Medial Temporal Atrophy score, it resulted statistically better than these diagnostic markers. In conclusion, we confirm the link between biometals and AD and suggest its potential as diagnostic tool. Further studies may elucidate its potential role as reliable diagnostic test.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered a nosological entity or a translational state between normal aging and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). From brain tissue to peripheral blood samples, it is evident that the early markers of metabolic dysfunction observed in AD have also been found in MCI subjects. These observations obtained from MCI and AD subjects leave open the possibility that mitochondrial dysfunction-induced oxidative damage happening a priori of symptom onset, may trigger other pathological hallmarks, namely A oligomerization. In this study, we used a citoplasmic hybrid (cybrid) model created by the repopulation of human teratocarcinoma (NT2) cells depleted of endogenous mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) with platelets from age-matched controls, MCI and AD subjects. We found mitochondrial deficits in MCI and AD cybrids as compared with controls, such as a decrease in cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity, a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and in mitochondrial cytochrome c content. Consequently, we analyzed parameters of oxidative damage and found that AD and MCI cybrids exhibit an increase in lipid peroxides, higher production of superoxide radicals, and higher content in protein carbonyls. Since our data clearly show alterations in mitochondrial-mediated oxidative damage in MCI cybrids we propose that mitochondrial dysfunction is an early event in idiopathic AD. Moreover, we found that mitochondrial A oligomeric content increases in AD, which may exacerbate initial mitochondrial damage. Altogether, our data strongly supports a key role for mitochondria/ mtDNA in aged-driven AD pathology.
Inhibition of the -secretase, BACE1, which cleaves amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce -amyloid protein (A), is thought to be a feasible therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease. Reticulon (RTN) proteins such as RTN3 have been identified as membrane proteins that interact with BACE1 and inhibit its A-generating activity. In this study, we investigated whether RTN3 can regulate A production in vivo, using transgenic (Tg) mice expressing APP with Swedish and London mutations (APP Tg mice) and those expressing RTN3; the latter mice showed ~1.4-fold higher expression levels of RTN3 protein in the cerebral cortex than non-Tg controls. We analyzed the brains of single APP Tg and double APP/RTN3 Tg mice at the age of approximately 15 months. The levels of secreted APP-, a direct BACE1 cleavage product of APP, in Tris-soluble fraction were considerably reduced in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of APP/RTN3 Tg mice relative to those in APP Tg mice. Immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that A burden and plaques were significantly (by approximately 50%) decreased in both the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of double Tg mice compared to APP Tg mice. Furthermore, the levels of guanidine-soluble A40 and A42 in these brain regions of APP/RTN3 Tg mice were relatively lower than those in APP Tg mice. These findings indicate that even a small increase in RTN3 expression exerts suppressive effects on amyloidogenic processing of APP and A accumulation through modulation of BACE1 activity in vivo, and suggest that induction of RTN3 might be an effective therapeutic strategy against Alzheimer's disease.

Some papers reported the development of adverse drug reactions in patients with Down's syndrome during the treatment with antiepileptic drugs. However, at this time, no data have been published concerning the development of tremor in patients with Down's syndrome treated with sodium valproate. We report a 17-year-old man with epilepsy and Down's syndrome who experienced tremor during the treatment with a low dosage of sodium valproate. The Naranjo probability scale documented a possible association between tremor and sodium valproate. Sodium valproate was changed to lamotrigine with both a rapid improvement of tremor and an optimal control of symptoms. In conclusion we documented that sodium valproate is able to induce in a patient with epilepsy and Down's syndrome, the development of tremor probably through the decreased activity of GABAergic neurotrasmission; however, further studies may be performed in order to validate this observation.

The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is complex, and only a minority of cases appears to be primarily genetic. A relationship between genetic and acquired vascular factors in AD has been hypothesized. Many vascular risk factors for AD, such as atherosclerosis, stroke and cardiac disease in the aging individual, could result in cerebrovascular dysfunction. A major vascular susceptibility factor gene is the apolipoprotein E gene, found to be associated with sporadic late-onset AD cases. Oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction have been also implicated in the pathogenesis of AD, but the question as to whether they are involved in the onset and progression of the pathology or rather represent a consequence of neurodegeneration is still debated. Recent evidence suggests that chronic hypoperfusion may trigger mitochondrial dysfunction in vascular cells which, in turn, may enhance the production of reactive oxygen species. In this short review we revise the link between vascular factors and mitochondrial dysfunction in AD pathogenesis.
Many of the best-studied actin regulatory proteins use non-covalent means to modulate the properties of actin. Yet, actin is also susceptible to covalent modifications of its amino acids. Recent work is increasingly revealing that actin processing and its covalent modifications regulate important cellular events. In addition, numerous pathogens express enzymes that specifically use actin as a substrate to regulate their hosts' cells. Actin post-translational alterations have been linked to different normal and disease processes and the effects associated with metabolic and environmental stressors. Herein, we highlight specific co-translational and post-translational modifications of actin and discuss the current understanding of the role that these modifications play in regulating actin.


Pain is a complex consciousness that emerges from the brain, and is commonly a result of nociception; the physiological process initiated by activation of specialised high-threshold peripheral sensory neurons. When pain is persistent, its affective aspects can dominate and cause considerable suffering. This chronic pain state is not an inevitable consequence of physical injury or disease. Instead, susceptibility to chronic pain results from complex interactions between multiple genes and the environment that influence nociception and regulate the consciousness of pain. The biological bases for chronic pain can now be defined and measured by brain neuroimaging at a systems level, where penetrance of genetic variation should be higher when compared to syndromal phenotypes. To date, very few neuroimaging studies have attempted to connect brain activity associated with pain to genes. We review these together with other pertinent studies here, and suggest how neuroimaging endophenotypes might prove useful for the development of treatments for chronic pain.
The inability to discriminate friend from foe or the 'one' among many potential mates can have immediate life-threatening consequences or a long-term evolutionary impact. Successful social interactions depend on the ability to recognize and identify individuals within a social context. Once recognition occurs, a repertoire of behavioral responses becomes available and choices are made as interactions between individuals unfold. The vinegar fly, Drosophila melanogaster, displays a wide range of social activities and patterns of social interaction. If a male fly is unable to recognize other males or distinguish them from females, he may attempt to court both males and females alike, wasting energy and reducing his fitness. We review recent studies on the mechanisms of social recognition in this organism that pertain to both sides of an interaction: the generation of signals by one individual and the receiving and processing of these signals by others.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are type I transmembrane signaling molecules that are expressed in cells of the innate immune system. In these cells, TLRs function as pattern recognition receptors (PRR) that recognize specific molecular patterns derived from microorganisms. Upon activation, TLRs trigger a cascade of intracellular signaling pathways in innate immune cells, leading to the induction of inflammatory and innate immune responses, which in turn regulate adaptive immune responses. In the nervous system, different members of the TLR family are expressed on glial cells (astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and Schwann cells) and neurons. Recently, increasing evidence has supported the idea that TLRs also recognize endogenous molecules that are released from damaged tissue, thereby regulating inflammatory responses and subsequent tissue repair. These findings imply that TLRs on glial cells may also be involved in the inflammatory response to tissue damage in the nervous system. In this review, we discuss recent studies on TLR expression in the cells of the nervous system and their roles in acute neurological disorders involving tissue damage such as strokes, traumatic spinal cord and brain injuries, and peripheral nerve injuries.
Medically ill children are often exposed to traumatizing situations within the medical setting. Approximately 25-30 % of medically ill children develop posttraumatic stress symptoms and 10-20 % of them meet criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder. Parents of medically ill children are at even higher risk for posttraumatic stress symptoms. Most children and parents will experience resolution of mild trauma symptoms without formal psychological or psychiatric treatment. Posttraumatic stress symptoms are associated with medical nonadherence, psychiatric co-morbidities, and poorer health status. Therefore, evidenced-based trauma-focused treatment is indicated for those who remain highly distressed or impaired. This paper reviews approaches to the assessment and management of pediatric iatrogenic medical trauma within a family-based framework.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract that affect more than 3 million people worldwide, but the pathological etiology is still unknown. The overall purpose of our investigations was to elucidate the possibility of pathological causes of IBD, and therefore, we determined the difference of inflammatory cytokine profiles in adipose tissue macrophages (ATMs) and T lymphocytes (ATTs) obtained near active lesions of IBD; investigated whether the alteration in ATM activation induces genes involved in collagen formation; and evaluated the effects of fatty acid oxidation inhibitors on factors involved in inflammation and collagen production by ATMs in IBD. Adipose tissues (ATs) were collected near active lesions and also at the margin of resected segments of the bowel from IBD patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and CD (n=14/group). Normal appearing ATs from control subjects (n=14) who had colon resection for adenocarcinoma were collected as far away from the cancer lesion as possible to rule out possible changes. Compared with inactive disease lesions, ATMs and ATTs from active lesions released more IL-6, IL-4 and IL-13. Treatments of cytokine IL-4 and/or IL-13 to ATMs reduced iNOS expression but increased Arg-I expression which were exacerbated when treated with T cell- and adipocyte-conditioned medium. However, fatty acid oxidation inhibitors prevented the effects of cytokines IL-4 and/or IL-13 on iNOS and Arg-I expressions. This study was the first to show the effect of IL-4 and IL-13 on collagen formation, through iNOS and Arg-I expressions, that was exacerbated in a condition that mimics in vivo condition of active lesions. Moreover, our study was the first to provide potential benefits of fatty acid oxidation inhibitors to ATMs on preventing collagen formation; thus, providing therapeutic implications for individuals with intestinal fibrosis and stricture lesions, although future study should be guaranteed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.




There is increasing interest in the role of autoantibodies in acquired autoimmune central nervous system disorders. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is an autoimmune encephalitis defined by the presence of autoantibodies that bind to the NMDAR. Although there is evidence of NMDAR antibody pathogenicity, it is unclear which treatment results in the best outcome. We measured the proportion of B-cells in the cerebrospinal fluid of two children with NMDAR encephalitis (a 6-year-old male and a 4-year-old female), one in the acute phase and one in the relapsing phase. The proportion of CD19(+) B-cells in both children was greater than 10%, significantly higher than seen in non-inflammatory neurological disorders (&lt;1%). This finding supports the use of drugs, such as rituximab, that deplete B-cells in severe or refractory cases of NMDAR encephalitis, and lends further support to the humoral autoimmune hypothesis in NMDAR encephalitis.
These studies investigated interactions taking place at the mitochondrial membrane in neonatal rat cerebellum following ethanol exposure and focused on interactions between proapoptotic Bax and proteins of the permeability transition pore (PTP), voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) and adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) of the outer and inner mitochondrial membranes, respectively. Cultured cerebellar granule cells were used to assess the role of these interactions in ethanol neurotoxicity. Analyses were made at the age of maximal cerebellar ethanol vulnerability (P4), compared to the later age of relative resistance (P7), to determine whether differential ethanol sensitivity was mirrored by differences in these molecular interactions. We found that, following ethanol exposure, Bax proapoptotic associations with both VDAC and ANT were increased, particularly at the age of greater ethanol sensitivity, and these interactions were sustained at this age for at least 2 h postexposure. Since Bax:VDAC interactions disrupt protective VDAC interactions with mitochondrial hexokinase (HXK), we also assessed VDAC:HXK associations following ethanol treatment and found such interactions were altered by ethanol treatment, but only at 2 h postexposure and only in the P4, ethanol-sensitive cerebellum. Ethanol neurotoxicity in cultured neuronal preparations was abolished by pharmacological inhibition of both VDAC and ANT interactions with Bax but not by a Bax channel blocker. Therefore, we conclude that, at this age, within the constraints of our experimental model, a primary mode of Bax-induced initiation of the apoptosis cascade following ethanol insult involves interactions with proteins of the PTP complex and not channel formation independent of PTP constituents.
We examined the associations between language skills and concern and disregard for others in young children assessed longitudinally at ages 14, 20, 24, and 36 months, testing the hypothesis that language skills have a specific role (distinct from that of general cognitive ability) in the development of concern and disregard for others. We found that higher language skills predicted higher concern for others and lower disregard for others even after controlling for general cognitive ability, whereas the association between general cognitive ability and concern/disregard for others was not significant after controlling for language skills. Language skills at 14 months predicted concern for others at 36 months, and results suggested that the relations between language skills and concern and disregard for others begin early in development. Gender differences in concern and disregard for others were at least partially explained by differences in language skills. These results support the specific role of language skills in concern and disregard for others.
The diverse functions of Notch signalling imply that it must elicit context-specific programmes of gene expression. With the aim of investigating how Notch drives cells to differentiate, we have used a genome-wide approach to identify direct Notch targets in Drosophila haemocytes (blood cells), where Notch promotes crystal cell differentiation. Many of the identified Notch-regulated enhancers contain Runx and GATA motifs, and we demonstrate that binding of the Runx protein Lozenge (Lz) is required for enhancers to be competent to respond to Notch. Functional studies of targets, such as klumpfuss (ERG/WT1 family) and pebbled/hindsight (RREB1 homologue), show that Notch acts both to prevent the cells adopting alternate cell fates and to promote morphological characteristics associated with crystal cell differentiation. Inappropriate activity of Klumpfuss perturbs the differentiation programme, resulting in melanotic tumours. Thus, by acting as a master regulator, Lz directs Notch to activate selectively a combination of target genes that correctly locks cells into the differentiation programme.
Cbl-associated protein (CAP) localizes to focal adhesions and associates with numerous cytoskeletal proteins; however, its physiological roles remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate that Drosophila CAP regulates the organization of two actin-rich structures in Drosophila: muscle attachment sites (MASs), which connect somatic muscles to the body wall; and scolopale cells, which form an integral component of the fly chordotonal organs and mediate mechanosensation. Drosophila CAP mutants exhibit aberrant junctional invaginations and perturbation of the cytoskeletal organization at the MAS. CAP depletion also results in collapse of scolopale cells within chordotonal organs, leading to deficits in larval vibration sensation and adult hearing. We investigate the roles of different CAP protein domains in its recruitment to, and function at, various muscle subcellular compartments. Depletion of the CAP-interacting protein Vinculin results in a marked reduction in CAP levels at MASs, and vinculin mutants partially phenocopy Drosophila CAP mutants. These results show that CAP regulates junctional membrane and cytoskeletal organization at the membrane-cytoskeletal interface of stretch-sensitive structures, and they implicate integrin signaling through a CAP/Vinculin protein complex in stretch-sensitive organ assembly and function.
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is well recognized as an important mediator of body weight homeostasis. Activation of MC4R causes dramatic weight loss in rodent models, and mutations in human are associated with obesity. This makes MC4R a logical target for pharmacological therapy for the treatment of obesity. However, previous studies in rodents and humans have observed a broad array of side effects caused by acute treatment with MC4R agonists, including increased heart rate and blood pressure. We demonstrate that treatment with a highly-selective novel MC4R agonist (BIM-22493 or RM-493) resulted in transient decreases in food intake (35%), with persistent weight loss over 8 weeks of treatment (13.5%) in a diet-induced obese nonhuman primate model. Consistent with weight loss, these animals significantly decreased adiposity and improved glucose tolerance. Importantly, we observed no increases in blood pressure or heart rate with BIM-22493 treatment. In contrast, treatment with LY2112688, an MC4R agonist previously shown to increase blood pressure and heart rate in humans, caused increases in blood pressure and heart rate, while modestly decreasing food intake. These studies demonstrate that distinct melanocortin peptide drugs can have widely different efficacies and side effects.
The histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease (AD) include intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles composed of abnormally hyperphosphorylated  protein. Insulin dysfunction might influence AD pathology, as population-based and cohort studies have detected higher AD incidence rates in diabetic patients. But how diabetes affects  pathology is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the impact of insulin dysfunction on  phosphorylation in a genetic model of spontaneous type 1 diabetes: the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse. Brains of young and adult female NOD mice were examined, but young NOD mice did not display  hyperphosphorylation.  phosphorylation at -1 and pS422 epitopes was slightly increased in nondiabetic adult NOD mice. At the onset of diabetes,  was hyperphosphorylated at the -1, AT8, CP13, pS262, and pS422. A subpopulation of diabetic NOD mice became hypothermic, and  hyperphosphorylation further extended to paired helical filament-1 and TG3 epitopes. Furthermore, elevated  phosphorylation correlated with an inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity. Our data indicate that insulin dysfunction in NOD mice leads to AD-like  hyperphosphorylation in the brain, with molecular mechanisms likely involving a deregulation of PP2A. This model may be a useful tool to address further mechanistic association between insulin dysfunction and AD pathology.

There is a widely held belief that the use of non-invasive imaging can reduce the gap between basic science and clinical proof-of-concept, ultimately improving decision-making and therefore the efficiency of the drug development process. Imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are routinely used in oncology and neuroscience drug development. However, less attention has been paid to the systematic use of imaging in the cardiovascular and metabolic disease area. Here, with an emphasis on 'early clinical' development, we discuss the application of imaging in those areas, highlighting opportunities and challenges.



It has been shown that older adults perform less well than younger adults on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a real-world type decision-making task that factors together reward, punishment, and uncertainty. To explore the reasons behind this age-related decrement, we administered to an adult life span sample of 265 healthy participants (Mdn age = 62.00 +/- 16.17 years; range [23-88]) 2 versions of the IGT, which have different contingencies for successful performance: A'B'C'D' requires choosing lower immediate reward (paired with lower delayed punishment); E'F'G'H' requires choosing higher immediate punishment (paired with higher delayed reward). There was a significant negative correlation between age and performance on the A'B'C'D' version of the IGT (r = -.16, p = .01), while there was essentially no correlation between age and performance on the E'F'G'H' version (r = -.07, p = .24). In addition, the rate of impaired performance in older participants was significantly higher for the A'B'C'D' version (23%) compared with the E'F'G'H' version (13%). A parsimonious account of these findings is an age-related increase in hypersensitivity to reward, whereby the decisions of older adults are disproportionately influenced by prospects of receiving reward, irrespective of the presence or degree of punishment.
We previously demonstrated that aged ovariectomized rats that had received prior estradiol treatment in middle age exhibited enhanced spatial memory and increased levels of estrogen receptor (ER)- in the hippocampus long after estradiol treatment was terminated. The implication for cognition of increased levels of ER resulting from prior estradiol exposure is unknown. In the absence of estrogens, growth factors, including IGF-I, can induce ER-mediated transcription through ligand-independent mechanisms. Our current goal was to determine whether IGF-I mediates the ability of short-term exposure to estradiol to exert long-term effects on cognition and the hippocampus of aging females. Ovariectomized middle-aged rats were implanted with estradiol or cholesterol vehicle capsules. After 40 days, all capsules were removed and drug treatments were initiated. Half of each hormone treatment group received chronic intracerebroventricular delivery of the IGF-I receptor antagonist JB1, and the other half received artificial cerebrospinal fluid vehicle. Rats were tested on a spatial memory radial-arm maze task and hippocampi were immunostained for proteins of interest by Western blotting. As expected, previous treatment with estradiol enhanced spatial memory and increased levels of ER in the hippocampus. JB1 reversed these effects. Previous treatment with estradiol resulted in lasting increases in levels of IGF-I receptors and phosphorylation of ERK/MAPK, a downstream signaling molecule of both ER and IGF-I receptors, and increased levels of the ER-regulated protein, choline acetyltransferase. JB1 blocked effects on ERK/MAPK and choline acetyltransferase. Results indicate that activation of IGF-I receptors is necessary for prior estradiol exposure to exert lasting impact on the hippocampus and memory.
Epigenetic medicine is still in its infancy. To date, only a handful of diseases have documented epigenetic correlates upstream of gene regulation including cancer, developmental syndromes and late-onset diseases. The finding that epigenetic markers are dynamic and heterogeneous at tissue and cellular levels, combined with recent identification of a new form of functionally distinct DNA methylation has opened a wider window for investigators to pry into the epigenetic world. It is anticipated that many diseases will be elucidated through this epigenetic inquiry. In this review, we discuss the normal course of DNA methylation during development, taking alcohol as a demonstrator of the epigenetic impact of environmental factors in disease etiology, particularly the growth retardation and neurodevelopmental deficits of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
Patients with unilateral vestibular lesions have a set of deficits requiring compensation based on the inherent plasticity of the central nervous system. In the 1940s, it was reported that patients with unilateral vestibular dysfunctions who exercised recovered faster than those who did not. The present prospective, randomized investigation aimed to assess the role of a computerized posturography-assisted early vestibular rehabilitation protocol combined with a home-based exercise program in the treatment of patients with unilateral peripheral vestibular disorders occurring 2 weeks previously. Fifteen patients were randomly assigned to a 5-week posturography-assisted vestibular rehabilitation protocol and a home-based exercise program (Group A), while 15 simply awaited spontaneous compensation (Group B). All patients underwent computerized posturography approximately 2 weeks after their vestibular disorder was diagnosed and again after 6 weeks. Ten healthy volunteers were also studied (Group C). After rehabilitation, Group A patients improved significantly in most sensory measures [modified clinical test of sensory organization and balance (mCTSIB)] and motor parameters [limits of stability (LOS)] by comparison with preliminary outcomes, and there were no significant differences in sensory (mCTSIB) and motor (LOS) findings between Group A and the healthy volunteers. At the same time point, several motor (LOS) parameters were still altered in Group B by comparison with the healthy volunteers. These preliminary outcomes support the hypothesis that the compensation achievable after 6 weeks with a customized program of posturography-assisted vestibular rehabilitation and home-based exercises is superior to the results of physiological spontaneous compensation.
DTNBP1 is one of the most established susceptibility genes for schizophrenia, and hippocampal volume reduction is one of the major neuropathological findings in this severe disorder. Consistent with these findings, the encoded protein dysbindin-1 has been shown to be diminished in glutamatergic hippocampal neurons in schizophrenic patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of two single nucleotide polymorphisms of DTNBP1 on grey matter volumes in human subjects using voxel-based morphometry. Seventy-two subjects were included and genotyped with respect to two single nucleotide polymorphisms of DTNBP1 (rs2619522 and rs1018381). All participants underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI data were preprocessed and statistically analysed using standard procedures as implemented in SPM5 (Statistical Parametric Mapping), in particular the voxel-based morphometry (VBM) toolbox. We found significant effects of the DTNBP1 SNP rs2619522 bilaterally in the hippocampus as well as in the anterior middle frontal gyrus and the intraparietal cortex. Carriers of the G allele showed significantly higher grey matter volumes in these brain regions than T/T homozygotes. Compatible with previous findings on a role of dysbindin in hippocampal functions as well as in major psychoses, the present study provides first direct in vivo evidence that the DTNBP1 SNP rs2619522 is associated with variation of grey matter volumes bilaterally in the hippocampus.
Conduct disorder (CD) is a frequently occurring psychiatric disorder characterized by a persistent pattern of aggressive and non-aggressive rule breaking antisocial behaviours that lead to considerable burden for the patients themselves, their family and society. This review paper updates diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to CD in the light of the forthcoming DSM-5 definition. The diagnostic criteria for CD will remain unchanged in DSM-5, but the introduction of a specifier of CD with a callous-unemotional (CU) presentation is new. Linked to this, we discuss the pros and cons of various other ways to subtype aggression/CD symptoms. Existing guidelines for CD are, with few exceptions, already of a relatively older date and emphasize that clinical assessment should be systematic and comprehensive and based on a multi-informant approach. Non-medical psychosocial interventions are recommended as the first option for the treatment of CD. There is a role for medication in the treatment of comorbid syndromes and/or in case of insufficient response to psychosocial interventions and severe and dangerous aggressive and violent behaviours.
We aimed at evaluating whether -glucans could improve low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels and/or glycemic control in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), in whom statins usually have muscle-related side effects. Fifty-nine MG patients participated in the study and received a daily dietary supplement of 3 g of -glucans during 8 weeks. Body mass index (BMI) and blood sample analysis of lipid and glucose status were performed before and after 8 weeks intake of -glucans. In the 52 patients who completed the study, there was a significant reduction in total cholesterol, LDL, ApoA1 and ApoB (all P&lt;0.003). However, glycemic control and BMI were unaltered. The present study indicates that 8 weeks daily intake of 3 g of -glucans significantly reduces total cholesterol, LDL, ApoA1 and ApoB in MG patients. -glucans may therefore be of value in improving lipid status in MG patients, without the muscle-related side effects accompanied by statins.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common motor neuron diseases (MND), while frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is the second most common cause of early-onset dementia. Many ALS families segregating FTLD have been reported, particularly over the last decade. Recently, mutations in TARDBP, FUS/TLS, and C9ORF72 have been identified in both ALS and FTLD patients, while mutations in VCP, a FTLD associated gene, have been found in ALS families. Distinct variants located in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of the SIGMAR1 gene were previously reported in three unrelated FTLD or FTLD-MND families. We directly sequenced the coding and UTR regions of the SIGMAR1 gene in a targeted cohort of 25 individual familial ALS cases of Caucasian origin with a history of cognitive impairments. This screening identified one variant in the 3'-UTR of the SIGMAR1 gene in one ALS patient, but the same variant was also observed in 1 out of 380 control chromosomes. Subsequently, we screened the same samples for a C9ORF72 repeat expansion: 52% of this cohort was found expanded, including the sample with the SIGMAR1 3'-UTR variant. Consequently, coding and noncoding variants located in the 3'-UTR region of the SIGMAR1 gene are not the cause of FTLD-MND in our cohort, and more than half of this targeted cohort is genetically explained by C9ORF72 repeat expansions.



Intense feeding can be elicited by injections of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline into the medial ventral pallidum (VPm), a basal forebrain structure anatomically interposed between two other feeding-related brain regions, the nucleus accumbens shell and the lateral hypothalamus (LH). To determine whether the VPm effects changes in feeding behavior through actions on the LH, we examined feeding following unilateral injections of bicuculline into the VPm made either ipsilateral or contralateral to a unilateral excitotoxic lesion of the LH in nondeprived rats. We found that lesions of the LH significantly attenuated feeding induced from the ipsilateral VPm, as compared to sham-operated controls. In striking contrast, unilateral LH lesions significantly potentiated the feeding response elicited by injections of bicuculline into the contralateral VPm. The 'ipsilateral-contralateral disruption' design we used makes it extremely unlikely that our findings could have resulted from nonspecific effects of the lesions. These results suggest that the LH is causally involved in mediating the ingestive effects produced by activation of the VPm, and provide an important insight into the functional circuitry by which basal forebrain structures control food intake in mammals.
The mammalian olfactory cortex is commonly considered critical for odor information processing and perception. It is becoming increasingly apparent, however, that the olfactory cortex receives input from multiple sensory channels. Previous work from our group demonstrated the presence of auditory sensory convergence within one olfactory cortical structure, the olfactory tubercle (OT). Interestingly, anatomical evidence for auditory input into the neighboring olfactory piriform cortex (PCX) posits the possibility that auditory sensory input is a distributed property of the olfactory cortex. To address this question, we performed in vivo extracellular recordings from the OT and PCX of anesthetized mice and measured modulations in unit firing in the presence of tones. In support for auditory sensory input being a distributed feature of the olfactory cortex, we found that 29% of units sampled within the PCX display tone-evoked responses. This population compares with that found within the OT using the same stimuli (37%). While overall tone-evoked response magnitudes were comparable between the two structures, tone signal:noise was significantly greater within the OT than in the PCX. No effect of tone frequency (1-55kHz) was found within either structure, with most units being narrowly tuned to a single frequency. These results suggest that a major portion of odor-evoked output from the olfactory bulb (i.e. that entering the OT and PCX) is subject to auditory sensory input in a manner that may modulate odor information processing, odor-guided behaviors and perception.
A successful transition from childhood to adulthood requires adolescent maturation of social information processing. The neurobiological underpinnings of this maturational process remain elusive. This research employed the male Syrian hamster as a tractable animal model for investigating the neural circuitry involved in this critical transition. In this species, adult and juvenile males display different behavioral and neural responses to vaginal secretions, which contain pheromones essential for expression of sexual behavior in adulthood. These studies tested the hypothesis that vaginal secretions acquire positive valence over adolescent development via remodeling of neural circuits underlying sexual reward. Sexually nave adult, but not juvenile, hamsters showed a conditioned place preference for vaginal secretions. Differences in behavioral response to vaginal secretions between juveniles and adults correlated with a difference in the vaginal secretion-induced neural activation pattern in mesocorticolimbic reward circuitry. Fos immunoreactivity increased in response to vaginal secretions in the medial amygdala and ventral tegmental dopaminergic cells of both juvenile and adult males. However, only in adults was there a Fos response to vaginal secretions in non-dopaminergic cells in interfascicular ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens core and infralimbic medial prefrontal cortex. These results demonstrate that a socially relevant chemosensory stimulus acquires the status of an unconditioned reward during adolescence, and that this adolescent gain in social reward is correlated with experience-independent engagement of specific cell groups in reward circuitry.
We investigated the sensitivity of visual mismatch negativity (vMMN) to an abstract and non-semantic category, vertical mirror symmetry. Event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by random and symmetric square patterns, delivered in passive oddball paradigm (participants played a video game), were recorded. In one of the conditions, symmetric patterns were frequent (standard) stimuli and the random patterns were infrequent (deviant) stimuli; in the other condition, the probabilities were reversed. We compared the ERPs elicited by symmetric stimuli as deviants and as standards, and, similarly, the ERPs elicited by the random deviants and random standards. As the difference between the ERPs elicited by random deviant and random standard stimuli, a posterior negativity emerged in two latency ranges (112-120 and 284-292 ms). These negativities were considered to be vMMN components. We suggest that the two vMMN components are organised in cascade error signals. However, there was no significant difference between the ERPs elicited by symmetric deviants and those elicited by symmetric standards. The emergence of vMMN in response to the deviant random stimuli is considered to be a deviation of a perceptual category (in the symmetric standard sequence presented). Accordingly, random stimuli acquired no perceptual category; for this reason, the symmetric deviant (in the random standard sequence presented) elicited no vMMN. The results show that the memory system underlying vMMN is capable of coding perceptual categories such as bilateral symmetry, even if the stimulus patterns are unrelated to the ongoing behavior.
The aim of this study was to identify spinal target cells of spinocerebellar neurons, in particular the ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurons, giving off axon collaterals terminating within the lumbosacral enlargement. Axons of spinocerebellar neurons were stimulated within the cerebellum while searching for most direct synaptic actions on intracellularly recorded hindlimb motoneurons and interneurons. In motoneurons the dominating effects were inhibitory [inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in 67% and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in 17% of motoneurons]. Latencies of most IPSPs indicated that they were evoked disynaptically and mutual facilitation between these IPSPs and disynaptic IPSPs evoked by group Ia afferents from antagonist muscles and group Ib and II afferents from synergists indicated that they were relayed by premotor interneurons in reflex pathways from muscle afferents. Monosynaptic EPSPs from the cerebellum were accordingly found in Ia inhibitory interneurons and intermediate zone interneurons with input from group I and II afferents but only oligosynaptic EPSPs in motoneurons. Monosynaptic EPSPs following cerebellar stimulation were also found in some VSCT neurons, indicating coupling between various spinocerebellar neurons. The results are in keeping with the previously demonstrated projections of VSCT neurons to the contralateral ventral horn, showing that VSCT neurons might contribute to motor control at a spinal level. They might thus play a role in modulating spinal activity in advance of any control exerted via the cerebellar loop.
Amphetamine withdrawal in both humans and rats is associated with increased anxiety states, which are thought to contribute to drug relapse. Serotonin in the ventral hippocampus mediates affective behaviors, and reduced serotonin levels in this region are observed in rat models of high anxiety, including during withdrawal from chronic amphetamine. This goal of this study was to understand the mechanisms by which reduced ventral hippocampus serotonergic neurotransmission occurs during amphetamine withdrawal. Serotonin synthesis (assessed by accumulation of serotonin precursor as a measure of the capacity of in vivo tryptophan hydroxylase activity), expression of serotonergic transporters, and in vivo serotonergic clearance using in vivo microdialysis were assessed in the ventral hippocampus in adult male Sprague Dawley rats at 24 h withdrawal from chronic amphetamine. Overall, results showed that diminished extracellular serotonin at 24 h withdrawal from chronic amphetamine was not accompanied by a change in capacity for serotonin synthesis (in vivo tryptophan hydroxylase activity), or serotonin transporter expression or function in the ventral hippocampus, but instead was associated with increased expression and function of organic cation transporters (low-affinity, high-capacity serotonin transporters). These findings suggest that 24 h withdrawal from chronic amphetamine reduces the availability of extracellular serotonin in the ventral hippocampus by increasing organic cation transporter-mediated serotonin clearance, which may represent a future pharmacological target for reversing anxiety states during drug withdrawal.


Atypical cardiorespiratory patterns can be found during routine clinical use of portable monitoring for diagnosis of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB). Over 1,000 consecutive portable recordings were analysed to study the potential ictal nature of stereotyped cardiorespiratory and motor patterns. Snoring, airflow, thoracic effort, pulse rate, body position, oxygen saturation and activity of the anterior tibialis muscles were quantified. Recordings showing stereotyped polygraphic patterns recurring throughout the night, but without the features of sleep apnoea (apnoea/hypopnoea index &lt;5 eventsh(-1)), were selected for investigation. Once included in the study, patients underwent attended nocturnal video polysomnography. A total of 15 recordings showing repeated polygraphic patterns characterised by a sequence of microphone activation, respiratory activity atypical for sleep and wakefulness, heart rate acceleration and limb movements, followed by body position change, were selected for investigation. Once included in the study, patients underwent attended nocturnal video polysomnography that showed frontal epileptic discharges triggering periodic electroencephalographic arousals, autonomic activation and stereotyped motor patterns. A diagnosis of nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE) was established for all patients. NFLE should be taken into consideration in patients with stereotyped and recurrent behavioural features during portable monitoring carried out for diagnosis of SDB.

Imitation is a fundamentally important human capability and has been the topic of considerable research in the behavioural sciences. One paradigm for investigating the basic nature of imitation is the &quot;automatic imitation&quot; paradigm. In this paradigm, participants are symbolically cued to make a particular response, whilst being incidentally exposed to a congruent or incongruent motor action performed by another person. The robust finding is that when the incidental action is incongruent with the cued action, participants are slower to respond than when it is congruent. Despite the name given to this paradigm, the extent to which the imitative tendency involved is actually automatic remains unclear. Here, we manipulated the probability of congruent and incongruent trials within blocks to assess the effects of expectation on the imitative process. In addition, we determined whether an individual difference variable related to how people process others' behaviour-narcissism-affected the automaticity of imitation. Our results confirm that imitation as observed in this paradigm is robust in the face of expectation. However, the degree to which expectation modulates automatic imitation was enhanced for individuals who scored higher on a narcissism inventory. Together, these results suggest that imitation in the automatic imitation paradigm is indeed largely automatic, but that individual differences in narcissism can change the extent to which imitative behaviour manifests.
Tactile perceptual learning has been shown to improve performance on tactile tasks, but there is no agreement about the extent of transfer to untrained skin locations. The lack of such transfer is often seen as a behavioral index of the contribution of early somatosensory brain regions. Moreover, the time course of improvements has never been described explicitly. Sixteen subjects were trained on the Ludvigh task (a tactile vernier task) on four subsequent days. On the fifth day, transfer of learning to the non-trained contralateral hand was tested. In five subjects, we explored to what extent training effects were retained approximately 1.5years after the final training session, expecting to find long-term retention of learning effects after training. Results showed that tactile perceptual learning mainly occurred offline, between sessions. Training effects did not transfer initially, but became fully available to the untrained contralateral hand after a few additional training runs. After 1.5years, training effects were not fully washed out and could be recuperated within a single training session. Interpreted in the light of theories of visual perceptual learning, these results suggest that tactile perceptual learning is not fundamentally different from visual perceptual learning, but might proceed at a slower pace due to procedural and task differences, thus explaining the apparent divergence in the amount of transfer and long-term retention.
Vergence is one of several viewing contexts that require an increase in the angular vestibular-ocular reflex (aVOR) response. A previous monkey study found that the vergence-mediated gain (eye/head velocity) increase of the aVOR was attenuated by 64% when anodic currents, which preferentially lower the activity of irregularly firing vestibular afferents, were delivered to both labyrinths. We sought to determine whether there was similar evidence implicating a role for irregular afferents in the vergence-mediated gain increase of the human aVOR. Our study is based upon analysis of the aVOR evoked by head rotations, delivered passively while subjects viewed a near (15cm) or far (124cm) target and applying galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) via surface electrodes. We tested 12 subjects during 2-3 sessions each. Vestibular stimuli consisted of passive whole-body rotations (sinusoids from 0.05-3Hz and 12-25/s, and transients with peak ~15, 50/s, 500/s(2)) and head-on-body impulses (peak ~30, 150/s, 3,000/s(2)). GVS was on for 10s every 20s. All polarity combinations were tested, with emphasis on uni- and bi-lateral anodic inhibition. The average stimulus current was 5.91.6mA (range: 3-9.5mA), vergence angle (during near viewing) was 22.62.8 and slow-phase eye velocity caused by left anodic current stimulation with head stationary was -3.41.1/s, -0.20.6/s and 2.51.4/s (torsion, vertical, horizontal). No statistically significant GVS effects were observed, suggesting that surface electrode GVS has no effect on the vergence-mediated gain increase of the aVOR at the current levels (~6mA) tolerated by most humans. We conclude that clinically practical transmastoid GVS does not effectively silence irregular afferents and hypothesize that currents &gt;10mA are needed to reproduce the monkey results.
Human orientation in novel and familiar environments is a complex skill that can involve numerous different strategies. To date, a comprehensive account of how these strategies interrelate at the behavioural level has not been documented, impeding the development of elaborate systems neuroscience models of spatial orientation. Here, we describe a virtual environment test battery designed to assess five of the core strategies used by humans to orient. Our results indicate that the ability to form a cognitive map is highly related to more basic orientation strategies, supporting previous proposals that encoding a cognitive map requires inputs from multiple domains of spatial processing. These findings provide a topology of numerous primary orientation strategies used by humans during orientation and will allow researchers to elaborate on neural models of spatial cognition that currently do not account for how different orientation strategies integrate over time based on environmental conditions.
Sigma-1 receptors (-1rs) exert neuroprotective effects on retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) both in vivo and in vitro. This receptor has unique properties through its actions on several voltage-gated and ligand-gated channels. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role that -1rs play in regulating cell calcium dynamics through activated L-type Voltage Gated Calcium Channels (L-type VGCCs) in purified RGCs. RGCs were isolated from P3-P7 Sprague-Dawley rats and purified by sequential immunopanning using a Thy1.1 antibody. Calcium imaging was used to measure changes in intracellular calcium after depolarizing the cells with potassium chloride (KCl) in the presence or absence of two -1r agonists [(+)-SKF10047 and (+)-Pentazocine], one -1r antagonist (BD1047), and one L-type VGCC antagonist (Verapamil). Finally, co-localization studies were completed to assess the proximity of -1r with L-type VGCCs in purified RGCs. VGCCs were activated using KCl (20 mM). Pre-treatment with a known L-type VGCC blocker demonstrated a 57% decrease of calcium ion influx through activated VGCCs. Calcium imaging results also demonstrated that -1r agonists, (+)-N-allylnormetazocine hydrochloride [(+)-SKF10047] and (+)-Pentazocine, inhibited calcium ion influx through activated VGCCs. Antagonist treatment using BD1047 demonstrated a potentiation of calcium ion influx through activated VGCCs and abolished all inhibitory effects of the -1r agonists on VGCCs, implying that these ligands were acting through the -1r. An L-type VGCC blocker (Verapamil) also inhibited KCl activated VGCCs and when combined with the -1r agonists there was not a further decline in calcium entry suggesting similar mechanisms. Lastly, co-localization studies demonstrated that -1rs and L-type VGCCs are co-localized in purified RGCs. Taken together, these results indicated that -1r agonists can inhibit KCl induced calcium ion influx through activated L-type VGCCs in purified RGCs. This is the first report of attenuation of L-type VGCC signaling through the activation of -1rs in purified RGCs. The ability of -1rs to co-localize with L-type VGCCs in purified RGCs implied that these two proteins are in close proximity to each other and that such interactions regulate L-type VGCCs.
Accumulation of amyloid-beta (A) in brain vessel walls and parenchyma, known as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and senile plaques (SPs), respectively, plays a key role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis of the Dutch type (HCHWA-D) pathogenesis. Although the mechanisms underlying CAA and SP formation remain largely unknown, evidence is mounting that local alterations of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the brain vessel wall and/or parenchyma play an important role. Lysyl oxidase (LOX, E.C. 1.4.3.13) is an inducible amine oxidase that modulates the ECM by catalyzing the formation of molecular covalent cross-links in ECM proteins. The aim of this study is to investigate the association of LOX with CAA and with classic and diffuse SPs in both AD and HCHWA-D cases. We observed an association of LOX with A in CAA and with A in both classic and diffuse SPs in AD and HCHWA-D cases. In addition, LOX staining was observed in reactive astrocytes associated with these lesions. We conclude that the ECM modulating enzyme LOX is associated with the A-related pathological hallmarks of both AD and HCHWA-D, and that our findings provide additional insights into the mechanisms underlying the formation of these lesions.
Epinephrine enhances memory in young adult rats, in part, by increasing blood glucose levels needed to modulate memory. In old rats, epinephrine is deficient at raising blood glucose levels and thus is only moderately effective at enhancing memory. In contrast, systemic glucose injections improve memory in old rats, with resulting memory performance equal to that of young rats. The diminished response of glucose to training in old rats may blunt downstream neurochemical and molecular mechanisms needed to upregulate memory processes. In the first experiment, young adult and old rats were trained on an inhibitory avoidance task with immediate post-training injections of aCSF or glucose into the dorsal hippocampus. Old rats had significant memory impairments compared to young rats 7 days after training. Intrahippocampal injections of glucose reversed age-related deficits, improving memory scores in old rats to values seen in young rats. A second experiment examined age-related changes in activation of the transcription factor CREB, which is widely implicated in memory formation and may act downstream of hormonal and metabolic signals. Activation was assessed in response to training with systemic injections of epinephrine and glucose at doses known to enhance memory. Young adult and old rats were trained on inhibitory avoidance with immediate post-training systemic injections of saline, epinephrine, or glucose. After training, old rats had significant impairments in CREB phosphorylation in area CA1 and the dentate gyrus region of the hippocampus, and in the basolateral and lateral amygdala. Epinephrine and glucose attenuated age-related deficits in CREB phosphorylation, but were more effective in the amygdala and hippocampus, respectively. Together, these results support the view that age-related changes in blood glucose responses to epinephrine contribute to memory impairments, which may be related to alterations in regional patterns of CREB phosphorylation.
Activity treatments are useful strategies to increase axonal regeneration and functional recovery after nerve lesions. They are thought to benefit neuropathy by enhancing neurotrophic factor expression. Nevertheless the effects on sensory function are still unclear. Since neurotrophic factors also play a fundamental role in peripheral and central sensitization, we studied the effects of acute electrical stimulation and early treadmill exercise on nerve regeneration and on neuropathic pain, and the relation with the expression of neurotrophins. After sciatic nerve section and suture repair, rats were subjected to electrical stimulation (ES) for 4h after injury, forced treadmill running (TR) for 5 days, or both treatments combined. Sciatic nerve section induced hyperalgesia in the medial area of the plantar skin in the injured paw. TR and ES differently but positively reduced adjacent neuropathic pain before and after sciatic reinnervation. ES enhanced motor and sensory reinnervation, and combination with TR induced strong agonistic effects in relieving pain. The differential effects of these activity treatments were related to changes in neurotrophic factor mRNA levels in sensory and motor neurons. ES speeded up expression of BDNF and GDNF in DRG, and of BDNF and NT3 in the ventral horn. TR reduced the levels of pro-nociceptive factors such as BDNF, NGF and GDNF in DRG. Combination of ES and TR induced intermediate levels suggesting an optimal balancing of treatment effects.
Huntington Disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurological disorder characterized by motor, psychiatric and cognitive disturbances. Recent evidence indicates that the viability and function of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) are compromised in an aggressive mouse model of HD. Here we investigate whether this is also the case in the HdhQ200 knock-in mouse model of HD. Using quantitative-real time-PCR and immunofluorescence, we observed a loss of the PC marker and calcium buffer calbindin in 50week-old symptomatic mice. Reductions were also observed in parvalbumin and glutamic acid decarboxylase protein expression, most markedly in the molecular cell layer. Stereological analysis revealed an overall reduction in the PC population in HdhQ200/Q200 mice by nearly 40%, and loose patch electrophysiology of remaining PCs indicated a reduction in firing rate in HD mice compared to control littermates. Taken together, these data demonstrate that PC survival and function are compromised in a mouse model of adult-onset HD and suggest that further experiments should investigate the contribution of PC death and dysfunction to HD-associated motor impairment.
Local field potential recordings made from the basal ganglia of patients undergoing deep brain stimulation have suggested that frequency specific activity is involved in determining the rate of force development and the peak force at the outset of a movement. However, the extent to which the basal ganglia might be involved in motor performance later on in a sustained contraction is less clear. We therefore recorded from the subthalamic nucleus region (STNr) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) as they made maximal voluntary grips. Relative to age-matched controls they had more rapid force decrement when contraction was meant to be sustained and prolonged release reaction time and slower rate of force offset when they were supposed to release the grip. These impairments were independent from medication status. Increased STNr power over 5-12 Hz (in the theta/alpha band) independently predicted better performance-reduced force decrement, shortened release reaction time and faster rate of force offset. In contrast, lower mean levels and progressive reduction of STNr power over 55-375 Hz (high gamma/high frequency) over the period when contraction was meant to be sustained were both strongly associated with greater force decrement over time. Higher power over 13-23 Hz (low beta) was associated with more rapid force decrement during the period when grip should have been sustained, and with a paradoxical shortening of the release reaction time. These observations suggest that STNr activities at 5-12 Hz and 55-375 Hz are necessary for optimal grip performance and that deficiencies of such activities lead to motor impairments. In contrast, increased levels of 13-25 Hz activity both promote force decrement and shorten the release reaction time, consistent with a role in antagonising (and terminating) voluntary movement. Frequency specific oscillatory activities in the STNr impact on motor performance from the beginning to the end of a voluntary grip.


A combination of genetic and environmental factors probably plays a role in determining an increased susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (MS). Among these factors, vitamin D and A metabolites are likely to play a role given their immunomodulatory properties. Decreased serum vitamin D levels have been associated with clinical and MRI activity of MS. Lken-Amsrud et al. evaluated the association of retinol concentration with clinical and MRI measures of disease activity in MS patients over a 2-year period. Serum retinol levels correlated with MRI metrics of disease activity, but not with clinical findings. Following IFN--1a treatment, the association with MRI metrics was lost. These results support a role of vitamin A metabolites in influencing disease activity in MS.

Currently, intravenous thrombolysis is by far the most effective treatment of acute ischemic stroke, and its use can independently strongly increase the proportion of stroke patients surviving. While the use of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in accordance to licensed criteria has continuously risen, off-label use is also frequent. In this review the most important reasons to transcend current license criteria are discussed and evidence is summarized from new studies, such as IST-3, contributing to the balance of increased benefit as opposed to possible harm in situations of off-label use of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in stroke. In addition, several scores to predict risk and outcome in patients undergoing thrombolysis are compared.
Headache disorders are ubiquitous, prevalent and disabling, yet under-recognized, underdiagnosed and undertreated everywhere. A recent WHO survey of headache disorders &quot;illuminates the worldwide neglect of a major public health problem, and reveals the inadequacies of responses to it in countries throughout the world.&quot; In this depressing context, the most profitable future for headache research - in the sense of maximizing benefit to people with headache - lies in health services research. This, backed by health economic studies, is likely to show that reallocation of resources towards better healthcare delivery, more effectively using treatments already available, has greater potential to benefit than the search for new drugs. In a world in which the lives of most people with headache are untouched by treatment developments of the last 20years, there is far greater utility gain from finding ways to reach them than from striving to do a little better in the relatively well-served small minority.


The human paracentral lobule, the junction of the precentral and postcentral gyri at the medial hemispheric surface, contains several important functional regions, and its variable morphology requires exact morphological and quantitativedata. In order to obtain precise data we investigated the morphology of the paracentral lobule and quantified its visible (extrasulcal) surface. This surface corresponds to commonly used magnetic resonance imaging scout images. We studied 84 hemispheres of adult persons (42 brains; 26 males and 16 females; 20-65 years) fixed in neutral formalin for at least 4 weeks. The medial hemispheric surface was photographed at standard distance and each digital photo was calibrated. Using the intercommissural line system (commissura anterior-commissura posterior or CA-CP line), we performed standardised measurements of the paracentral lobule. Exact determination of its boundaries and morphological types was followed by digital morphometry of its extrasulcal surface using AutoCAD software. We found two distinct morphological types of the human paracentral lobule: continuous type, which was predominant (95.2%), and rare segmented type (4.8%). In hemispheres with segmented cingulate sulcus we also found the short transitional lobulo-limbic gyrus (13.1%). The mean extrasulcal surface of the left paracentral lobule was significantly larger, both in males (left 6.79 cm2 vs. right 5.76 cm2) and in females (left 6.05 cm2 vs. right 5.16 cm2). However, even larger average surfaces in males were not significantly different than the same in females. Reported morphological and quantitative data will be useful during diagnostics and treatment of pathologies affecting the human paracentral lobule, and in further studies of its cytoarchitectonic and functional parcellations.
Under oxidative stress conditions, mitochondria are the major site for cellular production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide anion and H2O2 that can attack numerous mitochondrial proteins including dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH). While DLDH is known to be vulnerable to oxidative inactivation, the mechanisms have not been clearly elucidated. The present study was therefore designed to investigate the mechanisms of DLDH oxidative inactivation by mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mitochondria, isolated from rat brain, were incubated with mitochondrial respiratory substrates such as pyruvate/malate or succinate in the presence of electron transport chain inhibitors such as rotenone or antimycin A. This is followed by enzyme activity assay and gel-based proteomic analysis. The present study also examined whether ROS-induced DLDH oxidative inactivation could be reversed by reducing reagents such as DTT, cysteine, and glutathione. Results show that DLDH could only be inactivated by complex III- but not complex I-derived ROS; and the accompanying loss of activity due to the inactivation could be restored by cysteine and glutathione, indicating that DLDH oxidative inactivation by complex III-derived ROS was a reversible process. Further studies using catalase indicate that it was H2O2 instead of superoxide anion that was responsible for DLDH inactivation. Moreover, using sulfenic acid-specific labeling techniques in conjunction with two-dimensional Western blot analysis, we show that protein sulfenic acid formation (also known as sulfenation) was associated with the loss of DLDH enzymatic activity observed under our experimental conditions. Additionally, such oxidative modification was shown to be associated with preventing DLDH from further inactivation by the thiol-reactive reagent N-ethylmaleimide. Taken together, the present study provides insights into the mechanisms of DLDH oxidative inactivation by mitochondrial H2O2.
Rotigotine, a non-ergot dopamine agonist, has been developed as a novel transdermal formulation. The rotigotine transdermal patch has received EMEA marketing authorization for the treatment of adult patients with early or advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) or with moderate to severe restless legs syndrome (RLS). FDA originally granted a marketing authorization for early PD, which was later suspended, and is now studying the authorization for RLS. The aim of this review is to review the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics as well as the clinical efficacy and tolerability of the rotigotine transdermal patch in PD. Source material was identified using a PubMed search for the term 'rotigotine' and PD. Articles published up to January 2011 or abstract submitted to most relevant international neurology congresses were reviewed. The rotigotine transdermal patch is efficacious for the treatment of PD. Tolerability profile appears to be well within the range of that observed with other non-ergot dopamine agonists in PD. Application-site reactions were the most frequent adverse event, and they were considered mild to moderate in the majority of cases. The rotigotine transdermal patch offers a safe and efficacious alternative for the treatment of PD. Further studies should focus on the possibility that continuous dopamine stimulation by means of the transdermal patch has any influence on levodopa-related motor complications.

Medulloblastoma is a heterogeneous diffuse neoplasm that can be highly disseminated, and is the most common malignant childhood brain tumor. Although multimodal treatments have improved survival rates for patients with medulloblastoma, these tumors are associated with high morbidity and mortality. New treatment strategies are urgently needed to improve cure rates and, importantly, to spare normal brain tissue from neurotoxicity and patients from life-long cognitive and functional deficits associated with current therapies. In numerous preclinical brain tumor models, neural stem cells (NSCs) have shown great promise as delivery vehicles for therapeutic genes. Here, we have used an established, genetically modified human NSC line (HB1.F3.CD) to deliver carboxylesterase (CE) to cerebellar tumor foci and locally activate the prodrug camptothecin-11 (CPT-11) (Irinotecan) to the potent topoisomerase I inhibitor SN-38. HB1.F3.CD NSC tumor tropism, intratumoral distribution and therapeutic efficacy were investigated in clinically relevant experimental models. Magnetic resonance imaging was used for in vivo tracking of iron nanoparticle-labeled NSCs, and to assess the therapeutic efficacy of CE-expressing HB1.F3.CD cells. As compared with controls, a significant decrease in tumor growth rate was seen in mice that received both NSCs and CPT-11 as their treatment regimen. Thus, this study provides proof-of-concept for NSC-mediated CE/CPT-11 treatment of medulloblastoma, and serves as a foundation for further studies toward potential clinical application.
In a widely cited study, Mattay et al. reported that amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg oral, or 17 mg for a 68 kg individual) impaired behavioral and brain indices of executive functioning, measured using the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST) and N-Back working memory task, in 6 individuals homozygous for the met allele of the val158met polymorphism in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene, whereas it improved executive functioning in 10 individuals homozygous for the more active val allele. We attempted to replicate their behavioral findings in a larger sample, using similar executive functioning tasks and a broader range of amphetamine doses. Over four sessions, n = 200 healthy normal adults received oral placebo, d-amphetamine 5, 10, and 20 mg (average of 0.07, 0.15 and 0.29 mg/kg), under counterbalanced double-blind conditions and completed WCST and N-back tests of executive functioning. Amphetamine had typical effects on blood pressure and processing speed but did not affect executive functioning. COMT genotype (val158met) was not related to executive functioning under placebo or amphetamine conditions, even when we compared only the homozygous val/val and met/met genotypes at the highest dose of amphetamine (20 mg). Thus, we were not able to replicate the behavioral interaction between COMT and amphetamine seen in Mattay et al. We discuss possible differences between the studies and the implications of our findings for the use of COMT genotyping to predict clinical responses to dopaminergic drugs, and the use of intermediate phenotypes in genetic research.
Advances in next-generation sequencing suggest that RNA-Seq is poised to supplant microarray-based approaches for transcriptome analysis. This article briefly reviews the use of microarrays in the brain-behavior context and then illustrates why RNA-Seq is a superior strategy. Compared with microarrays, RNA-Seq has a greater dynamic range, detects both coding and noncoding RNAs, is superior for gene network construction, detects alternative spliced transcripts, detects allele specific expression and can be used to extract genotype information, e.g. nonsynonymous coding single nucleotide polymorphisms. Examples of where RNA-Seq has been used to assess brain gene expression are provided. Despite the advantages of RNA-Seq, some disadvantages remain. These include the high cost of RNA-Seq and the computational complexities associated with data analysis. RNA-Seq embraces the complexity of the transcriptome and provides a mechanism to understand the underlying regulatory code; the potential to inform the brain-behavior relationship is substantial.
Adolescent individuals display altered behavioral sensitivity to ethanol, which may contribute to the increased ethanol consumption seen in this age-group. However, genetics also exert considerable influence on both ethanol intake and sensitivity. Currently there is little research assessing the combined influence of developmental and genetic alcohol sensitivities. Sensitivity to the aversive effects of ethanol using a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) procedure was measured during both adolescence (P30) and adulthood (P75) in eight inbred mouse strains (C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, 129S1/SvImJ, A/J, BALB/cByJ, BTBR T(+) tf/J, C3H/HeJ and FVB/NJ). Adolescent and adult mice were water deprived, and subsequently provided with access to 0.9% (v/v) NaCl solution for 1 h. Immediately following access mice were administered ethanol (0, 1.5, 2.25 and 3 g/kg, ip). This procedure was repeated in 72 h intervals for a total of five CTA trials. Sensitivity to the aversive effects of ethanol was highly dependent upon both strain and age. Within an inbred strain, adolescent animals were consistently less sensitive to the aversive effects of ethanol than their adult counterparts. However, the dose of ethanol required to produce an aversion response differed as a function of both age and strain.
Cocaine is an inhibitor of the dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake transporters. Because its administration would elevate signaling of all these three neurotransmitters, many studies have been aimed at attributing individual effects of cocaine to specific transmitter systems. Using mice with a cocaine-insensitive dopamine transporter (DAT-CI mice), we previously showed that cocaine-induced dopamine elevations were necessary for its rewarding and stimulating effects. In this study, we observe that DAT-CI mice exhibit cocaine-conditioned place aversion (CPA), and that its expression depends on their genetic background. Specifically, DAT-CI mice backcrossed to the C57Bl/6J strain background did not display a preference or an aversion to cocaine, whereas DAT-CI mice that were on a mixed 129S1/SvImJ  C57Bl/6J (129B6) background had a robust CPA to cocaine. These results indicate that while inhibition of the DAT is necessary for cocaine reward, other cocaine targets and neurotransmitter systems may mediate the aversive properties of cocaine. Furthermore, the aversive effect of cocaine can be observed in the absence of a DAT-mediated rewarding effect, and it is affected by genomic differences between these two mouse strains.
Decision making ability has been reported to be impaired in schizophrenia patients, but no research has examined the genetic bases of this impairment. This study investigated how decision making was affected by the genetic variants in the serotonin transporter gene (triallelic 5- HTTLPR) and serotonin receptor 1A gene (rs6295) and their interaction in 465 schizophrenia patients and 448 healthy controls. The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) was used to evaluate decision making under ambiguity (the first 40 trials) and decision making under risk (the last 60 trials). Results showed that, among the patients, the main effects of 5- HTTLPR (F(2) (,16) = 6.54, P = 0.002) and HTR1A rs6295 (F(2) (,16) = 3.87, P = 0.021) polymorphisms and their interaction effect (F(4) (,16) = 3.32, P = 0.005) were significant for the first 40 trials, with the GG genotype of HTR1A rs6295, the L'L' genotype of 5- HTTLPR and the GG-L'L' combination showing poorer IGT performance than their counterparts. Results for the healthy controls showed a similar pattern but did not reach statistical significance. No significant effects were found for the last 60 trials. These results are discussed in terms of their implications for our understanding of the genetic mechanisms of decision making in schizophrenia patients as well as healthy adults.
Purkinje Cell Degeneration (PCD) mice harbor a nna1 gene mutation which leads to an early and rapid degeneration of Purkinje cells (PC) between the third and fourth week of age. This mutation also underlies the death of mitral cells (MC) in the olfactory bulb (OB), but this process is slower and longer than in PC. No clear interpretations supporting the marked differences in these neurodegenerative processes exist. Growing evidence suggests that either beneficial or detrimental effects of gliosis in damaged regions would underlie these divergences. Here, we examined the gliosis occurring during PC and MC death in the PCD mouse. Our results demonstrated different glial reactions in both affected regions. PC disappearance stimulated a severe gliosis characterized by strong morphological changes, enhanced glial proliferation, as well as the release of pro-inflammatory mediators. By contrast, MC degeneration seems to promote a more attenuated glial response in the PCD OB compared with that of the cerebellum. Strikingly, cerebellar oligodendrocytes died by apoptosis in the PCD, whereas bulbar ones were not affected. Interestingly, the level of nna1 mRNA under normal conditions was higher in the cerebellum than in the OB, probably related to a faster neurodegeneration and stronger glial reaction in its absence. The glial responses may thus influence the neurodegenerative course in the cerebellum and OB of the mutant mouse brain, providing harmful and beneficial microenvironments, respectively.
Glioblastoma multiform (GBM) are devastating brain tumors containing a fraction of multipotent stem-like cells which are highly tumorigenic. These cells are resistant to treatments and are likely to be responsible for tumor recurrence. One approach to eliminate GBM stem-like cells would be to force their terminal differentiation. During development, neurons formation is controlled by neurogenic transcription factors such as Ngn1/2 and NeuroD1. We found that in comparison with oligodendrogenic genes, the expression of these neurogenic genes is low or absent in GBM tumors and derived cultures. We thus explored the effect of overexpressing these neurogenic genes in three CD133(+) Sox2(+) GBM stem-like cell cultures and the U87 glioma line. Introduction of Ngn2 in CD133(+) cultures induced massive cell death, proliferation arrest and a drastic reduction of neurosphere formation. Similar effects were observed with NeuroD1. Importantly, Ngn2 effects were accompanied by the downregulation of Olig2, Myc, Shh and upregulation of Dcx and NeuroD1 expression. The few surviving cells adopted a typical neuronal morphology and some of them generated action potentials. These cells appeared to be produced at the expense of GFAP(+) cells which were radically reduced after differentiation with Ngn2. In vivo, Ngn2-expressing cells were unable to form orthotopic tumors. In the U87 glioma line, Ngn2 could not induce neuronal differentiation although proliferation in vitro and tumoral growth in vivo were strongly reduced. By inducing cell death, cell cycle arrest or differentiation, this work supports further exploration of neurogenic proteins to oppose GBM stem-like and non-stem-like cell growth.
Heterosynaptic long-term depression (hLTD) at untetanized synapses accompanying the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) spatially sharpens the activity-induced synaptic potentiation; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We found that hLTD in the hippocampal CA1 region is caused by stimulation-induced ATP release from astrocytes that suppresses transmitter release from untetanized synaptic terminals via activation of P2Y receptors. Selective stimulation of astrocytes expressing channelrhodopsin-2, a light-gated cation channel permeable to Ca(2+) , resulted in LTD of synapses on neighboring neurons. This synaptic modification required Ca(2+) elevation in astrocytes and activation of P2Y receptors, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Furthermore, blocking P2Y receptors or buffering astrocyte intracellular Ca(2+) at a low level prevented hLTD without affecting LTP induced by SC stimulation. Thus, astrocyte activation is both necessary and sufficient for mediating hLTD accompanying LTP induction, strongly supporting the notion that astrocytes actively participate in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity of neural circuits.
Sleep is an evolutionarily conserved phenomenon that is clearly essential for survival, but we have limited understanding of how and why it is so important. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)/adenosine signaling has been known to be important in the regulation of sleep and recent evidence suggests a critical role for gliotransmission in the modulation of sleep homeostasis. Herein, we review the regulation of ATP/adenosine in the nervous system and provide evidence of a critical role for astrocyte-derived adenosine in the regulation of sleep homeostasis and the modulation of synaptic transmission. Further understanding of the role of glial cells in the regulation of sleep may provide new targets for pharmaceutical intervention in the treatment of brain dysfunctions, specifically those that are comorbid with sleep disruptions.


The mouse auditory system contains neurons selective for tone duration and for a narrow range of frequency modulated (FM) sweep rates. Whether such selectivity is developmentally regulated is not known. The main goal of this study was to follow the development of neuronal responses to tones (frequency and duration tuning) and FM sweeps (direction and rate selectivity) in the core auditory cortex (A1 and AAF) of ketamine/xylazine anesthetized C57bl/6 mice. Three groups were compared: postnatal day (P) 15-20, P21-30 and P31-90. Frequency tuning bandwidth decreased during the first month indicating refinement of the excitatory receptive field. Duration tuning for tones did not change during development in terms of categories of tuning types as well as measures of selectivity such as best duration and half-maximal duration. FM rate and direction selectivity were developmentally regulated. Selectivity for linear up and down FM sweeps (0.06-22kHz/ms) was tested. The best rate and half-maximal rate of neurons categorized as fast- or band-pass selective shifted toward faster rates during development. The percentage of fast-pass selective neurons also increased during development. These data suggest that cortical neurons' discrimination and detection abilities for relatively faster sweep rates improve during development. Although on average, direction selectivity was weak across development, there was a significant shift toward upward sweep selectivity at slow rates. Thus, the C57bl/6 mouse auditory cortex is not adult-like until at least P30. The changes in response selectivity can be explained based on known developmental changes in intrinsic and synaptic properties of mouse auditory cortical neurons.
The auditory cortex (AC) of the rat has been the subject of many studies, yet the details of its functional organization are still not well understood. We describe here the functional organization of the AC in young rats (strain Long Evans, aged 30-35 days, anesthetized with ketamine/xylazine) on the basis of the neuronal responses to acoustic stimuli. Based on the neuronal responses to broad band noise (BBN) and pure tone bursts, the AC may be divided into the primary auditory cortex (AI) and three other core fields: anterior (AAF), suprarhinal (SRAF) and posterior (PAF) as well as an unspecific region (UR) inserted between the AI and AAF. The core fields are surrounded by a belt area. Neurons in the AI, AAF, SRAF and PAF showed well defined characteristic frequencies (CF) in response to pure tone stimulation; in contrast, UR neurons responded only at high intensities without a clear CF. Neurons responding only to BBN stimulation were found mostly in the belt area. The putative borders between the core fields were determined by changes in their tonotopic gradient; however, no tonotopic organization was found in the PAF. Neurons with the shortest response latencies to BBN stimulation were found in layer 4 (L4) and layer 6 (L6) in the AI, while those with the longest latencies in the superficial layers (L1/2) of the belt area. Similar principles of responsiveness were observed when the spike rate in response to BBN stimulation was evaluated, with the highest rate present in L4 of the AI and the lowest in L1/2 of the belt area. According to the shape of the peristimulus time histograms, the responses of neurons in the AC of the rat may be classified as pure onset, sustained, onset-sustained, double peak or late onset. The most dominant in all fields, as well as in all layers, was the pure onset response. Our findings offer further cues for understanding the functional organization of the AC in the rat.
We investigated gender differences in the identification of personally familiar voices in a gender-balanced sample of 40 listeners. From various types of utterances, listeners had to identify by name 20 speakers (10 female) among a set of 70 possible classmates who were all 12th grade pupils from the same local secondary school. Mean identification rates were 67% from sentences, and around 35% for an isolated /Hello/ or a VCV syllable. Even from non-verbal harrumphs, speakers were identified with an accuracy of 18%, i.e. highly above chance levels. Substantial individual differences were observed between listeners. Importantly, superior overall performance of female listeners was qualified by an interaction between voice gender and listener gender. Male listeners exhibited an own-gender bias (i.e. better identification for male than female voices), whereas female listeners identified voices of both genders at similar levels. Individual own-gender identification biases were correlated with differences in reported contact to a speaker's voice and voice distinctiveness. Overall, the present study establishes a number of factors that account for substantial individual differences in personal voice identification.
The neurosteroid 17-beta estradiol (E2) plays an important role in neuronal plasticity, neurogenesis and neuroprotection of hippocampal neurons in slice cultures and the female brain. While some effects of E2 on hippocampal neurons observed in females were also seen in the male hippocampus, others seem to be specific to females. The current study aimed to further explore the effect of E2 on the male hippocampus by investigating the relationship between genetic variations in E2 synthesis and hippocampal gray matter (GM) volume. We chose a single nucleotide polymorphism (rs700158, SNP) in the gene CYP19A1 coding for the final enzyme (aromatase) in E2 synthesis. Men homozygous for the A allele of rs700518 have repeatedly been shown to have higher E2 serum levels than male carriers of the G allele. Two independent cohorts of healthy young men were genotyped for rs700518 and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) was performed on structural magnetic resonance images to determine genotype dependent group differences. Men homozygous for the A allele of rs700518 had greater bilateral posterior hippocampal GM volumes in both cohorts. Thus, the genotype associated with higher E2 serum levels was also associated with greater hippocampal gray matter.
While tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph2) null mutant (Tph2(-/-)) mice are completely deficient in brain serotonin (5-HT) synthesis, the formation of serotonergic neurons and pathfinding of their projections are not impaired. However, 5-HT deficiency, during development and in the adult, might affect morphological and functional parameters of other neural systems. To assess the influence of 5-HT deficiency on -amino butyric acid (GABA) systems, we carried out measurements of GABA concentrations in limbic brain regions of adult male wildtype (wt), heterozygous (Tph2(+/-)) and Tph2(-/-) mice. In addition, unbiased stereological estimation of GABAergic interneuron numbers and density was performed in subregions of amygdala and hippocampus. Amygdala and prefrontal cortex displayed significantly increased and decreased GABA concentrations, respectively, exclusively in Tph2(+/-) mice while no changes were detected between Tph2(-/-) and wt mice. In contrast, in the hippocampus, increased GABA concentrations were found in Tph2(-/-) mice. While total cell density in the anterior basolateral amygdala did not differ between genotypes, the number and density of the GABAergic interneurons were significantly decreased in Tph2(-/-) mice, with the group of parvalbumin (PV)-immunoreactive (ir) interneurons contributing somewhat less to the decrease than that of non-PV-ir GABAergic interneurons. Major morphological changes were also absent in the dorsal hippocampus, and only a trend toward reduced density of PV-ir cells was observed in the CA3 region of Tph2(-/-) mice. Our findings are the first to document that life-long reduction or complete lack of brain 5-HT transmission causes differential changes of GABA systems in limbic regions which are key players in emotional learning and memory processes. The changes likely reflect a combination of developmental alterations and functional adaptations of emotion circuits to balance the lack of 5-HT, and may underlie altered emotional behavior in 5-HT-deficient mice. Taken together, our findings provide further insight into the mechanisms how life-long 5-HT deficiency impacts the pathogenesis of anxiety- and fear-related disorders.
Numerous studies aimed at identifying the role of estrogen on the brain have used the ovariectomized rodent as the experimental model. And while estrogen intervention in these animals has, at least partially, restored cholinergic, neurotrophin and cognitive deficits seen in the ovariectomized animal, it is worth considering that the removal of the ovaries results in the loss of not only circulating estrogen but of circulating progesterone as well. As such, the various deficits associated with ovariectomy may be attributed to the loss of progesterone as well. Similarly, one must also consider the fact that the human menopause results in the precipitous decline of not just circulating estrogens, but in circulating progesterone as well and as such, the increased risk for diseases such as Alzheimer's disease during the postmenopausal period could also be contributed by this loss of progesterone. In fact, progesterone has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects, both in cell models, animal models and in humans. Here, we review the evidence that supports the neuroprotective effects of progesterone and discuss the various mechanisms that are thought to mediate these protective effects. We also discuss the receptor pharmacology of progesterone's neuroprotective effects and present a conceptual model of progesterone action that supports the complementary effects of membrane-associated and classical intracellular progesterone receptors. In addition, we discuss fundamental differences in the neurobiology of progesterone and the clinically used, synthetic progestin, medroxyprogesterone acetate that may offer an explanation for the negative findings of the combined estrogen/progestin arm of the Women's Health Initiative-Memory Study (WHIMS) and suggest that the type of progestin used may dictate the outcome of either pre-clinical or clinical studies that addresses brain function.
Significantly extended life expectancy coupled with contemporary sedentary lifestyles and poor nutrition has created a global epidemic of cardiovascular disease and stroke. For women, this issue is complicated by the discrepant outcomes of hormone therapy (HT) for stroke incidence and severity as well as the therapeutic complications for stroke associated with advancing age. Here we propose that the impact of estrogen therapy cannot be considered in isolation, but should include age-related changes in endocrine, immune, and nucleic acid mediators that collaborate with estrogen to produce neuroprotective effects commonly seen in younger, healthier demographics. Due to their role as modulators of ischemic cell death, the post-stroke inflammatory response, and neuronal survival and regeneration, this review proposes that Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF)-1, Vitamin D, and discrete members of the family of non-coding RNA peptides called microRNAs (miRNAs) may be crucial biochemical markers that help determine the neuroprotective &quot;window&quot; of HT. Specifically, IGF-1 confers neuroprotection in concert with, and independently of, estrogen and failure of the insulin/IGF-1 axis is associated with metabolic disturbances that increase the risk for stroke. Vitamin D and miRNAs regulate and complement IGF-1 mediated function and neuroprotective efficacy via modulation of IGF-1 availability and neural stem cell and immune cell proliferation, differentiation and secretions. Together, age-related decline of these factors differentially affects stroke risk, severity, and outcome, and may provide a novel therapeutic adjunct to traditional HT practices.
Estrogens have been shown to be protective agents against neurodegeneration and associated cognitive decline in aging females. However, clinical data have been equivocal as to the benefits to the brain and cognition of estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women. One factor that is proposed to be critical in determining the efficacy of hormone therapy is the timing of its initiation. The critical period or window of opportunity hypothesis proposes that following long-term ovarian hormone deprivation, the brain and cognition become insensitive to exogenously administered estrogens. In contrast, if estrogens are administered during a critical period near the time of cessation of ovarian function, they will exert beneficial effects. The focus of the current review is the examination of evidence from rodent models investigating the critical period hypothesis. A growing body of experimental data indicates that beneficial effects of 17-estradiol (estradiol) on cognition and on cholinergic function and hippocampal plasticity, both of which have been linked to the ability of estradiol to exert beneficial effects on cognition, are attenuated if estradiol is administered following a period of long-term ovarian hormone deprivation. Further, emerging data implicate loss of estrogen receptor alpha (ER) in the brain resulting from long-term hormone deprivation as a basis for the existence of the critical period. A unifying model is proposed by which the presence or absence of estrogens during a critical period following the cessation of ovarian function permanently alters the system resulting in decreased or increased risk, respectively, of neurodegeneration and cognitive decline.
This review describes the neuroendocrinological aspects of catamenial epilepsy, a menstrual cycle-related seizure disorder in women with epilepsy. Catamenial epilepsy is a multifaceted neuroendocrine condition in which seizures are clustered around specific points in the menstrual cycle, most often around perimenstrual or periovulatory period. Three types of catamenial seizures (perimenstrual, periovulatory and inadequate luteal) have been identified. The molecular pathophysiology of catamenial epilepsy remains unclear. Cyclical changes in the circulating levels of estrogens and progesterone (P) play a central role in the development of catamenial epilepsy. Endogenous neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone (AP) and allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) that modulate seizure susceptibility could play a critical role in catamenial epilepsy. In addition, plasticity in GABA-A receptor subunits could play a role in the enhanced seizure susceptibility in catamenial epilepsy. P-derived neurosteroids such as AP and THDOC potentiate synaptic GABA-A receptor function and also activate extrasynaptic GABA-A receptors in the hippocampus and thus may represent endogenous regulators of catamenial seizure susceptibility. Experimental studies have shown that neurosteroids confer greater seizure protection in animal models of catamenial epilepsy, especially without evident tolerance to their actions during chronic therapy. In the recently completed NIH-sponsored, placebo controlled phase 3 clinical trial, P therapy proved to be beneficial only in women with perimenstrual catamenial epilepsy but not in non-catamenial subjects. Neurosteroid analogs with favorable profile may be useful in the treatment of catamenial epilepsy.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the primary cause of disability in the developed world. Experimental and clinical data indicate that stroke is a sexually dimorphic disease, with males demonstrating an enhanced intrinsic sensitivity to ischemic damage throughout most of their lifespan. The neuroprotective role of estrogen in the female brain is well established, however, estrogen exposure can also be deleterious, especially in older women. The mechanisms for this remain unclear. Our current understanding is based on studies examining estrogen as it relates to neuronal injury, yet cerebral ischemia also induces a robust sterile inflammatory response involving local and systemic immune cells. Despite the potent anti-inflammatory effects of estrogen, few studies have investigated the contribution of estrogen to sex differences in the inflammatory response to stroke. This review examines the potential role for estrogen-mediated immunoprotection in ischemic injury.
Although many of the effects of estrogens on the brain are mediated through estrogen receptors (ERs), there is evidence that neuroprotective activity of estrogens can be mediated by non-ER mechanisms. Herein, we review the substantial evidence that estrogens neuroprotection is in large part non-ER mediated and describe in vitro and in vivo studies that support this conclusion. Also, we described our drug discovery strategy for capitalizing on enhancement in neuroprotection while at the same time, reducing ER binding of a group of synthetic non-feminizing estrogens. Finally, we offer evidence that part of the neuroprotection of these non-feminizing estrogens is due to enhancement in redox potential of the synthesized compounds.
Previous studies have shown that healthy anatomical as well as functional brain networks have small-world properties and become less optimal with brain disease. During sleep, the functional brain network becomes more small-world-like. Here we test the hypothesis that the functional brain network during wakefulness becomes less optimal after sleep deprivation (SD). Electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded five times a day after a night of SD and after a night of normal sleep in eight young healthy subjects, both during eyes-closed and eyes-open resting state. Overall synchronization was determined with the synchronization likelihood (SL) and the phase lag index (PLI). From these coupling strength matrices the normalized clustering coefficient C (a measurement of local clustering) and path length L (a measurement of global integration) were computed. Both measures were normalized by dividing them by their corresponding C-s and L-s values of random control networks. SD reduced alpha band C/C-s and L/L-s and theta band C/C-s during eyes-closed resting state. In contrast, SD increased gamma-band C/C-s and L/L-s during eyes-open resting state. Functional relevance of these changes in network properties was suggested by their association with sleep deprivation-induced performance deficits on a sustained attention simple reaction time task. The findings indicate that SD results in a more random network of alpha-coupling and a more ordered network of gamma-coupling. The present study shows that SD induces frequency-specific changes in the functional network topology of the brain, supporting the idea that sleep plays a role in the maintenance of an optimal functional network.
Visuospatial neglect is a multicomponent syndrome, and one dissociation reported is between neglect for near (peripersonal) and far (extrapersonal) space. Owing to patient heterogeneity and extensive lesions, it is difficult to determine the precise neural mechanisms underlying this dissociation using clinical methodology. In this study, transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to examine the involvement of three areas in the undamaged brain, while participants completed a conjunction search task in near and far space. The brain areas investigated were right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC), right frontal eye field (rFEF), and right ventral occipital cortex (rVO), each of which has been implicated in visuospatial processing. The results revealed a double dissociation, whereby rPPC was involved for search in near space only, whilst rVO only became necessary when the task was completed in far space. These data provide clear evidence for a dorsal and ventral dissociation between the processing of near and far space, which is compatible with the functional roles previously attributed to the two streams. For example, the involvement of the dorsal stream in near space reflects its role in vision for action, because it is within this spatial location that actions can be performed. The results also revealed that rFEF is involved in the processing of visual search in both near and far space and may contribute to visuospatial attention and/or the control of eye-movements irrespective of spatial frame. We discuss our results with respect to their clear ramifications for clinical diagnosis and neurorehabilitation.
Schwannomas are tumors formed by proliferation of dedifferentiated Schwann cells. Patients with neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) and schwannomatosis develop multiple schwannomas in peripheral and cranial nerves. Although benign, these tumors can cause extreme pain and compromise sensory/motor functions, including hearing and vision. At present, surgical resection is the main treatment modality, but it can be problematic because of tumor inaccessibility and risk of nerve damage. We have explored gene therapy for schwannomas, using a model in which immortalized human NF2 schwannoma cells expressing a fluorescent protein and luciferase are implanted in the sciatic nerve of nude mice. Direct injection of an adeno-associated virus (AAV) serotype 1 vector encoding caspase-1 (ICE) under the Schwann-cell specific promoter, P0, leads to regression of these tumors with essentially no vector-mediated neuropathology, and no changes in sensory or motor function. In a related NF2 xenograft model designed to cause measurable pain behavior, the same gene therapy leads to tumor regression and concordant resolution of tumor-associated pain. This AAV1-P0-ICE vector holds promise for clinical treatment of schwannomas by direct intratumoral injection to achieve reduction in tumor size and normalization of neuronal function.
Chagas' disease is one of the most serious parasitic diseases of Latin America, with a social and economic impact far outweighing the combined effects of other parasitic diseases such as malaria, leishmaniasis and schistosomiasis. In the chronic phase of this disease, the destruction of enteric nervous system (ENS) components leads to megacolon development. Previous data presented that the regeneration tax in the ENS neurons is augmented in chagasic patients. Although, there are several neuronal types with different functions in the intestine a detailed study about the regeneration of every neuronal type was never performed before. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the regeneration tax of every neuronal cell type in the ENS from chagasic patients with megacolon and non-infected individuals. A neuronal regeneration marker (GAP-43) was used in combination with a pan-neuronal marker (Peripherin) and several neuropeptides markers (cChat, Substance P, NPY, VIP and NOS), and it was considered as positive just with the combination of these markers. Our results demonstrated that the regeneration levels of cChat, Substance P, and NPY were similar in chagasic patients and non-infected individuals. However, levels of VIP and NOS neuropeptides were increased in chagasic patients when compared with non-infected individuals. We believe that the augment in the regeneration occur due to an increased destruction of selective neuronal types. These results corroborates with previous studies that pointed out to selective destruction of VIP and NOS neurons in chagasic patients.
De novo mutations in SYNGAP1, which codes for a RAS/RAP GTP-activating protein, cause nonsyndromic intellectual disability (NSID). All disease-causing point mutations identified until now in SYNGAP1 are truncating, raising the possibility of an association between this type of mutations and NSID. Here, we report the identification of the first pathogenic missense mutations (c.1084T&gt;C [p.W362R], c.1685C&gt;T [p.P562L]) and three novel truncating mutations (c.283dupC [p.H95PfsX5], c.2212_2213del [p.S738X], and (c.2184del [p.N729TfsX31]) in SYNGAP1 in patients with NSID. A subset of these patients also showed ataxia, autism, and a specific form of generalized epilepsy that can be refractory to treatment. All of these mutations occurred de novo, except c.283dupC, which was inherited from a father who is a mosaic. Biolistic transfection of wild-type SYNGAP1 in pyramidal cells from cortical organotypic cultures significantly reduced activity-dependent phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) levels. In contrast, constructs expressing p.W362R, p.P562L, or the previously described p.R579X had no significant effect on pERK levels. These experiments suggest that the de novo missense mutations, p.R579X, and possibly all the other truncating mutations in SYNGAP1 result in a loss of its function. Moreover, our study confirms the involvement of SYNGAP1 in autism while providing novel insight into the epileptic manifestations associated with its disruption.
Kohlschtter-Tnz syndrome (KTS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by amelogenesis imperfecta, psychomotor delay or regression and seizures starting early in childhood. KTS was established as a distinct clinical entity after the first report by Kohlschtter in 1974, and to date, only a total of 20 pedigrees have been reported. The genetic etiology of KTS remained elusive until recently when mutations in ROGDI were independently identified in three unrelated families and in five likely related Druze families. Herein, we report a clinical and genetic study of 10 KTS families. By using a combination of whole exome sequencing, linkage analysis, and Sanger sequencing, we identify novel homozygous or compound heterozygous ROGDI mutations in five families, all presenting with a typical KTS phenotype. The other families, mostly presenting with additional atypical features, were negative for ROGDI mutations, suggesting genetic heterogeneity of atypical forms of the disease.
Numerous applications in neuroscience research and neural prosthetics, such as electrocorticogram (ECoG) recording and retinal prosthesis, involve electrical interactions with soft excitable tissues using a surface recording and/or stimulation approach. These applications require an interface that is capable of setting up high-throughput communications between the electrical circuit and the excitable tissue and that can dynamically conform to the shape of the soft tissue. Being a compliant material with mechanical impedance close to that of soft tissues, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) offers excellent potential as a substrate material for such neural interfaces. This paper describes an integrated technology for fabrication of PDMS-based stretchable microelectrode arrays (MEAs). Specifically, as an integral part of the fabrication process, a stretchable MEA is directly fabricated with a rigid substrate, such as a thin printed circuit board (PCB), through an innovative bonding technology-via-bonding-for integrated packaging. This integrated strategy overcomes the conventional challenge of high-density packaging for this type of stretchable electronics. Combined with a high-density interconnect technology developed previously, this stretchable MEA technology facilitates a high-resolution, high-density integrated system solution for neural and muscular surface interfacing. In this paper, this PDMS-based integrated stretchable MEA (isMEA) technology is demonstrated by an example design that packages a stretchable MEA with a small PCB. The resulting isMEA is assessed for its biocompatibility, surface conformability, electrode impedance spectrum, and capability to record muscle fiber activity when applied epimysially.
We have developed a fiber-optic-based probe for precise delivery of stimulation/excitation light pulses and detection of faint fluorescence signals for applications in neuroscience and optogenetics. In this design, a thin multimode fiber serves as the head of the probe to be inserted into the brain. This fiber is used to deliver light to the region of interest and guide a sample of the emission signal back to detectors. The major tradeoff in the design of such a system is to decrease the size of the fiber and intensity of input light to minimize physical damage and to avoid photobleaching/phototoxicity but to keep the signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) reasonably high. Here, the excitation light and the associated emission signal are frequency modulated. Then, the output of the detector is passed through a time lens which compresses the distributed energy of the emission signal and maximizes the instantaneous S/N. By measuring the statistics of the noise, the structure of the time lens is designed to achieve the global optimum of S/N. We have also designed side-firing fibers and a micromechanical assembly for distributed light delivery and fluorescence detection.

Bulimia nervosa is associated with bipolar disorder, substance dependence, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and anxiety disorders. Few reports, however, have addressed the treatment of patients with all of these conditions. We describe a young woman with bulimia nervosa, bipolar I disorder, cocaine and alcohol dependence, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and panic disorder who achieved a sustained (&gt;1 year) remission of her bulimia nervosa symptoms and significant improvement of her attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder symptoms with adjunctive methylphenidate after her bipolar, substance use, and panic disorders were successfully treated with hospitalization, intensive psychotherapy, quetiapine, and lamotrigine. Further research into the use of stimulants in bulimia nervosa, including in patients with complex comorbidity, is required.
Objective: To report the results of the first 1,132 subjects in a pilot project where local central nervous system trial sites collaborated in the use of a subject database to identify potential duplicate subjects. Method: Central nervous system sites in Los Angeles and Orange County, California, were contacted by the lead author to seek participation in the project. CTSdatabase, a central nervous system-focused trial subject registry, was utilized to track potential subjects at pre-screen. Subjects signed an institutional review board-approved authorization prior to participation, and site staff entered their identifiers by accessing a website. Sites were prompted to communicate with each other or with the database administrator when a match occurred between a newly entered subject and a subject already in the database. Results: Between October 30, 2011, and August 31, 2012, 1,132 subjects were entered at nine central nervous system sites. Subjects continue to be entered, and more sites are anticipated to begin participation by the time of publication. Initially, there were concerns at a few sites over patient acceptance, financial implications, and/or legal and privacy issues, but these were eventually overcome. Patient acceptance was estimated to be above 95 percent. Duplicate Subjects (those that matched several key identifiers with subjects at different sites) made up 7.78 percent of the sample and Certain Duplicates (matching identifiers with a greater than 1 in 10 million likelihood of occurring by chance in the general population) accounted for 3.45 percent of pre-screens entered into the database. Many of these certain duplicates were not consented for studies because of the information provided by the registry. Conclusion: The use of a clinical trial subject registry and cooperation between central nervous system trial sites can reduce the number of duplicate and professional subjects entering clinical trials. To be fully effective, a trial subject database could be integrated into protocols across pharmaceutical companies, thereby mandating site participation and increasing the likelihood that duplicate subjects will be removed before they enter (and negatively affect) clinical trials.


Growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) is a major nervous system protein whose phosphorylation by protein kinase C regulates growth cone responses to extracellular guidance cues via F-actin. GAP-43 is essential for axon pathfinding in both cortical afferents and efferents: when it is genetically deleted, somatosensory, auditory and visual somatotopic maps fail to form, and telencephalic commissural axons fail to cross the midline. Here we investigated whether the midline guidance cue netrin-1 depends on GAP-43 for its functions in neurite growth and guidance. We used 3-dimensional collagen gel co-cultures to show that both endogenous netrin-1, expressed by the spinal cord floor plate, and recombinant netrin-1, expressed by transfected COS7 cells, stimulate neurite outgrowth and chemotropic guidance of neocortical callosal axons. In contrast both were significantly inhibited in GAP-43 (-/-) neocortical callosal axons, mimicking the in vivo phenotype. Conversely, neither netrin-1-stimulated neurite outgrowth nor guidance of dorsal spinal cord commissure axons were affected when GAP-43 was absent, again consistent with in vivo phenotype but suggesting fundamental differences in how neocortical and spinal cord axons respond to netrin-1. In addition, differences in GAP-43 dependency also distinguished how ventrolateral cortical efferents respond to netrin-1: in contrast to callosal neurites, in which netrin-1 required GAP-43 in order to stimulate both outgrowth and guidance, in ventrolateral efferents, netrin-1 required GAP-43 only to stimulate outgrowth, but not guidance. Moreover, netrin-1 increased the numbers of both types of cortical, but not spinal neurites. The results demonstrate previously unappreciated diversity in how different classes of neurons respond to the same guidance cue.
Abnormal distribution, modification and aggregation of transactivation response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) are the hallmarks of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, especially frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions (FTLD-U) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Transgenic mouse lines overexpressing wild-type or mutant TDP-43 exhibit ALS-like symptom, motor abnormalities and early paralysis followed by death. Reports on lifespan and phenotypic behaviour in Prp-TDP-43 (A315T) vary, and these animals are not fully characterized. Although it has been proposed that the approximate 20% loss of motor neurons at end stage is responsible for the severe weakness and death in TDP-43 mice, this degree of neurologic damage appears insufficient to cause death. Hence we studied these mice to further characterize and determine the reason for the death. Our characterization of TDP-43 transgenic mice showed that these mice develop ALS-like symptoms that later become compounded by gastrointestinal (GI) complications that resulted in death. This is the first report of a set of pathological evidence in the GI track that is strong indicator for the cause of death of Prp-hTDP-43 (A315T) transgenic mice.

Most deep brain stimulators apply rectangular monophasic voltage pulses. By modifying the stimulus shape, it is possible to optimize stimulus efficacy and find the best compromise between clinical effect, minimal side effects and power consumption of the stimulus generator. In this study, we compared the efficacy of three types of charge-balanced biphasic pulses (CBBPs, nominal duration 100 s) in isolated sciatic nerves and in in vitro hippocampal brain slices of the rat. Using these two models, we tested the efficacy of several stimulus shapes exclusively on axons (in the sciatic nerve) and compared the effect with that of stimuli in the more complex neuronal network of the hippocampal slice by considering the stimulus-response relation. We showed that (i) adding an interphase gap (IPG, range 100-500 s) to the CBBP enhances stimulus efficacy in the rat sciatic nerve and (ii) that this type of stimuli (CBBP with IPG) is also more effective in hippocampal slices. This benefit was similar for both models of voltage and current stimulation. In our two models, asymmetric CBBPs were less beneficial. Therefore, CBBPs with IPG appear to be well suited for application to DBS, since they enhance efficacy, extend battery life and potentially reduce harmful side effects.
Hypoxic brain injury during neonatal development can lead to neuronal damage and produce learning and cognitive impairments. TOPRO-3 staining was used to visualize cell loss and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of BAX mRNA was used to evaluate the level of apoptosis in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, brain stem, and striatum of hypoxic neonatal rats and hypoxic rats resuscitated with glucose, oxygen, and epinephrine. The long-term effects of neonatal hypoxic insult on cognition and behavior were studied using Morris water maze experiment on 1-month-old rats exposed to neonatal hypoxia. In hypoxic neonatal rats, a significant cell loss (p &lt; .001) within the brain regions was observed in TOPRO-3 staining and BAX mRNA expression was significantly upregulated (p &lt; .001). Immediate resuscitation of hypoxic neonates with glucose, alone and along with oxygen, significantly downregulated (p &lt; .001) BAX mRNA expression. The BAX expression in epinephrine resuscitated and 100% oxygen resuscitated groups were found to be upregulated in the brain regions. In water maze experiment, 1-month-old rats exposed to neonatal hypoxia spent lesser time in the platform quadrant (p &lt; .001) and showed longer escape latency (p &lt; .001) highlighting the learning and cognitive deficits. Our study revealed the effect of glucose resuscitation alone and along with oxygenation in ameliorating the spatial memory and learning deficits induced by neonatal hypoxic insult mediated brain cell loss.


The orexin peptides and their two receptors are involved in multiple physiological processes, including energy homeostasis, arousal, stress and reward. Higher signaling of the orexin peptides at the orexin receptors (OXR) protects against obesity, but it is less clear how their activation in different brain regions contributes to this behavioral output. This review summarizes the evidence available for a role of central OXR in energy homeostasis and their contribution to obesity. A detailed analysis of anatomical, cellular and behavioral evidence shows that modulation of energy homeostasis by the OXR is largely dependent upon anatomical and cellular context. It also shows that obesity resistance provided by activation of the OXR is distributed across multiple brain sites with site-specific actions. We suggest that understanding the role of the OXR in the development of obesity requires considering both specific mechanisms within brain regions and interactions of orexinergic input between multiple sites.


The present study investigated the neuroscience of memory for actions using event-related potentials (ERPs). Actions were performed, initiated but not completed (i.e., interrupted), or watched while the experimenter performed the action during encoding. Memory was assessed in a reality monitoring (RM) test (performed vs. watched actions), as well as in an internal source monitoring (ISM) test (performed vs. interrupted) while ERPs were recorded. Behavioral measures provided evidence of robust old/new recognition for all actions, but the analysis of source errors revealed that interrupted actions were often confused with performed actions. The ERP correlate of recollection, the parietal &quot;old/new&quot; effect (700-900ms), was observed for all actions. The right frontal &quot;old/new&quot; effect (1500-1800ms) that correlates with general memory monitoring was observed in RM but not in ISM. Instead, ISM was associated with the late posterior negativity (LPN) that has been connected to more specific memory monitoring. This pattern of ERP findings suggest that, in this context, general monitoring was used to discriminate self- versus other-performed actions, whereas more specific monitoring was required to support the discrimination of completed and interrupted actions. We argue that the mix of general/specific monitoring processes is shaped by the global retrieval context, which includes the number of memory features that overlap and the combination of sources being considered among other factors.
The present study investigated the event-related brain potential (ERP) correlates of word stress processing. Previous results showed that the violation of a legal stress pattern elicited two consecutive Mismatch Negativity (MMN) components synchronized to the changes on the first and second syllable. The aim of the present study was to test whether ERPs reflect only the detection of salient features present on the syllables, or they reflect the activation of long-term stress related representations. We examined ERPs elicited by pseudowords with no lexical representation in two conditions: the standard having a legal stress patterns, and the deviant an illegal one, and the standard having an illegal stress pattern, and the deviant a legal one. We found that the deviant having an illegal stress pattern elicited two consecutive MMN components, whereas the deviant having a legal stress pattern did not elicit MMN. Moreover, pseudowords with a legal stress pattern elicited the same ERP responses irrespective of their role in the oddball sequence, i.e., if they were standards or deviants. The results suggest that stress pattern changes are processed relying on long-term representation of word stress. To account for these results, we propose that the processing of stress cues is based on language-specific, pre-lexical stress templates.
We undertook two systematic reviews to determine the levels of respiratory muscle weakness and effects of respiratory muscle training in stroke patients. Two systematic reviews were conducted in June 2011 using a number of electronic databases. Review 1 compared respiratory muscle strength in stroke and healthy controls. Review 2 was expanded to include randomized controlled trials assessing the effects of respiratory muscle training on stroke and other neurological conditions. The primary outcomes of interest were maximum inspiratory and expiratory mouth pressure (maximum inspiratory pressure and maximum expiratory pressure, respectively). Meta-analysis of four studies revealed that the maximum inspiratory pressure and maximum expiratory pressure were significantly lower (P&lt;000001) in stroke patients compared with healthy individuals (weighted mean difference -4139 and -5462cmH(2) O, respectively). Nine randomized controlled trials indicate a significantly (P=00009) greater effect of respiratory muscle training on maximum inspiratory pressure in neurological patients compared with control subjects (weighted mean difference 694cmH(2) O) while no effect on maximum expiratory pressure. Respiratory muscle strength appears to be impaired after stroke, possibly contributing to increased incidence of chest infection. Respiratory muscle training can improve inspiratory but not expiratory muscle strength in neurological conditions, although the paucity of studies in the area and considerable variability between them is a limiting factor. Respiratory muscle training may improve respiratory muscle function in neurological conditions, but its clinical benefit remains unknown.


The number of patients who seek help at primary and secondary care for somatic symptoms which cannot be explained by any known medical condition is enormous. It has been proposed to rename 'somatoform disorders' in DSM-IV as 'somatic symptom disorders' in DSM-5. This is supposed to include disorders such as somatization disorder, hypochondriasis, undifferentiated somatoform disorder, pain disorder and factitious disorder. The reason for the renaming and grouping is that all these disorders involve presentation of physical symptoms and/or concern about medical illness. In the literature, there is considerable variation adopted with respect to diagnosis and in the approaches adopted for intervention. However, the common feature of these disorders is the chronicity, social dysfunction, occupational difficulties and the increased healthcare use and high level of dissatisfaction for both the clinician and the patient. A number of behavioural and psychological interventions for somatic symptoms have been carried out at primary, secondary and tertiary care settings and recently there have been more attempts to involve the primary care physicians in the psychological interventions. This review aims at giving an overview of the components of the behavioural and other psychological interventions available for addressing medically unexplained somatic symptoms and to present their efficacy.
Several ethical issues confront the healthcare professional who is managing somatization in developing countries where cost constraints, low literacy, poverty, poor nutrition and infections and inadequate access to healthcare are common. The paper discusses these in the context of the ethical principles of autonomy, beneficence, non-maleficence and justice. Some of the ethical issues in managing somatization include being influenced by patient distress rather than rational medical decision-making, inadequate attention to the cultural meaning of symptoms, psychologizing versus medicalizing, the ethics of nomenclature and labels, communicating ethically with patients, and managing them adequately given lack of evidence and training. An ethical approach to managing somatization in this context would include using an integrated and simultaneous medical and psychiatric approach. To ensure patient beneficence, the medical, psychological and social assessment should be undertaken side-by-side as much as possible and should be cost effective. Respecting patient autonomy by using adequate communication methods and the patient's cultural model of the illness as part of management is also integral to ethical practice. In the developing world, issues of equity are also an important ethical concern. When more serious illnesses are the health priority, functional syndromes may not get equal importance or resources.
Somatic symptoms are common presentations in health settings. They can manifest as symptoms of another underlying mental disorder or be termed as medically unexplained. When they are medically unexplained they are invariably subsumed under the diagnostic categories of somatoform disorders. They are associated with interference in functioning, poor quality of life and are burdensome on health resources. The measurement of these symptoms is essential for understanding the individual and planning treatment. There are various instruments that have somatic symptoms measurement in their items. The tools have included somatic symptoms measurement in measuring general psychopathology, somatic symptoms as part of anxiety and depression, somatic symptoms specifically, and as a screening instrument for somatoform disorders. The advantages and disadvantages of common measures have been discussed. It appears that no one measure fulfils the essential criteria of an ideal measure for somatic symptoms. The measures of somatic symptoms should also be culturally sensitive and serve diagnostic, prognostic and heuristic purposes. These aspects are highlighted in the review.
Past work applying otoacoustic emissions to gauge maturational status of the medial olivocochlear (MOC) reflex in human newborns has produced mixed results. The present study revisits the question while considering the dual nature of the 2f(1) - f(2) distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) and expanding measures of medial efferent function. Subjects included premature and term-born neonates, 6-month-old infants and young adults. The MOC reflex was elicited with contralateral acoustic stimulation (CAS) while shifts in amplitude and phase of the DPOAE, and its distortion and reflection components, were monitored. Overall, CAS-elicited reductions in DPOAE level did not differ among age groups. For all ages, the MOC reflex was strongest at frequencies below 1.5 kHz, and the reflection component of the DPOAE was most affected, showing maximally reduced amplitude and shallower phase slope when contralateral noise was presented. Results suggest that the MOC reflex likely reaches maturation prior to full-term birth. However, prematurely born neonates show markedly more episodes of CAS-induced DPOAE level enhancement. This may be due to more intrusive component mixing in this age group or disruptions in the formation of the MOC pathway or synapse in the most premature neonates.
Using group-based trajectory modeling, this study examined 5156 adolescents from the child sample of the 1979 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth to identify developmental trajectories of obesity from ages 6-18 and evaluate associations of such trajectories with risk behaviors and psychosocial health in adolescence. Four distinctive obesity trajectories were identified: &quot;Chronically Obese,&quot; &quot;Decreasing,&quot; &quot;Increasing,&quot; and &quot;Non-obese.&quot; Males were overrepresented in the Chronically Obese and Increasing groups; females were overrepresented in the Decreasing group. African-Americans were overrepresented in the Chronically Obese, Increasing, and Decreasing groups; in contrast, Whites were overrepresented in the Non-obese group. Obesity trajectories were not associated with greater trends in alcohol use, marijuana use, or delinquency, but Chronically Obese adolescents showed a greater increase in cigarette smoking over time compared to other trajectories. The Increasing trajectory, representing a transition into obesity status from childhood to adolescence, was associated with poorer psychosocial health compared to other trajectories.

Mood disorders are a leading cause of the burden of disease in youth. Three critical lessons emerge from the reviews in this issue that are relevant to our understanding of these common mental disorders: first, that the brain is in a highly dynamic stage of its development during youth; second, that environmental factors interact with genetic factors to influence the probability of risk behaviors and dysphoric states; and third, that shared developmental and genetic factors may account for the bulk of emotional and behavioral outcomes in youth, and that environmental influences may affect the specific expression of the phenotypes associated with these pathways. Although this evidence does not immediately indicate the potential for new interventions, it is consistent with current policy and practice recommendations. Interventions should focus on both improving the early detection and management of depressive disorders as well as preventive strategies that aim to train children and youth to improve cognitive control and manage stress more effectively. Limiting access to harmful risk-taking situations and providing opportunities to engage are less harmful, but equally exciting, alternatives in a pragmatic universal prevention policy option. Key research priorities and paradigms emerge from this evidence, particularly in the context of the grand challenges in global mental health.
Advances in neuroscience have improved our knowledge of the impact of illicit drug use on the adolescent brain. Translating this new knowledge into improved policies and programs requires the participation of public health and social sciences. This article discusses the implications of the recent advances of neurobiology for policies especially as they pertain to adolescents in low- and middle-income countries. It includes an overview of adolescent use of illicit drugs in low- and middle-income countries and calls for a move toward a transdisciplinary approach. It presents some of the challenges for research aimed at increasing our understanding of the issue and for policy.




Radial glial cells serve diverse roles during the development of the central nervous system (CNS). In the embryonic brain, they are recognised as guidance conduits for migrating neuroblasts and as multipotent stem cells, generating both neurons and glia. While their stem cell capacities in the developing spinal cord are as yet not fully clarified, they are classically seen as a population of astrocytes precursors, before gradually disappearing as the spinal cord matures. Although the origins and lineages of CNS radial glial cells are being more clearly understood, the relationships between radial glial cells and growing white matter (WM) tracts are largely unknown. Here, we provide an in-depth description of the distribution and organisation of radial glial cell processes during the peak periods of axonogenesis in the rat spinal cord. We show that radial glial cell distribution is highly ordered in the WM from E14 to E18, when the initial patterning of axon tracts is taking place. We report that the density of radial glial cell processes is tightly conserved throughout development in the dorsal, lateral and ventral WM funiculi along the rostrocaudal axis of the spinal cord. We provide evidence that from E16 the dorsal funiculi grow within and are segregated by fascicles of processes emanating from the dorsomedial septum. The density of radial glial cells declines with the maturation of axon tracts and coincides with the onset of the radial glial cell-astrocyte transformation. As such, we propose that radial glial cells act as structural scaffolds by compartmentalising and supporting WM patterning in the spinal cord during embryonic development.
Rippling muscle disease (RMD) is a disorder that affects striated muscle and involves disturbances in calcium homeostasis. Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility (MHS) is a potentially lethal disorder, characterized by extreme hypermetabolism and muscle rigidity/rhabdomyolysis during anesthesia with potent inhalational agents, in otherwise healthy individuals. The aim of this report was to search for a correlation between RMD and MHS in members of a family in which both disorders were present. Ten members of a large Swedish family segregating RMD were tested for MHS prior to establishing an RMD diagnosis. Results from diagnostic RMD investigations and anesthesia outcomes were collected and cross-referenced to evaluate whether phenotype variations could be predicted by in vitro contracture test (IVCT) results suggestive of MHS. No correlation was found between individual RMD phenotypes and the IVCT results. There were no recorded adverse reactions to anesthesia, and RMD and MHS did not co-segregate. We conclude that RMD patients should not, on the basis of our present knowledge, be classified as having MHS; however, an increased surveillance for MH reactions is recommended in these patients.
A recent study showed that the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) can be better adaptively increased using an incremental retinal image velocity error signal compared with a conventional constant large velocity-gain demand (2). This finding has important implications for vestibular rehabilitation that seeks to improve the VOR response after injury. However, a large portion of vestibular patients have unilateral vestibular hypofunction, and training that raises their VOR response during rotations to both the ipsilesional and contralesional side is not usually ideal. We sought to determine if the vestibular response to one side could selectively be increased without affecting the contralateral response. We tested nine subjects with normal vestibular function. Using the scleral search coil and head impulse techniques, we measured the active and passive VOR gain (eye velocity / head velocity) before and after unilateral incremental VOR adaptation training, consisting of self-generated (active) head impulses, which lasted  15 min. The head impulses consisted of rapid, horizontal head rotations with peak-amplitude 15, peak-velocity 150/s and peak-acceleration 3,000/s(2). The VOR gain towards the adapting side increased after training from 0.92  0.18 to 1.11  0.22 (+22.7  20.2 %) during active head impulses and from 0.91  0.15 to 1.01  0.17 (+11.3  7.5 %) during passive head impulses. During active impulses, the VOR gain towards the non-adapting side also increased by  8 %, though this increase was  70 % less than to the adapting side. A similar increase did not occur during passive impulses. This study shows that unilateral vestibular adaptation is possible in humans with a normal VOR; unilateral incremental VOR adaptation may have a role in vestibular rehabilitation. The increase in passive VOR gain after active head impulse adaptation suggests that the training effect is robust.
The development and function of the nervous system are directly dependent on a well defined pattern of gene expression. Indeed, perturbation of transcriptional activity or epigenetic modifications of chromatin can dramatically influence neuronal phenotypes. The phosphoprotein synapsin I (Syn I) plays a crucial role during axonogenesis and synaptogenesis as well as in synaptic transmission and plasticity of mature neurons. Abnormalities in SYN1 gene expression have been linked to important neuropsychiatric disorders, such as epilepsy and autism. SYN1 gene transcription is suppressed in non-neural tissues by the RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST); however, the molecular mechanisms that allow the constitutive expression of this genetic region in neurons have not been clarified yet. Herein we demonstrate that a conserved region of human and mouse SYN1 promoters contains cis-sites for the transcriptional activator Sp1 in close proximity to REST binding motifs. Through a series of functional assays, we demonstrate a physical interaction of Sp1 on the SYN1 promoter and show that REST directly inhibits Sp1-mediated transcription, resulting in SYN1 down-regulation. Upon differentiation of neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells, we observe a decrease in endogenous REST and a higher stability of Sp1 on target GC boxes, resulting in an increase of SYN1 transcription. Moreover, methylation of Sp1 cis-sites in the SYN1 promoter region could provide an additional level of transcriptional regulation. Our results introduce Sp1 as a fundamental activator of basal SYN1 gene expression, whose activity is modulated by the neural master regulator REST and CpG methylation.
The present article investigates the influence of center-of-mass movements on the variation of the structure in human postural sway. Twelve healthy younger persons performed 60s quiet standing, 60s relaxed standing, and 10 min relaxed standing on two force plates. Center-of-pressure (CoP) and gravitational line (GL) profiles were calculated from the ground reaction forces and moments. The temporal variation of CoP structure was calculated by the local scaling exponent h(t) and a Monte Carlo surrogate test was used to identify phase couplings between temporal scales. The range of variation of h(t) was significantly larger in relaxed standing compared to quiet standing (p&lt;0.00001) and highly correlated with the range of GL movements (r&gt;0.76, p&lt;0.001). However, the variation in h(t) was not generated by the GL movements because the CoP-GL traces was close to identical variation in h(t) (r&gt;0.95, p&lt;0.00001). The Monte Carlo surrogate test indicated the presence of intermittent phase couplings between the temporal scales of both CoP traces and the CoP-GL residuals in the periods with GL movements. The present results suggest that human posture is controlled by intermittent phase coupling of the CoP and GL movements. Furthermore, the investigation of the variation in CoP structure might extend existing theories of changes in postural control for example older persons and patients with a neurodegenerative disease.
The neurogenesis amount in central nervous system (CNS) stimulated by the injury or diseases is so small that neural stem cells (NSCs) cannot specifically differentiate into the ideal phenotypes to repair the injured CNS. The transplanted exogenous NSCs also have such problems as poor survival and insufficient neuronal differentiation. In this study, the behavior of NSCs from the spinal cord of adult rats was compared at the neurosphere level after the respective addition of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) daily, the BDNF-loaded plasma-collagen matrix, the plasma-collagen matrix alone, or the defined medium alone. The results suggested that the BDNF, either in the control release form or in the soluble form, initiated NSCs proliferation and differentiation by activating receptors Trk B and p75NTR. BDNF also increased the differentiation percentage of adult NSCs into neurons and supported the long-term cell survival and growth. The BDNF was stably released by the plasma-collagen matrix for up to 21 days. The plasma-collagen matrix alone showed its biocompatibility with cells by facilitating the adhesion, survival, and differentiation of NSCs. The NSCs in the defined medium alone group showed poor survival and a very low level of neuronal differentiation and proliferation abilities than above three groups. This study suggested that the BDNF-loaded plasma-collagen matrix may provide a promising means to resolve either the poor survival and insufficient neuronal differentiation of transplanted exogenous NSCs, or stimulating the intrinsic NSCs to proliferate and differentiate into neurons so as to repair the injured adult CNS.
In order to understand the so-called &quot;social brain,&quot; we need to monitor social interactions in face-to-face paradigms. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a promising technique to achieve this goal. We investigate the neuronal underpinnings of sharing a task in a proper social context. We record cortical activity by means of NIRS, while participants perform a joint Simon task. Different from other hemodynamic techniques, NIRS allows us to have both participants sit comfortably close to each other in a realistic and ecological environment. We found higher activation in the sensorimotor cortex while processing compatible trials as compared to incompatible ones referring to one's own action alternative. Strikingly, when the participant was not responding because it was the turn of the other member of the pair, the inferior parietal was activated. This study provides twofold findings: first, they suggest that the joint Simon effect relies more on shared attentional mechanisms than a proper mapping of the other's motor response. Second, they highlight the invaluable contribution NIRS can afford to social neuroscience in order to preserve ecological and naturalistic settings.
Tudor Griffith's untimely death cut short a research career focused on the mechanisms regulating vascular tone and blood flow. This brief review highlights the contribution that Tudor's work made to 3 main areas: the early days of study toward elucidating the identity of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (or nitric oxide), the use of computational modeling to unravel the mechanisms underlying the rhythmical arterial contractions known as vasomotion, and the role played by gap junctions in the vasodilatation attributed to endothelium-derived hyperpolarization. Tudor's pioneering application of the connexin mimetic peptides as selective gap junction antagonists has contributed substantially to the current state of knowledge on the role of cell coupling in arterial function. Together, these studies have reemphasized the importance of electromechanical coupling by which changes in membrane potential can rapidly control vessel diameter and blood flow.
High blood glucose results in high glucose levels in retina, because GLUT1, the sole glucose transporter between blood and retina, transports more glucose when blood glucose is high. This is the ultimate cause of diabetic retinopathy. Knockdown of GLUT1 by intraocular injections of a pool of siRNAs directed against SLC2A1 mRNA which codes for GLUT1 significantly reduced mean retinal glucose levels in diabetic mice. Systemic treatment of diabetic mice with forskolin or genistein, which bind GLUT1 and inhibit glucose transport, significantly reduced retinal glucose to the same levels seen in non-diabetics. 1,9-Dideoxyforskolin, which binds GLUT1 but does not stimulate adenylate cyclase had an equivalent effect to that of forskolin regarding lowering retinal glucose in diabetics indicating that cyclic AMP is noncontributory. GLUT1 inhibitors also reduced glucose and glycohemoglobin levels in red blood cells providing a peripheral biomarker for the effect. In contrast, brain glucose levels were not increased in diabetics and not reduced by forskolin. Treatment of diabetics with forskolin prevented early biomarkers of diabetic retinopathy, including elevation of superoxide radicals, increased expression of the chaperone protein 2 crystallin, and increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These data identify GLUT1 as a promising therapeutic target for prevention of diabetic retinopathy.
Glial calcium (Ca(2+)) waves constitute a means to spread signals between glial cells and to neighboring neurons and blood vessels. These waves occur spontaneously in Bergmann glia (BG) of the mouse cerebellar cortex in vivo. Here, we tested three hypotheses: (1) aging and reduced blood oxygen saturation alters wave activity; (2) glial Ca(2+) waves change cerebral oxygen metabolism; and (3) neuronal and glial wave activity is correlated. We used two-photon microscopy in the cerebellar cortexes of adult (8- to 15-week-old) and aging (48- to 80-week-old) ketamine-anesthetized mice after bolus loading with OGB-1/AM and SR101. We report that the occurrence of spontaneous waves is 20 times more frequent in the cerebellar cortex of aging as compared with adult mice, which correlated with a reduction in resting brain oxygen tension. In adult mice, spontaneous glial wave activity increased on reducing resting brain oxygen tension, and ATP-evoked glial waves reduced the tissue O(2) tension. Finally, although spontaneous Purkinje cell (PC) activity was not associated with increased glia wave activity, spontaneous glial waves did affect intracellular Ca(2+) activity in PCs. The increased wave activity during aging, as well as low resting brain oxygen tension, suggests a relationship between glial waves, brain energy homeostasis, and pathology.
Critical closing pressure (CCP) is the arterial blood pressure (ABP) at which brain vessels collapse and cerebral blood flow (CBF) ceases. Using the concept of impedance to CBF, CCP can be expressed with brain-monitoring parameters: cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), ABP, blood flow velocity (FV), and heart rate. The novel multiparameter method (CCPm) was compared with traditional transcranial Doppler (TCD) calculations of CCP (CCP1). Digital recordings of ABP, intracranial pressure (ICP), and TCD-based FV from previously published studies of 29 New Zealand White rabbits were reanalyzed. Overall, CCP1 and CCPm showed correlation across wide ranges of ABP, ICP, and PaCO2 (R=0.93, P&lt;0.001). Three physiological perturbations were studied: increase in ICP (n=29) causing both CCP1 and CCPm to increase (P&lt;0.001 for both); reduction of ABP (n=10) resulting in decrease of CCP1 (P=0.006) and CCPm (P=0.002); and controlled increase of PaCO2 (n=8) to hypercapnic levels, which decreased CCP1 and CCPm, albeit insignificantly (P=0.123 and P=0.306 respectively), caused by a spontaneous significant increase in ABP (P=0.025). Multiparameter mathematical model of critical closing pressure explains the relationship of CCP on brain-monitoring variables, allowing the estimation of CCP during cases such as hypercapnia-induced hyperemia, where traditional calculations, like CCP1, often reach negative non-physiological values.
Sturge-Weber syndrome has been found to result in hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction including central hypothyroidism. Because central hypothyroidism is more prevalent in Sturge-Weber syndrome than in the general population, we routinely evaluated thyroid function. Here we describe 5 children with Sturge-Weber syndrome on anticonvulsants and diagnosed with hypothyroidism based on thyroid function testing. All 5 patients were eventually tested utilizing the more accurate free thyroxine equilibrium dialysis assay. Results indicated that only 2 of the 5 patients, who exhibited the most severe symptoms, had true hypothyroidism. This case series demonstrates the benefits of using the free thyroxine by equilibrium dialysis when testing Sturge-Weber syndrome patients on antiepileptic medications. This testing algorithm is more cost-effective and also improves the quality of care by providing an accurate diagnosis more quickly. In addition, we propose consideration of this testing method in any patient taking anticonvulsants, most notably oxcarbazepine.





The field of electroencephalography (EEG) had its origin with the discovery of recordable electrical potentials from activated nerves and muscles of animals and in the last quarter of the 19th century from the cerebral cortex of animals. By the 1920s, Hans Berger, a neuropsychiatrist from Germany, recorded potentials from the scalp of patients with skull defects and, a few years later, with more sensitive equipment from intact subjects. Concurrently, the introduction of electronic vacuum tube amplification and the cathode ray oscilloscope was made by American physiologists or &quot;axonologists,&quot; interested in peripheral nerve recordings. Berger's findings were independently confirmed in early 1934 by Lord Adrian in England and by Hallowell Davis at Harvard, in the United States. In the United States, the earliest contributions to human EEG were made by Hallowell Davis, Herbert H. Jasper, Frederic A. Gibbs, William Lennox, and Alfred L. Loomis. Remarkable progress in the development of EEG as a useful clinical tool followed the 1935 report by the Harvard group on the electrographic and clinical correlations in patients with absence (petit mal) seizures and altered states of consciousness. Technical aspects of the EEG and additional clinical EEG correlations were elucidated by the above investigators and a number of others. Further study led to gatherings of the EEG pioneers at Loomis' laboratory in New York (1935-1939), Regional EEG society formation, and the American Clinical Neurophysiology Society in 1946.

Intra-operative indocyanine green (ICG) videoangiography is a useful addition to cerebrovascular neurosurgery. ICG videoangiography is useful in different phases of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) surgery. Additionally, it can be used to perform semi-quantitative flow analysis. We reviewed our initial assessment of 24 patients who underwent ICG videoangiography during AVM surgery to assess the utility and limitations of the technique as well as to demonstrate semi-quantitative flow analysis, a new capability of ICG videoangiography. Over the course of 3 years, we performed 49 ICG videoangiographies in 24 patients with AVM. In 85% of the pre-resection videos, ICG was useful in localising the arterial feeders, the draining veins and the nidus. Intra-resection ICG videos were recorded for eight of the 23 patients (the ICG from one patient was missing). Post-resection ICG videos were recorded for 14 out of the 23 patients, which were useful in confirming no evidence of nidus in the exposed resection cavity and an absence of flow in the main draining vein. Semi-quantitative flow analysis was performed in eight patients with superficial AVM. The average T() peak intensities (time to 50% of peak intensity) were 32 s, 33.5 s, and 35.6 s for the arterial feeder, the draining vein and normal cortex, respectively. The arteriovenous T() peak time was 1.5 s, and the arteriocortex T() peak time was 3.6 s. The T() peak fluorescence rates were 84 average intensity of fluorescence (AI)/s, 62.9 AI/s and 28.7 AI/s, for the arterial feeder, the draining vein and normal cortex, respectively. Only one patient of 23 (4.3%) showed residual AVM on post-operative digital subtraction angiography or CT angiography despite negative intra-operative ICG. ICG videoangiography is a useful addition to AVM surgery, but it has some limitations. Flow analysis is a new capability that allows for semi-quantitative AVM perfusion analysis.
We retrospectively reviewed the outcomes of 195 patients with intramedullary tumors who underwent surgery between January 2001 and December 2010 at a single institution. The symptomatology, neurological and neuroradiological findings, operative details, perioperative and postoperative complications, histopathological data and follow-up examinations of the 137 (70.2%) males and 58 (29.7%) females were studied and analyzed. Epidermoid was the most common intramedullary tumour in children (23%), whereas in adults, ependymomas were more common (46%). Ependymomas were more amenable to resection (total excision in 57.7% and near-total excision in 39.4%) as compared to astrocytomas (total excision in 29%; near total excision in 60.5%). At the final clinical follow-up, 24 patients (16.4%) had improved in McCormick grade, 112 patients (76.7%) remained unchanged and 11 patients (7.5%) had worsened. Complete removal of the lesion is the primary goal of surgery. We conclude that the strongest predictor of functional outcome was the preoperative neurological condition, beyond the histological differentiation of the intramedullary tumor.
An eponymous lecture at the Australian and New Zealand Association of Neurologists Annual Scientific Meeting commemorates E. Graeme Robertson (1903-75), and some neurologists will know that particular Australian practices in clinical neurology, so far as they exist, have origins in his career. This is a historical article on the literary record of a man who had his own sense of history--an affinity with the past as well as an awareness of future generations of readers. He wrote authoritative texts on pneumoencephalography before new technology made it obsolete, and he produced a series of books on decorative architectural cast iron in Australian cities. A talent for visual interpretation seems to have drawn him to both of these topics; a common theme is contrast between light and dark, which is expatiated in images and in clear, well-written prose in his publications. We review his medical writings, including some largely forgotten principles of cerebrospinal fluid physics that he discovered when researching pneumoencephalography. We also explore his obsession with cast iron--its architectural historical significance, his techniques for photographing it, and some of the ways that it related to his life's work as a clinical neurologist.




Significant body weight gain (BWG) is a serious adverse effect of a number of antipsychotic drugs. Previous studies have demonstrated an influence of clozapine, but not haloperidol, on neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression in the hypothalamus. Because NPY is a potent orexigenic peptide stimulating food intake, and genetic variation of the gene has been shown to influence development of obesity, we investigated the impact of NPY polymorphisms on antipsychotic-induced BWG.We analyzed 5 polymorphisms in the NPY gene (rs10551063, rs16147, rs5573, rs5574, and rs16475) in schizophrenia subjects (n = 226), treated mostly with clozapine and olanzapine for up to 14 weeks. Association was tested using analysis of covariance with change (%) from baseline weight as the dependent variable and duration of treatment and baseline body weight as covariates.In patients of European ancestry who received either clozapine or olanzapine, significant genotypic and allelic association of rs16147 with weight change was observed (P(corrected) = 0.012 and 0.018, respectively). Carriers of the C allele gained significantly more weight compared with individuals with TT genotype (CC + CT vs TT; 5.82%  5.6% vs 2.25%  4.8%; P= 0.001). Similarly, 2 other polymorphisms (rs5573 and rs5574) were also significantly associated with weight change (P(corrected) = 0.018 and 0.03). In addition, we observed a significant gene-gene interaction between the rs16147 in NPY and rs806378 in cannabinoid receptor 1 (P(corrected) = 0.011).Our observation of association of NPY polymorphisms gives further evidence for a genetic influence on antipsychotic-induced BWG and suggests a role of NPY gene in influencing this complex adverse effect.
Our experience with the world commonly involves physical interaction with objects enabling us to learn associations between multisensory information perceived during an event and our actions that create an event. The interplay among active interactions during learning and multisensory integration of object properties is not well understood. To better understand how action might enhance multisensory associative recognition, we investigated the interplay among motor and perceptual systems after active learning. Fifteen participants were included in an fMRI study during which they learned visuo-auditory-motor associations between novel objects and the sounds they produce, either through self-generated actions on the objects (active learning) or by observing an experimenter produce the actions (passive learning). Immediately after learning, behavioral and BOLD fMRI measures were collected while perceiving the objects used during unisensory and multisensory training in associative perception and recognition tasks. Active learning was faster and led to more accurate recognition of audiovisual associations than passive learning. Functional ROI analyses showed that in motor, somatosensory, and cerebellar regions there was greater activation during both the perception and recognition of actively learned associations. Finally, functional connectivity between visual- and motor-related processing regions was enhanced during the presentation of actively learned audiovisual associations. Overall, the results of the current study clarify and extend our own previous work [Butler, A. J., James, T. W., &amp; Harman James, K. Enhanced multisensory integration and motor reactivation after active motor learning of audiovisual associations. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23, 3515-3528, 2011] by providing several novel findings and highlighting the task-based nature of motor reactivation and retrieval after active learning.
The timing of reproductive development and associated trade-offs in quantity versus quality of offspring produced across the life span are well documented in a wide range of species. The relation of these aspects of maternal life history to monogamy and paternal investment in offspring is not well studied in mammals, due in part to the rarity of the latter. By using five large, captive-bred populations of Peromyscus species that range from promiscuous mating with little paternal investment (P. maniculatus bairdii) to social and genetic monogamy with substantial paternal investment (P. californicus insignis), we modeled the interaction between monogamy and female life history. Monogamy and high paternal investment were associated with smaller litter size, delayed maternal reproduction that extended over a longer reproductive life span, and larger, higher quality offspring. The results suggest monogamy and paternal investment can alter the evolution of female life-history trajectories in mammals.


A dual-action cyclooxygenase (COX)-fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor may have therapeutic usefulness as an analgesic, but a key issue is finding the right balance of inhibitory effects. This can be done by the design of compounds exhibiting different FAAH/COX-inhibitory potencies. In the present study, eight ibuprofen analogues were investigated. Ibuprofen (1), 2-(4-Isobutylphenyl)-N-(2-(3-methylpyridin-2-ylamino)-2-oxoethyl)propanamide (9) and N-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)-2-(4'-isobutylphenyl)propionamide (2) inhibited FAAH with IC(50) values of 134, 3.6 and 0.52 M respectively. The corresponding values for COX-1 were ~29, ~50 and ~60 M, respectively. Using arachidonic acid as substrate, the compounds were weak inhibitors of COX-2. However, when anandamide was used as COX-2 substrate, potency increased, with approximate IC(50) values of ~6, ~10 and ~19 M, respectively. Compound 2 was confirmed to be active in vivo in a murine model of visceral nociception, but the effects of the compound were not blocked by CB receptor antagonists.
Diverse evidence shows that perceptually integral dimensions, such as those composing color, are represented holistically. However, the nature of these holistic representations is poorly understood. Extant theories, such as those founded on multidimensional scaling or general recognition theory, model integral stimulus spaces using a Cartesian coordinate system, just as with spaces defined by separable dimensions. This approach entails a rich geometrical structure that has never been questioned but may not be psychologically meaningful for integral dimensions. In particular, Cartesian models carry a notion of orthogonality of component dimensions, such that if 1 dimension is diagnostic for a classification or discrimination task, another can be selected as uniquely irrelevant. This article advances an alternative model in which integral dimensions are characterized as topological spaces. The Cartesian and topological models are tested in a series of experiments using the perceptual-learning phenomenon of dimension differentiation, whereby discrimination training with integral-dimension stimuli can induce an analytic representation of those stimuli. Under the present task design, the 2 models make contrasting predictions regarding the analytic representation that will be learned. Results consistently support the Cartesian model. These findings indicate that perceptual representations of integral dimensions are surprisingly structured, despite their holistic, unanalyzed nature.
Maljkovic and Nakayama have demonstrated memory influences in singleton search from one trial to the next, an effect they termed priming of pop-out (PoP). This effect was described as resulting from the persistence of an implicit memory trace, the influence of which could be observed for around 5-8 subsequent trials. Thomson and Milliken (2012) recently reported that PoP effects can survive a lag of up to 16 trials for &quot;rare&quot; trials that were composed of distinct target and distracter colors relative to intervening &quot;common&quot; trials. The present experiments tested the idea that long-term PoP effects can depend on the retrieval of distinct contextual cues. Across the experiments reported here, rare trials differed from common trials in spatial location (Experiments 1A and 2A), stimulus configuration (Experiments 1B and 2B), target and distracter colors (Experiments 2A and 2B), or response-selection task (Experiment 3). PoP effects that survived 15 intervening trials were observed with rare search stimuli that were composed of distinct target and distracter colors or required a distinct selection task. Distinct stimulus location and distinct stimulus configuration failed to produce a measurable effect on PoP for rare trials, either on their own or in conjunction with other distinct features. These results are interpreted as evidence that episodic memory retrieval processes can produce relatively long-term PoP effects.
In the present experiments, the question being addressed was whether switching attention between perceptual dimensions and selective attention to dimensions are processes that compete over a common resource? Attention to perceptual dimensions is usually studied by requiring participants to ignore a never-relevant dimension. Selection failure (Garner's Interference, GI) is indicated by poorer performance in the filtering condition (when this dimension varies) as compared with baseline (when it is fixed). Switching between perceptual dimensions is usually studied with the task switching paradigm. In the present experiments, attention switching was manipulated by using single-task blocks and blocks in which participants switched between tasks or dimensions in reaction to task cues, and attention to dimensions was assessed by including a third, never-relevant dimension that was either fixed or varied randomly. In Experiments 1 (long cue-target interval, CTI) and 2 (short CTI), the tasks involved shape and color and the never-relevant dimension (texture) was chosen to be separable from them. In Experiments 3 (long CTI) and 4 (short CTI), the tasks involved shape and brightness and the never-relevant dimension, saturation, was chosen to be separable from shape and integral with brightness. Task switching did not generate GI but a short CTI did. Thus, switching and filtering generally do not compete over central limited resources unless under tight time pressure. Experiment 3 shows GI in the brightness task but not in the shape task, suggesting that participants switched their attention between brightness and shape when they switched tasks.
The effects of antidepressants on the gastrointestinal tract may contribute to their potential efficacy in functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome; buspirone, a prototype 5-HT1A agonist, enhances gastric accommodation and reduces postprandial symptoms in response to a challenge meal. Paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, accelerates small bowel but not colonic transit, and this property may not be relevant to improve gut function in functional gastrointestinal disorders. Venlafaxine, a prototype serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, enhances gastric accommodation, increases colonic compliance and reduces sensations to distension; however, it is associated with adverse effects that reduce its applicability in treatment of functional gastrointestinal disorders. Tricyclic antidepressants reduce sensations in response to food, including nausea, and delay gastric emptying, especially in females. Buspirone appears efficacious in functional dyspepsia; amitriptyline was not efficacious in a large trial of children with functional gastrointestinal disorders. Clinical trials of antidepressants for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome are generally small. The recommendations of efficacy and number needed to treat from meta-analyses are suspect, and more prospective trials are needed in patients without diagnosed psychiatric diseases. Antidepressants appear to be more effective in the treatment of patients with anxiety or depression, but larger prospective trials assessing both clinical and pharmacodynamic effects on gut sensorimotor function are needed.
Voltage-activated ion channels open and close in response to changes in membrane voltage, a property that is fundamental to the roles of these channels in electrical signaling. Protein toxins from venomous organisms commonly target the S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains in these channels and modify their gating properties. Studies on the interaction of hanatoxin with the Kv2.1 channel show that this tarantula toxin interacts with the S1-S4 domain and inhibits opening by stabilizing a closed state. Here we investigated the interaction of hanatoxin with the Shaker Kv channel, a voltage-activated channel that has been extensively studied with biophysical approaches. In contrast to what is observed in the Kv2.1 channel, we find that hanatoxin shifts the conductance-voltage relation to negative voltages, making it easier to open the channel with membrane depolarization. Although these actions of the toxin are subtle in the wild-type channel, strengthening the toxin-channel interaction with mutations in the S3b helix of the S1-S4 domain enhances toxin affinity and causes large shifts in the conductance-voltage relationship. Using a range of previously characterized mutants of the Shaker Kv channel, we find that hanatoxin stabilizes an activated conformation of the voltage sensors, in addition to promoting opening through an effect on the final opening transition. Chimeras in which S3b-S4 paddle motifs are transferred between Kv2.1 and Shaker Kv channels, as well as experiments with the related tarantula toxin GxTx-1E, lead us to conclude that the actions of tarantula toxins are not simply a product of where they bind to the channel, but that fine structural details of the toxin-channel interface determine whether a toxin is an inhibitor or opener.
Human ether--go-go (eag)-related gene (hERG) potassium channel kinetics are characterized by rapid inactivation upon depolarization, along with rapid recovery from inactivation and very slow closing (deactivation) upon repolarization. These factors combine to create a resurgent hERG current, where the current amplitude is paradoxically larger with repolarization than with depolarization. Previous data showed that the hERG N-terminal eag domain regulated deactivation kinetics by making a direct interaction with the C-terminal region of the channel. A primary mechanism for fast inactivation depends on residues in the channel pore; however, inactivation was also shown to be slower after deletion of a large N-terminal region. The mechanism for N-terminal region regulation of inactivation is unclear. Here, we investigated the contributions of the large N-terminal domains (amino acids 1-354), including the eag domain (amino acids 1-135), to hERG channel inactivation kinetics and steady-state inactivation properties. We found that N-deleted channels lacking just the eag domain (2-135) or both the eag domain and the adjacent proximal domain (2-354) had less rectifying current-voltage (I-V) relationships, slower inactivation, faster recovery from inactivation, and lessened steady-state inactivation. We coexpressed genetically encoded N-terminal fragments for the eag domain (N1-135) or the eag domain plus the proximal domain (N1-354) with N-deleted hERG 2-135 or hERG 2-354 channels and found that the resulting channels had more rectifying I-V relationships, faster inactivation, slower recovery from inactivation, and increased steady-state inactivation, similar to those properties measured for wild-type (WT) hERG. We also found that the eag domain-containing fragments regulated the time to peak and the voltage at the peak of a resurgent current elicited with a ramp voltage protocol. The eag domain-containing fragments effectively converted N-deleted channels into WT-like channels. Neither the addition of the proximal domain to the eag domain in N1-354 fragments nor the presence of the proximal domain in hERG 2-135 channels measurably affected inactivation properties; in contrast, the proximal region regulated steady-state activation in hERG 2-135 channels. The results show that N-terminal region-dependent regulation of channel inactivation and resurgent current properties are caused by a direct interaction of the eag domain with the rest of the hERG channel.
Voltage is an important parameter that regulates the open probability of both intercellular channels (gap junctions) and undocked hemichannels formed by members of the connexin gene family. All connexin channels display two distinct voltage-gating processes, termed loop- or slow-gating and V(j)- or fast-gating, which are intrinsic hemichannel properties. Previous studies have established that the loop-gate permeability barrier is formed by a large conformational change that reduces pore diameter in a region of the channel pore located at the border of the first transmembrane domain and first extracellular loop (TM1/E1), the parahelix (residues 42-51). Here, we use cadmium metal bridge formation to measure conformational changes reported by substituted cysteines at loci demarcating the intracellular (E109 and L108) and extracellular (Q56) entrance of hemichannels formed by the Cx32 chimera (Cx32*43E1). The results indicate that the intracellular pore entrance narrows from 15  to 10  with loop-gate but not apparently with V(j)-gate closure. The extracellular entrance does not appear to undergo large conformational changes with either voltage-gating process. The results presented here combined with previous studies suggest that the loop-gate permeability is essentially focal, in that conformational changes in the parahelix but not the intracellular entrance are sufficient to prevent ion flux.
A large animal (sheep) model was used to compare nerve axon regeneration and return of muscle function after a median-to-ulnar nerve end-to-side neurorrhaphy technique with conventional, clinically established, methods of nerve repair and untreated controls. Three groups of sheep were allocated to end-to-side repair (12 animals), a conventional method of nerve repair (18 animals), or a control group (eight animals). After a year nerve repairs were assessed electrophysiologically and histologically, and the muscles supplied by the repaired nerves were assessed physiologically. There were no significant differences in the outcomes of nerve repair between different conventional techniques. Half of the end-to-side nerve repairs supported nerve regeneration. The functional outcomes of the end-to-side repairs were inferior to conventional techniques which were, in turn, inferior to controls. End-to-side neurorrhaphy supported nerve regeneration, but the reliability of this technique is called into question and its use as a clinical tool can only be recommended as a salvage procedure.

Residual dipolar couplings and averaged correlation time maps in soft matter were obtained by mixed echo phase-encoding solid imaging (MIPSI). Use of the mixed echo in soft matter NMR imaging experiments has two crucial advantages: the signal intensity is recovered with a weak incoherence losses, and second, the intervals during which the phase-encoding evolution due to the magnetic field gradients takes place can be chosen to be much larger than with all other spin echo experiments and hence, a higher special resolution can be achieved. The parameter maps are compared to those obtained by the Hahn-echo phase-frequency encoding method. For both MRI methods the density operator formalism is applied in the average Hamiltonian approximation to describe the encoding of the spin echoes by the molecular motions. The results of preliminary experiments are presented.

The aim of this study was to quantify processing of different types of coherent motion in terms of ocular motor response times in a group of normally-developing children (age 0-12+ years old) using remote eye tracking. Motion coherence was applied in three different types of Random Dot Kinematograms (RDKs): vertical (RDK1) and diagonal (RDK2) motion and expansion (RDK3). Orienting eye movements were quantified using the Reaction Time to the first Fixation (RTF). The children were divided into two groups: the &quot;youngest group&quot; between 0-3+ years and the &quot;oldest group&quot; between 4-12+ years old. The results showed that RTF was significantly prolonged in the &quot;youngest group&quot; compared to the &quot;oldest group&quot; for each RDK. In the &quot;oldest group&quot;, RTF was significantly affected by the type of RDK shown. The presented results suggest that, based on ocular motor responses, age-dependence of processing different types of coherent motion may be revealed.
To determine the effect of denaturants [guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl) and urea] and polyols [with various molecular masses (62.1-600)] on calcium binding at the two hypothesized conformers (A and B forms) of the chemically equivalent sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase, which bind two calcium ions in different manners, we examined the effect of these reagents on the calcium dependence of ATP-supported phosphorylation of the ATPase molecules and of their calcium-activated, acetyl phosphatate hydrolytic activity. (1) GdnHCl (~0.05M) and urea (~0.5M) increased the apparent calcium affinity (K (0.5)) of 2-6M of noncooperative binding [Hill coefficient (n (H))~1] of the A form to 10-40M. (2) The employed polyols transformed the binding of the A form into cooperative binding (n (H)~2), accompanying the approach of its K (0.5) value to that (K (0.5)=0.04-0.2M) of the cooperative binding (n (H)~2) of the B form; the transition concentration (0.025-2M) of the polyols, above which such transformation occurs, was in inverse relation to their molecular mass. (3) The binding of the B form was resistant to these denaturants and polyols. Based on these data, a structural model of the two forms, calcium-binding domains of which are loosely and compactly folded, is presented.

A growing body of evidence indicates that c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) is activated in Alzheimer's disease. Herein, we examine the effect of the JNK specific inhibitor, SP600125, on the level of functional proteins or transcription factors related to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and oxidative stress induced by amyloid beta (A). Our results clearly showed the ability of SP600125 to decrease the levels of caspase 12 and calpain 2, two important enzymes involved in ER stress. A has been suggested to be able to decrease the phosphorylation level of cAMP response element-binding (CREB) through mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. We observed that JNK inhibition in A-injected rats can restore the activation of CREB through increasing its phosphorylation level. This effect may explain the increase observed in c-fos level, as a CREB downstream factor under JNK inhibition in A-injected rats. Following A injection, the levels of pro-survival mitochondrial proteins including nuclear respiratory factor-1 (NRF-1), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma co-activator 1-alpha, and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) significantly decreased, which could be returned to control level with JNK inhibition. We suggest that the elevation in the level of PGC1-alpha and other mitochondrial proteins is the result of an increase in CREB activation as the upstream factor of PGC1-alpha. Also, we observed that pretreatment with SP600125 leads to a greater increase of nuclear related factor-2 (Nrf2) level compared with the A-injected group. Nrf2 has been shown to bind to CREB-binding factor leading to their contribution in Nrf2 target genes expression. Besides, NRF-1 and TFAM are reported as Nrf2 targets. Based on our data, we can conclude that JNK carry out partial destructive effects of A in rat brain.
We investigated apoptotic pathways in a model of severe traumatic brain injury, penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI). TUNEL staining identified increasing apoptosis within 24 h. From targeted arrays, 11 genes were identified for temporal mRNA evaluation. In addition, mRNA levels and enzyme activity for caspases 3, 8, and 9 were examined. In the death receptor-mediated apoptosis pathway, the relative quantities (RQs) of mRNA for tnfr1, fas, and tnf were upregulated while trail mRNA was downregulated. In the anti-apoptotic TNF-R2 pathway, tnfr2 and flip were upregulated while xiap was downregulated. These findings indicate that increases in tnf levels following injury are not only pro-apoptotic but may also signal competing anti-apoptotic mechanisms. For the mitochondria-mediated apoptosis pathway, RQs of anti-apoptotic factors bcl2a1d and birc3 were upregulated while both bcl2 and bax were downregulated. RQs for casp 3 and casp 8 increased while casp9 decreased. Enzymatic activity increased for caspases 3, 8, and 9. While multiple mechanisms promoting and inhibiting apoptosis are at play during the first week after a PBBI, the cumulative result remains increased apoptosis. The ability to understand and dissect these events will assist in the development and evaluation of treatments targeting apoptosis following severe brain injury.

There are no reliable data from randomised trials to decide whether anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents are better to prevent further thromboembolic events after cervical arterial dissection. Most neurologists favour anticoagulants based on the underlying pathology and the likely course of acute post-dissection thromboembolism.
Astrocytes are critical for the antioxidant support of neurons. Recently, we demonstrated that low level hydrogen peroxide (H(2) O(2) ) facilitates astrocyte-dependent neuroprotection independent of the antioxidant transcription factor Nrf2, leaving the identity of the endogenous astrocytic Nrf2 activator to question. In this study, we show that an endogenous electrophile, 15-deoxy-12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), non-cell autonomously protects neurons from death induced by depletion of the major antioxidant glutathione. Nrf2 knockdown in astrocytes abrogated 15d-PGJ2's neuroprotective effect as well as 15d-PGJ2 facilitated Nrf2-target gene induction. In contrast, knockdown of the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activated-receptor gamma (PPAR), a well-characterized 15d-PGJ2 target, did not alter 15d-PGJ2 non-cell autonomous neuroprotection. In addition, several PPAR agonists of the thiazolidinedione (TZD) family failed to induce neuroprotection. Unexpectedly, however, the TZD troglitazone (which contains a chromanol moiety found on vitamin E) induced astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection, an effect which was mimicked by the vitamin E analogs alpha-tocopherol or alpha-tocotrienol. Our findings lead to two important conclusions: (i) 15d-PGJ2 induces astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection via an Nrf2 but not PPAR mediated pathway, suggesting that 15d-PGJ2 is a candidate endogenous modulator of Nrf2 protective pathways in astrocytes; (ii) selective astrocyte treatment with analogs or compounds containing the chromanol moiety of vitamin E facilitates non-cell autonomous neuroprotection.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is the founding member of the neurotrophins family of proteins. It was discovered more than half a century ago through its ability to promote sensory and sympathetic neuronal survival and axonal growth during the development of the peripheral nervous system, and is the paradigmatic target-derived neurotrophic factor on which the neurotrophic hypothesis is based. Since that time, NGF has also been shown to play a key role in the generation of acute and chronic pain and in hyperalgesia in diverse pain states. NGF is expressed at high levels in damaged or inflamed tissues and facilitates pain transmission by nociceptive neurons through a variety of mechanisms. Genetic mutations in NGF or its tyrosine kinase receptor TrkA, lead to a congenital insensitivity or a decreased ability of humans to perceive pain. The hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathies (HSANs) encompass a spectrum of neuropathies that affect one's ability to perceive sensation. HSAN type IV and HSAN type V are caused by mutations in TrkA and NGF respectively. This review will focus firstly on the biology of NGF and its role in pain modulation. We will review neuropathies and clinical presentations that result from the disruption of NGF signalling in HSAN type IV and HSAN type V and review current advances in developing anti-NGF therapy for the clinical management of pain.
Huntingtin (Htt) protein interacts with many transcriptional regulators, with widespread disruption to the transcriptome in Huntington's disease (HD) brought about by altered interactions with the mutant Htt (muHtt) protein. Repressor Element-1 Silencing Transcription Factor (REST) is a repressor whose association with Htt in the cytoplasm is disrupted in HD, leading to increased nuclear REST and concomitant repression of several neuronal-specific genes, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf). Here, we explored a wide set of HD dysregulated genes to identify direct REST targets whose expression is altered in a cellular model of HD but that can be rescued by knock-down of REST activity. We found many direct REST target genes encoding proteins important for nervous system development, including a cohort involved in synaptic transmission, at least two of which can be rescued at the protein level by REST knock-down. We also identified several microRNAs (miRNAs) whose aberrant repression is directly mediated by REST, including miR-137, which has not previously been shown to be a direct REST target in mouse. These data provide evidence of the contribution of inappropriate REST-mediated transcriptional repression to the widespread changes in coding and non-coding gene expression in a cellular model of HD that may affect normal neuronal function and survival.
We have previously shown that Regulator of Calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) regulates multiple stages of vesicle exocytosis. However, the mechanisms by which RCAN1 affects secretory vesicle exocytosis and quantal release kinetics remain unknown. Here, we use carbon fibre amperometry to detect exocytosis from chromaffin cells and identify these underlying mechanisms. We observe reduced exocytosis with repeated stimulations in chromaffin cells over-expressing RCAN1 (RCAN1(ox)), but not in wild-type (WT) cells, indicating a negative effect of RCAN1 on vesicle recycling and endocytosis. Acute exposure to calcineurin inhibitors, cyclosporine A and FK-506, replicates this effect in WT cells but has no additional effect in RCAN1(ox) cells. When we chronically expose WT cells to cyclosporine A and FK-506 we find that catecholamine release per vesicle and pre-spike foot (PSF) signal parameters are decreased, similar to that in RCAN1(ox) cells. Inhibiting calcineurin activity in RCAN1(ox) cells has no additional effect on the amount of catecholamine release per vesicle but further reduces PSF signal parameters. Although electron microscopy studies indicate these changes are not because of altered vesicle number or distribution in RCAN1(ox) cells, the smaller vesicle and dense core size we observe in RCAN1(ox) cells may underlie the reduced quantal release in these cells. Thus, our results indicate that RCAN1 most likely affects vesicle recycling and quantal release kinetics via the inhibition of calcineurin activity.
Chronic administration of mood stabilizers to rats down-regulates the brain arachidonic acid (AA) cascade. This down-regulation may explain their efficacy against bipolar disorder (BD), in which brain AA cascade markers are elevated. The atypical antipsychotics, olanzapine (OLZ) and clozapine (CLZ), also act against BD. When given to rats, both reduce brain cyclooxygenase activity and prostaglandin E(2) concentration; OLZ also reduces rat plasma unesterified and esterified AA concentrations, and AA incorporation and turnover in brain phospholipid. To test whether CLZ produces similar changes, we used our in vivo fatty acid method in rats given 10 mg/kg/day i.p. CLZ, or vehicle, for 30 days; or 1 day after CLZ washout. [1-(14) C]AA was infused intravenously for 5 min, arterial plasma was collected and high-energy microwaved brain was analyzed. CLZ increased incorporation coefficients ki * and decreased [corrected] rates J(in,i) of plasma unesterified AA into brain phospholipids. [corrected]. These effects disappeared after washout. Thus, CLZ and OLZ similarly down-regulated kinetics and cyclooxygenase expression of the brain AA cascade, likely by reducing plasma unesterified AA availability. Atypical antipsychotics and mood stabilizers may be therapeutic in BD by down-regulating, indirectly or directly respectively, the elevated brain AA cascade of that disease.
G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) is suggested to be implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and is accumulating in Lewy bodies within afflicted brain regions. Over-expressed GPR37 is prone to misfolding and aggregation, causing cell death via endoplasmic reticulum stress. Although the cytotoxicity of misfolded GPR37 is well established, effects of the functional receptor on cell viability are still unknown. An N2a cell line stably expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged human GPR37 was created to study its trafficking and effects on cell viability upon challenge with the toxins 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), rotenone and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Neuronal-like differentiation into a tyrosine hydroxylase expressing phenotype, using dibutyryl-cAMP, induced trafficking of GPR37 to the plasma membrane. 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) cell viability and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) cell death assays revealed that GPR37 was protective against all three toxins in differentiated cells. In undifferentiated cells, the majority of GPR37 was cytoplasmic and the protective effects were more variable: GPR37 expression protected against rotenone and MPP+ but not against 6-OHDA in MTT assays, while it protected against 6-OHDA but not against MPP+ or rotenone in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assays. These results suggest that GPR37 functionally trafficked to the plasma membrane protects against toxicity.
Severe vitamin C deficiency (ascorbic acid; AA) was induced in gulo-/- mice incapable of synthesizing their own AA. A number of behavioral measures were studied before and during the deprivation period, including a scorbutic period, during which weight loss was observed in the mice. Mice were then resuscitated with AA supplements. During the scorbutic period, gulo-/- mice showed decreased voluntary locomotor activity, diminished physical strength, and increased preference for a highly palatable sucrose reward. These behaviors all returned to control levels following resuscitation. Altered trial times in subordinate mice in the tube test for social dominance in the AA-deprived mice persisted following resuscitation and may signify a depressive-like behavior in these mice. Biochemical analyses were undertaken following a second deprivation period. AA deficiency was accompanied by decreased blood glucose levels, oxidative damage to lipids and proteins in the cortex, and decreases in dopamine and serotonin metabolites in both the cortex and striatum. Given the reasonably high proportions of the population that do not consume sufficient AA in the diet, these data have important implications for physical and psychological function in the general population.
Decreased parvalbumin expression is a hallmark of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and has been associated with abnormal cognitive processing and decreased network specificity. It is not known whether this decrease is due to reduced expression of the parvalbumin protein or degeneration of parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV(+) interneurons). In this study, we examined PV(+) expression in two rat models of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia: the environmental social isolation (SI) and pharmacological neonatal phencyclidine (neoPCP) models. Using a stereological method, the optical fractionator, we counted neurons, PV(+) interneurons, and glial cells in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus (HPC). In addition, we quantified the mRNA level of parvalbumin in the mPFC. There was a statistically significant reduction in the number of PV(+) interneurons (p=0.021) and glial cells (p=0.024) in the mPFC of neonatal phencyclidine rats, but not in SI rats. We observed no alterations in the total number of neurons, hippocampal PV(+) interneurons, parvalbumin mRNA expression or volume of the mPFC or HPC in the two models. Thus, as the total number of neurons remains unchanged following phencyclidine (PCP) treatment, we suggest that the decreased number of counted PV(+) interneurons represents a reduced parvalbumin protein expression below immunohistochemical detection limit rather than a true cell loss. Furthermore, these results indicate that the effect of neonatal PCP treatment is not limited to neuronal populations.
The L1 syndrome, a genetic disease that affects 1/30 000 newborn males, is sustained by numerous missense mutations of L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM), an adhesion surface protein active also in transmembrane signaling, essential for the development and function of neurons. To investigate the cell biology of L1CAM, we employed a high RE1-silencing transcription (factor) clone of the pheochromocytoma PC12 line, defective in L1CAM expression and neurite outgrowth. The clone was transfected with wild-type L1CAM and four missense, disease-inducing point mutants encoding proteins distributed to the cell surface. The mutant-expressing cells, defective in adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins and in migration, exhibited unchanged proliferation. The nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth was re-established in defective clone cells transfected with the wild-type and the H210Q and I219T L1CAMs mutants, but not in the others. The stimulated outgrowth was confirmed in a second defective PC12 clone over-expressing the NGF receptor TrkA, treated with NGF and/or a recombinant L1CAM chimera. These results revealed a new function of L1CAM, a positive, robust and dose-dependent modulation of the TrkA receptor activated spontaneously or by NGF. The variable effects observed with the different L1CAM mutants suggest that this function contributes to the marked heterogeneity of symptoms and severity observed in the patients affected by the L1 syndrome.
Data from transgenic mouse models of Huntington's disease (HD) suggest that dysfunction of the hypothalamic infundibular nucleus (INF) (in rodents, the arcuate nucleus) may contribute to unintended weight loss and insatiable appetite among HD patients. Using post-mortem paraffin-embedded tissue, we assessed the total number of INF neurones by thionin staining and four major regulatory neuropeptides in the INF of HD patients by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridisation. In HD patients, the total number of neurones in the INF was unchanged compared to control subjects (P = 0.92), whereas it contained over 30% less neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (IR) neurones (P = 0.016), as well as reduced peptide levels, in fibres to the paraventricular and ventromedial nucleus (P = 0.003, P = 0.005, respectively). Conversely, neuropeptide Y mRNA expression levels were increased three-fold (P = 0.047). No changes were observed in the number of neurones immunoreactive for -melanocyte-stimulating hormone, agouti-related peptide, and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (P  0.17). Our findings suggest changes in the pathology of the INF neuropeptide Y-expressing neurones in HD patients without changes in other (an)orexigenic neuropeptides and without neuronal cell loss. These findings indicate that unintended weight loss in patients suffering from this disease may be partly a result of neuropeptidergic alterations in the hypothalamic infundibular nucleus.
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system makes a critical contribution to body fluid homeostasis, and abnormalities in this endocrine system have been implicated in certain forms of hypertension. The peptide hormone angiotensin II (AngII) regulates hydromineral homeostasis and blood pressure by acting on both peripheral and brain targets. In the brain, AngII binds to the angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) to stimulate thirst, sodium appetite and both arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) secretion. The present study used an experimental model of endogenous AngII to examine the role of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) as a signalling mechanism to mediate these responses. Animals were given a combined treatment of furosemide and a low dose of captopril (furo/cap), comprising a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, respectively, to elevate endogenous AngII levels in the brain. Furo/cap induced p44/42 MAPK activation in key brain areas that express AT1R, and this effect was reduced with either a centrally administered AT1R antagonist (irbesartan) or a p44/42 MAPK inhibitor (U0126). Additionally, furo/cap treatment elicited water and sodium intake, and irbesartan markedly reduced both of these behaviours. Central injection of U0126 markedly attenuated furo/cap-induced sodium intake but not water intake. Furthermore, p44/42 MAPK signalling was not necessary for either furo/cap- or exogenous AngII-induced AVP or OT release. Taken together, these results indicate that p44/42 MAPK is required for AngII-induced sodium appetite but not thirst or neurohypophysial secretion. This result may allow for the discovery of more specific downstream targets of p44/42 MAPK to curb sodium appetite, known to exacerbate hypertension, at the same time as leaving thirst and neurohypophysial hormone secretion undisturbed.
Early diagnosis of dementing conditions and an accurate monitoring of their progression are important clinical and research goals, especially given the improving prospects of disease-modifying therapies. Neuroimaging has played and is playing an important role in detecting reversible, treatable causes of dementia, and in characterizing the dementia syndromes by demonstrating structural and functional signatures that can aid in their differentiation. Many new imaging techniques and modalities are also available that allow the assessment of specific aspects of brain structure and function, such as positron emission tomography with new ligands, diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional MRI. In this review, we report the most recent findings from the papers published in the Journal of Neurology that used conventional and advanced neuroimaging techniques for the study of various dementing conditions.
Many studies have assessed the relationships between seasonal or meteorological determinants and the occurrence of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), but the data are conflicting. We systematically searched the literature and meta-analyzed data from all relevant articles when possible. We searched MEDLINE (1966-2011), EMBASE (1980-2011) and the Cochrane Library to identify all observational studies examining the relationship between seasonal and meteorological determinants (temperature, atmospheric pressure and relative humidity) and the occurrence of SAH. Two authors independently extracted data from articles that were included based on predefined criteria. We pooled relative risks (RR's) with corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (CI's) from the individual studies on season and month by means of the random effects method. We included 48 articles, totaling 72,694 patients. SAH occurred less often in summer than in winter (RR 0.89, 95 % CI 0.83-0.96), and was statistically significant more often in January than in the summer months of June-September. For atmospheric pressure seven of 17 studies found a significant association, six of 18 studies were significant for temperature, and three of 15 studies were significant for humidity, but the direction of these associations was conflicting and data on these determinants were too heterogeneous to pool. Seasons influence the occurrence of SAH, with SAH occurring less often in summer than in winter, and most often in January. The explanation for the seasonal differences remains uncertain, due to the lack of sound data on the influence of meteorological factors on SAH occurrence.
The distressing phenomenon of visual height intolerance (vHI) occurs when a visual stimulus causes apprehension of losing control of balance and falling from some height. Epidemiological data of this condition in the general population are lacking. Assignment of prevalence, determinants, and compensation of vHI was performed in a cross-sectional epidemiological study of 3,517 individuals representing the German population. Life-time prevalence of vHI is 28 % (females 32 %). A higher prevalence is associated independently with a family history of vHI, anxiety disorders, migraine, or motion sickness susceptibility. Women aged 50-59 have a higher prevalence than younger women or men of all ages. Initial attacks occur most often (30 %) in the second decade; however, attacks can manifest throughout life. The main symptoms are fearfulness, inner agitation, a queasy-stomach feeling, subjective postural instability with to-and-fro vertigo, and weakness in the knees. Climbing a tower is the first most common precipitating stimulus; the spectrum of such stimuli widens with time in more than 50 % of afflicted individuals. The most frequent reaction to vHI is to avoid the triggering stimuli (&gt;50 %); 11 % of susceptible individuals consult a doctor, most often a general practitioner, neurologist, ENT doctor, or psychiatrist. In brief, visual height intolerance affects one-third of the general population, considerably restricting the majority of these individuals in their daily activities. The data show that the two terms do not indicate a categorical distinction but rather a continuum from slight forms of visual height intolerance to the specific phobia of fear of heights.
The pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered to be multifactorial. Several epidemiological studies showed a lower incidence of ALS in women than in men. This suggests a possible protective effect of female reproductive hormones. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between female reproductive hormones and ALS. We performed a population-based, case-control study in the Netherlands between 1st January 2006 and 1st December 2009. Only women with a natural menopause were included in the analysis. A total of 209 (85 %) of 246 female patients and 672 (93 %) of 719 controls returned a questionnaire on reproductive history to calculate the reproductive time-span and lifetime endogenous estrogen exposure (calculated by subtracting the duration of pregnancies and of oral contraceptive use, and the number of post-ovulatory weeks from the reproductive time-span). 131 (63 %) patients and 430 (64 %) age-matched, population-based controls had experienced a natural menopause. Multivariate analysis showed that increasing the reproductive time-span by a year decreases the risk of ALS with an OR of 0.95 (p = 0.005). Each year longer reproductive time-span [HR 0.90 (p = 0.01)] and lifetime endogenous estrogen exposure [HR 0.96 (p = 0.025)] were associated with a longer survival of ALS patients. The positive association of a longer reproductive time-span and susceptibility and survival of ALS might imply that longer exposure to female reproductive hormones has a neuroprotective effect on motor neurons.

The idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) are a group of muscle diseases with complex immunopathogenesis that varies between disease subgroups, and possibly between patients within the same subgroup. There exists no universal consensus on optimum management, so that no &quot;standard&quot; therapy has been developed. Treatment-refractive IIM remains a clinical challenge. Progress in the development and application of molecular biology techniques and biological therapeutics are evolving into a new scientific frontier in the management of autoimmune diseases. This review offers an update on those components of the humoral and cellular immunity deemed potential targets for biological therapeutics (monoclonal antibodies and fusion proteins) that have been approved by the US FDA for treatment of immunological disorders. A futuristic approach is envisioned in which each individual will receive targeted therapy tailored to patient-specific immune mechanisms. Risk-benefit and cost analyses should determine whether such targeted therapy is appropriate and feasible for refractive and/or newly diagnosed disease.
The blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is a dynamic and competent interface between the endoneurial microenvironment and the surrounding extracellular space or blood. It is localised at the innermost layer of the multilayered ensheathing perineurium and endoneurial microvessels, and is the key structure that controls the internal milieu of the peripheral nerve parenchyma. Since the endoneurial BNB is the point of entry for pathogenic T cells and various soluble factors, including cytokines, chemokines and immunoglobulins, understanding this structure is important to prevent and treat human immune mediated neuropathies such as Guillain-Barr syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal protein and skin changes) syndrome and a subset of diabetic neuropathy. However, compared with the blood-brain barrier, only limited knowledge has been accumulated regarding the function, cell biology and clinical significance of the BNB. This review describes the basic structure and functions of the endoneurial BNB, provides an update of the biology of the cells comprising the BNB, and highlights the pathology and pathomechanisms of BNB breakdown in immune mediated neuropathies. The human immortalised cell lines of BNB origin established in our laboratory will facilitate the future development of BNB research. Potential therapeutic strategies for immune mediated neuropathies manipulating the BNB are also discussed.



ObjectiveTo investigate the variation in the course of the facial nerve (FN) in patients undergoing acoustic neuroma (AN) surgery, its adhesion to tumors, and the relationship between such adhesions and postoperative facial palsy. MethodsThe subjects were 356 patients who underwent AN surgery in whom the course of the FN could be confirmed. Patients were classified into six groups: ventro-central surface of the tumor (VCe), ventro-rostral (VR), ventro-caudal (VCa), rostral (R), caudal (C), and dorsal (D). ResultsThe FN course was VCe in 185 cases, VR in 137, VCa in 19, R in 10, C in 4, and D in one. For tumors&lt;1.5 cm, VCe was most common. For tumors1.5 cm, the proportion of VR increased. No significant difference was observed between the course patterns of the FN in terms of postoperative FN function, but for tumors&gt;3.0 cm, there was an increasing tendency for the FN to adhere strongly to the tumor capsule, and postoperative facial palsy was more severe in patients with stronger adhesions. ConclusionsThe VCe pattern was most common for small tumors. Strong or less strong adhesion to the tumor capsule was most strongly associated with postoperative FN palsy.
Autoantibodies and complement opsonization have been implicated in the process of demyelination in the major human CNS demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS), but scavenger receptors (SRs) may also play pathogenetic roles. We characterized SR mRNA and protein expression in postmortem brain tissue from 13 MS patients in relation to active demyelination. CD68, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 16 (CXCL16), class A macrophage SR (SR-AI/II), LOX-1 (lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1), FcRIII, and LRP-1 (low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1) mRNA were upregulated in the rims of chronic active MS lesions. CD68 and CXCL16 mRNA were also upregulated around chronic active MS lesions. By immunohistochemistry, CD68, CXCL16, and SR-AI/II were expressed by foamy macrophages in the rim and by ramified microglia around chronic active MS lesions. CXCL16 and SR-AI/II were also expressed by astrocytes in MS lesions and by primary human microglia and astrocytes in vitro. These data suggest that SRs are involved in myelin uptake in MS, and that upregulation of CD68, CXCL16, and SR-AI/II is one of the initial events in microglia as they initiate myelin phagocytosis. As demyelination continues, additional upregulation of LOX-1, FcRIII, and LRP-1 may facilitate this process.
Vitamin D deficiency has been implicated as a risk factor for multiple sclerosis (MS), but how vitamin D metabolism affects MS pathophysiology is not understood. We studied the expression of vitamin D receptor (VDR) and related enzymes, including 1,25(OH)(2)D-24-hydroxylase (24-OHase; CYP24A1) and 25(OH)D-1-hydroxylase (CYP27B1), in CNS tissues of 39 MS patients and 20 controls and in primary human glial cells in vitro. In control and MS normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), nuclear VDR immunostaining was observed in oligodendrocyte-like cells, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-positive microglia, and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. There was a 2-fold increase in VDR transcripts in MS NAWM versus control white matter (p = 0.03). In chronic active MS lesions, HLA-positive microglia/macrophages showed nuclear VDR staining; astrocytes showed nuclear and cytoplasmic VDR staining. Staining for 24-OHase was restricted to astrocytes.VDR and CYP27B1 mRNA expressions were increased in active MS lesions versus NAWM (p &lt; 0.01, p = 0.04, respectively). In primary human astrocytes in vitro, the active form of vitamin D, 1,25(OH)(2)D(3), induced upregulation of VDR and CYP24A1. Tumor necrosis factor and interferon- upregulated CYP27B1 mRNA in primary human microglia and astrocytes. Increased VDR expression in MS NAWM and inflammatory cytokine-induced amplified expression of VDR and CYP27B1 in chronic active MS lesions suggest increased sensitivity to vitamin D in NAWM and a possible endogenous role for vitamin D metabolism in the suppression of active MS lesions.
The execution of action sequences is the basis of most behavior. However, little is known about the neural foundation of visuomotor sequence execution in birds, although pigeons are a classic model animal to study sequence learning and production. Recently, we identified two structures in the pigeon brain, the nidopallium intermedium medialis pars laterale (NIML) and the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL), that are involved in the execution of a serial reaction time task (SRTT). In the SRTT sequence execution is always cue guided. Thus the previous study could not unambiguously clarify whether NCL and NIML contribute to a memory-based execution of sequential behavior. In addition, a possibly differential role of these two structures could not be identified. Therefore, the present study was conducted to further elucidate the role of NCL and NIML in sequence execution in a task where pigeons performed a memorized four-item sequence. Transient inactivation of each NIML and NCL severely impaired sequence execution. The results confirm and extend our previous findings. NIML and NCL seem to store sequence information in parallel. However, the results support the hypothesis that NCL, in contrast to NIML, is especially required for sequence initiation.
Temporary deafferentation of the upper limb, with ischemic or anesthetic nerve block, has rapid effects on sensorimotor cortex. Cutaneous anesthesia of the forearm has recently been found to improve sensory and motor function of the paretic hand in chronic stroke patients. However, the neurophysiological mechanisms are unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the behavioral and neurophysiological effects of cutaneous forearm anesthesia. Twenty-five healthy right-handed adults participated in this double-blind, randomized study. Participants completed two sessions, with either a topical anesthesia cream (EMLA) or placebo applied to their left forearm in each session. Thresholds for cutaneous sensation and spatial acuity of the left hand were measured before and after the intervention. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to measure corticomotor excitability and short-interval intracortical inhibition in the left first dorsal interosseous and abductor digiti minimi muscles before and after the intervention. Manual dexterity was assessed with the grooved pegboard task after the intervention in each session. Left-hand dexterity improved to a greater extent after treatment with EMLA than placebo, and this was related to improved spatial acuity at the fingertips. Corticomotor excitability remained stable, and short-interval intracortical inhibition increased after EMLA treatment. We have confirmed and extended previous reports that cutaneous forearm anesthesia results in improved spatial acuity and manual dexterity of the ipsilateral hand. The neurophysiological mechanisms involve an increase in intracortical inhibition, which may improve the precision of voluntary movement. These results lend support to the therapeutic application of EMLA in movement rehabilitation.
The central thalamus plays an important role in the regulation of arousal and allocation of attentional resources in the performance of even simple tasks. To assess the contribution of central thalamic neurons to short-term adjustments of attentional effort, we analyzed 166 microelectrode recordings obtained from two rhesus monkeys performing a visuomotor simple reaction time task with a variable foreperiod. Multiunit responses showed maintained firing rate elevations during the variable delay period of the task in 24% of recording sites. Simultaneously recorded local field potentials demonstrated significant decreases in power at 10-20 Hz and increases in power at 30-100 Hz during the delay period when compared against precue baselines. Comparison of the spectral power of local field potentials during the delay period of correct and incorrect trials showed that, during incorrect trials, similar, but reduced, shifts of spectral power occurred within the same frequency bands. Sustained performance of even simple tasks requires regulation of arousal and attention that combine in the concept of &quot;attentional effort&quot;. Our findings suggest that central thalamic neurons regulate task performance through brief changes in firing rates and spectral power changes during task-relevant short-term shifts of attentional effort. Increases in attentional effort may be reflected in changes within the central thalamic local populations, where correct task performance associates with more robust maintenance of firing rates during the delay period. Such ongoing fluctuations of central thalamic activity likely reflect a mix of influences, including variations in moment-to-moment levels of motivation, arousal, and availability of cognitive resources.
Simultaneously combining the complementary assets of EEG, functional MRI (fMRI), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) within one experimental session provides synergetic results, offering insights into brain function that go beyond the scope of each method when used in isolation. The steady increase of concurrent EEG-fMRI, TMS-EEG, and TMS-fMRI studies further underlines the added value of such multimodal imaging approaches. Whereas concurrent EEG-fMRI enables monitoring of brain-wide network dynamics with high temporal and spatial resolution, the combination with TMS provides insights in causal interactions within these networks. Thus the simultaneous use of all three methods would allow studying fast, spatially accurate, and distributed causal interactions in the perturbed system and its functional relevance for intact behavior. Concurrent EEG-fMRI, TMS-EEG, and TMS-fMRI experiments are already technically challenging, and the three-way combination of TMS-EEG-fMRI might yield additional difficulties in terms of hardware strain or signal quality. The present study explored the feasibility of concurrent TMS-EEG-fMRI studies by performing safety and quality assurance tests based on phantom and human data combining existing commercially available hardware. Results revealed that combined TMS-EEG-fMRI measurements were technically feasible, safe in terms of induced temperature changes, allowed functional MRI acquisition with comparable image quality as during concurrent EEG-fMRI or TMS-fMRI, and provided artifact-free EEG before and from 300 ms after TMS pulse application. Based on these empirical findings, we discuss the conceptual benefits of this novel complementary approach to investigate the working human brain and list a number of precautions and caveats to be heeded when setting up such multimodal imaging facilities with current hardware.
Selective attention experimental designs have shown that neural responses to stimuli in primary somatosensory cortex are stronger when the sensory stimuli are task relevant. Other studies have used animals under no task demands for data collection. The relationship between neural responses in the brain during behavior, and while an animal has no task demands, remains underexplored. We trained two animals to perform somatosensory detection for several weeks, followed by somatosensory discrimination for several weeks. Data in response to physically identical stimuli were collected from cortical implants while the animal was under no task demands before each behavioral session and also during that behavioral session. The Fourier spectra of the field potentials during detection or discrimination compared with the no task condition demonstrated suppression of the somatosensory -rhythm that is associated with readiness and anticipation of cognitive use of somatosensory and motor inputs. Responses to the task target were stronger during detection and discrimination than in the no task condition. The amplitude normalized time course of the target evoked response was similar in both cases. Evoked responses to the task distractor were not significantly stronger during behavior than in recordings under no task demands. The normalized time course of the distractor responses showed a suppression that peaks 30-35 ms after the onset of the response. The selectivity of this within trial suppression is the same as the selectivity of enduring suppression evident in studies of sensory cortical plasticity, which suggests the same neural process may be responsible for both.
Brief strong depolarization of cerebellar Purkinje cells produces a slow inward cation current [depolarization-induced slow current (DISC)]. Previous work has shown that DISC is triggered by voltage-sensitive Ca influx in the Purkinje cell and is attenuated by blockers of vesicular loading and fusion. Here, we have sought to characterize the ion channel(s) underlying the DISC conductance. While the brief depolarizing steps that triggered DISC were associated with a large Ca transient, the onset of DISC current corresponded only with the Ca transient decay phase. Furthermore, substitution of external Na with the impermeant cation N-methyl-d-glucamine produced a complete and reversible block of DISC, suggesting that the DISC conductance was not Ca permeant. Transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily M, members 4 (TRPM4) and 5 (TRPM5) are nonselective cation channels that are opened by Ca transients but do not flux Ca. They are expressed in Purkinje cells of the posterior cerebellum, where DISC is large, and, in these cells, DISC is strongly attenuated by nonselective blockers of TRPM4/5. However, measurement of DISC currents in Purkinje cells derived from TRPM4 null, TRPM5 null, and double null mice as well as wild-type mice with TRPM4 short hairpin RNA knockdown showed a partial attenuation with 35-46% of current remaining. Thus, while the DISC conductance is Ca triggered, Na permeant, and Ca impermeant, suggesting a role for TRPM4 and TRPM5, these ion channels are not absolutely required for DISC.
Eye movements pose major problems to the visual system, because each new saccade changes the mapping of external objects on the retina. It is known that stimuli briefly presented around the time of saccades are systematically mislocalized, whereas continuously visible objects are perceived as spatially stable even when they undergo large transsaccadic displacements. In this study we investigated the relationship between these two phenomena and measured how human subjects perceive the position of pairs of bars briefly displayed around the time of large horizontal saccades. We show that they interact strongly, with the perisaccadic bar being drawn toward the other, dramatically altering the pattern of perisaccadic mislocalization. The interaction field extends over a wide range (200 ms and 20) and is oriented along the retinotopic trajectory of the saccade-induced motion, suggesting a mechanism that integrates pre- and postsaccadic stimuli at different retinal locations but similar external positions. We show how transient changes in spatial integration mechanisms, which are consistent with the present psychophysical results and with the properties of &quot;remapping cells&quot; reported in the literature, can create transient craniotopy by merging the distinct retinal images of the pre- and postsaccadic fixations to signal a single stable object.
Zebra finch song has provided an excellent case study in the neural basis of sequence learning, with a high degree of temporal precision and tight links with precisely timed bursting in forebrain neurons. To examine the development of song timing, we measured the following four aspects of song temporal structure at four age ranges between 65 and 375 days posthatch: the mean durations of song syllables and the silent gaps between them, timing variability linked to song tempo, timing variability expressed independently across syllables and gaps, and transition probabilities between consecutive syllable pairs. We found substantial increases in song tempo between 65 and 85 days posthatch, due almost entirely to a shortening of gaps. We also found a decrease in tempo variability, also specific to gaps. Both the magnitude of the increase in tempo and the decrease in tempo variability were correlated on gap-by-gap basis with increases in the reliability of corresponding syllable transitions. Syllables had no systematic increase in tempo or decrease in tempo variability. In contrast to tempo parameters, both syllables and gaps showed an early sharp reduction in independent variability followed by continued reductions over the first year. The data suggest that links between syllable-based representations are strengthened during the later parts of the traditional period of song learning and that song rhythm continues to become more regular throughout the first year of life. Similar learning patterns have been identified in human sequence learning, suggesting a potentially rich area of comparative research.
Sequential motor skills may be encoded by feedforward networks that consist of groups of neurons that fire in sequence (Abeles 1991; Long et al. 2010). However, there has been no evidence of an anatomic map of activation sequence in motor control circuits, which would be potentially detectable as directed functional connectivity of coactive neuron groups. The proposed pattern generator for birdsong, the HVC (Long and Fee 2008; Vu et al. 1994), contains axons that are preferentially oriented in the rostrocaudal axis (Nottebohm et al. 1982; Stauffer et al. 2012). We used four-tetrode recordings to assess the activity of ensembles of single neurons along the rostrocaudal HVC axis in anesthetized zebra finches. We found an axial, polarized neural network in which sequential activity is directionally organized along the rostrocaudal axis in adult males, who produce a stereotyped song. Principal neurons fired in rostrocaudal order and with interneurons that were rostral to them, suggesting that groups of excitatory neurons fire at the leading edge of travelling waves of inhibition. Consistent with the synchronization of neurons by caudally travelling waves of inhibition, the activity of interneurons was more coherent in the orthogonal mediolateral axis than in the rostrocaudal axis. If directed functional connectivity within the HVC is important for stereotyped, learned song, then it may be lacking in juveniles, which sing a highly variable song. Indeed, we found little evidence for network directionality in juveniles. These data indicate that a functionally directed network within the HVC matures during sensorimotor learning and may underlie vocal patterning.
Echoes and sounds of independent origin often obscure sounds of interest, but echoes can go undetected under natural listening conditions, a perception called the precedence effect. How does the auditory system distinguish between echoes and independent sources? To investigate, we presented two broadband noises to barn owls (Tyto alba) while varying the similarity of the sounds' envelopes. The carriers of the noises were identical except for a 2- or 3-ms delay. Their onsets and offsets were also synchronized. In owls, sound localization is guided by neural activity on a topographic map of auditory space. When there are two sources concomitantly emitting sounds with overlapping amplitude spectra, space map neurons discharge when the stimulus in their receptive field is louder than the one outside it and when the averaged amplitudes of both sounds are rising. A model incorporating these features calculated the strengths of the two sources' representations on the map (B. S. Nelson and T. T. Takahashi; Neuron 67: 643-655, 2010). The target localized by the owls could be predicted from the model's output. The model also explained why the echo is not localized at short delays: when envelopes are similar, peaks in the leading sound mask corresponding peaks in the echo, weakening the echo's space map representation. When the envelopes are dissimilar, there are few or no corresponding peaks, and the owl localizes whichever source is predicted by the model to be less masked. Thus the precedence effect in the owl is a by-product of a mechanism for representing multiple sound sources on its map.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes many long-term neurological complications. Some of these conditions, such as posttraumatic epilepsy, are characterized by increased excitability that typically arises after a latent period lasting from months to years, suggesting that slow injury-induced processes are critical. We tested the hypothesis that trkB activation promotes delayed injury-induced hyperexcitability in part by promoting reactive axonal sprouting. We modeled penetrative TBI with transection of the Schaffer collateral pathway in knock-in mice having an introduced mutation in the trkB receptor (trkB(F616A)) that renders it susceptible to inhibition by the novel small molecule 1NMPP1. We observed that trkB activation was increased in area CA3 1 day after injury and that expression of a marker of axonal growth, GAP43, was increased 7 days after lesion. Extracellular field potentials in stratum pyramidale of area CA3 in acute slices from sham-operated and lesioned mice were normal in control saline. Abnormal bursts of population spikes were observed under conditions that were mildly proconvulsive but only in slices taken from mice lesioned 7-21 days earlier and not in slices from control mice. trkB activation, GAP43 upregulation, and hyperexcitability were diminished by systemic administration of 1NMPP1 for 7 days after the lesion. Synaptic transmission from area CA3 to area CA1 recovered 7 days after lesion in untreated mice but not in mice treated with 1NMPP1. We conclude that trkB receptor activation and reactive axonal sprouting are critical factors in injury-induced hyperexcitability and may contribute to the neurological complications of TBI.
Changes in inhibition during development are well documented, but the role of inhibition in adult learning-related plasticity is not understood. In songbirds, vocal recognition learning alters the neural representation of songs across the auditory forebrain, including the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM), a region analogous to mammalian secondary auditory cortices. Here, we block local inhibition with the iontophoretic application of gabazine, while simultaneously measuring song-evoked spiking activity in NCM of European starlings trained to recognize sets of conspecific songs. We find that local inhibition differentially suppresses the responses to learned and unfamiliar songs and enhances spike-rate differences between learned categories of songs. These learning-dependent response patterns emerge, in part, through inhibitory modulation of selectivity for song components and the masking of responses to specific acoustic features without altering spectrotemporal tuning. The results describe a novel form of inhibitory modulation of the encoding of learned categories and demonstrate that inhibition plays a central role in shaping the responses of neurons to learned, natural signals.
We recorded simultaneously from pairs of motion-sensitive neurons in the middle temporal cortex (MT) of macaque monkeys and used cross-correlations in the timing of spikes between neurons to gain insights into cortical circuitry. We characterized the time course and stimulus dependency of the cross-correlogram (CCG) for each pair of neurons and of the auto-correlogram (ACG) of the individual neurons. For some neuron pairs, the CCG showed negative flanks that emerged next to the central peak during stimulus-driven responses. Similar negative flanks appeared in the ACG of many neurons. Negative flanks were most prevalent and deepest when the neurons were driven to high rates by visual stimuli that moved in the neurons' preferred directions. The temporal development of the negative flanks in the CCG coincided with a parallel, modest reduction of the noise correlation between the spike counts of the neurons. Computational analysis of a model cortical circuit suggested that negative flanks in the CCG arise from the excitation-triggered mutual cross-inhibition between pairs of excitatory neurons. Intracortical recurrent inhibition and afterhyperpolarization caused by intrinsic outward currents, such as the calcium-activated potassium current of small conductance, can both contribute to the negative flanks in the ACG. In the model circuit, stronger intracortical inhibition helped to maintain the temporal precision between the spike trains of pairs of neurons and led to weaker noise correlations. Our results suggest a neural circuit architecture that can leverage activity-dependent intracortical inhibition to adaptively modulate both the synchrony of spike timing and the correlations in response variability.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by transient nociceptive stimuli in humans are largely sensitive to bottom-up novelty induced, for example, by changes in stimulus attributes (e.g., modality or spatial location) within a stream of repeated stimuli. Here we aimed 1) to test the contribution of a selective change of the intensity of a repeated stimulus in determining the magnitude of nociceptive ERPs, and 2) to dissect the effect of this change of intensity in terms of &quot;novelty&quot; and &quot;saliency&quot; (an increase of stimulus intensity is more salient than a decrease of stimulus intensity). Nociceptive ERPs were elicited by trains of three consecutive laser stimuli (S1-S2-S3) delivered to the hand dorsum at a constant 1-s interstimulus interval. Three, equally spaced intensities were used: low (L), medium (M), and high (H). While the intensities of S1 and S2 were always identical (L, M, or H), the intensity of S3 was either identical (e.g., HHH) or different (e.g., MMH) from the intensity of S1 and S2. Introducing a selective change in stimulus intensity elicited significantly larger N1 and N2 waves of the S3-ERP but only when the change consisted in an increase in stimulus intensity. This observation indicates that nociceptive ERPs do not simply reflect processes involved in the detection of novelty but, instead, are mainly determined by stimulus saliency.
Neurophysiological markers of the central control of gait in children with cerebral palsy (CP) are used to assess developmental response to therapy. We measured the central common drive to a leg muscle in children with CP. We recorded electromyograms (EMGs) from the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of 40 children with hemiplegic CP and 42 typically developing age-matched controls during static dorsiflexion of the ankle and during the swing phase of treadmill walking. The common drive to TA motoneurons was identified through time- and frequency-domain cross-correlation methods. In control subjects, the common drive consists of frequencies between 1 and 60 Hz with peaks at beta (15-25 Hz) and gamma (30-45 Hz) frequencies known to be caused by activity within sensorimotor cortex networks: this drive to motoneurons strengthens during childhood. Similar to this drive in control subjects, this drive to the least affected TA in the CP children tended to strengthen with age, although compared with that in the control subjects, it was slightly weaker. For CP subjects of all ages, the most affected TA muscle common drive was markedly reduced compared with that of their least affected muscle as well as that of controls. These differences between the least and most affected TA muscles were unrelated to differences in the magnitude of EMG in the two muscles but positively correlated with ankle dorsiflexion velocity and joint angle during gait. Time- and frequency-domain analysis of ongoing EMG recruited during behaviorally relevant lower limb tasks provides a noninvasive and important measure of the central drive to motoneurons in subjects with CP.
Many species navigate in three dimensions and are required to maintain accurate orientation while moving in an Earth vertical plane. Here we explored how head direction (HD) cells in the rat anterodorsal thalamus responded when rats locomoted along a 360 spiral track that was positioned vertically within the room at the N, S, E, or W location. Animals were introduced into the vertical plane either through passive placement (experiment 1) or by allowing them to run up a 45 ramp from the floor to the vertically positioned platform (experiment 2). In both experiments HD cells maintained direction-specific firing in the vertical plane with firing properties that were indistinguishable from those recorded in the horizontal plane. Interestingly, however, the cells' preferred directions were linked to different aspects of the animal's environment and depended on how the animal transitioned into the vertical plane. When animals were passively placed onto the vertical surface, the cells switched from using the room (global cues) as a reference frame to using the vertically positioned platform (local cues) as a reference frame, independent of where the platform was located. In contrast, when animals self-locomoted into the vertical plane, the cells' preferred directions remained anchored to the three-dimensional room coordinates and their activity could be accounted for by a simple 90 rotation of the floor's horizontal coordinate system to the vertical plane. These findings highlight the important role that active movement signals play for maintaining and updating spatial orientation when moving in three dimensions.
Goodale and Milner's (1992) &quot;vision-for-action&quot; and &quot;vision-for-perception&quot; account of the division of labor between the dorsal and ventral &quot;streams&quot; has come to dominate contemporary views of the functional roles of these two pathways. Nevertheless, some lines of evidence for the model remain controversial. Recently, Thomas Schenk reexamined visual form agnosic patient DF's spared anticipatory grip scaling to object size, one of the principal empirical pillars of the model. Based on this new evidence, Schenk rejects the original interpretation of DF's spared ability that was based on segregated processing of object size and argues that DF's spared grip scaling relies on haptic feedback to calibrate visual egocentric cues that relate the posture of the hand to the visible edges of the goal-object. However, a careful consideration of the tasks that Schenk employed reveals some problems with his claim. We suspect that the core issues of this controversy will require a closer examination of the role that cognition plays in the operation of the dorsal and ventral streams in healthy controls and in patient DF.
The upregulation of genes normally associated with development may occur in the adult after spinal cord injury (SCI). To test this, we performed real-time RT-PCR array analysis of mouse spinal cord mRNAs comparing embryonic day (E)14.5 spinal cord with intact adult and adult cord 1 week after a clinically relevant standardized contusion SCI. We found significantly increased expression of a large number of neural development- and stem cell-associated genes after SCI. These included Sox2 (sex determining region Y-box 2), a transcription factor that regulates self-renewal and potency of embryonic neural stem cells and is one of only a few key factors needed to induce pluripotency. In adult spinal cord of Sox2-EGFP mice, Sox2-EGFP was found mainly in the ependymal cells of the central canal. After SCI, both mRNA and protein levels of Sox2 were significantly increased at and near the injury site. By 1 day, Sox2 was upregulated in NG2(+) oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPC) in the spared white matter. By 3 days, Sox2-EGFP ependymal cells had increased proliferation and begun to form multiple layers and clusters of cells in the central lesion zone of the cord. Expression of Sox2 by NG2(+) cells had declined by 1 week, but increased numbers of other Sox2-expressing cells persisted for at least 4 weeks after SCI in both mouse and rat models. Thus, SCI upregulates many genes associated with development and neural stem cells, including the key transcription factor Sox2, which is expressed in a pool of cells that persists for weeks after SCI.
Damage to white matter such as corpus callosum (CC) is a pathological characteristic in many brain disorders. Glutamate (Glut) excitotoxicity through AMPA receptors on oligodendrocyte (OL) was previously considered as a mechanism for white matter damage. Recent studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are expressed on myelin sheath of neonatal rat OL processes and that activation of these receptors mediated demyelization. Whether NMDARs are expressed in the adult CC and are involved in excitotoxic axonal injury remains to be determined. In this study, we demonstrate the presence of NMDARs in the adult rat CC and their distributions in myelinated nerve fibers and OL somata by means of immunocytochemical staining and Western blot. Incubation of the CC slices with Glut or NMDA induced axonal injury as revealed by analyzing amplitude of CC fiber compound action potentials (CAPs) and input-output response. Both Glut and NMDA decreased the CAP amplitude and input-output responses, suggesting an involvement of NMDARs in Glut- and NMDA-induced axonal injury. The involvement of NMDAR in Glut-induced axonal injury was further assayed by detection of -amyloid precursor protein (-APP) in the CC axonal fibers. Treatment of the CC slices with Glut resulted in -APP accumulation in the CC fibers as detected by Western blot, reflecting an impairment of axonal transport function. This injurious effect of Glut on CC axonal transport was significantly blocked by MK801. Taken together, these results show that NMDARs are expressed in the adult CC and are involved in excitotoxic activity in adult CC slices in vitro.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by degeneration of neocortex, limbic system, and basal forebrain, accompanied by accumulation of amyloid- and tangle formation. Cerebrolysin (CBL), a peptide mixture with neurotrophic-like effects, is reported to improve cognition and activities of daily living in patients with AD. Likewise, CBL reduces synaptic and behavioral deficits in transgenic (tg) mice overexpressing the human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP). The neuroprotective effects of CBL may involve multiple mechanisms, including signaling regulation, control of APP metabolism, and expression of neurotrophic factors. We investigate the effects of CBL in the hAPP tg model of AD on levels of neurotrophic factors, including pro-nerve growth factor (NGF), NGF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotropin (NT)-3, NT4, and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that levels of pro-NGF were increased in saline-treated hAPP tg mice. In contrast, CBL-treated hAPP tg mice showed levels of pro-NGF comparable to control and increased levels of mature NGF. Consistently with these results, immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated increased NGF immunoreactivity in the hippocampus of CBL-treated hAPP tg mice. Protein levels of other neurotrophic factors, including BDNF, NT3, NT4, and CNTF, were unchanged. mRNA levels of NGF and other neurotrophins were also unchanged. Analysis of neurotrophin receptors showed preservation of the levels of TrKA and p75(NTR) immunoreactivity per cell in the nucleus basalis. Cholinergic cells in the nucleus basalis were reduced in the saline-treated hAPP tg mice, and treatment with CBL reduced these cholinergic deficits. These results suggest that the neurotrophic effects of CBL might involve modulation of the pro-NGF/NGF balance and a concomitant protection of cholinergic neurons.


Road traffic accidents are the most common cause of avulsion injury, in which spinal roots are torn from the spinal cord. Patients suffer from a loss of sensorimotor function, intractable spontaneous pain, and border-zone hypersensitivity. The neuropathic pains are particularly difficult to treat because the lack of a well-established animal model of avulsion injury prevents identifying the underlying mechanisms and hinders the development of efficacious drugs. This article describes a hindlimb model of avulsion injury in adult rats where the L5 dorsal and ventral spinal root are unilaterally avulsed (spinal root avulsion [SRA]), leaving the adjacent L4 spinal root intact. SRA produced a significant ipsilateral hypersensitivity to mechanical and thermal stimulation by 5 days compared with sham-operated or nave rats. This hypersensitivity is maintained for up to 60 days. No autotomy was observed and locomotor deficits were minimal. The hypersensitivity to peripheral stimuli could be temporarily ameliorated by administration of amitriptyline and carbamazepine, drugs that are currently prescribed to avulsion patients. Histological assessment of the L4 ganglion cells revealed no significant alterations in calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), IB4, transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TrpV1), or N52 staining across groups. Immunohistochemistry of the spinal cord revealed a localized glial response, phagocyte infiltration, and neuronal loss within the ipsilateral avulsed segment. A comparable response from glia and phagocytes was also found in the intact L4 spinal cord, supporting the role for central mechanisms within the L4-5 spinal cord in contributing to the generation of the pain-related behavior. The SRA model provides a platform to investigate possible new pharmacological treatments for avulsion injuries.




Nitric oxide is implicated in methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity; however, the source of the nitric oxide has not been identified. Previous work has also revealed that animals with partial dopamine loss induced by a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine fail to exhibit further decreases in striatal dopamine when re-exposed to methamphetamine 7-30 days later. The current study examined nitric oxide synthase expression and activity and protein nitration in striata of animals administered saline or neurotoxic regimens of methamphetamine at postnatal days 60 and/or 90, resulting in four treatment groups: Saline:Saline, METH:Saline, Saline:METH, and METH:METH. Acute administration of methamphetamine on postnatal day 90 (Saline:METH and METH:METH) increased nitric oxide production, as evidenced by increased protein nitration. Methamphetamine did not, however, change the expression of endothelial or inducible isoforms of nitric oxide synthase, nor did it change the number of cells positive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase mRNA expression or the amount of neuronal nitric oxide synthase mRNA per cell. However, nitric oxide synthase activity in striatal interneurons was increased in the Saline:METH and METH:METH animals. These data suggest that increased nitric oxide production after a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine results from increased nitric oxide synthase activity, rather than an induction of mRNA, and that constitutively expressed neuronal nitric oxide synthase is the most likely source of nitric oxide after methamphetamine administration. Of interest, animals rendered resistant to further methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletions still show equivalent degrees of methamphetamine-induced nitric oxide production, suggesting that nitric oxide production alone in response to methamphetamine is not sufficient to induce acute neurotoxic injury.
DISC1 (Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1), one of the top candidate genes for schizophrenia, has been associated with a range of major mental illnesses over the last two decades. DISC1 is crucially involved in neurodevelopmental processes of the human brain. Several haplotypes and single nucleotide polymorphisms of DISC1 have been associated with changes of grey matter volumes in brain regions known to be altered in schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of DISC1 on grey matter volumes in human subjects using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). 114/113 participating subjects (psychiatric patients and healthy controls) were genotyped with respect to two at-risk SNPs of DISC1, rs6675281 and rs821616. All participants underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI data was statistically analyzed using voxel-based morphometry. We found significant alterations of grey matter volumes in prefrontal and temporal brain regions in association with rs6675281 and rs821616. These effects of DISC1 polymorphisms on brain morphology provide further support for an involvement of DISC1 in the neurobiology of major psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia.
American Indians appear to experience a higher rate of traumatic events than what has been reported in general population surveys. American Indians also suffer higher alcohol related death rates than any other ethnic group in the U.S. population. Therefore efforts to delineate factors which may uniquely contribute to increased likelihood of trauma, post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and substance use disorders (SUD) over the lifetime in American Indians are important because of the high burden of morbidity and mortality that they pose to American Indian communities. Participants were American Indians recruited from reservations that were assessed with the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism (SSAGA), family history assessment and the stressful-life-events scale. Of the 309 participants, equivalent numbers of men and women (94%) reported experiencing traumas; however, a larger proportion of women received a PTSD diagnosis (38%) than men (29%). Having experienced multiple trauma and sexual abuse were most highly associated with PTSD. Having experienced assaultive trauma and having PTSD symptoms were both found to be moderately heritable (30-50%). Logistic regression revealed that having an anxiety and/or affective disorder and having a substance dependent diagnosis, but not having antisocial personality disorder/conduct disorder, were significantly correlated with having a diagnosis of PTSD. These studies suggest that trauma is highly prevalent in this American Indian community, it is heritable, is associated with PTSD, affective/anxiety disorders and substance dependence. Additionally, trauma, PTSD and substance dependence appear to all co-emerge in early adulthood in this high-risk population.
In the syntax literature, it is commonly assumed that a constraint on linguistic competence blocks extraction of wh-expressions (e.g. what or which book) from embedded questions, referred to as wh-islands. Furthermore, it is assumed that there is an argument/adjunct asymmetry in extraction from wh-islands. We report results from two acceptability judgment experiments on long and short wh-movement and wh-extraction from wh-islands in Danish. The results revealed four main findings: (1) No adjunct/argument asymmetry in extraction from wh-islands. (2) Long adjunct wh-movement is less acceptable than long argument wh-movement, and this difference is attributable to matrix verb compatibility and factivity, not D-linking. (3) Long movement reduces acceptability, but is more acceptable than island violations. (4) Training effects reveal that island violations, though degraded, are grammatical in Danish. Since the standard assumptions cannot account for the range of results, we argue in favor of a processing account referring to locality (processing domains) and working memory.
The putative endogenous imidazoline binding site ligand harmane enhances neuronal activation in response to psychological stress and alters behaviour in animal models of anxiety and antidepressant efficacy. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying harmane's psychotropic effects are poorly understood. We investigated the effects of intraperitoneal injection of harmane (2.5 and 10 mg/kg) on fear-conditioned behaviour, hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, and monoaminergic activity within specific fear-associated areas of the rat brain. Harmane had no significant effect on the duration of contextually induced freezing or 22 kHz ultrasonic vocalisations and did not alter the contextually induced suppression of motor activity, including rearing. Harmane reduced the duration of rearing and tended to increase freezing in non-fear-conditioned controls, suggesting potential sedative effects. Harmane increased plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations, and serotonin (in hypothalamus, amygdaloid cortex, prefrontal cortex and hippocampus) and noradrenaline (prefrontal cortex) content, irrespective of fear-conditioning. Furthermore, harmane reduced dopamine and serotonin turnover in the PFC and hypothalamus, and serotonin turnover in the amygdaloid cortex in both fear-conditioned and non-fear-conditioned rats. In contrast, harmane increased dopamine and noradrenaline content and reduced dopamine turnover in the amygdala of fear-conditioned rats only, suggesting differential effects on catecholaminergic transmission in the presence and absence of fear. The precise mechanism(s) mediating these effects of harmane remain to be determined but may involve its inhibitory action on monoamine oxidases. These findings support a role for harmane as a neuromodulator, altering behaviour, brain neurochemistry and neuroendocrine function.
Our group and others internationally have previously reported data on the use of low-dose flumazenil administered intravenously for the management of benzodiazepine withdrawal. This paper describes the first reported use of subcutaneous flumazenil infusion in the management of acute benzodiazepine withdrawal. Self-reported withdrawal symptoms and psychological state and anxiety sequelae were collected at baseline and then at intervals to 5 days following initiation of subcutaneous flumazenil infusion. Data indicate that patient subjective benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms were well managed, with significant reduction in psychological distress seen over the duration of treatment. Perceived difficulty in performing everyday functions was positively correlated with withdrawal severity and improved over treatment. Patients reported high treatment comfort, willingness to undertake a future subsequent treatment using this technique, and willingness to recommend this treatment to a friend. This small proof-of-concept study indicates that subcutaneous flumazenil infusion has excellent tolerability, efficacy and improvement on measures of psychological distress. Given this technique is less invasive and requires fewer staff resources compared with intravenous administration, it may prove a significant asset in the management of benzodiazepine withdrawal.





Few studies have investigated the relationship between the degree of stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and cerebrovascular reserve (CVR). This study examined that relationship. A total of 56 ICAs in 43 patients were included. Computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging showed no evidence of infarction in any of these patients. Both iodine-123-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine ((123)IMP)-single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the resting state and (123)IMP-SPECT with acetazolamide (ACZ) enhancement were performed. Quantitated cerebral blood flow (CBF) images were acquired with the (123)IMP autoradiography technique. The mean CBF without ACZ administration (resting CBF) and CVR in the middle cerebral artery territory were calculated using stereotactic extraction estimation (SEE) analysis software. The degree of stenosis in the origin of the ICA was calculated from intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography. Resting CBF was not correlated with the degree of ICA stenosis; however, nonlinear regression analysis (second-order equation) showed a moderate correlation between CVR and the degree of ICA stenosis. In 72% of the cases with a CVR &lt;30%, ICA stenosis was &gt;74%. Using the SEE method, CVR was moderately correlated with the degree of ICA stenosis. Our findings indicate that evaluating CVR by ACZ-enhanced (123)IMP-SPECT in patients with ICA stenosis is of clinical value.

We examined morale as a moderator of the relationship between combat exposure and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms in a longitudinal study of U.S. soldiers who had participated in a deployment to Iraq. Soldiers (N = 636) completed assessments at 4 (Time 1) and 10 (Time 2) months following their combat deployment. Combat exposure (both breadth and perceived stressfulness), morale, and PTSD symptoms were assessed at Time 1, and PTSD symptoms were assessed again at Time 2. Results of multivariate multiple regressions revealed that morale at Time 1 interacted with both the breadth and stressfulness of combat exposure to predict PTSD symptoms at both Time 1 and Time 2, even when partialling out the effect of unit support. The slope of the given combat exposure and PTSD symptoms relationship was weaker when reports of morale were higher (with the effect size of the interaction ranging from .01 to .04). The results suggest that morale may buffer soldiers from the negative consequences of combat stressors.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective surgical treatment for medication-refractory hypokinetic and hyperkinetic movement disorders, and it is being explored for a variety of other neurological and psychiatric diseases. Deep brain stimulation has been Food and Drug Administration-approved for essential tremor and Parkinson disease and has a humanitarian device exemption for dystonia and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Neurostimulation is the fruit of decades of both technical and scientific advances in the field of basic neuroscience and functional neurosurgery. Despite the clinical success of DBS, the therapeutic mechanism of DBS remains under debate. Our objective is to provide a comprehensive review of DBS focusing on movement disorders, including the historical evolution of the technique, applications and outcomes with an overview of the most pertinent literature, current views on mechanisms of stimulation, and description of hardware and programming techniques. We conclude with a discussion of future developments in neurostimulation.
CONTEXT Affective disorders are common in women, with many episodes having an onset in pregnancy or during the postpartum period. OBJECTIVE To investigate the occurrence and timing of perinatal mood episodes in women with bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder, and recurrent major depression (RMD). SETTING AND PATIENTS Women were recruited in our ongoing research on the genetic and nongenetic determinants of major affective disorders. Participants were interviewed and case notes were reviewed. Best-estimate diagnoses were made according to DSM-IV criteria. The 1785 parous women identified included 1212 women with bipolar disorder (980 with type I and 232 with type II) and 573 with RMD. Data were available on 3017 live births. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES We report the lifetime occurrence of perinatal mood episodes, the rates of perinatal episodes per pregnancy/postpartum period, and the timing of the onset of episodes in relation to delivery. RESULTS More than two-thirds of all diagnostic groups reported at least 1 lifetime episode of illness during pregnancy or the postpartum period. Women with bipolar I disorder reported an approximately 50% risk of a perinatal major affective episode per pregnancy/postpartum period. Risks were lower in women with RMD or bipolar II disorder, at approximately 40% per pregnancy/postpartum period. Mood episodes were significantly more common in the postpartum period in bipolar I disorder and RMD. Most perinatal episodes occurred within the first postpartum month, with mania or psychosis having an earlier onset than depression. CONCLUSIONS Although episodes of postpartum mood disorder are more common in bipolar I disorder and manic and psychotic presentations occur earlier in the postpartum period, perinatal episodes are highly prevalent across the mood disorder spectrum.
Clinical neurologists and scientists who study multiple sclerosis face open questions regarding the integration of epidemiological data with genome-wide association studies and clinical management of patients. It is becoming evident that the interplay of environmental influences and individual genetic susceptibility modulates disease presentation and therapeutic responsiveness. The molecular mechanisms through which environmental signals are translated into changes in gene expression include DNA methylation, post-translational modification of nucleosomal histones, and non-coding RNAs. These mechanisms are regulated by families of specialised enzymes that are tissue selective and cell-type specific. A model of multiple sclerosis pathogenesis should integrate underlying risk related to genetic susceptibility with cell-type specific epigenetic changes occurring in the immune system and in the brain in response to ageing and environmental stimuli.



The introduction of hybrid positron emission/magnetic resonance tomography (PET/MR) in diagnostic clinical imaging was a major step in the evolution of ever-more sophisticated imaging systems combining two strategies formerly regarded as technically incompatible in a single device. The advent of PET/MR opened up many new avenues in clinical and research environments, mainly by providing multi-modality images obtained during a single examination. Ideally, simultaneous data acquisition with hybrid PET/MR should warrant exact image co-registration of all multi-modality image volumes provided by both systems. This assumes that there is negligible mutual electronic, technical and logistical interference on the respective simultaneous measurements. Recently, such hybrid dedicated head and whole-body systems were successfully applied in an increasing number of cases. When employed for brain imaging, PET/MR has the potential to provide high-resolution multi-modality datasets. However, it also demands careful consideration of the multitude of features offered, as well as the limitations. There are open issues that have to be considered, such as the handling of patient motion during extended periods of data acquisition, optimized sampling of derived images to ease the visual interpretation and quantitative evaluation of co-registered images. This paper will briefly summarize the current status of PET/MR within the framework of developments for image co-registration and discuss current limitations and future perspectives.
Advances in the new-generation of ultra-high-resolution, brain-dedicated positron emission tomography-magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI) systems have begun to provide many interesting insights into the molecular dynamics of the brain. First, the finely delineated structural information from ultra-high-field MRI can help us to identify accurate landmark structures, thereby making it easier to locate PET activation sites that are anatomically well-correlated with metabolic or ligand-specific organs in the neural structures in the brain. This synergistic potential of PET/MRI imaging is discussed in terms of neuroscience and neurological research from both translational and basic research perspectives. Experimental results from the hippocampus, thalamus, and brainstem obtained with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and (11)C-3-amino-4-(2-dimethylaminomethylphenylsulfanyl)benzonitrile are used to demonstrate the potential of this new brain PET/MRI system.
The aim of this work is to present and evaluate a level-set segmentation approach with vesselness-dependent anisotropic energy weights, which focuses on the exact segmentation of malformed as well as small vessels from time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) datasets. In a first step, a vesselness filter is used to calculate the vesselness dataset, which quantifies the likeliness of each voxel to belong to a bright tubular-shaped structure and estimate the corresponding vessel directions from a given TOF dataset. The vesselness and TOF datasets are then combined using fuzzy-logic and used for initialization of a variational level-set method. The proposed level-set model has been extended in a way that the weight of the internal energy is locally adapted based on the vessel direction information. Here, the main idea is to weight the internal energy lower if the gradient direction of the level-set is similar to the direction of the eigenvector extracted by the vesselness filter. Furthermore, an additional vesselness force has been integrated in the level-set formulation. The proposed method was evaluated based on ten TOF MRA datasets from patients with an arteriovenous malformation. Manual segmentations from two observers were available for each dataset and used for quantitative comparison. The evaluation revealed that the proposed method yields significantly better segmentation results than four other state-of-the-art segmentation methods tested. Furthermore, the segmentation results are within the range of the inter-observer variation. In conclusion, the proposed method allows an improved delineation of small vessels, especially of those represented by low intensities and high surface curvatures.
Arterial spin labeling has relatively low spatial resolution, which affects cerebral blood flow measurements by partial volume effect occurring at tissue interfaces, e.g., between gray matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid. This can be an important source of cerebral blood flow quantification error. To correct for partial volume effect in arterial spin labeling, a linear regression method was recently proposed. Because this method assumes that tissue magnetization and cerebral blood flow are constant over an n(2)  1 regression kernel, an inherent spatial blurring is introduced. In this study, a modified least trimmed squares algorithm is proposed for partial volume effect correction. It is demonstrated using simulations that the modified least trimmed square method can correct for partial volume effect and produce less blurring than the linear regression method. This is achieved without either acquiring additional datasets or increasing the computation burden. These capabilities were further demonstrated in vivo. The modified least trimmed square method should, therefore, play an important role in arterial spin labeling studies.
Myoelectric control has been extensively applied in multi-function hand/wrist prostheses. The performance of this type of control is however, influenced by several practical factors that still limit its clinical applicability. One of these factors is the change in arm posture during the daily use of prostheses. In this study, we investigate the effect of arm position on the performance of a simultaneous and proportional myoelectric control algorithm, both on trans-radial amputees and able-bodied subjects. The results showed that changing arm position adversely influences the performance of the algorithm for both subject groups, but that this influence is less pronounced in amputee subjects with respect to able-bodied subjects. Thus, the impact of arm posture on myoelectric control cannot be inferred from results on able-bodied subjects and should be directly investigated in amputee subjects.
Around the world, stroke is the second most common cause of death and a major cause of disability. The main direct cause of stroke is the occlusion of intracranial artery, which leads to cell death in the core suffered region, or cell functional impairment surrounding the dead core (termed ischemic penumbra). Opening the occluded artery to save the ischemic penumbra is the aim of thrombolysis therapy. But the reperfusion induced injury counteracts the potential profit by thrombolysis. Herein, we assume that gradual reperfusion can reduce the reperfusion injury by reducing the production of free radicals during reperfusion. The reason is: free radicals are critical in the reperfusion injury; free radicals come from the penumbra during reperfusion; the respiratory chain is the main source of free radical; the enzyme activity of the respiratory chain is upgraded during ischemia; once reperfused, the activity upgraded enzymes in the respiratory chain meet normal amount of oxygen and glucose, which produces exceeding intermediates (free radicals); while gradual reperfusion reduces the production of free radicals, because it can confine the amount of oxygen and glucose.

In commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the molecular cloning of the gene for the green fluorescent protein from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria, I would like to reflect on the development of new fluorescence imaging technology in the last two decades. As this technology has become increasingly diversified, it has become more and more of a challenge to come up with a comprehensive and exhaustive review of it. Here I will focus on optogenetics and large-scale, three-dimensional reconstruction. Those two technological innovations have been achieved in the neuroscience community owing to the combined efforts of molecular biologists and light microscopists. In addition, modern fluorescence imaging has indeed improved our understanding of the spatiotemporal regulation of fundamental biological functions at cellular level. As an example, I will introduce some findings we made regarding the movement of biomolecules across the nuclear membrane. The above-mentioned imaging approaches are possible today but were impossible two decades ago.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) constitute a class of severe neurodevelopmental conditions caused by atypical brain development beginning during early prenatal or postnatal life. Autistic features begin to be evident in children between 12 and 18 months of age and are considered to be life-long conditions, with core symptoms being permanent across the lifespan. Etiology is multifactorial, involving a strong genetic underpinning. Studies of genetic and environmental epigenetic factors are beginning to provide some clues to clarify the complexities of autism pathogenesis, associated with altered functional and structural connectivity patterns in several brain regions that occur early in life. Genetic syndromes, defined chromosomal abnormalities, and metabolic diseases account for less than 20% of autistic patients and etiologic causes of ASDs remain elusive in more than 80% of cases. Currently, no treatments have been proven to completely reverse the core symptoms but progress in early detection of autistic symptoms in young children has promoted earlier interventions, which should begin soon after the diagnosis is made and be individualized and intensive, for reaching more positive outcomes in terms of cognitive improvement and decrease of symptoms severity. The management of individuals with ASDs requires a multimodal approach of behavioral, medical and pharmacological treatments. Therefore, it is highly important for pediatricians to recognize early signs of ASDs and to know multiple genetic and non genetic disorders that underlie autistic phenotype.
Changes in the expression of potassium (K(+)) channels is a pivotal event during skeletal muscle differentiation. In mouse C(2)C(12) cells, similarly to human skeletal muscle cells, myotube formation increased the expression of K(v)7.1, K(v)7.3, and K(v)7.4, the last showing the highest degree of regulation. In C(2)C(12) cells, K(v)7.4 silencing by RNA interference reduced the expression levels of differentiation markers (myogenin, myosin heavy chain, troponinT-1, and Pax3) and impaired myotube formation and multinucleation. In K(v)7.4-silenced cells, the differentiation-promoting effect of the K(v)7 activator N-(2-amino-4-(4-fluorobenzylamino)-phenyl)-carbamic acid ethyl ester (retigabine) was abrogated. Expression levels for the repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) declined during myotube formation. Transcript levels for K(v)7.4, as well as for myogenin, troponinT-1, and Pax3, were reduced by REST overexpression and enhanced upon REST suppression by RNA interference. Four regions containing potential REST-binding sites in the 5' untranslated region and in the first intron of the K(v)7.4 gene were identified by bioinformatic analysis. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that REST binds to these regions, exhibiting a higher efficiency in myoblasts than in myotubes. These data suggest that K(v)7.4 plays a permissive role in skeletal muscle differentiation and highlight REST as a crucial transcriptional regulator for this K(+) channel subunit.
The emergence of optogenetics technology facilitated widespread applications for interrogation of complex neural networks, such as activation of specific axonal pathways, previously found impossible with electrical stimulation. Consequently, within the short period of its application in neuroscience research, optogenetics has led to findings of significant importance both during normal brain function as well as in disease. Moreover, the optimization of optogenetics for in vivo studies has allowed the control of certain behavioral responses such as motility, reflex, and sensory responses, as well as more complex emotional and cognitive behaviors such as decision-making, reward seeking, and social behavior in freely moving animals. These studies have produced a wide variety of animal models that have resulted in fundamental findings and enhanced our understanding of the neural networks associated with behavior. The increasing number of opsins available for this technique enabled even broader regulation of neuronal activity. These advancements highlight the potential of this technique for future treatment of human diseases. Here, we provide an overview of the recent developments in the field of optogenetics technology that are relevant for a better understanding of several neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders and may pave the way for future therapeutic interventions.
The brain is one of the first organs affected during sepsis development resulting in apoptosis for a short-term and cognitive impairment for a long-term. Despite its importance, the mechanisms of brain dysfunction during sepsis are not fully elucidated. Thus, we here, in an animal model of sepsis, evaluated apoptosis in the dentate gyrus cell layer of the hippocampus to document the involvement of caspase-3 in the pathogenesis of neuronal apoptosis. Wistar rats sham-operated or submitted to the cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) procedure were killed at 12, 24, 48 h, and 10 days after surgery for the determination of caspase-3 and apoptosis rate. In a separate cohort of animals, a caspase-3-specific inhibitor was administered and animals were killed at 12 h after sepsis. An increase in the number of apoptotic cells 12, 24, and 48 h by histopathological evaluations and an increase of caspase-3 apoptotic cells 12 and 24 h after sepsis induction were observed. The caspase-3 inhibitor decreases the number of apoptotic cells by histopathological evaluations but not by immunohistochemistry evaluations. Caspase-3 is involved in part in apoptosis in the dentate gyrus cell layer of the hippocampus in septic rats submitted by CLP.

Unbiased genome-wide screens combined with imaging data on brain function may identify novel molecular pathways related to human cognition. Here we performed a dense genome-wide screen to identify episodic memory-related gene variants. A genomic locus encoding the brain-expressed beta-catenin-like protein 1 (CTNNBL1) was significantly (P=7  10(-8)) associated with verbal memory performance in a cognitively healthy cohort from Switzerland (n=1073) and was replicated in a second cohort from Serbia (n=524; P=0.003). Gene expression studies showed CTNNBL1 genotype-dependent differences in beta-catenin-like protein 1 mRNA levels in the human cortex. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in 322 subjects detected CTNNBL1 genotype-dependent differences in memory-related brain activations. Converging evidence from independent experiments and different methodological approaches suggests a role for CTNNBL1 in human memory.
The objective of this study was to identify different cognitive phenotypes in Parkinson's disease (PD) using a data-driven approach. A model-based cluster analysis was conducted on the neuropsychological test results of 558 PD patients from 2 European movement disorder centers (Lille, n = 403; Maastricht, n = 155). The number of clusters was determined according to their clinical relevance as well as on the basis of 3 statistical criteria: the cubic cluster criterion, the pseudo F statistic, and the total squared correlation ratio (R(2)). A factorial discriminant analysis was performed to assess the quality of the cluster's separation. Descriptive variables were used to further characterize the clusters. A 5-cluster model was considered the clinically most relevant. The 5 clusters comprised: (1) cognitively intact patients (19.39%); (2) patients without cognitive deficits but with slight mental slowing (41.29%); (3) patients with slightly impaired overall cognitive efficiency and deficits in all cognitive domains except recognition memory (12.93%); (4) patients with severe mental slowing, impaired overall cognitive efficiency, and severe cognitive impairment in all domains, including memory (23.88%); and (5) patients with very severe impairment in all cognitive domains (2.51%). Cognitively intact patients were significantly younger and had received more years of formal education. Patients in the last 3 clusters had more severe motor symptoms, longer disease duration, and more axial signs. In the last cluster, most patients were demented. Our results confirm the heterogeneity of cognitive presentations in PD, ranging from cognitively intact patients with rather high levels of performance in each cognitive domain to very severely impaired patients.


To reduce study start-up time, increase data sharing, and assist investigators conducting clinical studies, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke embarked on an initiative to create common data elements for neuroscience clinical research. The Common Data Element Team developed general common data elements, which are commonly collected in clinical studies regardless of therapeutic area, such as demographics. In the present project, we applied such approaches to data collection in Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA), a neurological disorder that involves multiple organ systems. To develop FRDA common data elements, FRDA experts formed a working group and subgroups to define elements in the following: ataxia and performance measures; biomarkers; cardiac and other clinical outcomes; and demographics, laboratory tests, and medical history. The basic development process included identification of international experts in FRDA clinical research, meeting by teleconference to develop a draft of standardized common data elements recommendations, vetting of recommendations across the subgroups, and dissemination of recommendations to the research community for public comment. The full recommendations were published online in September 2011 at http://www.commondataelements.ninds.nih.gov/FA.aspx. The subgroups' recommendations are classified as core, supplemental, or exploratory. Template case report forms were created for many of the core tests. The present set of data elements should ideally lead to decreased initiation time for clinical research studies and greater ability to compare and analyze data across studies. Their incorporation into new, ongoing studies will be assessed in an ongoing fashion to define their utility in FRDA.



The magnetization transfer ratio reflects the integrity of tissue structure, including myelination and axonal density. Mean magnetization transfer ratio fell in 18 untreated patients with multiple sclerosis both in normal appearing grey (-0.25 pu/year, p &lt; 0.001) and white matter (-0.12 pu/year, p = 0.004). Conversely, mean magnetization transfer ratio was stable in 20 alemtuzumab-treated patients (grey matter: -0.01 pu/year, p = 0.87; white matter: -0.02 pu/year, p = 0.51). The gradient difference in grey matter was 0.25 pu/year (p &lt; 0.001) after age-adjustment. These data suggest that in multiple sclerosis alemtuzumab protects against tissue damage in normal-appearing grey matter, perhaps by preventing new lesion formation.

Orexins, also known as hypocretins, are neuropeptides that are exclusively expressed by neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area. Although originally recognized as regulators of feeding behavior, orexins are now mainly regarded as key modulators of the sleep/wakefulness cycle. In addition, anatomical studies of neural networks and analyses of transgenic mice have revealed integrated roles for orexin neurons in the coordination of emotion, energy homeostasis, and the reward system. A functional link between the limbic system and orexin neurons may be important for increasing vigilance in response to emotional stimuli. These findings suggest that orexin neurons relay information about an organism's environment to maintain the proper amount of sleep and wakefulness in animals.



At present, the prime methodology for studying neuronal circuit-connectivity, physiology and pathology under in vitro or in vivo conditions is by using substrate-integrated microelectrode arrays. Although this methodology permits simultaneous, cell-non-invasive, long-term recordings of extracellular field potentials generated by action potentials, it is 'blind' to subthreshold synaptic potentials generated by single cells. On the other hand, intracellular recordings of the full electrophysiological repertoire (subthreshold synaptic potentials, membrane oscillations and action potentials) are, at present, obtained only by sharp or patch microelectrodes. These, however, are limited to single cells at a time and for short durations. Recently a number of laboratories began to merge the advantages of extracellular microelectrode arrays and intracellular microelectrodes. This Review describes the novel approaches, identifying their strengths and limitations from the point of view of the end users--with the intention to help steer the bioengineering efforts towards the needs of brain-circuit research.
Theories on the functions of the hippocampal system are based largely on two fundamental discoveries: the amnestic consequences of removing the hippocampus and associated structures in the famous patient H.M. and the observation that spiking activity of hippocampal neurons is associated with the spatial position of the rat. In the footsteps of these discoveries, many attempts were made to reconcile these seemingly disparate functions. Here we propose that mechanisms of memory and planning have evolved from mechanisms of navigation in the physical world and hypothesize that the neuronal algorithms underlying navigation in real and mental space are fundamentally the same. We review experimental data in support of this hypothesis and discuss how specific firing patterns and oscillatory dynamics in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus can support both navigation and memory.
A recent decision in the United States by the New Jersey Supreme Court has led to improved jury instructions that incorporate psychological research showing that memory does not operate like a video recording. Here we consider how cognitive neuroscience could contribute to addressing memory in the courtroom. We discuss conditions in which neuroimaging can distinguish true and false memories in the laboratory and note reasons to be skeptical about its use in courtroom cases. We also discuss neuroscience research concerning false and imagined memories, misinformation effects and reconsolidation phenomena that may enhance understanding of why memory does not operate like a video recording.
In the absence of external stimuli, the mammalian neocortex shows intrinsic network oscillations. These dynamics are characterized by translaminar assemblies of neurons whose activity synchronizes rhythmically in space and time. How different cortical layers influence the formation of these spontaneous cellular assemblies is poorly understood. We found that excitatory neurons in supragranular and infragranular layers have distinct roles in the regulation of intrinsic low-frequency oscillations in mice in vivo. Optogenetic activation of infragranular neurons generated network activity that resembled spontaneous events, whereas photoinhibition of these same neurons substantially attenuated slow ongoing dynamics. In contrast, light activation and inhibition of supragranular cells had modest effects on spontaneous slow activity. This study represents, to the best of our knowledge, the first causal demonstration that excitatory circuits located in distinct cortical layers differentially control spontaneous low-frequency dynamics.
The molecular mechanisms that control how progenitors generate distinct subtypes of neurons, and how undifferentiated neurons acquire their specific identity during corticogenesis, are increasingly understood. However, whether postmitotic neurons can change their identity at late stages of differentiation remains unknown. To study this question, we developed an electrochemical in vivo gene delivery method to rapidly manipulate gene expression specifically in postmitotic neurons. Using this approach, we found that the molecular identity, morphology, physiology and functional input-output connectivity of layer 4 mouse spiny neurons could be specifically reprogrammed during the first postnatal week by ectopic expression of the layer 5B output neuron-specific transcription factor Fezf2. These findings reveal a high degree of plasticity in the identity of postmitotic neocortical neurons and provide a proof of principle for postnatal re-engineering of specific neural microcircuits in vivo.
Cell adhesion molecules and diffusible cues both regulate axon pathfinding, yet how these two modes of signaling interact is poorly understood. The homophilic cell adhesion molecule NF-protocadherin (NFPC) is expressed in the mid-dorsal optic tract neuroepithelium and in the axons of developing retinal ganglion cells (RGC) in Xenopus laevis. Here we report that targeted disruption of NFPC function in RGC axons or the optic tract neuroepithelium results in unexpectedly localized pathfinding defects at the caudal turn in the mid-optic tract. Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), which lies adjacent to this turn, stimulates rapid, protein synthesis-dependent increases in growth cone NFPC and its cofactor, TAF1, in vitro. In vivo, growth cones exhibit marked increases in NFPC translation reporter activity in this mid-optic tract region that are attenuated by blocking neuropilin-1 function. Our results suggest that translation-linked coupling between regionally localized diffusible cues and cell adhesion can help axons navigate discrete segments of the pathway.
Itch-specific neurons have been sought for decades. The existence of such neurons has been doubted recently as a result of the observation that itch-mediating neurons also respond to painful stimuli. We genetically labeled and manipulated MrgprA3(+) neurons in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and found that they exclusively innervated the epidermis of the skin and responded to multiple pruritogens. Ablation of MrgprA3(+) neurons led to substantial reductions in scratching evoked by multiple pruritogens and occurring spontaneously under chronic itch conditions, whereas pain sensitivity remained intact. Notably, mice in which TRPV1 was exclusively expressed in MrgprA3(+) neurons exhibited itch, but not pain, behavior in response to capsaicin. Although MrgprA3(+) neurons were sensitive to noxious heat, activation of TRPV1 in these neurons by noxious heat did not alter pain behavior. These data suggest that MrgprA3 defines a specific subpopulation of DRG neurons mediating itch. Our study opens new avenues for studying itch and developing anti-pruritic therapies.


2012 witnessed important developments for multiple sclerosis, including successful phase III trials of novel oral therapeutics and identification of the potassium channel KIR4.1 as an autoimmune target. Additionally, the lung was highlighted as an important site for immune-cell programming, and the relevance of a TNF receptor variant was clarified.
In 2012, researchers published extensively on the genetic and clinicopathological characterization of patients with the newly discovered C9ORF72 repeat expansions, which cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia. Novel ALS-linked genes and genetic modifiers were identified through screening in animal models and patients.
Several clinical trials and experimental studies that could have a major impact on the treatment of patients with ischaemic stroke were published in 2012. The studies cover all therapeutic options, including stroke prevention, recanalization and thrombolysis, neuroprotection, and promising new therapeutic approaches focused on neurorepair.
Transient amnesic syndromes are striking clinical phenomena that are commonly encountered by physicians in acute medical settings. Diagnosis of such syndromes can be challenging, and their causes have been debated for over 50 years. Critical clinical distinctions, such as between transient global amnesia (TGA) and transient epileptic amnesia (TEA), as well as important clues to the underlying pathophysiology, have recently been revealed. TGA is characterized by the sudden onset of a profound anterograde and retrograde amnesia that lasts for up to 24 h, with neuroimaging after an acute TGA event showing transient perturbation of specific hippocampal circuits that are involved in memory processing. Some cases of transient amnesia are attributable to focal seizure activity and are termed TEA, which has a clinical presentation similar to that of TGA, but can be distinguished from the latter by the brevity and frequency of amnesic attacks. Moreover, TEA carries a risk of persistent memory impairment that can be mistaken for dementia. Here, we summarize clinically relevant aspects of transient amnesic syndromes, giving practical recommendations for diagnosis and patient management. We describe results from imaging and epidemiological studies that have shed light on the functional anatomy and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these conditions.
Apolipoprotein E (Apo-E) is a major cholesterol carrier that supports lipid transport and injury repair in the brain. APOE polymorphic alleles are the main genetic determinants of Alzheimer disease (AD) risk: individuals carrying the 4 allele are at increased risk of AD compared with those carrying the more common 3 allele, whereas the 2 allele decreases risk. Presence of the APOE 4 allele is also associated with increased risk of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and age-related cognitive decline during normal ageing. Apo-E-lipoproteins bind to several cell-surface receptors to deliver lipids, and also to hydrophobic amyloid- (A) peptide, which is thought to initiate toxic events that lead to synaptic dysfunction and neurodegeneration in AD. Apo-E isoforms differentially regulate A aggregation and clearance in the brain, and have distinct functions in regulating brain lipid transport, glucose metabolism, neuronal signalling, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial function. In this Review, we describe current knowledge on Apo-E in the CNS, with a particular emphasis on the clinical and pathological features associated with carriers of different Apo-E isoforms. We also discuss A-dependent and A-independent mechanisms that link Apo-E4 status with AD risk, and consider how to design effective strategies for AD therapy by targeting Apo-E.
Research on epilepsies in 2012 has substantially advanced our knowledge of these often devastating conditions. From important discoveries that revealed causative factors and the molecular basis of disease, to major implications for surgical decision-making, these studies set the scene for future advances in the field.
When we attempt to fix our gaze, our eyes nevertheless produce so-called 'fixational eye movements', which include microsaccades, drift and tremor. Fixational eye movements thwart neural adaptation to unchanging stimuli and thus prevent and reverse perceptual fading during fixation. Over the past 10 years, microsaccade research has become one of the most active fields in visual, oculomotor and even cognitive neuroscience. The similarities and differences between microsaccades and saccades have been a most intriguing area of study, and the results of this research are leading us towards a unified theory of saccadic and microsaccadic function.
The potential of D(3) receptor antagonism to treat positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia is reviewed on the basis of preclinical results and preliminary clinical data. Dopamine D(3) receptors are expressed in mesencephalic, limbic, and cortical areas relevant to psychotic and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. As expected, selective dopamine D(3) receptor antagonists are not effective in antipsychotic animal models, reflecting D(2) receptor antagonism. However, selective D(3) receptor antagonists affect electrical activity of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area similar to atypical antipsychotics, counteract effects produced by NMDA glutamate receptor blockade, and enhance cortical dopamine and acetylcholine in microdialysis. In contrast to dopamine D(2) receptor antagonists, D(3) antagonists positively influence a variety of social and cognitive behaviors in rodents, including tests representing cognitive flexibility and executive function, which are both impaired in schizophrenia patients. Despite considerable affinity for D(3) receptors, the second-generation antipsychotics clozapine, risperidone, and olanzapine when administered to patients with schizophrenia seem not to occupy D(3) receptors sufficiently to derive any conclusion on a D(3)-mediated therapeutic benefit. ABT-925, the first selective D(3) receptor antagonist, was recently studied in patients with schizophrenia. It produced cognitive signals but did not achieve sufficient D(3) receptor occupancy to test the hypothesis that D(3) receptor antagonism is of therapeutic value to treat symptoms of schizophrenia. Based on mechanistic and experimental considerations and due to the fact that D(3) receptor antagonism can inhibit extrapyramidal symptoms and produce neither anhedonia nor metabolic adverse effects, the development and clinical testing of newer D(3) receptor antagonists with high potency at D(3) receptors, enabling sufficient receptor occupancy, is highly warranted.
Nonlinear dynamical systems have been used in many disciplines to model complex behaviors, including biological motor control, robotics, perception, economics, traffic prediction, and neuroscience. While often the unexpected emergent behavior of nonlinear systems is the focus of investigations, it is of equal importance to create goal-directed behavior (e.g., stable locomotion from a system of coupled oscillators under perceptual guidance). Modeling goal-directed behavior with nonlinear systems is, however, rather difficult due to the parameter sensitivity of these systems, their complex phase transitions in response to subtle parameter changes, and the difficulty of analyzing and predicting their long-term behavior; intuition and time-consuming parameter tuning play a major role. This letter presents and reviews dynamical movement primitives, a line of research for modeling attractor behaviors of autonomous nonlinear dynamical systems with the help of statistical learning techniques. The essence of our approach is to start with a simple dynamical system, such as a set of linear differential equations, and transform those into a weakly nonlinear system with prescribed attractor dynamics by means of a learnable autonomous forcing term. Both point attractors and limit cycle attractors of almost arbitrary complexity can be generated. We explain the design principle of our approach and evaluate its properties in several example applications in motor control and robotics.
This letter discusses temporal order coding and detection in nervous systems. Detection of temporal order in the external world is an adaptive function of nervous systems. In addition, coding based on the temporal order of signals can be used as an internal code. Such temporal order coding is a subset of temporal coding. We discuss two examples of processing the temporal order of external events: the auditory location detection system in birds and the visual direction detection system in flies. We then discuss how somatosensory stimulus intensities are translated into a temporal order code in the human peripheral nervous system. We next turn our attention to input order coding in the mammalian cortex. We review work demonstrating the capabilities of cortical neurons for detecting input order. We then discuss research refuting and demonstrating the representation of stimulus features in the cortex by means of input order. After some general theoretical considerations on input order detection and coding, we conclude by discussing the existing and potential use of input order coding in neuromorphic engineering.
The Liquid State Machine (LSM) is a biologically plausible computational neural network model for real-time computing on time-varying inputs, whose structure and function were inspired by the properties of neocortical columns in the central nervous system of mammals. The LSM uses spiking neurons connected by dynamic synapses to project inputs into a high dimensional feature space, allowing classification of inputs by linear separation, similar to the approach used in support vector machines (SVMs). The performance of a LSM neural network model on pattern recognition tasks mainly depends on its parameter settings. Two parameters are of particular interest: the distribution of synaptic strengths and synaptic connectivity. To design an efficient liquid filter that performs desired kernel functions, these parameters need to be optimized. We have studied performance as a function of these parameters for several models of synaptic connectivity. The results show that in order to achieve good performance, large synaptic weights are required to compensate for a small number of synapses in the liquid filter, and vice versa. In addition, a larger variance of the synaptic weights results in better performance for LSM benchmark problems. We also propose a genetic algorithm-based approach to evolve the liquid filter from a minimum structure with no connections, to an optimized kernel with a minimal number of synapses and high classification accuracy. This approach facilitates the design of an optimal LSM with reduced computational complexity. Results obtained using this genetic programming approach show that the synaptic weight distribution after evolution is similar in shape to that found in cortical circuitry.
Using resting state (RS) functional magnetic resonance imaging and independent component analysis, the integrity of brain networks related to cognition and behavior was investigated in 20 nondemented patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The association between RS functional connectivity and executive functions was assessed in 16 patients with neuropsychological assessment. ALS patients compared with control subjects showed a decreased connectivity of the right orbitofrontal cortex, and an enhanced connectivity of the left precuneus in the default mode network; a decreased connectivity of the left inferior frontal cortex, and an increased connectivity of the right angular gyrus in the right frontoparietal network; and an increased connectivity of the parietal cortex in the left frontoparietal network. The enhanced parietal connectivity was associated with the clinical and cognitive deficits of the patients. In ALS, an alteration of large-scale functional brain networks associated with cognition does occur, even in the absence of overt dementia. The increased parietal connectivity may have a role in an attempt to maintain cognitive efficiency in the presence of structural frontotemporal injury.
The pathophysiological mechanisms of Parkinson's disease (PD)-related dementia (PDD) are still poorly understood. Previous studies using electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) have demonstrated widespread slowing of oscillatory brain activity as a neurophysiological characteristic of PD-related dementia. Here, we use MEG to longitudinally study early changes in oscillatory brain activity in initially nondemented PD patients that may be associated with cognitive decline. Using a longitudinal design, resting-state MEG recordings were performed twice at an approximate 4-year interval in 14 healthy controls and 49 PD patients. Changes in peak frequency and in relative spectral power for 10 brain regions were analyzed in relation to clinical measures of cognitive and motor function. In contrast to healthy controls, PD patients showed a slowing of the dominant peak frequency. Furthermore, analysis per frequency band revealed an increase in theta power over time, along with decreases in alpha1 and alpha2 power. In PD patients, decreasing cognitive performance was associated with increases in delta and theta power, as well as decreases in alpha1, alpha2, and gamma power, whereas increasing motor impairment was associated with a theta power increase only. The present longitudinal study revealed widespread progressive slowing of oscillatory brain activity in initially nondemented PD patients, independent of aging effects. The slowing of oscillatory brain activity strongly correlated with cognitive decline and therefore holds promise as an early marker for the development of dementia in PD.
Activation of EphB receptors by ephrinB (efnB) ligands on neuronal cell surface regulates important functions, including neurite outgrowth, axonal guidance, and synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that efnB rescues primary cortical neuronal cultures from necrotic cell death induced by glutamate excitotoxicity and that this function depends on EphB receptors. Importantly, the neuroprotective function of the efnB/EphB system depends on presenilin 1 (PS1), a protein that plays crucial roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) neurodegeneration. Furthermore, absence of one PS1 allele results in significantly decreased neuroprotection, indicating that both PS1 alleles are necessary for full expression of the neuroprotective activity of the efnB/EphB system. We also show that the ability of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to protect neuronal cultures from glutamate-induced cell death depends on PS1. Neuroprotective functions of both efnB and BDNF, however, were independent of -secretase activity. Absence of PS1 decreases cell surface expression of neuronal TrkB and EphB2 without affecting total cellular levels of the receptors. Furthermore, PS1-knockout neurons show defective ligand-dependent internalization and decreased ligand-induced degradation of TrkB and Eph receptors. Our data show that PS1 mediates the neuroprotective activities of efnB and BDNF against excitotoxicity and regulates surface expression and ligand-induced metabolism of their cognate receptors. Together, our observations indicate that PS1 promotes neuronal survival by regulating neuroprotective functions of ligand-receptor systems.
We investigated age-related changes in frontal and parietal scalp event-related potential (ERP) activity during bottom-up and top-down attention. Younger and older participants were presented with arrays constructed to induce either automatic &quot;pop-out&quot; (bottom-up) or effortful &quot;search&quot; (top-down) behavior. Reaction times (RTs) increased and accuracy decreased with age, with a greater age-related decline in accuracy for the search than for the pop-out condition. The latency of the P300 elicited by the visual search array was shorter in both conditions in the younger than in the older adults. Pop-out target detection was associated with greater activity at parietal than at prefrontal locations in younger participants and with a more equipotential prefrontal-parietal distribution in older adults. Search target detection was associated with greater activity at prefrontal than at parietal locations in older relative to younger participants. Thus, aging was associated with a more prefrontal P300 scalp distribution during the control of bottom-up and top-down attention. Early latency extrastriate potentials were enhanced and N2-posterior-contralateral (N2pc) was reduced in the older group, supporting the idea that the frontal enhancements may be due to a compensation for disinhibition and distraction in the older adults. Taken together these findings provide evidence that younger and older adults recruit different frontal-parietal networks during top-down and bottom-up attention, with older adults increasing their recruitment of a more frontally distributed network in both of these types of attention. This work is in accord with previous neuroimaging findings suggesting that older adults recruit more frontal activity in the service of a variety of tasks than younger adults.
The Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger 1 (NCX1), a bidirectional transporter that mediates the electrogenic exchange of one calcium ion for three sodium ions across the plasma membrane, is known to be involved in brain ischemia. Since the RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) is a key modulator of neuronal gene expression in several neurological conditions, we studied the possible involvement of REST in regulating NCX1 gene expression and activity in stroke. We found that: (1) REST binds in a sequence specific manner and represses through H4 deacetylation, ncx1 gene in neuronal cells by recruting CoREST, but not mSin3A. (2) In neurons and in SH-SY5Y cells REST silencing by siRNA and site-direct mutagenesis of REST consensus sequence on NCX1 brain promoter determined an increase in NCX1 promoter activity. (3) By contrast, REST overexpression caused a reduction in NCX1 protein expression and activity. (4) Interestingly, in rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) and in organotypic hippocampal slices or SH-SY5Y cells exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) plus reoxygenation (RX), the increase in REST was associated with a decrease in NCX1. However, this reduction was reverted by REST silencing. (5) REST knocking down, along with the deriving NCX1 overexpression in the deep V and VIb cortical layers caused a marked reduction in infarct volume after tMCAO. Double silencing of REST and NCX1 completely abolished neuroprotection induced by siREST administration. Collectively, these results demonstrate that REST, by regulating NCX1 expression, may represent a potential druggable target for the treatment of brain ischemia.
Seizures during development are a relatively common occurrence and are often associated with poor cognitive outcomes. Recent studies show that early life seizures alter the function of various brain structures and have long-term consequences on seizure susceptibility and behavioral regulation. While many neocortical functions could be disrupted by epileptic seizures, we have concentrated on studying the prefrontal cortex (PFC) as disturbance of PFC functions is involved in numerous co-morbid disorders associated with epilepsy. In the present work we report an alteration of short-term plasticity in the PFC in rats that have experienced early life seizures. The most robust alteration occurs in the layer II/III to layer V network of neurons. However short-term plasticity of layer V to layer V network was also affected, indicating that the PFC function is broadly influenced by early life seizures. These data strongly suggest that repetitive seizures early in development cause substantial alteration in PFC function, which may be an important component underlying cognitive deficits in individuals with a history of seizures during development.
Heart rate (HR) conditioning in rabbits is a widely used model of classical conditioning of autonomic responding that is noted for being similar to the development of conditioned heart rate slowing (bradycardia) in humans. We have shown previously that in addition to HR changes to a tone conditioned stimulus (CS), the HR reflex itself can undergo associative change called conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) that manifests when tested in the absence of the CS. Because CRM resembles the conditioned bradycardic response to the CS, we sought to determine if HR conditioning and CRM share a common neural substrate. The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is a critical part of the pathway through which conditioned bradycardia is established. To test whether the CeA is also involved in the acquisition and/or expression of CRM, we inactivated the CeA with muscimol during HR conditioning or CRM testing. CeA inactivation blocked HR conditioning without completely preventing CRM acquisition or expression. These results suggest that the CeA may therefore only play a modulatory role in CRM. Theories on the biological significance of conditioned bradycardia suggest that it may represent a state of hypervigilance that facilitates the detection of new and changing contingencies in the environment. We relate these ideas to our results and discuss how they may be relevant to the hypersensitivity observed in fear conditioning disorders like post-traumatic stress.
Environmental stimuli can influence behavior via the process of Pavlovian conditioning. Recent genetic research suggests that some individuals are more sensitive to environmental stimuli for behavioral guidance than others. One important mediator of this effect is serotonin transporter (5-HTT) genetic variance, which increases sensitivity to Pavlovian conditioned stimuli through changes in the build-up of corticolimbic circuits. As these stimuli can have reinforcing effects on instrumental responding, we here investigated their effects on instrumental behavior in 5-HTT knockout rats and their wild-type counterparts by means of the signal attenuation paradigm. In this paradigm animals acquired a Pavlovian association between a stimulus and food reward, and subsequently they had to lever press in order to gain access to this food reward-associated stimulus. Thereafter, half of the animals underwent extinction training during which extinction of the primary Pavlovian association was induced via non-reinforced stimulus presentations, whereas the other half did not receive this training. During a final test session all animals were tested for instrumental responding for the non-reinforced Pavlovian conditioned stimulus, as well as instrumental and Pavlovian responding to the stimulus after an initial lever-press. No genotype differences were observed during the training and extinction sessions. However, during the test session 5-HTT knockout rats that had not received prior extinction training displayed excessive instrumental responding. This was specifically observed during presentation of the stimulus (induced by the first lever press) and was accompanied by an increased number of feeder visits after termination of the stimulus presentation. An additionally performed c-Fos immunohistochemistry study revealed that the behaviors in these animals were associated with abnormal c-Fos immunoreactivity in the orbitofrontal cortex and basolateral amygdala, regions important for the acquisition and maintenance of Pavlovian conditioned stimuli. These findings complement earlier findings showing that 5-HTT knockout animals' behavior is heavily influenced by environmental stimuli and indicate that this extends to the instrumental domain.

This study was designed to investigate the involvement of -adrenoceptors of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) in ethanol-induced state-dependent retrieval. We used a step-down type of inhibitory avoidance (IA) task to assess retrieval in male NMRI mice. Bilateral guide cannulae were implanted in the DH. The results showed that in the animals with pre-training injections of ethanol (1g/kg, i.p.) and pre-test saline treatment memory retrieval was impaired. Pre-test injections of ethanol (0.5 and 1g/kg, i.p.) also impaired memory retrieval in the animals that received saline before training. Ethanol (1g/kg, i.p.), when injected in both time points of pre-training and pre-test, induced state-dependent retrieval. The results also revealed that intra-DH infusions of a -adrenoceptor agonist salbutamol (0, 0.0025, 0.005, 0.01 and 0.02 g/mouse) by itself had no significant effect, however, along with an ineffective dose of ethanol (0.25 g/kg) significantly improved memory retrieval. On the other hand, pre-test intra-DH infusions of different doses of a non-selective -adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (0, 0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 g/mouse) by itself had no effect on memory retrieval. But, pre-test intra-DH infusions of the same doses of propranolol (0, 0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 g/mouse) disrupted ethanol-induced state-dependent retrieval. Interestingly, intra-DH infusions of propranolol (0.05, 0.75 and 0.1 g/mouse) inhibited the improving effect of salbutamol on state-dependent retrieval. In conclusion, the results support the existence of a functional involvement of -adrenoceptors in the DH in ethanol-induced state-dependent retrieval.
During hemorrhagic stroke induced by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), brain injury occurs from the deleterious actions of hemoglobin byproducts; induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) also plays a critical role in the neurotoxicity in ICH. Valproic acid (VPA), which is a commonly used drug in the treatment of epilepsy, has been reported to have neuroprotective effects against various neuronal insults including ischemic stroke. We investigated the effect of VPA on HO-1-mediated neurotoxicity in an experimental model of ICH. We investigated the effects of VPA on HO-1 protein in primary cortical neurons: (1) the expression levels of HO-1 mRNA and protein measured by RT-PCR and Western blotting; (2) the cell viability and ROS generation by MTT reduction assay and ROS measurement; (3) the signal pathway regulated by VPA using IP-Western blotting; (4) the effects of VPA on hemin-induced cell death by hemin microinjection and immunohistochemistry in vivo. VPA treatment partially blocked cell death induced by hemin, which is released from hemoglobin during ICH, both in rat primary cortical neurons and rat brain. Treatment of VPA significantly decreased the expression of HO-1 protein both in vitro and in vivo. Hemin treatment induced HO-1 protein expression and this was partially blocked by pretreatment with VPA, which might be mediated by increased ubiquitination and degradation of HO-1 via ERK1/2 and JNK activation in primary cortical neurons. Our results indicate that VPA inhibits hemin toxicity by downregulating HO-1 protein expression, and provide a therapeutic strategy to attenuate intracerebral hemorrhagic injury.
Cholinergic receptors in upper motor neurons of brain stem control locomotion and coordination. Present study unravels cholinergic alterations in brain stem during spinal cord injury to understand signalling pathway changes which may be associated with spinal cord injury mediated motor deficits. We evaluated cholinergic function in brain stem by studying the expression of choline acetyl transferase and acetylcholine esterase. We quantified metabotropic muscarinic cholinergic receptors by receptor assays for total muscarinic, muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor subunits, gene expression studies using Real Time PCR and confocal imaging using FITC tagged secondary antibodies. The gene expression of ionotropic nicotinic cholinergic receptors and confocal imaging were also studied. The results from our study showed metabolic disturbance in cholinergic pathway as choline acetyl transferase is down regulated and acetylcholine esterase is up regulated in spinal cord injury group. The significant decrease in muscarinic receptors showed by decreased receptor number along with down regulated gene expression and confocal imaging accounts for dysfunction of metabotropic acetylcholine receptors in spinal cord injury group. Ionotropic acetylcholine receptor alterations were evident from the decreased gene expression of alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and confocal imaging. The motor coordination was analysed by Grid walk test which showed an increased foot slips in spinal cord injured rats. The significant reduction in brain stem cholinergic function might have intensified the motor dysfunction and locomotor disabilities.


The article by Agostini etal. (2013) in this issue of Neurogastroenterology and Motility evaluated patients with Crohn's disease (CD) for volumetric changes throughout the brain. They observed decreased gray matter volumes in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC) and disease duration was negatively correlated with volumes in subgenual anterior cingulate (sACC), posterior MCC (pMCC), ventral posterior cingulate (vPCC), and parahippocampal cortices. As all patients were in remission and suffered from ongoing abdominal pain, this study provides a critical link between forebrain changes and abdominal pain experience independent of active disease and drug treatment. The aMCC has a role in feedback-mediated decision making and there are specific cognitive tasks that differentiate aMCC and pMCC that can be used to evaluate defects in CD. The sACC is an important area as it has impaired functions in major depression. As depressive symptoms are a feature in a subset of patients with active inflammatory diseases including IBD, treatment targeting this subregion should prove efficacious. Finally, vPCC has a role in ongoing self-monitoring of the personal relevance of sensory stimuli including visceral signals via sACC. This pathway may be interrupted by vPCC atrophy in CD. Cingulate atrophy in CD leads to targeting chronic pain and psychiatric symptoms via cingulate-mediated therapies. These include psychotherapy, guided imagery and relaxation training, analgesic dosages of morphine or antidepressants, and hypnosis. Thus, a new generation of novel treatments may emerge from drug and non-traditional therapies for CD in this formative area of research.


Cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein by enzymes commonly referred to as - and -secretase constitute an important process in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The regulation of this process is therefore an important subject of investigation. Numerous sources of endogenous regulation have been identified, and one of these is the relative abundance and regulation of splice variants of the -secretase, BACE1 (-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1). In this review, we will briefly discuss the main characteristics of BACE1, review the different variants of this enzyme that have been identified to date, and highlight their possible implication in AD.
The spinal cord controls the voluntary muscles of the trunk and limbs and receives sensory input from these areas. It extends from the medulla oblongata to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra. A basic knowledge of spinal cord anatomy is essential for interpretation of clinical signs and symptoms and for understanding of pathologic processes involving the spinal cord. In this article, anatomic structures are correlated with relevant clinical signs and symptoms and a step-wise approach to spinal cord diagnosis is outlined.
Over the past decade, neurology advocacy has caught the attention of neurologists feeling increasingly frustrated about the health care environment in which they practice. We describe our experience in practicing advocacy at the national and local levels. Neurologists can participate in many levels of advocacy to benefit their patients and their profession.

To investigate ANT1 and NF-B expression in inclusion body myositis (IBM) muscle and to verify their possible roles in the pathogenesis of the disease, we collected muscle samples from five patients with IBM, polimyositis (PM) and controls. p65 form of NF-B was analyzed using immunocytochemistry, Western blot and EMSA. Western blot of ANT1 was performed and confirmed by gene expression study. Mann-Whitney test was used for groups comparisons. NF-B (p65) was found over-expressed both with western blot and EMSA, either in IBM or PM patients versus controls (p &lt; 0.01). Expression of ANT1 were lower in IBM samples versus both PM and controls (p &lt; 0.01). ANT1 reduction and NF-B over-expression in IBM muscle could explain the lack of apoptosis in such disease. Normal ANT1 expression in PM could be related to the scarcity of mitochondrial abnormalities in the disease, but it could also suggest that these two conditions diverge in activating different anti-apoptotic pathways.
Several studies, showing that attention disorders during encoding reduce later memory performance, have stressed the critical role of attention for the formation of durable memory traces. Accordingly, some studies suggest that attentive disturbances, together with declarative memory defects, can constitute the earliest cognitive disorders in Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the analysis of these disorders can contribute to identify different forms of dementia and to detect demented patients characterized by a faster cognitive decline. In this study, we report the normative data (gathered in a large Italian population) of a short test that assess the ability to detect stimuli characterized by a conjunction of features: the 'Multiple Features Targets Cancellation' task (MFTC). Our sample of 465 subjects was composed by urban and rural people. Multiple linear regression analyses revealed significant relation of false alarms with age and educational level, and of time of execution with age, educational level and gender. Regression analyses on accuracy scores did not show any significant correlation with demographics variables. Based on non-parametric techniques, cutoff scores were obtained on the corrected scores of the patients, and equivalent scores were derived for each measure. The MFTC task represents a useful tool that explores attentional disorders (and in particular conjunction search disturbances) and that could be helpful both in discriminating different forms of dementia and to detect mild cognitive impairment patients at risk of conversion to dementia.
A rhesus macaque with generalized muscle atrophy and musculotendinous contractures was detected in our research center. Muscle biopsies showed myofibers with rimmed vacuoles and eosinophilic hyaline inclusions, accumulations of CD8+ and CD4+ lymphocytes and expression of major histocompatibility complex class I in myofibers. Intracellular inclusions were positive to Congo red. Semithin sections and transmission electron microscopy showed autophagic vacuoles within myofibers and myonuclei with inclusions of filaments. These morphological observations conform with the diagnostic criteria of human sporadic inclusion body myositis. This is the first report of this myopathy in nonhuman primates.
Microglia in the central nervous system are usually maintained in a quiescent state. When activated, they can perform many diverse functions which may be either beneficial or harmful depending on the situation. Although microglial activation may be accompanied by changes in morphology, morphological changes cannot accurately predict the function being undertaken by a microglial cell. Studies of peripheral macrophages and in vitro and animal studies of microglia have resulted in the definition of specific activation states: M1 (classical activation) and M2 (sometimes subdivided into alternative activation and acquired deactivation). Some authors have suggested that these might be an overlapping continuum of functions rather than discrete categories. In this review, we consider translational aspects of our knowledge of microglia: specifically, we discuss the question as to what extent different activation states of microglia exist in the human central nervous system, which tools can be used to identify them and emerging evidence for such changes in ageing and in Alzheimer's disease.
Innate immunity within the central nervous system (CNS) is primarily provided by resident microglia. Microglia are pivotal in immune surveillance and also facilitate the co-ordinated responses between the immune system and the brain. For example, microglia interpret and propagate inflammatory signals that are initiated in the periphery. This transient microglial activation helps mount the appropriate physiological and behavioural response following peripheral infection. With normal ageing, however, microglia develop a more inflammatory phenotype. For instance, in several models of ageing there are increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the brain and increased expression of inflammatory receptors on microglia. This increased inflammatory status of microglia with ageing is referred to as primed, reactive or sensitized. A modest increase in the inflammatory profile of the CNS and altered microglial function in ageing has behavioural and cognitive consequences. Nonetheless, there are major differences in microglial biology between young and old age when the immune system is challenged and microglia are activated. In this context, microglial activation is amplified and prolonged in the aged brain compared with adults. The cause of this amplified microglial activation may be related to impairments in several key regulatory systems with age that make it more difficult to resolve microglial activation. The consequences of impaired regulation and microglial hyper-activation following immune challenge are exaggerated neuroinflammation, sickness behaviour, depressive-like behaviour and cognitive deficits. Therefore the purpose of this review is to discuss the current understanding of age-associated microglial priming, consequences of priming and reactivity, and the impairments in regulatory systems that may underlie these age-related deficits.
Focal cerebral ischemia induces cellular responses that may result in secondary tissue damage. We recently demonstrated multi-facetted spatial and temporal patterns of neuroinflammation by multimodal imaging. In the present study, we especially focus on the separation of vital and necrotic tissue, which enabled us to define a demarcation zone. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced via macrosphere embolization of the middle cerebral artery in Wistar rats. Subsequent cellular processes were investigated immunohistochemically from 3 to 56 days after onset of ischemia. We detected several infarct subareas: a necrotic infarct core and its margin adjacent to a nerve/glial antigen 2 (NG2)+ zone delineating it from a vital peri-infarct zone. Initially transition from necrotic to vital tissue was gradual; later on necrosis was precisely separated from vital tissue by a narrow NG2+ belt that was devoid of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes or neurons. Within this demarcation zone NG2+ cells associate with ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) but not with GFAP, neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN) or 2', 3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase). During further infarct maturation NG2 seemed to be positioned in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the demarcation zone, whereas Iba1+ cells invaded the necrotic infarct core and GFAP+ cells built a gliotic containing belt between the lesion and NeuN+ unaffected tissue. Overall, our data suggested that NG2 proteoglycan expression and secretion hallmarked demarcation as a process that actively separated necrosis from vital tissue and therefore decisively impacts secondary neurodegeneration after ischemic stroke.
Circumventricular organs (CVOs) are specialized ventricular structures around the third and fourth ventricles of the brain. In humans, these structures are present during the fetal period and some become vestigial after birth. Some of these organs, such as the pineal gland (PG), subcommissural organ (SCO), and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, might be the sites of origin of periventricular tumors, notably pineal parenchymal tumors, papillary tumor of the pineal region and chordoid glioma. In contrast to the situation in humans, CVOs are present in the adult rat and can be dissected by laser capture microdissection (LCM). In this study, we used LCM and microarrays to analyze the transcriptomes of three CVOs, the SCO, the subfornical organ (SFO), and the PG and the third ventricle ependyma in the adult rat, in order to better characterize these organs at the molecular level. Several genes were expressed only, or mainly, in one of these structures, for example, Erbb2 and Col11a1 in the ependyma, Epcam and Claudin-3 (CLDN3) in the SCO, Ren1 and Slc22a3 in the SFO and Tph, Aanat and Asmt in the PG. The expression of these genes in periventricular tumors should be examined as evidence for a possible origin from the CVOs. Furthermore, we performed an immunohistochemical study of CLDN3, a membrane protein involved in forming cellular tight junctions and found that CLDN3 expression was restricted to the apical pole of ependymocytes in the SCO. This microarray study provides new evidence regarding the possible origin of some rare periventricular tumors.
Previous data from our labs and from others have demonstrated that intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of alarin has orexigenic activity and significantly increases plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) dependent manner. The purpose of the current experiments was to determine if the amino acids at the amino-terminal end of the alarin peptide are critical for alarin's effects on reproductive and feeding systems. First, we injected male mice ICV with full-length alarin (Ala1-25) or peptide fragments missing residues at the amino-terminal end (Ala3-25 or Ala6-25 Cys). Neither peptide fragment alone, significantly increased food intake in male mice compared to controls. Second, ICV injection of Ala1-25, but not Ala3-25, significantly (p &lt; 0.01) increased GnRH-mediated LH secretion. Surprisingly, Ala6-25 Cys significantly (p &lt; 0.05) inhibited plasma LH secretion and inhibited Ala1-25 actions. In conclusion, elimination of the first five amino acids of alarin not only abolishes the biological activity of alarin, but becomes an antagonist to alarin-specific effects. Furthermore, Ala6-25 Cys seems to act as a specific antagonist to putative alarin receptors and therefore may be an important tool in identifying alarin-specific receptors.
Neural stem cells (NSC) could promote the repair after spinal cord transection (SCT), the underlying mechanism, however, still keeps to be defined. This study reported that NSC grafts significantly improved sensory and locomotor functions in adult rats with SCT in acute stage after injury. NSC could survive; differentiate towards neurons or glia lineage in vitro and vivo. Biotin dextran amine (BDA) tracing showed that little CST regeneration in the injury site, while SEP was recorded in NSC engrafted rats. Immunohistochemistry and Real time PCR confirmed that engrafted NSC expressed BDNF and increased the level of BDNF mRNA in injured site following transplantation. The present data therefore suggested that the functional recovery following SCT with NSC transplantation was correlated with the expression of BDNF, indicating the usage of BDNF with NSC transplantation in the treatment of SCI following injury.
Neurons within a network have the ability to homeostatically scale-down their excitatory synaptic strength under conditions of persistent neuronal activity elevation, a process pivotal to neural circuit stability. How this homeostatic regulation is achieved at the molecular level in developing neural circuits, which face gradually elevated neuronal activity as part of circuit wiring, is not well-understood. Using dissociated hippocampal neuronal cultures, we identified a critical and cell autonomous role for the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA4 in mediating activity-induced homeostatic down-regulation of excitatory synaptic strength. Reducing the endogenous level of EphA4 in individual neurons by RNAi effectively blocked activity-induced scaling-down of excitatory synaptic strength, while co-transfection of RNAi resistant EphA4 rescued this effect. Furthermore, interfering with EphA4 forward signaling using EphA4-Fc blocked activity-induced homeostatic synaptic scaling-down, while direct activation of EphA4 with its ligand EphrinA1 weakened excitatory synaptic strength. Up- or down-regulating EphA4 function in individual neurons also did not affect the density of excitatory synapses. The kinase activities of EphA4 and its downstream effector Cdk5 were both required for homeostatic synaptic scaling, as overexpression of EphA4 with constitutively active kinase activity reduced excitatory synaptic strength, while interfering with either the kinase activity of EphA4 or Cdk5 blocked activity-induced synaptic scaling. Consistently, the activities of EphA4 and Cdk5 increased significantly during global and persistent activity elevation. Together, our work demonstrated that the kinase activity of EphA4, via activation of downstream Cdk5 activity, mediates the scaling-down of excitatory synaptic strength under conditions of global activity elevation.
Long lasting enhancement of synaptic transmission can be triggered by brief bursts of afferent stimulation, underlying long-term potentiation (LTP), and also by brief ischemia in a process known as i-LTP. The extent to which LTP and i-LTP rely on comparable cellular mechanisms remains unclear. Under physiological conditions, LTP induction drives transient expression of calcium-permeable AMPARs (CP-AMPARs) at synapses, whose ability to undergo plasticity is primed by endogenous activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)Rs). The present work thus addressed the contribution of CP-AMPARs and A(2A)Rs to i-LTP, which was induced in rat hippocampal slices by brief (10 min) oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD). The amplitude of afferent-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons was decreased during OGD but gradually recovered toward values significantly above (157  17%) the baseline (100%) 40-50 min after re-oxygenation. This i-LTP was precluded by CP-AMPAR blockade (internal spermine (500 M) or extracellular NASPM (20 M) application) as well as by A(2A)R blockade with a selective antagonist (SCH 58261, 100 nM). OGD prompted sustained (&gt;70 min) facilitation of mEPSC amplitude and frequency, and decreased mEPSC decay time, all of which were prevented by SCH 58261 (100 nM). The ability of NASPM (20 M) to acutely inhibit EPSCs 1 h after OGD, but not in control conditions nor in OGD-challenged slices when in the presence of SCH 58261 (100 nM), further supports sustained CP-AMPAR recruitment by i-LTP in an A(2A)R-dependent way. We propose that although i-LTP may initially mimic LTP, failure of auto-regulated CP-AMPAR removal from synapses could constitute an early divergent event between these forms of plasticity.
Cholinergic fibers from the brainstem and basal forebrain innervate the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulating neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity responses to hippocampal inputs. Here, we investigated the muscarinic and glutamatergic modulation of long-term depression (LTD) in the intact projections from CA1 to mPFC in vivo. Cortical-evoked responses were recorded in urethane-anesthetized rats for 30 min during baseline and 4 h following LTD. In order to test the potentiating effects of pilocarpine (PILO), independent groups of rats received either a microinjection of PILO (40 nmol; i.c.v.) or vehicle, immediately before or 20 min after a sub-threshold LTD protocol (600 pulses, 1 Hz; LFS600). Other groups received either an infusion of the selective NMDA receptor antagonist (AP7; 10 nmol; intra-mPFC) or vehicle, 10 min prior to PILO preceding LFS600, or prior to a supra-threshold LTD protocol (900 pulses, 1 Hz; LFS900). Our results show that PILO converts a transient cortical depression induced by LFS600 into a robust LTD, stable for at least 4 h. When applied after LFS600, PILO does not change either mPFC basal neurotransmission or late LTD. Our data also indicate that NMDA receptor pre-activation is essential to the muscarinic enhancement of mPFC synaptic depression, since AP7 microinjection into the mPFC blocked the conversion of transient depression into long-lasting LTD produced by PILO. In addition, AP7 effectively blocked the long-lasting LTD induced by LFS900. Therefore, our findings suggest that the glutamatergic co-activation of prefrontal neurons is important for the effects of PILO on mPFC synaptic depression, which could play an important role in the control of executive and emotional functions.
Attention deficits are a core cognitive symptom of schizophrenia; the neuropathology underlying these deficits is not known. Attention is regulated, at least in part, by the prefrontal cortex (PFC), a brain area in which pathology of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons has been consistently observed in post-mortem analysis of the brains of people with schizophrenia. Specifically, expression of the 67-kD isoform of the GABA synthesis enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) is reduced in parvalbumin-containing fast-spiking GABA interneurons. Thus it is hypothesized that reduced cortical GABA synthesis and release may contribute to the attention deficits in schizophrenia. Here the effect of reducing cortical GABA synthesis with l-allylglycine (LAG) on attention was tested using three different versions of the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT). Because 5CSRTT performance can be affected by locomotor activity, we also measured this behavior in an open field. Finally, the expression of Fos protein was used as an indirect measure of reduced GABA synthesis. Intra-cortical LAG (10 g/0.5 l/side) infusions increased Fos expression and resulted in hyperactivity in the open field. Intra-cortical LAG infusions did not affect attention in any version of the 5CSRTT. These results suggest that a general decrease in GABA synthesis is not sufficient to cause attention deficits. It remains to be tested whether a selective decrease in GABA synthesis in parvalbumin-containing GABA neurons could cause attention deficits. Decreased cortical GABA synthesis did increase locomotor activity; this may reflect the positive symptoms of schizophrenia.

Chinese is a tonal language in which variation in pitch is used to distinguish word meanings. Thus, in order to understand a word, listeners have to extract the pitch patterns in addition to its phonemes. Can the correct word meaning still be accessed in sentence contexts if pitch patterns of words are altered? If so, how is this accomplished? The present study attempts to address such questions with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Native speakers of Mandarin Chinese listened to normal and pitch-flattened (monotone) speech inside the scanner. The behavioral results indicated that they rated monotone sentences as intelligible as normal sentences, and performed equally well in a dictation test on the two types of sentences. The fMRI results showed that both types of sentences elicited similar activation in the left insular, middle and inferior temporal gyri, but the monotone sentences elicited greater activation in the left planum temporale (PT) compared with normal sentences. These results demonstrate that lexical meaning can still be accessed in pitch-flattened Chinese sentences, and that this process is realized by automatic recovery of the phonological representations of lexical tones from the altered tonal patterns. Our findings suggest that the details of spoken pitch patterns are not essential for adequate lexical-semantic processing during sentence comprehension even in tonal languages like Mandarin Chinese, given that listeners can automatically use additional neural and cognitive resources to recover distorted tonal patterns in sentences.
Biological motion detection is both commonplace and important, but there is great inter-individual variability in this ability, the neural basis of which is currently unknown. Here we examined whether the behavioral variability in biological motion detection is reflected in brain anatomy. Perceptual thresholds for detection of biological motion and control conditions (non-biological object motion detection and motion coherence) were determined in a group of healthy human adults (n=31) together with structural magnetic resonance images of the brain. Voxel based morphometry analyzes revealed that gray matter volumes of left posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and left ventral premotor cortex (vPMC) significantly predicted individual differences in biological motion detection, but showed no significant relationship with performance on the control tasks. Our study reveals a neural basis associated with the inter-individual variability in biological motion detection, reliably linking the neuroanatomical structure of left pSTS and vPMC with biological motion detection performance.
Awareness of deficits after brain injury represents a significant clinical and theoretical challenge, but relatively little is known about the neuroanatomical correlates of specific types of deficit awareness. We examined the awareness correlates of left versus right prefrontal cortex lesions in comparison to left and right posterior lesions including two types of awareness measures--metacognitive and online error monitoring. Frontal lobe frontal lesion patients exhibited impaired metacognitive awareness and also showed deficits in monitoring errors as they occurred. In addition, frontal lobe lesion patients also showed reduced autonomic response to aware errors. Online and metacognitive awareness were not, however, significantly correlated, suggesting that distinct neuroanatomical systems may underpin these two types of awareness deficit. We hypothesize that while metacognitive awareness depends on both left and right frontal regions, accurate moment-to-moment processing of errors depends more on the right than on the left prefrontal cortex.
Foreign accent syndrome (FAS) is a rare condition which is placed in the mildest end of the spectrum of speech disorders. The impairment, not severe enough to elicit phonological errors, is associated with various alterations in the fine execution of speech sounds which cause the impression of foreignness. There is a growing interest in the study of linguistic and paralinguistic components, psychosocial aftermaths, and neural basis of FAS, but there are not yet neuroscience-driven treatments for this condition. A multimodal evaluation was conducted in a single patient with the aim of searching for clues which may assist to design neuroscience-driven therapies. The patient was a middle-aged bilingual woman who had chronic FAS. She had segmental deficits, abnormal production of linguistic and emotional prosody, impaired verbal communication, and reduced motivation and social engagement. Magnetic resonance imaging showed bilateral small lesions mainly affecting the left deep frontal operculum and dorsal anterior insula. Diffusion tensor tractography suggested disrupted left deep frontal operculum-anterior insula connectivity. Metabolic activity measured with positron emission tomography was primarily decreased in key components of networks implicated in planning and execution of speech production, cognitive control and emotional communication (Brodmann's areas 4/6/9/10/13/25/47, basal ganglia, and anterior cerebellar vermis). Compensatory increases of metabolic activity were found in cortical areas (left anterior cingulate gyrus, left superior temporal gyrus and right prefrontal cortex) associated with feedback and focal attention processes critical for monitoring and adjustment of verbal utterances. Moreover, bilateral structural and functional abnormalities probably interrupted the trajectory of the lateral and medial cholinergic pathways causing region-specific hypoactivity. The results from this study provide targets for further investigation and some clues to design therapeutic interventions.
Adolescent drug abuse is hypothesized to increase the risk of drug addiction. Yet male rats that self-administer heroin as adolescents show attenuated drug-seeking after abstinence, compared with adults. Here we explore a role for neural activity in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in age-dependent heroin-seeking. Adolescent (35-day-old at start; adolescent-onset) and adult (86-day-old at start) male rats acquired lever-pressing maintained by heroin using a fixed ratio one reinforcement schedule (0.05 and 0.025 mg/kg per infusion). Following 12 days of forced abstinence, rats were tested for heroin-seeking over 1 h by measuring the number of lever presses on the active lever. Unbiased stereology was then used to estimate the number of Fos-ir(+) and Fos-ir(-) neurons in prelimbic and infralimbic mPFC. As before, adolescents and adults self-administered similar amounts of heroin, but subsequent heroin-seeking was attenuated in the younger rats. Similarly, the adolescent-onset group failed to show significant neural activation in the prelimbic or infralimbic mPFC during the heroin-seeking test, whereas the adult-onset heroin self-administration group showed two to six times more Fos-ir(+) neurons than their saline counterparts in both mPFC subregions. Finally, the overall number of neurons in the infralimbic cortex was greater in rats from the adolescent-onset groups than adults. The mPFC may thus have a key role in some age-dependent effects of heroin self-administration.
We describe a case of Septo-Optic Dysplasia (SOD) characterized by the presence of anomalous cerebral vessels. In our young patient the classical features of SOD were associated with vascular anomalies including absence of the vein of Galen, right Rosenthal vein leading to the superior petrosal sinus, and anomalous origin of the anterior choroidal arteries. These findings have never been associated with SOD in the literature but their revelation supports the hypothesis of a vascular disruption as a possible cause of the SOD.
Understanding stroke-related pathology with underlying neuroanatomy and resulting neurological deficits is critical in education and clinical practice. Moreover, communicating a stroke situation to a patient/family is difficult because of complicated neuroanatomy and pathology. For this purpose, we created a stroke atlas. The atlas correlates localized cerebrovascular pathology with both the resulting disorder and surrounding neuroanatomy. It also provides 3D display both of labeled pathology and freely composed neuroanatomy. Disorders are described in terms of resulting signs, symptoms and syndromes, and they have been compiled for ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic stroke, and cerebral aneurysms. Neuroanatomy, subdivided into 2,000 components including 1,300 vessels, contains cerebrum, cerebellum, brainstem, spinal cord, white matter, deep grey nuclei, arteries, veins, dural sinuses, cranial nerves and tracts. A computer application was developed comprising: 1) anatomy browser with the normal brain atlas (created earlier); 2) simulator of infarcts/hematomas/aneurysms/stenoses; 3) tools to label pathology; 4) cerebrovascular pathology database with lesions and disorders, and resulting signs, symptoms and/or syndromes. The pathology database is populated with 70 lesions compiled from textbooks. The initial view of each pathological site is preset in terms of lesion location, size, surrounding surface and sectional neuroanatomy, and lesion and neuroanatomy labeling. The atlas is useful for medical students, residents, nurses, general practitioners, and stroke clinicians, neuroradiologists and neurologists. It may serve as an aid in patient-doctor communication helping a stroke clinician explain the situation to a patient/family. It also enables a layman to become familiarized with normal brain anatomy and understand what happens in stroke.


The sociocommunicative impairments that define autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are not present at birth but emerge gradually over the first two years of life. In typical development, basic attentional processes may provide a critical foundation for sociocommunicative abilities. Therefore early attentional dysfunction in ASD may result in atypical development of social communication. Prior research has demonstrated that persons with ASD exhibit early and lifelong impairments in attention. The primary aim of this paper is to provide a review of the extant research on attention in ASD using a framework of functionally independent attentional networks as conceptualized by Posner and colleagues: the alerting, orienting and executive control networks (Posner and Petersen, 1990; Petersen and Posner, 2012). The neural substrates and typical development of each attentional network are briefly discussed, a review of the ASD attention literature is presented, and a hypothesis is proposed that links aberrant attentional mechanisms, specifically impaired disengagement of attention, with the emergence of core ASD symptoms.
Exposure therapy is a widely used and effective form of treatment in anxiety disorders and addictions but evidence for its usefulness in eating disorders (ED) is inconsistent. This paper systematically reviews the literature on the use of exposure therapy in ED, the theory underpinning its use, and the deficits in current knowledge. Databases were searched to 2012. In addition, potential improvements in the use of exposure techniques in ED are considered by drawing upon theory and research involving neuropharmacology, basic and clinical neuroscience, contemporary behavioural and neurobiological research, and technologies such as virtual reality (VR).
During recent years, major advances have been made in neuroscience, i.e., asynchronous release, three-dimensional structural data sets, saliency maps, magnesium in brain research, and new functional roles of long non-coding RNAs. Especially, the development of optogenetic technology provides access to important information about relevant neural circuits by allowing the activation of specific neurons in awake mammals and directly observing the resulting behavior. The Grand Research Plan for Neural Circuits of Emotion and Memory was launched by the National Natural Science Foundation of China. It takes emotion and memory as its main objects, making the best use of cutting-edge technologies from medical science, life science and information science. In this paper, we outline the current status of neural circuit studies in China and the technologies and methodologies being applied, as well as studies related to the impairments of emotion and memory. In this phase, we are making efforts to repair the current deficiencies by making adjustments, mainly involving four aspects of core scientific issues to investigate these circuits at multiple levels. Five research directions have been taken to solve important scientific problems while the Grand Research Plan is implemented. Future research into this area will be multimodal, incorporating a range of methods and sciences into each project. Addressing these issues will ensure a bright future, major discoveries, and a higher level of treatment for all affected by debilitating brain illnesses.
Unlike other primates, humans can regulate their own minds and brains and establish the self, which are based on language acquisition and social reciprocity. This capacity for self-regulation is evolutionarily realized by the highly developed neocortex and developmentally matures during adolescence. Inappropriate maturation of the neural systems responsible for self-regulation in adolescence could lead to the emergence of psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disorder, the onset of which usually takes place during adolescence/youth; one of its core features is disturbance of self-related information processing. Although schizophrenia has been associated with neurodevelopmental abnormalities during the perinatal period, recently improved neuroimaging techniques have shown progressive deterioration in the structure and function of neocortical regions in the prodromal and first-episode stages of the disorder. These reconsiderations have stimulated neurobiological investigations into the normal developmental process and its disturbance of the glutamatergic/synaptic system in adolescence. Of late, clinical psychiatry has been seeking early intervention strategies by integrating biological and psychosocial approaches. By integrating epidemiology, social neuroscience, and psychiatry, we aim to establish a new interdisciplinary science to uncover the developmental mechanisms of self-regulation in adolescence and create supportive and preventive strategies, which will ultimately contribute to education and society.
Horizontal basal cells (HBCs) have garnered attention as tissue stem cells of the olfactory epithelium (OE); however, these cells' exact lineage and their contributions to OE regeneration remain unknown. Neural crest-derived cells (NCDCs) have been shown to possess stem cell properties and to participate in the normal development of the OE. However, the contributions of NCDCs to both normal and regenerating adult OE remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the contribution of NCDCs to the OE, focusing particularly on HBCs. Using immunohistochemistry, we observed the OE of P0-Cre/EGFP mice expressing EGFP-tagged NCDCs at several stages of normal development along with regenerated OE following methimazole treatment. We observed EGFP expression in the HBCs, sustentacular cells (SUSs), Bowman's glands, olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), and olfactory ensheathing cells of 6-week-old mice. No ectopic Cre expression was identified. Although HBCs at late embryonic stages were placode-derived (i.e., EGFP-negative), we found that EGFP+ HBCs alternatively increased with the decrease of placode-derived HBCs during maturation. In regenerated OE, the percentages of neural crest-derived ORNs and SUSs significantly increased compared with normal OE. These results suggest that NCDCs contribute greatly to the adult HBC population and that they are important for the maintenance of the OE.
Animal models of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can explore neurobiological mechanisms by which trauma enhances fear and anxiety reactivity. Single prolonged stress (SPS) shows good validity in producing PTSD-like behavior. While SPS-induced behaviors have been linked to enhanced glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression, the molecular ramifications of enhanced GR expression have yet to be identified. Phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAkt) is critical for stress-mediated enhancement in general anxiety and memory, and may be regulated by GRs. However, it is currently unknown if pAkt levels are modulated by SPS, as well as if the specificity of GR and pAkt related changes contribute to anxiety-like behavior after SPS. The current study set out to examine the effects of SPS on GR and pAkt protein levels in the amygdala and hippocampus and to examine the specificity of these changes to unconditioned anxiety-like behavior. Levels of GR and pAkt were increased in the hippocampus, but not amygdala. Furthermore, SPS had no effect on unconditioned anxiety-like behavior suggesting that generalized anxiety is not consistently observed following SPS. The results suggest that SPS-enhanced GR expression is associated with phosphorylation of Akt, and also suggest that these changes are not related to an anxiogenic phenotype.
Axon branching is a complex morphological process, the regulation of which we are just beginning to understand. Many factors known to be important for axon growth and guidance have emerged as key regulators of axon branching. The extrinsic factors implicated in axon branching include traditional axon guidance cues such as the slits, semaphorins, and ephrins; neurotrophins such as BDNF; the secreted glycoprotein Wnt; the extracellular matrix protein anosmin-1; and certain transmembrane cell adhesion molecules--as well as sensory experience and neuronal activity. Although less is known about the intracellular control of axon branching, in recent years significant advances have been made in this area. Kinases and their regulators, Rho GTPases and their regulators, transcription factors, ubiquitin ligases, and several microtubule and actin-binding proteins are now implicated in the control of axon branching. It is likely that many more branching regulators remain to be discovered, as do the links between extrinsic cues and intracellular signaling proteins in the control of axon branching.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a highly addictive drug that is commonly abused worldwide. This psychostimulant drug causes the disturbances in the dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons of several brain areas. Exposure to METH has been shown to induce oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species, reactive nitrogen species, and neuroinflammation. However, the mechanism underlying METH-induced inflammation in neurons is still unclear. In this study, we investigated whether METH caused inflammatory effects in human dopaminergic neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and whether this effect involved the nuclear factor-B (NF-B) transcription factor pathway. The present results showed that METH significantly increased inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in a concentration-dependent manner and significantly increased the levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- mRNA and phosphorylated NF-B, which is translocated into the nucleus. Moreover, our results also show that METH downregulated another transcription factor, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor (Nrf2), a transcription factor implicated in the expression of several antioxidant/detoxificant enzymes. Furthermore, we also examined the anti-inflammatory effect of melatonin against these METH-induced neuroinflammatory functions. The results show that melatonin significantly decreases the iNOS protein expression and TNF- mRNA levels caused by METH. The activation and the level of pNF-B were decreased while Nrf2 expression was increased when cells were pre-incubated with 100 nM of melatonin. In order to show the relationship between cell death and the increase of iNOS, 100M of L-NAME, an iNOS inhibitor pretreatment significantly prevented cell death caused by METH. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that METH directly induces inflammation in neurons via an NF-B-dependent pathway and that the anti-neuroinflammatory effects of melatonin result from the inhibition of activated NF-B in parallel with potentiated antioxidant/detoxificant defense by activated Nrf2 pathway.
The astrocytic glutamate transporters (GLT-1, GLAST) are critical for removing excess glutamate from synaptic sites, thereby maintaining glutamate homeostasis within the brain. 17-Estradiol (E2) is one of the most active estrogen hormones possessing neuroprotective effects both in in vivo and in vitro models, and it has been shown to enhance astrocytic glutamate transporter function (Liang et al. in J Neurochem 80:807-814, 2002; Pawlak et al. in Brain Res Mol Brain Res 138:1-7, 2005). However, E2 is not clinically optimal for neuroprotection given its peripheral feminizing and proliferative effects; therefore, brain selective estrogen receptor modulators (neuro SERMs) (Zhao et al. in Neuroscience 132:299-311, 2005) that specifically target estrogenic mechanisms, but lack the systemic estrogen side effects offer more promising therapeutic modality for the treatment of conditions associated with excessive synaptic glutamate levels. This review highlights recent studies from our laboratory showing that E2 and SERMs effectively reverse glutamate transport inhibition in a manganese (Mn)-induced model of glutamatergic deregulation. Specifically, we discuss mechanisms by which E2 restores the expression and activity of glutamate uptake. We advance the hypothesis that E2 and related compounds, such as tamoxifen may offer a potential therapeutic modality in neurodegenerative disorders, which are characterized by altered glutamate homeostasis.


Childhood status epilepticus (SE) initiates an epileptogenic process that leads to spontaneous seizures and hippocampal pathology characterized by neuronal loss, gliosis and an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. It remains unclear whether these changes are a cause or consequence of chronic epilepsy. In this study, in vivo MRS was used in a post-SE juvenile rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) to establish the temporal evolution of hippocampal injury and neurotransmitter imbalance. SE was induced in P21 rats by injection of lithium and pilocarpine. Four and eight weeks after SE, in vivo (1) H and -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-edited MRS of the hippocampus was performed in combination with dedicated ex vivo immunohistochemistry for the interpretation and validation of MRS findings. MRS showed a 12% decrease (p&lt;0.0001) in N-acetylaspartate and a 15% increase (p=0.0226) in choline-containing compound concentrations, indicating neuronal death and gliosis, respectively. These results were confirmed by FluoroJade and vimentin staining. Furthermore, severe and progressive decreases in GABA (-41%, p&lt;0.001) and glutamate (Glu) (-17%, p&lt;0.001) were found. The specific severity of GABAergic cell death was confirmed by parvalbumin immunoreactivity (-68%, p&lt;0.001). Unexpectedly, we found changes in glutamine (Gln), the metabolic precursor of both GABA and Glu. Gln increased at 4 weeks (+36%, p&lt;0.001), but returned to control levels at 8 weeks. This decrease was consistent with the simultaneous decrease in glutamine synthase immunoreactivity (-32%, p=0.037). In vivo MRS showed gliosis and (predominantly GABAergic) neuronal loss. In addition, an increase in Gln was detected, accompanied by a decrease in glutamine synthase immunoreactivity. This may reflect glutamine synthase downregulation in order to normalize Gln levels. These changes occurred before spontaneous recurrent seizures were present but, by creating a pre-epileptic state, may play a role in epileptogenesis. MRS can be applied in a clinical setting and may be used as a noninvasive tool to monitor the development of TLE.
The increased knowledge of molecular changes associated with different neurological disorders calls for the development of novel radioligands. Tiagabine (Gabitril) is an anticonvulsive drug that binds selectively to GABA transporter-1 and thereby inhibits GABA uptake. As radioligands for in-vivo imaging of the GABA transporter are not yet available, we radiolabelled tiagabine and assessed its efficacy for in-vivo imaging of these transporters. Tiagabine was first brominated at its vinylic part, which was then exchanged with I. Next, anaesthetized rats received a bolus injection of [I]iodotiagabine in their tail vein, which was immediately followed by acquisition of planar and high-resolution micro-single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images of the total body with special focus on the brain. Uptake in anatomical regions was assessed by coregistration of micro-SPECT with micro-CT images. Tiagabine labelling with I resulted in 50% yield and 99.7% radiochemical purity. Within 3 h after injection, SPECT demonstrated an increased signal-to-background ratio in the nasal mucosa and/or the Harderian glands but not in the brain. In addition we observed an increased signal-to-background ratio in organs such as the thyroid, heart, liver, kidney and bladder. More than 99% pure I-labelled tiagabine can be obtained and applied in animal micro-SPECT studies. However, this new radioligand is not taken up sufficiently by the brain and therefore cannot be used to successfully detect cerebral GABA transporters.


A facile one-pot synthesis of 3,4-dihydro-1H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrazine-1,6(2H)-diones (pyridopyrazine-1,6-diones) has been developed which employs a sequential coupling/cyclization reaction of 6-hydroxypicolinic acids and -hydroxylamines. The transformation proceeds in good yield under mild conditions using O-(7-aza-1H-benzotriazole-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate (HATU) to both carry out the amide formation and activate the hydroxyl group for intramolecular alkylation.
Human unmyelinated (C) tactile afferents signal the pleasantness of gentle skin stroking on hairy (nonglabrous) skin. After neuronal injury, that same type of touch can elicit unpleasant sensations: tactile allodynia. The prevailing pathophysiological explanation is a spinal cord sensitization, triggered by nerve injury, which enables A afferents to access pain pathways. However, a recent mouse knockout study demonstrates that C-tactile afferents are necessary for allodynia to develop, suggesting a role for not only A but also C-tactile afferent signaling. To examine the contribution of C-tactile afferents to the allodynic condition in humans, we applied the heat/capsaicin model of tactile allodynia in 43 healthy subjects and in 2 sensory neuronopathy patients lacking A afferents. Healthy subjects reported tactile-evoked pain, whereas the patients did not. Instead, patients reported their C-touch percept (faint sensation of pleasant touch) to be significantly weaker in the allodynic zone compared to untreated skin. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in 18 healthy subjects and in 1 scanned patient indicated that stroking in the allodynic and control zones evoked different responses in the primary cortical receiving area for thin fiber signaling, the posterior insular cortex. In addition, reduced activation in the medial prefrontal cortices, key areas for C-tactile hedonic processing, was identified. These findings suggest that dynamic tactile allodynia is associated with reduced C-tactile mediated hedonic touch processing. Nevertheless, because the patients did not develop allodynic pain, this seems dependent on A signaling, at least under these experimental conditions.
Crossing the hands over the midline impairs the ability to correctly judge the order of a pair of tactile stimuli, delivered in rapid succession, one to each hand. This impairment, termed crossed-hands deficit, has been attributed to a mismatch between the somatotopic and body-centred frames of reference, onto which somatosensory stimuli are automatically mapped. Whether or not such crossed-hands deficit occurs also when delivering nociceptive stimuli has not been previously investigated. In this study, participants performed a temporal order judgement (TOJ) task in which pairs of either nociceptive or tactile stimuli were delivered, one to each hand, while their arms were either crossed over the body midline or uncrossed. We observed that crossing the hands over the midline significantly decreases the ability to determine the stimulus order when a pair of nociceptive stimuli is delivered to the hands, and that this crossed-hands deficit has a temporal profile similar to that observed for tactile stimuli. These findings suggest that similar mechanisms for integrating somatotopic and body-centred frames of reference underlie the ability to localise both nociceptive and tactile stimuli in space.

Nosema ceranae is spreading into areas where Nosema apis already exists. N. ceranae has been reported to cause an asymptomatic infection that may lead, ultimately, to colony collapse. It is thought that there may be a temperature barrier to its infiltration into countries in colder climates. In this study, 71 colonies from Scottish Beekeeper's Association members have been screened for the presence of N. apis and N. ceranae across Scotland. We find that only 11 of the 71 colonies tested positive for spores by microscopy. However, 70.4 % of colonies screened by PCR revealed the presence of both N. ceranae and N. apis, with only 4.2 or 7 % having either strain alone and 18.3 % being Nosema free. A range of geographically separated colonies testing positive for N. ceranae were sequenced to confirm their identity. All nine sequences confirmed the presence of N. ceranae and indicated the presence of a single new variant. Furthermore, two of the spore-containing colonies had only N. ceranae present, and these exhibited the presence of smaller spores that could be distinguished from N. apis by the analysis of average spore size. Differential quantification of the PCR product revealed N. ceranae to be the dominant species in all seven samples tested. In conclusion, N. ceranae is widespread in Scotland where it exists in combination with the endemic N. apis. A single variant, identical to that found in France (DQ374655) except for the addition of a single nucleotide polymorphism, is present in Scotland.
The hexanucleotide expanded repeat (GGGGCC) in intron 1 of the C9orf72 gene is recognized as the most common genetic form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, as part of the clinical phenotype, some patients present with parkinsonism. The present study investigated the potential expansion or association of the C9orf72 repeat length with susceptibility to Parkinson's disease and related disorders, essential tremor and restless legs syndrome. One restless legs syndrome patient was shown to harbor a repeat expansion, however on clinical follow-up this patient was observed to have developed frontotemporal dementia. There was no evidence of association of repeat length on disease risk or age-at-onset for any of the three disorders. Therefore the C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion appears to be specific to TDP-43 driven amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and dementia.

The molecular mechanisms underlying TBI pathophysiology and recovery are both complex and varied. Further, the pathology underlying many of the clinical sequelae observed in this population evolve over the acute injury period and encompass the subacute and chronic phases of recovery, supporting the contemporary concept that TBI is a chronic disease rather than a static insult from which limited recovery occurs. TBI related complications can also span from acute care to the very chronic stages of recovery that occur years after the initial trauma. Despite ongoing neurodegeneration, the TBI recovery period is also characterized by a propensity for neuroplasticity and rewiring through multiple mechanisms. This review summarizes key elements of acute pathophysiology, how they link to structural damage and ongoing degeneration, and how this process coincides with a permissive neuroplastic environment. The pathophysiology of selected TBI related complications is also discussed. Each of these concepts is studied through the lens of Rehabilomics, wherein an emphasis is placed on biomarker studies characterizing these pathophysiological mechanisms, and biomarker profiles are assessed in relation to multi-modal outcomes and susceptibility to rehabilitation relevant complications. In reviewing these concepts, implications for future research and theranostic principles for patient care are presented.

Perinatal stroke is presented as the ideal human model of developmental neuroplasticity. The precise timing, mechanisms, and locations of specific perinatal stroke diseases provide common examples of well defined, focal, perinatal brain injuries. Motor disability (hemiparetic cerebral palsy) constitutes the primary adverse outcome and the focus of models explaining how motor systems develop in health and after early injury. Combining basic science animal work with human applied technology (functional magnetic resonance imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, and transcranial magnetic stimulation), a model of plastic motor development after perinatal stroke is presented. Potential central therapeutic targets are revealed. The means to measure and modulate these targets, including evidence-based rehabilitation therapies and noninvasive brain stimulation, are suggested. Implications for clinical trials and future directions are discussed.
We report the case of a 9-year-old boy with extensive pleural fibrosis and contraction of the affected hemithorax secondary to pleural tuberculosis (TB), who was successfully treated with a 6 months course of the standard WHO regimen. Although well described for the adult population, this complication is rare among children and to our knowledge, no such case has been described since the widespread introduction of antitubercular therapy in the 1950s. This case underscores the importance of appropriate follow-up and administration of chemoprophylaxis after TB exposure.

Young children who experience toxic stress are at high risk for a number of health outcomes in adulthood, including cardiovascular disease, cancers, asthma, and depression. The American Academy of Pediatrics has recently called on pediatricians, informed by research from molecular biology, genomics, immunology, and neuroscience, to become leaders in science-based strategies to build strong foundations for children's life-long health. In this report, we provide an overview of the science of toxic stress. We summarize the development of the neuroendocrine-immune network, how its function is altered by early life adversity, and how these alterations then increase vulnerability to disease. The fact that early environments shape and calibrate the functioning of biological systems very early in life is both a cautionary tale about overlooking critical periods in development and reason for optimism about the promise of intervention. Even in the most extreme cases of adversity, well-timed changes to children's environments can improve outcomes. Pediatricians are in a unique position to contribute to the public discourse on health and social welfare by explaining how factors that seem distal to child health may be the key to some of the most intractable public health problems of our generation. We consider the challenges and opportunities for preventing toxic stress in the context of contemporary pediatric practice.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated as a modulator of social behavior, often in a species-specific manner. Comparative studies of closely related vole species are particularly useful for identifying neural systems involved in social behaviors in both voles and humans. In the present study, immunohistochemistry was performed to compare NPY-like immunoreactivity (-ir) in brain tissue of the socially monogamous prairie vole and non-monogamous meadow vole. Species differences in NPY-ir were observed in a number of regions including the cortex, extended amygdala, septal area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, and intergeniculate leaf. Meadow voles had higher NPY-ir in all these regions as compared to prairie voles. No differences were observed in the striatum or hippocampus. The extended amygdala and lateral septum are regions that play a key role in regulation of monogamous behaviors such as pair bonding and paternal care. The present study suggests NPY in these regions may be an additional modulator of these species-specific social behaviors. Meadow voles had moderately higher NPY-ir in a number of hypothalamic regions, especially in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Meadow voles also had much higher levels of NPY-ir in the intergeniculate leaflet, another key region in the regulation of circadian rhythms. Overall, species differences in NPY-ir were observed in a number of brain regions implicated in emotion, stress, circadian, and social behaviors. These findings provide additional support for a role for the NPY system in species-typical social behaviors.
Naps are an effective strategy for maintaining alertness and cognitive performance; however, upon abrupt wakening from naps, sleep inertia (temporary performance degradation) may ensue. In the present study, attenuation of post-nap sleep inertia was attempted by administration of caffeine gum. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover design, 15 healthy, non-smoking adults were awakened at 1 hr. and again at 6 hr. after lights out (0100 and 0600, respectively) and were immediately administered a gum pellet containing 100 mg of caffeine or placebo. A 5-min. psychomotor vigilance task was administered at 0 min., 6 min., 12 min., and 18 min. post-awakening. At 0100, response speed with caffeine was significantly better at 12 min. and 18 min. post-awakening compared to placebo; at 0600, caffeine's effects were evident at 18 min. post-awakening. Caffeinated gum is a viable means of rapidly attenuating sleep inertia, suggesting that the adenosine receptor system is involved in sleep maintenance.

Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation may play a role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), possess anti-inflammatory effects in vitro. Here, we examined the effects of SSRIs and SNRIs on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation and depressive-like behavior in male mice. A single administration of LPS (0.5mg/kg, i.p.) increased serum levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10) in mice. Pretreatment with SSRIs (fluoxetine and paroxetine), SNRIs (venlafaxine and duloxetine), or 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), a precursor of serotonin, attenuated LPS-induced increases in TNF, whereas it increased serum levels of IL-10, in mice treated with LPS. In the tail suspension test (TST), LPS increased the immobility time without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity, suggesting that LPS induced depressive-like behavior in mice. Treatment with fluoxetine (30 mg/kg) or paroxetine (10mg/kg) significantly shortened LPS-induced increases of immobility time. These results suggested that antidepressants exert anti-inflammatory effects in vivo, and that the serotonergic system may partially mediate these effects. In addition, the anti-inflammatory effects of antidepressants may help alleviate the symptoms of LPS-induced depression in mice.
The beta-lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid induced penile erection and yawning in a dose dependent manner when given intraperitoneally (IP, 0.05-5mg/kg), perorally (OS, 0.1-5mg/kg) and intracereboventricularly (ICV, 0.01-5 g/rat) to male rats. The effect resembles that of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine given subcutaneously (SC) (0.02-0.25mg/kg), although the responses of the latter followed a U inverted dose-response curve, disappearing at doses higher than 0.1mg/kg. Clavulanic acid responses were reduced by about 55% by haloperidol, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (0.1mg/kg IP), and by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin, an oxytocin receptor antagonist (2 g/rat ICV), both given 15 min before clavulanic acid. A higher reduction of clavulanic acid responses (more than 80%) was also found with morphine, an opioid receptor agonist (5mg/kg IP), and with mianserin, a serotonin 5HT(2c) receptor antagonist (0.2mg/kg SC). In contrast, no reduction was found with naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist (1mg/kg IP). The ability of haloperidol, d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin and morphine to reduce clavulanic acid induced penile erection and yawning suggests that clavulanic acid induces these responses, at least in part, by increasing central dopaminergic neurotransmission. Dopamine in turn activates oxytocinergic neurotransmission and centrally released oxytocin induces penile erection and yawning. However, since both penile erection and yawning episodes were reduced not only by the blockade of central dopamine and oxytocin receptors and by the stimulation of opioid receptors, which inhibits oxytocinergic neurotransmission, but also by mianserin, an increase of central serotonin neurotransmission is also likely to participate in these clavulanic acid responses.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease characterized by sensory, motor, and cognitive impairments. Apolipoprotein E (apoE) plays an important role in cholesterol and lipid metabolism in the brain and in susceptibility to cognitive impairment and pathology following brain injury. Studies in mice with a mild form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an MS animal model, support only protective roles for apoE in MS. We examined behavioral and cognitive changes prior to onset of clinical disease and the onset and progression of a more severe form of EAE in female Apoe(-/-) and C57Bl/6 wild-type mice. Apoe(-/-) mice had a later day of onset, a later day of peak symptoms and disease severity, and a lower cumulative disease index compared to wild type mice. Apoe(-/-) mice also showed decreased CD4+ cell invasion following EAE induction compared to wild type mice, and less spinal cord demyelination at 17 but not 30 days following EAE induction. In contrast, EAE-challenged Apoe(-/-) mice showed reduced exploratory activity, rotorod performance, and impaired contextual fear conditioning compared to wild type animals. These data indicate paradoxical effects of apoE on EAE-induced behavioral and cognitive changes and the onset and progression of clinical disease.
Numerous findings in adult and infant rats have shown that the endogenous opioid system is involved in control of ethanol consumption and its reinforcing effects. Opioid systems are also involved in reactivity to social isolation with several factors (age, duration, and type of isolation) affecting this modulation. The present study investigated the effects of a selective mu-opioid antagonist CTOP (0, 0.1, 0.5mg/kg), ethanol (0, 0.5 g/kg), and the interaction of the two drugs on the behavioral consequences of two types of social isolation given to preweanling rats: 1) short-term social isolation from littermates (STSI, duration 8 min) and 2) relatively long-term (5h) isolation (LTSI) from the dam and littermates. Voluntary intake of saccharin, locomotion, rearing activity, paw licking, and grooming were assessed during an 8-min. intake test. Thermal nociceptive reactivity was also measured before and after the testing session with normalized differences in pre- and post-test latencies of paw withdrawal from a hot plate (49C) used as an index of isolation-induced analgesia (IIA). The results indicate that pharmacological blockade of mu-opioid receptors by CTOP substantially attenuated ethanol's anxiolytic effects on the developing rat's reactions to social isolation. Some of these stress-attenuating effects of CTOP were observed only in animals exposed to short-term isolation (STSI) but not in pups isolated for 5h (LTSI). Ethanol selectively increased saccharin intake during STSI in females and CTOP blocked this effect. Ethanol decreased the magnitude of analgesia associated with STSI but had no effect on pain reactivity during LTSI. CTOP by itself did not affect IIA or saccharin intake in sober animals. The findings of the present experiments indicate that the anxiolytic effects of 0.5 g/kg ethanol on pups exposed to STSI are modulated by endogenous opioid activity.

Interactions between oscillators can be investigated with standard tools of time series analysis. However, these methods are insensitive to the directionality of the coupling, i.e., the asymmetry of the interactions. An elegant alternative was proposed by Rosenblum and collaborators [M. G. Rosenblum, L. Cimponeriu, A. Bezerianos, A. Patzak, and R. Mrowka, Phys. Rev. E 65, 041909 (2002); M. G. Rosenblum and A. S. Pikovsky, Phys. Rev. E 64, 045202 (2001)] which consists in fitting the empirical phases to a generic model of two weakly coupled phase oscillators. This allows one to obtain the interaction functions defining the coupling and its directionality. A limitation of this approach is that a solution always exists in the least-squares sense, even in the absence of coupling. To preclude spurious results, we propose a three-step protocol: (1) Determine if a statistical dependency exists in the data by evaluating the mutual information of the phases; (2) if so, compute the interaction functions of the oscillators; and (3) validate the empirical oscillator model by comparing the joint probability of the phases obtained from simulating the model with that of the empirical phases. We apply this protocol to a model of two coupled Stuart-Landau oscillators and show that it reliably detects genuine coupling. We also apply this protocol to investigate cardiorespiratory coupling in anesthetized rats. We observe reciprocal coupling between respiration and heartbeat and that the influence of respiration on the heartbeat is generally much stronger than vice versa. In addition, we find that the vagus nerve mediates coupling in both directions.
We study inference and reconstruction of couplings in a partially observed kinetic Ising model. With hidden spins, calculating the likelihood of a sequence of observed spin configurations requires performing a trace over the configurations of the hidden ones. This, as we show, can be represented as a path integral. Using this representation, we demonstrate that systematic approximate inference and learning rules can be derived using dynamical mean-field theory. Although naive mean-field theory leads to an unstable learning rule, taking into account Gaussian corrections allows learning the couplings involving hidden nodes. It also improves learning of the couplings between the observed nodes compared to when hidden nodes are ignored.
Extracts from Phaseolus vulgaris and Cynara scolymus may reduce food intake and/or postprandial glycemia. This study investigated the effect of standardized extracts of P. vulgaris and C. scolymus and their combination on food intake and glycemia in rats. P. vulgaris and C. scolymus extracts, and their 1:2 combination, were administered acutely to rats (a) given access to regular food and water, (b) given access to regular food, water, and a chocolate-flavored beverage, or (c) infused with a starch bolus. P. vulgaris extract and the combination produced comparable reductions in intake of regular food and chocolate-flavored beverage; conversely, C. scolymus extract was ineffective on both parameters. P. vulgaris and C. scolymus extracts additively contributed to the reducing effect of the combination on glycemic rise. These results suggest that a mixture of P. vulgaris and C. scolymus extracts is preferable over each single extract, as it combines the anorectic effect of the P. vulgaris extract with the hypoglycemic effect of both extracts. These data support the recent clinical use of the combination of P. vulgaris and C. scolymus extracts in the control of appetite, food intake, and postprandial glycemia and represent a successful example of translational research in the nutraceutical field.
Proton magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy of the brain is a non-invasive, in vivo technique that allows investigation into regional chemical environments. Its complementary use with MR imaging sequences provides valuable insights into brain tumour characteristics, progression and response to treatment. Additionally, its sensitivity to brain dysfunction in the presence of apparently normal structural imaging has galvanised interest in its use as a biomarker of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Accordingly, its integration into clinical imaging protocols within many neuroscience centres throughout the world is increasing. This growing attention is encouraging but if the potential of MR spectroscopy is to be realised, fundamental questions need to be addressed, such as reproducibility of the technique and the biochemistry that underpins the neurometabolites measured. Failure to resolve these issues will continue to hinder the extent and accuracy of conclusions that can be drawn from its data. In this review we discuss the issues regarding MR spectroscopy in the brain with particular attention paid to its technique. Key examples of current clinical applications are provided and future directions are discussed.
Neurological examination (NE) is a key part of practice for many doctors. UK students learn NE from a variety of specialty tutors and often find it difficult. This article suggests one way of introducing NE interactively with students in their first clinical year supplementary to clerking patients. The content presupposes the author's choices about core elements and techniques of NE largely in the absence of explicit evidence. Arguably there needs to be greater consensus over a core NE, appropriate to modern practice, to provide more explicit guidance for medical schools.

Diagnosing stroke is not always straightforward. Stroke mimics such as Todd's paresis or hemiplegic migraine account for between a fifth and a quarter of suspected strokes (depending on the setting in which they are assessed). Stroke chameleons can arise when the tempo of symptom onset is not apoplectic or if the loss of function is not clearly consistent with a deficit within an arterial territory. Thrombolysis and secondary prevention have much to offer patients with stroke chameleons, though those with stroke mimics may be harmed by these treatments and have more to gain from other therapies.
Medicolegal work is a mystery to most neurologists. What does it involve? What does the beginner medical expert need to know? Should barristers be feared? This article provides some of the answers.





Attention has been demonstrated to affect response speed, signal detection, and perceptual enhancement. We wished to determine whether exogenously cued attention had the additional effect of improving the veridicality of perceptual representations. We determined the accuracy and precision of orientation judgments for static and dynamic stimuli when they were, and when they were not, exogenously cued (luminance change). Valid exogenous cues led to more accurate responses that were also quicker. The attentional accuracy benefits were robust to stimulus degradation. Since our task displayed only one test stimulus at a time, response biases cannot account for our results. We concluded that exogenous cues can lead to percepts that are, on average, more similar to the external stimulus. Thus, exogenous cuing can improve perceptual quality.
Humans have remarkable statistical learning abilities for verbal speech-like materials and for nonverbal music-like materials. Statistical learning has been shown with artificial languages (AL) that consist of the concatenation of nonsense word-like units into a continuous stream. These ALs contain no cues to unit boundaries other than the transitional probabilities between events, which are high within a unit and low between units. Most AL studies have used units of regular lengths. In the present study, the ALs were based on the same statistical structures but differed in unit length regularity (i.e., whether they were made out of units of regular vs. irregular lengths) and in materials (i.e., syllables vs. musical timbres), to allow us to investigate the influence of unit length regularity on domain-general statistical learning. In addition to better performance for verbal than for nonverbal materials, the findings revealed an effect of unit length regularity, with better performance for languages with regular- (vs. irregular-) length units. This unit length regularity effect suggests the influence of dynamic attentional processes (as proposed by the dynamic attending theory; Large &amp; Jones (Psychological Review 106: 119-159, 1999)) on domain-general statistical learning.
The enzyme 5-reductase (5R) catalyzes the conversion of testosterone and other (4)-3-ketosteroids into their 5-reduced metabolites. Of the five members of the 5R family, the type 2 enzyme (5R2) plays a key role in androgen metabolism, and is abundantly distributed in the urogenital system. Although 5R2 has been reported to be highly expressed in the brain during early developmental stages, little is currently known on its anatomical and cellular distribution in the adult brain. Thus, the present study was designed to determine the detailed localization of 5R2 in the adult rat brain, using a highly specific polyclonal antibody against this isoform. Parasagittal and coronal sections revealed 5R2 immunoreactivity throughout most brain regions, with strong immunolabeling in the layers III and VI of the prefrontal and somatosensory cortex, olfactory bulb, thalamic nuclei, CA3 field of hippocampus, basolateral amygdala and Purkinje cell layer of cerebellum. Lower 5R2 levels were detected in the hypothalamus and midbrain. Moreover, double labeling fluorescence with confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) revealed that 5R2 is localized in neurons, but not in glial cells. Specifically, the enzyme was documented in the pyramidal neurons of the cortex by CLSM analysis of simultaneous Golgi-Cox and immunofluorescent staining. Finally, low levels of 5R2 expression were identified in GABAergic cells across the cortex, hippocampus and striatum. These findings show that, in the adult brain, 5R2 is distributed in critical regions for behavioral regulation, suggesting that the functional role of this isoform is present throughout the entire lifespan of the individual.
Adult male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are highly gregarious and socially monogamous, which is dissimilar to most other male rodents but reminiscent of many primates, including humans. This has resulted in prairie voles becoming a premier model in which to study the neural and hormonal basis of complex social behaviors, as well as the atypical development of these behaviors. This research is impeded by the complete lack of knowledge about the gonadal steroid environment during early development in this species. In many other animals, testicular hormones released during perinatal life permanently organize the neural substrates underlying later social behaviors in males, so knowledge about the presence or possibly even absence of testosterone in male prairie vole pups would provide important insight into their neurobehavioral development. In this study, male and female prairie vole pups were sacrificed 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 days after birth and radioimmunoassay used to determine plasma levels of testosterone. We found that testosterone was detectable in both sexes on all days and that levels were significantly higher in males than females. Testosterone in neonatal males was sometimes as high as breeding males sampled one day after the birth of a litter. This study is the first to examine circulating testosterone in neonatal prairie voles, or any other species of Microtus, and the results indicate similarity to other rodents. This is surprising because some previous studies manipulating gonadal hormones in neonatal prairie voles have found limited effects on their neurobehavioral development, suggesting the existence of some unique, yet-to-be-revealed aspects of their neuroendocrine profile during early life.
The paucity of pharmacokinetic data on testosterone gel formulations and absence of such data on estradiol administration in healthy young men constitutes a fundamental gap of knowledge in behavioral endocrinological research. We addressed this issue in a double-blind and placebo controlled study in which we applied a topical gel containing either 150mg of testosterone (N=10), 2mg of estradiol (N=8) or a respective placebo (N=10) to 28 healthy young men. We then assessed serum concentrations of estradiol and testosterone in one hour intervals up to seven hours after drug application, measured LH, SHBG and cortisol levels once at baseline and three, four as well as six hours after gel administration. Treatment with testosterone gel resulted in maximum total serum testosterone concentration three hours after administration and did not suppress LH, cortisol and SHBG levels at any time point. Administration of estradiol gel led to maximum estradiol serum concentration two hours after administration. There was no suppression of cortisol, SHBG and absolute LH levels. We report here, for the first time, pharmacokinetic data on both high dose testosterone and estradiol gel application in healthy young males. The proposed model will assist in the design of future studies that seek to establish causality between testosterone and estradiol gel administration and behavioral as well as neurophysiological effects.





Metabotropic glutamate-5 receptors (mGluR5), which physically and functionally interact with N-methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptors, likewise control cognitive processes and have been proposed as targets for novel classes of antipsychotic agent. Since social cognition is impaired in schizophrenia and disrupted by NMDA receptor antagonists like dizocilpine, we evaluated its potential modulation by mGluR5. Acute administration (0.63-40mg/kg) of the mGluR5 positive allosteric modulators (PAMs), 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamide (CDPPB) and ADX47273, reversed a delay-induced impairment in social novelty discrimination (SND) in adult rats. The action of CDPPB was blocked by the mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (2.5-10mg/kg), and was also expressed upon microinjection into frontal cortex (0.63-10g/side), but not striatum. Supporting an interrelationship between mGluR5 and NMDA receptors, enhancement of SND by CDPPB was blocked by dizocilpine (0.08mg/kg) while, reciprocally, dizocilpine-induced impairment in SND was attenuated by CDPPB (10mg/kg). The SND deficit elicited by post-natal administration of phencyclidine (10mg/kg, days7-11) was reversed by CDPPB or ADX47273 in adults at week8. This phencyclidine-induced impairment in cognition emerged in adult rats from week7 on, and chronic, pre-symptomatic treatment of adolescent rats with CDPPB over weeks5-6 (10mg/kg per day) prevented the appearance of SND deficits in adults until at least week13. In conclusion, as evaluated by a SND procedure, mGluR5 PAMs promote social cognition via actions expressed in interaction with NMDA receptors and exerted in frontal cortex. MGluR5 PAMs not only reverse but also (when given during adolescence) prevent the emergence of cognitive impairment associated with a developmental model of schizophrenia.




The role of the two dimensions of psychopathy-dispositional fearlessness (theorized to reflect variations in reactivity of the brain's defensive system) and externalizing proneness (presumed to reflect variations in function of anterior regulatory systems)-in fear learning was examined in a sample of undergraduates assessed using the Psychopathic Personality Inventory-Revised (PPI-R) who participated in a differential aversive conditioning task. Only scores on self-reported &quot;fearless dominance,&quot; irrespective of scores on &quot;impulsive antisociality,&quot; were related to diminished acquisition of physiological fear. Consistent with dual-process accounts of psychopathy proposing divergent etiological pathways for the interpersonal/affective and the social deviance features of the disorder, our results lend support to the existence of a deficit in reactivity of the brain's defensive system underlying the fearlessness dimension of psychopathy.

Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is a devastating inherited disease of children with no effective therapies. Here I discuss the landscape for new treatments and the history, current status and prospects for our work developing recombinant biglycan as DMD therapy.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and Asperger's Syndrome (AS) share a heterogeneous cognitive profile. Studies assessing executive functions (EF) and social cognition in both groups have found preserved and impaired performances. These inconsistent findings would be partially explained by the cognitive variability reported in these disorders. First, the present study explored the inter-individual variability in EF and social cognition in both patient groups. Second, we compared differential characteristics and commonalities in the cognitive profiles of EF and social cognition between ADHD, AS and control adults. We assessed 22 patients with ADHD, 23 adults with AS and 21 matched typically developing subjects using different measures of EF (working memory, cognitive flexibility and multitasking) and social cognition (theory of mind and decision-making). Group comparisons and multiple case series analyses (MCSA) were conducted. The between-group comparisons showed an EF deficit in working memory in ADHD and a theory of mind (ToM) impairment in AS. The MCSA evidenced that, compared to controls, ADHD patients had a higher inter-individual variability in EF, while individuals with AS had a more heterogeneous profile in social cognition tasks compared to both groups. Finally, the AS and ADHD groups presented higher task-related variability compared to controls and shared a common heterogeneous profile in EF. This is the first study to compare variability in EF and social cognition profiles of ADHD and AS. We propose that heterogeneity in EF performance is a link between ADHD and AS which may explain the overlap of symptomatology between both diagnoses. In addition, patients with AS seem to show a unique heterogeneous profile in ToM which may explain the low probability of finding AS symptoms in patients with ADHD.
This study assessed technology-aided programs for helping two post-coma persons, who had emerged from a minimally conscious state and were affected by multiple disabilities, to (a) engage with leisure stimuli and request caregiver's procedures, (b) send out and listen to text messages for communication with distant partners, and (c) combine leisure engagement and procedure requests with text messaging within the same sessions. The program for leisure engagement and procedure requests relied on the use of a portable computer with commercial software, and a microswitch for the participants' response. The program for text messaging communication involved the use of a portable computer, a GSM modem, a microswitch for the participants' response, and specifically developed software. Results indicated that the participants were successful at each of the three stages of the study, thus providing relevant evidence concerning performance achievements only minimally documented. The implications of the findings in terms of technology and practical opportunities for post-coma persons with multiple disabilities are discussed.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the intra- and inter-tester reliability of the movement assessment battery for children-second edition (MABC-2), ageband 2. We wanted to analyze the collected data, with adequate statistical methods, to provide relevant recommendations for physical therapists who are interpreting changes in the context of daily clinical practice. Forty-five healthy children, 23 girls and 22 boys with a mean age of 8.70.7 years, participated in the study, the inter-tester procedures were performed the same day and the intra-tester procedures within a one to two week interval. The statistical methods used were intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM), and smallest detectable change (SDC). The children had no failed items during the tests. The ICC values ranged from 0.23 to 0.76. The items &quot;treading lace&quot; and &quot;one-board balance&quot; showed the highest measurement errors both for the intra- and inter-rater reliability. The SDC(90%) values were 9.7 and 18.5 for the intra- and inter-rater reliability, respectively. The present study showed high intra- and inter-rater chance variation MABC-2, ageband 2. A change of more than 9.7 and 18.5 on the total test score (TTS) should be required to state (with a 90% confidence) that a real change in a single individual has occurred, for intra- and inter-rater testing, respectively. These findings may indicate that the MABC-2 might be more suitable for diagnostic or clinical decision making purposes, than for evaluation of change over time.



Existing antipsychotic drugs are most effective at treating the positive symptoms of schizophrenia but their relative efficacy is low and they are associated with considerable side effects. In this study deep brain stimulation of the ventral hippocampus was performed in a rodent model of schizophrenia (MAM-E17) in an attempt to alleviate one set of neurophysiological alterations observed in this disorder. Bipolar stimulating electrodes were fabricated and implanted, bilaterally, into the ventral hippocampus of rats. High frequency stimulation was delivered bilaterally via a custom-made stimulation device and both spectral analysis (power and coherence) of resting state local field potentials and amplitude of auditory evoked potential components during a standard inhibitory gating paradigm were examined. MAM rats exhibited alterations in specific components of the auditory evoked potential in the infralimbic cortex, the core of the nucleus accumbens, mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, and ventral hippocampus in the left hemisphere only. DBS was effective in reversing these evoked deficits in the infralimbic cortex and the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus of MAM-treated rats to levels similar to those observed in control animals. In contrast stimulation did not alter evoked potentials in control rats. No deficits or stimulation-induced alterations were observed in the prelimbic and orbitofrontal cortices, the shell of the nucleus accumbens or ventral tegmental area. These data indicate a normalization of deficits in generating auditory evoked potentials induced by a developmental disruption by acute high frequency, electrical stimulation of the ventral hippocampus.

Drugs in wastewater arise from many sources. For health care, these include excretion and direct disposal (bedside wasting). The present study reports on the dispensing and wasting of 15 controlled substances (CS) at two health care facilities in Albany, NY over a nearly two year period. The study considered measures of ecotoxicity, drug metabolism, excretion and disposal of these CS. Potential alternatives to flushing of CS into wastewaters from healthcare facilities are discussed. Drug medication and waste collection records (12,345) included: numbers of drugs dispensed, returned and wasted. Overall, 8528 g of 15 CS were wasted. Three (midazolam, acetaminophen-codeine and fentanyl) accounted for 87.5% of the total wasted. Wasting varied by hospital, 14 CS at the academic medical center hospital and 8 at the surgical care center were wasted. Liquids were more frequently wasted than tablets or pills. Some combination drugs (acetaminophen (APAP)-codeine) were frequently (50% of drug dispensed) wasted while others were less wasted (APAP-hydrocodone-6.3%; APAP-oxycodone-1.3%). The 8 CS judged more hazardous to aquatic life were: APAP-codeine, APAP-hydrocodone, APAP-oxycodone, alprazolam, diazepam, fentanyl, midazolam, and testosterone. Ketamine, morphine, oxycodone and zolpidem were of lesser acute toxicity based on available LC50 values. These CS might provide a therapeutically equivalent alternative to the more environmentally harmful drugs. In health care facilities, professionals dispose of CS by bedside wasting into water or other receptacles. This can be avoided by returning CS to the hospital's pharmacy department, thence to a licensed distributor. Study of this process of drug wasting can identify opportunities for process improvements. We found 3 CS (APAP-codeine, midazolam and testosterone) where  to 1/3 of the drug was wasted and 5 others with 30 to 13% wasted. Knowledge of the adverse impacts from the release of highly toxic drugs into the environment might influence CS selection and disposal alternatives.




Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against CD52. A single cycle of alemtuzumab, administered over 5 days, depletes lymphocytes. Reconstitution causes prolonged alterations in the lymphocyte repertoire, with relatively increased regulatory T-cell numbers and reduced nave T cells. It is currently approved for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and is being considered for licensing for multiple sclerosis (MS).When first used, alemtuzumab successfully reduced relapses and new lesion formation based on magnetic resonance imaging in people with progressive MS, but this cohort continued to accumulate disability, associated with progressive cerebral atrophy, presumably due to axonal degeneration. From this experience, we advocated that immunotherapies should be given early in the course of the disease. Since then, one phase II and two phase III trials have shown that alemtuzumab reduces the relapse rate, compared with the active comparator interferon beta-1a (IFN-1a), in treatment-nave and treatment-experienced MS up to 10 years from disease onset. Furthermore, in two of these trials, alemtuzumab reduced the risk of accumulating disability compared with IFN-1a; indeed alemtuzumab treatment led to an improvement in disability and reduction in cerebral atrophy. Safety issues are infusion-associated reactions, mainly controlled by methyl-prednisolone, antihistamines, and antipyretics; mild to moderate infections; and autoimmunity. After 5 years, 30 to 40% of alemtuzumab patients have developed autoimmunity, largely against the thyroid gland, but rarely (2%) against platelets in immune thrombocytopenia, and in a few cases, Goodpasture's renal syndrome.Alemtuzumab is an effective therapy for early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, offering disability improvement at least to 5 years after treatment. Its use requires careful monitoring so that potentially serious side effects can be treated early and effectively.



Recent evidence indicates that a sexually dimorphic feature of humans, the facial width-to-height ratio (FWHR), is positively correlated with reactive aggression, particularly in men. Also, predictions about the aggressive tendencies of others faithfully map onto FWHR in the absence of explicit awareness of this metric. Here, we provide the first evidence that amygdala reactivity to social signals of interpersonal challenge may underlie the link between aggression and the FWHR. Specifically, amygdala reactivity to angry faces was positively correlated with aggression, but only among men with relatively large FWHRs. The patterns of association were specific to angry facial expressions and unique to men. These links may reflect the common influence of pubertal testosterone on craniofacial growth and development of neural circuitry underlying aggression. Amygdala reactivity may also represent a plausible pathway through which FWHR may have evolved to represent an honest indicator of conspecific threat, namely by reflecting the responsiveness of neural circuitry mediating aggressive behavior.


Dopaminergic neurons derived from pluripotent stem cells are among the best investigated products of in vitro stem cell differentiation owing to their potential use for neurorestorative therapy of Parkinson's disease. However, the classical differentiation protocols for both mouse and human pluripotent stem cells generate a limited percentage of dopaminergic neurons and yield a considerable cellular heterogeneity comprising numerous scarcely characterized cell populations. To improve pluripotent stem cell differentiation protocols for midbrain dopaminergic neurons, we established extensive and strictly quantitative gene expression profiles, including markers for pluripotent cells, neural progenitors, non-neural cells, pan-neuronal and glial cells, neurotransmitter phenotypes, midbrain and nonmidbrain populations, floor plate and basal plate populations, as well as for Hedgehog, Fgf, and Wnt signaling pathways. The profiles were applied to discrete stages of in vitro differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells toward the dopaminergic lineage and after transplantation into the striatum of 6-hydroxy-dopamine-lesioned rats. The comparison of gene expression in vitro with stages in the developing ventral midbrain between embryonic day 11.5 and 13.5 ex vivo revealed dynamic changes in the expression of transcription factors and signaling molecules. Based on these profiles, we propose quantitative gene expression milestones that predict the efficiency of dopaminergic differentiation achieved at the end point of the protocol, already at earlier stages of differentiation.





Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are among the most widely commercialised engineered nanomaterials, because of their antimicrobial properties. They are already commonly used in medical devices, household products and industry. Concerns have been raised about potential adverse health effects due to increasing dispersion of AgNPs in the environment. The present study examined the cytotoxic effects of spherical, citrate-coated AgNPs (10, 50 and 100 nm) in rat brain endothelial (RBE4) cells and investigated whether the observed effects can be explained by the intrinsic toxicity of the particles or the silver ions released from the particles. The results indicated that exposure of RBE4 cells to AgNPs lead to significant reduction in dye uptake as measured with the Neutral red (NR) assay. The effect was found to be related to particle size, surface area, dose and exposure time. In contrast, silver ions increased NR uptake (ca. 10%) in RBE4 cells after 1h, while a reduction in NR uptake was observed after 24h exposure at high concentrations (20-30 M). Colony formation, as an indicator of proliferation ability, was completely inhibited by AgNPs at concentrations higher than 1 g/ml. Silver ions had less effect on the colony formation of RBE4 cells than AgNPs.
In this review we identify and discuss some of the genomics studies of preconditioning and the ischemic tolerance phenomenon. Such studies have been attempted in multiple species, using different array technologies and with different preconditioning and tolerance models. In addition, studies are starting to reveal epigenetic mechanisms and modifiers of tolerance and preconditioning. Together these studies are starting to reveal some of the immense complexity of the ischemic tolerance phenomenon, yet further studies await to be performed.
A prominent view of the function of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is that it is responsible for calculating the value of things in the environment. A recent study shows that this role is restricted to cases in which the value must be inferred from our knowledge of the world.
High speed and high spatial resolution are at the top of the wish list of every neuroscientist. An important step of progress in this direction has now been made by sampling throughout the brain fMRI signals that temporally surround important physiological patterns.
Although it has been known for decades that stress influences memory performance, it was only recently shown that stress may alter the contribution of multiple, anatomically and functionally distinct memory systems to behavior. Here, we review recent animal and human studies demonstrating that stress promotes a shift from flexible 'cognitive' to rather rigid 'habit' memory systems and discuss, based on recent neuroimaging data in humans, the underlying brain mechanisms. We argue that, despite being generally adaptive, this stress-induced shift towards 'habit' memory may, in vulnerable individuals, be a risk factor for psychopathology.
A considerable body of evidence links diminished brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling to energy balance dysregulation and severe obesity in humans and rodents. Because BDNF exhibits broad neurotrophic properties, the underpinnings of these effects and its true role in the central regulation of food intake remain topics of debate in the field. Here, I discuss recent evidence supporting a critical role for this neurotrophin in physiological mechanisms regulating nutrient intake and body weight in the mature brain. They include reports of functional interactions of BDNF with central anorexigenic and orexigenic signaling pathways and evidence of recognized appetite hormones exerting neurotrophic effects similar to those of BDNF.
Regulation of body weight is organized by distributed brain circuits that use a variety of neuropeptides and transmitters, and that are responsive to endocrine and metabolic signals. Targeting of these circuits with novel pharmaceutical drugs would be helpful additions to lifestyle interventions for the treatment of obesity. The recent FDA approval of two anti-obesity drugs holds promise in a field in which previous drugs were removed from clinical use because of unacceptable psychiatric and cardiovascular side effects. Here, the modes of action of anti-obesity drugs are reviewed.
The kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism accounts for most of the tryptophan that is not committed to protein synthesis and includes compounds active in the nervous and immune systems. Kynurenine acts on the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, affecting the metabolism of xenobiotics and promoting carcinogenesis. Quinolinic acid is an agonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), but is also pro-oxidant, has immunomodulatory actions, and promotes the formation of hyperphosphorylated tau proteins. Kynurenic acid blocks NMDARs and 7-homomeric nicotinic cholinoceptors and is also an agonist at the orphan G-protein-coupled receptor GPR35. 3-Hydroxykynurenine and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid have pronounced redox activity and regulate T cell function. Cinnabarinic acid can activate metabotropic glutamate receptors. This review highlights the increasing range of molecular targets for components of the kynurenine pathway in both the nervous and immune systems in relation to their relevance to disease and drug development.
Twin studies have seldom addressed ethnicity as one of the possible factors that create unique combinations of genetic and environmental influences. The major objective of the Carolina African American Twin Study of Aging is to identify the proportion of the genetic and environmental sources of individual variation in measures of health and behavioral factors in a sample of adult African Americans. Drawn from birth records from the State of North Carolina, this in-person study used public records to identify a cohort of twins between 22 and 92 years of age (X = 49.82 yrs, SD = 14.62), 39.7% of which were men. Members of non-intact twin pairs and siblings were also recruited to explore alternative models to the classic twin design. To date, the project has contributed to knowledge about blood pressure, forced expiratory volume, chronic illness, body mass index, and waist-hip ratio memory, personality, social, and demographic factors, mortality, and mental health.





The earliest studies on 'disability glare' date from the early 20(th) century. The condition was defined as the negative effect on visual function of a bright light located at some distance in the visual field. It was found that for larger angles (&gt;1 degree) the functional effect corresponded precisely to the effect of a light with a luminosity equal to that of the light that is perceived spreading around such a bright source. This perceived spreading of light was called straylight and by international standard disability glare was defined as identical to straylight. The phenomenon was recognized in the ophthalmological community as an important aspect of the quality of vision and attempts were made to design instruments to measure it. This must not be confused with instruments that assess light spreading over small distances (&lt;1 degree), as originating from (higher order) aberrations and defocus. In recent years a new instrument has gained acceptance (C-Quant) for objective and controllable assessment of straylight in the clinical setting. This overview provides a sketch of the historical development of straylight measurement, as well as the results of studies on the origins of straylight (or disability glare) in the normal eye, and on findings on cataract (surgery) and corneal conditions.
EduGATE is a collection of basic examples to introduce students to the fundamental physical aspects of medical imaging devices. It is based on the GATE platform, which has received a wide acceptance in the field of simulating medical imaging devices including SPECT, PET, CT and also applications in radiation therapy. GATE can be configured by commands, which are, for the sake of simplicity, listed in a collection of one or more macro files to set up phantoms, multiple types of sources, detection device, and acquisition parameters. The aim of the EduGATE is to use all these helpful features of GATE to provide insights into the physics of medical imaging by means of a collection of very basic and simple GATE macros in connection with analysis programs based on ROOT, a framework for data processing. A graphical user interface to define a configuration is also included.


Animals rely mainly on olfaction to locate and track food sources. However, mammals that have evolved to live partially or fully underwater are unable to use traditional olfaction in the foraging process. These animals have subsequently developed alternative underwater foraging techniques. Cetaceans (e.g. dolphins) live exclusively underwater, and most utilize a highly developed sonar system for navigation and tracking of prey. Pinnipeds (e.g. seals) live on land, but forage underwater. These animals' highly sensitive whiskers allow them to locate food sources. Sirenians (e.g. manatees), the only herbivorous aquatic mammals, also use highly developed whiskers during the grazing process. The semiaquatic mammals Condylura cristata (star-nosed mole) and Sortex palustris (water shrew) have developed the ability to sniff and detect semiochemicals underwater, a discovery that contradicts prior views on the evolutionary relationship between olfaction and aquatic adaptation. The current review details the anatomy of the olfactory systems of these mammals that live and/or forage underwater, and the adaptations they use to follow prey and forage underwater.
In rodents, G(i2)-expressing sensory neurons (SNs) that co-express vomeronasal receptor type 1 (V1R) are specifically found in the vomeronasal organ (VNO) and project their axons to the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). In goats, however, G(i2)/V1R-expressing SNs exist in both the VNO and the olfactory epithelium. Thus, we examined whether the G(i2)-expressing axons functionally project to the main olfactory bulb (MOB). We analyzed the expression of G(i2) in the olfactory bulb and found small G(i2)-immunoreactive clusters in the MOB. The G(i2)-immunoreactive axons in these clusters made synaptic contacts with second-order neurons in the MOB. These results suggest that some G(i2)-expressing SNs functionally project their axons to the MOB in goats.

Alzheimer's disease is the world's most common dementing illness. Deposition of amyloid- peptide drives cerebral neuroinflammation by activating microglia. Indeed, amyloid- activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome in microglia is fundamental for interleukin-1 maturation and subsequent inflammatory events. However, it remains unknown whether NLRP3 activation contributes to Alzheimer's disease in vivo. Here we demonstrate strongly enhanced active caspase-1 expression in human mild cognitive impairment and brains with Alzheimer's disease, suggesting a role for the inflammasome in this neurodegenerative disease. Nlrp3(-/-) or Casp1(-/-) mice carrying mutations associated with familial Alzheimer's disease were largely protected from loss of spatial memory and other sequelae associated with Alzheimer's disease, and demonstrated reduced brain caspase-1 and interleukin-1 activation as well as enhanced amyloid- clearance. Furthermore, NLRP3 inflammasome deficiency skewed microglial cells to an M2 phenotype and resulted in the decreased deposition of amyloid- in the APP/PS1 model of Alzheimer's disease. These results show an important role for the NLRP3/caspase-1 axis in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and suggest that NLRP3 inflammasome inhibition represents a new therapeutic intervention for the disease.
Fourteen substances from the class of drugs sometimes known as &quot;legal highs&quot; were screened against a battery of human receptors in binding assays, and their potencies as inhibitors of monoamine uptake determined in functional in vitro assays. Thirteen of the test substances acted as inhibitors of monoamine uptake at submicromolar concentrations, including 9 potent inhibitors of the dopamine transporter (DAT), 12 potent inhibitors of the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and 4 potent inhibitors of the serotonin transporter (SERT). Seven compounds acted as submicromolar inhibitors of both DAT and NET, and three substances 1-(benzofuran-5-yl)propan-2-amine (5-APB), 1-naphthalen-2-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-ylpentan-1-one hydrochloride (&quot;naphyrone&quot;) and 1-naphthalen-1-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-ylpentan-1-one hydrochloride (&quot;1-naphyrone&quot;) were submicromolar inhibitors of all three monoamine transporters. There was a lack of correlation between results of functional uptake experiments and in vitro binding assays for the monoamine transporters. There was also no correlation between the human behavioral effects of the substances and the results of bindings assays for a range of receptor targets, although 1-(benzofuran-5-yl)propan-2-amine (5-APB), 1-(benzofuran-6-yl)propan-2-amine hydrochloride (6-APB) and 5-iodo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-amine hydrochloride (5-iodo-aminoindane) exhibited &lt;100 nM affinities for 5HT(2B) and (2C) receptors. Functional assays revealed that 5-APB and 6-APB were potent full agonists at 5HT(2B) receptors.

Numerous studies of motor learning have examined the adaptation of hand trajectories and grip forces when moving grasped objects with novel dynamics. Such objects initially result in both kinematic and kinetic errors; i.e., mismatches between predicted and actual trajectories and between predicted and actual load forces. Here we investigated the contribution of these errors to both trajectory and grip force adaptation. Participants grasped an object with novel dynamics using a precision grip and moved it between two targets. Kinematic errors could be effectively removed using a force channel to constrain hand motion to a straight line. When moving in the channel, participants learned to modulate grip force in synchrony with load force and this learning generalized when movement speed in the channel was doubled. When the channel was removed, these participants continued to effectively modulate grip force but exhibited substantial kinematic errors, equivalent to those seen in participants who did not previously experience the object in the channel. We also found that the rate of grip force adaptation did not depend on whether the object was initially moved with or without a channel. These results indicate that kinematic errors are necessary for trajectory but not grip force adaptation, and that kinetic errors are sufficient for grip force but not trajectory adaptation. Thus, participants can learn a component of the object's dynamics, used to control grip force, based solely on kinetic errors. However, this knowledge is apparently not accessible or usable for controlling the movement trajectory when the channel is removed.
Dopaminergic circuits modulate a wide variety of innate and learned behaviors in animals, including olfactory associative learning, arousal, and temperature-preference behavior. It is not known whether distinct or overlapping sets of dopaminergic neurons modulate these behaviors. Here, I have functionally characterized the dopaminergic circuits innervating the Drosophila mushroom body with in vivo calcium imaging and conditional silencing of genetically defined subsets of neurons. Distinct subsets of PPL1 dopaminergic neurons innervating the vertical lobes of the mushroom body responded to decreases in temperature, but not increases, with rapidly adapting bursts of activity. PAM neurons innervating the horizontal lobes did not respond to temperature shifts. Ablation of the antennae and maxillary palps reduced, but did not eliminate, the responses. Genetic silencing of dopaminergic neurons innervating the vertical mushroom body lobes substantially reduced behavioral cold avoidance, but silencing smaller subsets of these neurons had no effect. These data demonstrate that overlapping dopaminergic circuits encode a broadly distributed, asymmetric representation of temperature that overlays regions implicated previously in learning, memory, and forgetting. Thus, diverse behaviors engage overlapping sets of dopaminergic neurons that encode multimodal stimuli and innervate a single anatomical target, the mushroom body.
Cortical pyramidal cells store multiple features of complex synaptic input in individual dendritic branches and independently regulate the coupling between dendritic and somatic spikes. Branch points in apical trees exhibit wide ranges of sizes and shapes, and the large diameter ratio between trunk and oblique dendrites exacerbates impedance mismatch. The morphological diversity of dendritic bifurcations could thus locally tune neuronal excitability and signal integration. However, these aspects have never been investigated. Here, we first quantified the morphological variability of branch points from two-photon images of rat CA1 pyramidal neurons. We then investigated the geometrical features affecting spike initiation, propagation, and timing with a computational model validated by glutamate uncaging experiments. The results suggest that even subtle membrane readjustments at branch points could drastically alter the ability of synaptic input to generate, propagate, and time action potentials.
Diffusion imaging is a promising marker of microstructural damage in neurodegenerative disorders, but interpretation of its relationship with underlying neuropathology can be complex. Here, we examined both volumetric and brain microstructure abnormalities in 13 amnestic patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), who progressed to probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) no earlier than 2 years after baseline scanning, in order to focus on early, and hence more sensitive, imaging markers. We compared them to 22 stable amnestic MCI patients with similar cognitive performance and episodic memory impairment but who did not show progression of symptoms for at least 3 years. Significant group differences were mainly found in the volume and microstructure of the left hippocampus, while white matter group differences were also found in the body of the fornix, left fimbria, and superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF). Diffusion index abnormalities in the SLF were the sign of a subtle microstructural injury not detected by standard atrophy measures in the corresponding gray matter regions. The microstructural measure obtained in the left hippocampus using diffusion imaging showed the most substantial differences between the two groups and was the best single predictor of future progression to AD. An optimal prediction model (91% accuracy, 85% sensitivity, 96% specificity) was obtained by combining MRI measures and CSF protein biomarkers. These results highlight the benefit of using the information of brain microstructural damage, in addition to traditional gray matter volume, to detect early, subtle abnormalities in MCI prior to clinical progression to probable AD and, in combination with CSF markers, to accurately predict such progression.
Chronic inactivation of a neural network is known to induce homeostatic upregulation of synaptic strength, a form of synaptic plasticity that differs from Hebbian-type synaptic plasticity in that it is not input-specific, but involves all synapses of an individual neuron. However, it is unclear how homeostatic and Hebbian synaptic plasticity interact in the same neuron. Here we show that long-term potentiation (LTP) at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses is greatly enhanced in cultured mouse hippocampal slices after chronic (60 h) network-activity blockade with tetrodotoxin (TTX). This increase in LTP is not due to an altered synaptic NMDA receptor composition or presynaptic function. Instead, we found that silencing neural network activity not only increases the abundance of both AMPA and NMDA receptors at existing synapses as previously described, but also promotes the presence of new glutamatergic synapses that contain only NMDA receptors-a class of synapses that are functionally silent due to the absence of AMPA receptors. Induction of LTP in TTX-treated neurons leads to insertion of AMPA receptors into the silent synapses, thereby &quot;switching on&quot; these silent synapses, which produces the observed enhancement of LTP magnitude. Our findings suggest that homeostatic synaptic plasticity manifests not only in the adjustment of the strength of existing synapses, but also in the modulation of new synapse formation/maintenance. Moreover, presence of new but functionally silent synapses enables more robust LTP to occur through rapid conversion of silent synapses to active synapses, resulting in a stronger input-specific modulation of synapses following prolonged network silencing.
We see objects as having continuity although the retinal image changes frequently. How such continuity is achieved is hard to understand, because neurons in the visual cortex have small receptive fields that are fixed on the retina, which means that a different set of neurons is activated every time the eyes move. Neurons in areas V1 and V2 of the visual cortex signal the local features that are currently in their receptive fields and do not show &quot;remapping&quot; when the image moves. However, subsets of neurons in these areas also carry information about global aspects, such as figure-ground organization. Here we performed experiments to find out whether figure-ground organization is remapped. We recorded single neurons in macaque V1 and V2 in which figure-ground organization is represented by assignment of contours to regions (border ownership). We found previously that border-ownership signals persist when a figure edge is switched to an ambiguous edge by removing the context. We now used this paradigm to see whether border ownership transfers when the ambiguous edge is moved across the retina. In the new position, the edge activated a different set of neurons at a different location in cortex. We found that border ownership was transferred to the newly activated neurons. The transfer occurred whether the edge was moved by a saccade or by moving the visual display. Thus, although the contours are coded in retinal coordinates, their assignment to objects is maintained across movements of the retinal image.
Chromatin modifications, especially histone acetylation, are critically involved in gene regulation required for long-term memory processes. Increasing histone acetylation via administration of histone deacetylase inhibitors before or after a learning experience enhances memory consolidation for hippocampus-dependent tasks and rescues age-related memory impairments. Whether acutely and locally enhancing histone acetylation during early consolidation processes can operate as a switch between multiple memory systems is less clear. This study examined the short- and long-term behavioral consequences of acute intra-CA1 administration of the histone deacetylase inhibitor Trichostatin A (TSA) on cue versus place learning strategy selection after a cue-guided water maze task and competition testing performed 1 or 24 h later in mice. Here, we show that intra-CA1 TSA infusion administrated immediately post-training biased young mice away from striatum-dependent cue strategy toward hippocampus-dependent place strategy under training condition that normally promotes cue strategy in vehicle controls. However, concomitant infusions of TSA with either PKA inhibitor, Rp-cAMPS, into CA1 or cAMP analog, 8Br-cAMP, into dorsal striatum failed to bias young mice to place strategy use. Behavioral and immunohistochemical analyses further indicated that post-training TSA infusion in aged mice rescued aging-associated deregulation of H4 acetylation in the CA1 but failed to reverse phosphorylated CREB deficits and to produce strategy bias on the 24 h probe test. These findings suggest that post-training intra-CA1 TSA infusion promotes dynamic shift from striatum toward the hippocampal system in young but not aged animals, and support the possibility of a role for CREB in the TSA-mediated switch between these two memory systems.
Short-term memory refers to the ability to store small amounts of stimulus-specific information for a short period of time. It is supported by both fading and hidden memory processes. Fading memory relies on recurrent activity patterns in a neuronal network, whereas hidden memory is encoded using synaptic mechanisms, such as facilitation, which persist even when neurons fall silent. We have used a novel computational and optogenetic approach to investigate whether these same memory processes hypothesized to support pattern recognition and short-term memory in vivo, exist in vitro. Electrophysiological activity was recorded from primary cultures of dissociated rat cortical neurons plated on multielectrode arrays. Cultures were transfected with ChannelRhodopsin-2 and optically stimulated using random dot stimuli. The pattern of neuronal activity resulting from this stimulation was analyzed using classification algorithms that enabled the identification of stimulus-specific memories. Fading memories for different stimuli, encoded in ongoing neural activity, persisted and could be distinguished from each other for as long as 1 s after stimulation was terminated. Hidden memories were detected by altered responses of neurons to additional stimulation, and this effect persisted longer than 1 s. Interestingly, network bursts seem to eliminate hidden memories. These results are similar to those that have been reported from similar experiments in vivo and demonstrate that mechanisms of information processing and short-term memory can be studied using cultured neuronal networks, thereby setting the stage for therapeutic applications using this platform.
The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) contains a unique and numerous class of cells called lagged cells, which introduce a time delay into the neural signal provided to cortex. Previous studies have shown that this delay is dependent on GABA(A) receptors within the LGN. Furthermore, lagged cells have distinct integrative properties with a slower rising, more sustained, and overall lower firing rates than nonlagged cells. We have recorded intracellularly from lagged cells in the cat LGN and found a unique property of their retinal inputs that underlies both their temporal and integrative visual response properties. Lagged cell EPSPs, which often derive from a single retinal input, have smaller amplitudes, repolarize more quickly, and are followed by a Cl(-)-dependent hyperpolarization compared with nonlagged cells. The Cl(-)-dependent hyperpolarization sums early in the visual response generating a powerful synaptic inhibition that coincides with the peak frequency of retinal input and delays the spike response in lagged cells. The hyperpolarization subsides rapidly over 20-40 ms allowing for slow summation of the retinal input leading to the visual spike response. Given the tight association of single retinal EPSPs and the following inhibition, we propose that both functional properties result from the triadic circuitry prevalent in the LGN and particularly prominent in lagged X-cells. Thus, our results show for the first time a dynamic interaction of retinal excitation and fast feedforward inhibition that determines the integrative properties and the delay in firing of lagged cells.
To optimally obtain desirable outcomes, organisms must track outcomes predicted by stimuli in the environment (stimulus-outcome or SO associations) and outcomes predicted by their own actions (action-outcome or AO associations). Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) are implicated in tracking outcomes, but anatomical and functional studies suggest a dissociation, with ACC and OFC responsible for encoding AO and SO associations, respectively. To examine whether this dissociation held at the single neuron level, we trained two subjects to perform choice tasks that required using AO or SO associations. OFC and ACC neurons encoded the action that the subject used to indicate its choice, but this encoding was stronger in OFC during the SO task and stronger in ACC during the AO task. These results are consistent with a division of labor between the two areas in terms of using rewards associated with either stimuli or actions to guide decision-making.
Cocktail parties, busy streets, and other noisy environments pose a difficult challenge to the auditory system: how to focus attention on selected sounds while ignoring others? Neurons of primary auditory cortex, many of which are sharply tuned to sound frequency, could help solve this problem by filtering selected sound information based on frequency-content. To investigate whether this occurs, we used high-resolution fMRI at 7 tesla to map the fine-scale frequency-tuning (1.5 mm isotropic resolution) of primary auditory areas A1 and R in six human participants. Then, in a selective attention experiment, participants heard low (250 Hz)- and high (4000 Hz)-frequency streams of tones presented at the same time (dual-stream) and were instructed to focus attention onto one stream versus the other, switching back and forth every 30 s. Attention to low-frequency tones enhanced neural responses within low-frequency-tuned voxels relative to high, and when attention switched the pattern quickly reversed. Thus, like a radio, human primary auditory cortex is able to tune into attended frequency channels and can switch channels on demand.
Acid-sensing ion channel-1a (ASIC1a) is localized in brain regions with high synaptic density and is thought to contribute to synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. A prominent hypothesis is that activation of postsynaptic ASICs promotes depolarization, thereby augmenting N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function and contributing to the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). However, evidence for activation of postsynaptic ASICs during neurotransmission has not been established. Here, we re-examined the role of ASIC1a in LTP in the hippocampus using pharmacological and genetic approaches. Our results showed that a tarantula peptide psalmotoxin, which profoundly blocked ASIC currents in the hippocampal neurons, had no effect on LTP. Similarly, normal LTP was robustly generated in ASIC1a-null mice. A further behavioral analysis showed that mice lacking ASIC1a had normal performance in hippocampus-dependent spatial memory. In summary, our results indicate that ASIC1a is not required for hippocampal LTP and spatial memory. We therefore propose that the role of ASIC1a in LTP and spatial learning should be reassessed.
Taste-related information reaches the gustatory cortex (GC) through two routes: a thalamic and a limbic pathway. While evidence is accumulating on limbic-cortical interactions in taste, very little information is available on the function of the gustatory thalamus in shaping GC activity. Here we rely on behavioral electrophysiological techniques to study taste-evoked activity in GC before and after inactivation of the parvicellular portion of the ventroposteromedial nucleus of thalamus (VPMpc; i.e., the gustatory thalamus). Gustatory stimuli were presented to rats either alone or preceded by an anticipatory cue. The reliance on two different behavioral contexts allowed us to investigate how the VPMpc mediates GC responses to uncued tastants, cued tastants, and anticipatory cues. Inactivation of the thalamus resulted in a dramatic reduction of taste processing in GC. However, responses to anticipatory cues were unaffected by this manipulation. The use of a cue-taste association paradigm also allowed for the identification of two subpopulations of taste-specific neurons: those that responded to gustatory stimulation and to the cue (i.e., cue-and-taste) and those that responded to tastants only (i.e., taste-only). Analyses of these two populations revealed differences in response dynamics and connectivity with the VPMpc. The results provide novel evidence for the role of VPMpc in shaping GC activity and demonstrate a previously unknown association between responsiveness to behavioral events, temporal dynamics, and thalamic connectivity in GC.
Humans are largely dependent upon cone-mediated vision. However, death or dysfunction of rods, the predominant photoreceptor subtype, results in secondary loss of cones, remodeling of retinal circuitry, and blindness. The changes in circuitry may contribute to the vision deficit and undermine attempts at restoring sight. We exploit zebrafish larvae as a genetic model to specifically characterize changes associated with photoreceptor degenerations in a cone-dominated retina. Photoreceptors form synapses with two types of second-order neurons, bipolar cells, and horizontal cells. Using cell-specific reporter gene expression and immunolabeling for postsynaptic glutamate receptors, significant remodeling is observed following cone degeneration in the pde6c(w59) larval retina but not rod degeneration in the Xops:mCFP(q13) line. In adults, rods and cones are present in approximately equal numbers, and in pde6c(w59) mutants glutamate receptor expression and synaptic structures in the outer plexiform layer are preserved, and visual responses are gained in these once blind fish. We propose that the abundance of rods in the adult protects the retina from cone degeneration-induced remodeling. We test this hypothesis by genetically manipulating the number of rods in larvae. We show that an increased number and uniform distribution of rods in lor/tbx2b(p25bbtl) or six7 morpholino-injected larvae protect from pde6c(w59)-induced secondary changes. The observations that remodeling is a common consequence of photoreceptor death across species, and that in zebrafish a small number of surviving photoreceptors afford protection from degeneration-induced changes, provides a model for systematic analysis of factors that slow or even prevent the secondary deteriorations associated with neural degenerative disease.
Cocaine dependence is associated with abnormalities in brain structure in humans. However, it is unclear whether these differences in brain structure predispose an individual to drug use or are a result of cocaine's action on the brain. This study investigates the impact of chronic cocaine exposure on brain structure and drug-related behavior in mice. Specifically, mice received daily cocaine or saline injections for 20 d during two developmental time periods: adolescence (27-46 d old) and young adulthood (60-79 d old). Following 30 d of abstinence, either fixed brain T2 weighted magnetic resonance images were acquired on a 7 T scanner at 32 m isotropic voxel dimensions or mice were assessed for sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. Three automated techniques (deformation-based morphometry, striatum shape analysis, and cortical thickness assessment) were used to identify population differences in brain structure in cocaine-exposed versus saline-exposed mice. We found that cocaine induced changes in brain structure, and these were most pronounced in mice exposed to cocaine during adolescence. Many of these changes occurred in brain regions previously implicated in addiction including the nucleus accumbens, striatum, insular cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, and medial forebrain bundle. Furthermore, exposure to the same cocaine regimen caused sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine, and these effects were again more pronounced in mice exposed to cocaine during adolescence. These results suggest that altered brain structure following 1 month of abstinence may contribute to these persistent drug-related behaviors, and identify cocaine exposure as the cause of these morphological changes.

Reach-to-grasp tasks are commonly used to assess forelimb function in rodent models. While these tasks have been useful for investigating several facets of forelimb function, they are typically labor-intensive and do not directly quantify physiological parameters. Here we describe the isometric pull task, a novel method to measure forelimb strength and function in rats. Animals were trained to reach outside the cage, grasp a handle attached to a stationary force transducer, and pull with a predetermined amount of force to receive a food reward. This task provides quantitative data on operant forelimb force generation. Multiple parameters can be measured with a high degree of accuracy, including force, success rate, pull attempts, and latency to maximal force. The task is fully automated, allowing a single experimenter to test multiple animals simultaneously with usually more than 300 trials per day, providing more statistical power than most other forelimb motor tasks. We demonstrate that an ischemic lesion in primary motor cortex yields robust deficits in all forelimb function parameters measured with this method. The isometric pull task is a significant advance in operant conditioning systems designed to automate the measurement of multiple facets of forelimb function and assess deficits in rodent models of brain damage and motor dysfunction.
The routine scalp electroencephalogram (rsEEG) is the most common clinical neurophysiology procedure. The most important role of rsEEG is to detect evidence of epilepsy, in the form of epileptiform transients (ETs), also known as spike or sharp wave discharges. Due to the wide variety of morphologies of ETs and their similarity to artifacts and waves that are part of the normal background activity, the task of ET detection is difficult and mistakes are frequently made. The development of reliable computerized detection of ETs in the EEG could assist physicians in interpreting rsEEGs. We report progress in developing a standardized database for testing and training ET detection algorithms. We describe a new version of our EEGnet software system for collecting expert opinion on EEG datasets, a completely web-browser based system. We report results of EEG scoring from a group of 11 board-certified academic clinical neurophysiologists who annotated 30-s excepts from rsEEG recordings from 100 different patients. The scorers had moderate inter-scorer reliability and low to moderate intra-scorer reliability. In order to measure the optimal size of this standardized rsEEG database, we used machine learning models to classify paroxysmal EEG activity in our database into ET and non-ET classes. Based on our results, it appears that our database will need to be larger than its current size. Also, our non-parametric classifier, an artificial neural network, performed better than our parametric Bayesian classifier. Of our feature sets, the wavelet feature set proved most useful for classification.
We have developed a novel, low-cost device designed to monitor and modulate locomotor activity in murine subjects. This technology has immediate application to the study of effects of physical exercise on various neurobiological endpoints, and will also likely be useful in the study of psychomotor sensitization and drug addiction. Here we demonstrate the capacity of these devices to establish locomotor activity as an operant response reinforced by food pellet presentations, and show that schedules of reinforcement can reliably control this behavior. Importantly, these data show that varying degrees of increased locomotor activity (in other words, &quot;exercise&quot;) can be elicited and maintained in mice by manipulating the schedule of reinforcement. Our findings argue that the present technology might reduce the imposition of stress and motivational bias inherent in more traditional procedures for establishing exercise in laboratory rodents, while allowing for true random assignment to experimental groups. As interest in physical exercise as a modulating factor in numerous clinical conditions continues to grow, technologies like the one proposed here are likely to become critical in conducting future experiments along these lines.
Nicotinamide- and flavine-adenine-dinucleotides (NAD(P)H and FADH) are electron carriers involved in cellular energy metabolism and in a multitude of enzymatic processes. As reduced NAD(P)H and oxidised FAD molecules are fluorescent, changes in tissue auto-fluorescence provide valuable information on the cellular redox state and energy metabolism. Since fluorescence excitation, by mercury arc lamps (HBO) is inherently coupled to photo-bleaching and photo-toxicity, microfluorimetric monitoring of energy metabolism might benefit from the replacement of HBO lamps by light emitting diodes (LEDs). Here we describe a LED-based custom-built setup for monitoring NAD(P)H and FAD fluorescence at the level of single cells (HEK293) and of brain slices. We compared NAD(P)H bleaching characteristics with two light sources (HBO lamp and LED) as well as sensitivity and signal to noise ratio of three different detector types (multi-pixel photon counter (MPPC), photomultiplier tube (PMT) and photodiode). LED excitation resulted in reduced photo-bleaching at the same fluorescence output in comparison to excitation with the HBO lamp. Transiently increasing LED power resulted in reversible bleaching of NAD(P)H fluorescence. Recovery kinetics were dependent on metabolic substrates indicating coupling of NAD(P)H fluorescence to metabolism. Electrical stimulation of brain slices induced biphasic redox changes, as indicated by NAD(P)H/FAD fluorescence transients. Increasing the gain of PMT and decreasing the LED power resulted in similar sensitivity as obtained with the MPPC and the photodiode, without worsening the signal to noise ratio. In conclusion, replacement of HBO lamp with LED might improve conventional PMT based microfluorimetry of tissue auto-fluorescence.
Quantitative evaluation of neuropathology within the cortex often requires a significant investigator time commitment. Here we elaborate on a method of quantifying the distinctiveness of the gray-white matter boundary using function fitting methods (Avino and Hutsler, 2010) and demonstrate that it can also be adapted to reliably identify the location of the gray matter/white matter (GM-WM) boundary in microscopic images, even when that boundary is indistinct. Multiple images of the gray-white matter boundary were acquired from sixteen subjects. Density profiles across the cortical layers were acquired and sigmoid functions were iteratively fit to the density profiles until a best fit was found. The slope of the resulting sigmoid was used to describe both the position and distinctiveness of the GM-WM boundary. Subsequently, two raters laid cortical boundaries on the same set of images and agreement between the raters, as well as agreement between each rater and the transverse-based boundaries, was assessed. Computer-generated boundaries showed reliably higher agreement with each individual rater, relative to the agreement between individual raters. Error between the raters and the transverse-based boundaries was associated with those images where the boundary was less distinct as assessed by the sigmoid slopes. These findings suggest that transverse-based boundaries are superior to user-generated boundaries. Furthermore, these findings suggest that rater-based boundary definitions in both neurotypical and pathological cases may become unreliable as the number of cell profiles found in the subplate region increases, as is the case in both autism and schizophrenia.
A central biological question is how natural organisms are so evolvable (capable of quickly adapting to new environments). A key driver of evolvability is the widespread modularity of biological networks--their organization as functional, sparsely connected subunits--but there is no consensus regarding why modularity itself evolved. Although most hypotheses assume indirect selection for evolvability, here we demonstrate that the ubiquitous, direct selection pressure to reduce the cost of connections between network nodes causes the emergence of modular networks. Computational evolution experiments with selection pressures to maximize network performance and minimize connection costs yield networks that are significantly more modular and more evolvable than control experiments that only select for performance. These results will catalyse research in numerous disciplines, such as neuroscience and genetics, and enhance our ability to harness evolution for engineering purposes.
Smoking may sensitize brain systems to smoking cues while desensitizing systems to naturalistic rewards. This study examined smoker-nonsmoker differences in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response to smoking-related and emotional images. Smokers, relative to nonsmokers, exhibited greater reactivity to smoking and decreased reactivity to emotional cues in the left middle frontal gyrus.
Relationships between concentrations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) kynurenic acid (KYNA) and suicidal behavior were evaluated in 59 patients with psychosis after 22 years of follow-up. Three patients died from suicide and nine patients had a history of attempted suicide. Patients with attempted suicide had significantly lower concentrations of CSF KYNA.

Reporting appropriate research detail across clinical disciplines is often inconsistent or incomplete. Insufficient report detail reduces confidence in findings, makes study replication more difficult, and decreases the precision of data available for critical review including meta-analysis. In response to these concerns, cooperative attempts across multiple specialties have developed explicit research reporting standards to guide publication detail. These recommendations have been widely adopted by high impact medical journals, but have not yet been widely embraced by neuropsychology. The STROBE Statement (STrengthening the Reporting of Observational studies in Epidemiology) is particularly relevant to neuropsychology since clinical research is often based on non-funded studies of patient samples. In this paper we describe the STROBE Statement and demonstrate how STROBE criteria, applied to reporting of neuropsychological findings, will maintain neuropsychology's position as a leader in quantifying brain-behavior relationships. We also provide specific recommendations for data reporting and disclosure of perceived conflicts of interest that will further enhance reporting transparency for possible perceived sources of bias. In an era in which evidence-based practice assumes an increasingly prominent role, improved reporting standards will promote better patient care, assist in developing quality practice guidelines, and ensure that neuropsychology remains a vigorous discipline in the clinical neurosciences that consciously aspires to high methodological rigor.


A 4-year-old girl who had been born of normal pregnancy and delivery and had an unremarkable family or personal history was referred to a neuropsychiatric department because of the appearance of peculiar nocturnal episodes. Parents described that their child abruptly became stiff during sleep. These episodes usually ranged from 20 to 40 seconds, and after that the child continued to sleep. Initially she presented 1 episode per week, but there was a progressive increase in frequency up to 3 to 4 times per night. The child never presented similar episodes while awake. Her examination revealed some caf-au-lait spots, congenital microcephaly (3rd centile) and low stature for the age (10th centile). She did not present any neurologic deficit, but she failed to develop an age-appropriate speech, with a delay in the main language milestones.

Cerebral ischemia, traumatic brain injury, intracerebral hemorrhage and other brain insults trigger neurogenesis in the subventricular zone and hippocampal subgranular zone, and newly formed blood vessels promote the migration of these new neuronal cells to damaged brain regions. The molecular steps involved in brain injury-induced angiogenesis and neurogenesis are unclear. Here we used a rat model of collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) to examine whether matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), a zinc endopeptidase that regulates growth factor levels during recovery from brain injury, is involved in neurogenesis and angiogenesis following ICH. Induction of ICH led to significant increases in the levels of MMP-9, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as in the numbers of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)- and doublecortin (DCX)-positive cells, in the ipsilateral brain. Intracerebroventricular injection of MMP-9 siRNA reduced these ICH-induced increases. These findings suggest that MMP-9 may promote angiogenesis and neurogenesis during recovery from ICH.
The parasubiculum sends its single major output to layer II of the entorhinal cortex, and it may therefore interact with inputs to the entorhinal cortex from other cortical areas, and help to shape the activity of layer II entorhinal cells that project to the hippocampal formation. Cholinergic inputs are thought to contribute to the generation of theta- and gamma-frequency activities in the parasubiculum and entorhinal cortex, and the present study assessed how cholinergic receptor activation affects synaptic responses of the entorhinal cortex to theta- and gamma-frequency stimulation. Depth profiles of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in acute brain slices showed a short-latency negative fEPSP in layer II, consistent with the activation of excitatory synaptic inputs to layer II. Application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CCh) suppressed synaptic responses and enhanced paired-pulse facilitation. CCh also resulted in a marked relative facilitation of synaptic responses evoked during short 5-pulse trains of stimulation at both theta- and gamma-frequencies. Application of the M(1) antagonist pirenzepine, but not the M(2) antagonist methoctramine, blocked the facilitation of responses. Inhibition of the M-current or block of GABA(B) receptors had no effect, but the facilitation effect was partially blocked by the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist APV, indicating that NMDA receptors play a role. Application of ZD7288, a selective inhibitor of the hyperpolarization-activated cationic current I(h), almost completely blocked the relative facilitation of responses, and the less potent I(h)-blocker Cs(+) also resulted in a partial block. The relative facilitation of synaptic responses induced by CCh is therefore likely mediated by multiple mechanisms including the cholinergic suppression of transmitter release that enhances transmitter availability during repetitive stimulation, NMDA receptor-mediated effects on pre- or postsynaptic function, and cholinergic modulation of the current I(h). These mechanisms likely contribute to the maintenance of effective synaptic communication within parasubicular inputs to the entorhinal cortex during cholinergically induced rhythmic states.
Intracerebral microinjection is a commonly used technique for local delivery of biologically active agents. However, it is known that mechanical injury of the cortex can induce spreading depression (SD), a wave of transient cellular depolarization. We examined the effects of intracortical microinjections of a new selective I(h) channel antagonist ORG 34167 and of different control treatments (saline and sham microinjections) on spontaneously occurring spike-wave discharges (SWDs) in WAG/Rij rats, a valid genetic model of absence epilepsy. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recording in awake rats has shown that both the drug and control microinjections are followed by long-term (for more than an hour) suppression of SWDs. dc-EEG recording in WAG/Rij rats has revealed that sham microinjections induce SD in 65% (31/48) cases. Number of SWDs decreased substantially for at least 90 min after the sham injections which induced cortical SD but remained unchanged if SD was not triggered by microinjection. These findings suggest that SD induced by intracortical microinjection may contribute to long-term suppression of non-convulsive epileptic activity after this experimental procedure.
The naked mole-rat is a subterranean colonial rodent. In each colony, which can grow to as many as 300 individuals, there is only one female and 1-3 males that are reproductive and socially dominant. The remaining animals are reproductively suppressed subordinates that contribute to colony survival through their cooperative behaviors. Oxytocin is a peptide hormone that has shown relatively widespread effects on prosocial behaviors in other species. We examined whether social status affects the number of oxytocin-immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus and the supraoptic nucleus by comparing dominant breeding animals to subordinate non-breeding workers from intact colonies. We also examined these regions in subordinate animals that had been removed from their colony and paired with an opposite- or same-sex conspecific for 6 months. Stereological analyses indicated that subordinates had significantly more oxytocin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus than breeders. Animals in both opposite- and same-sex pairs showed a decreased oxytocin neuron number compared to subordinates suggesting that status differences may be due to social condition rather than the reproductive activity of the animal per se. The effects of social status appear to be region specific as no group differences were found for oxytocin neuron number in the supraoptic nucleus. Given that subordinate naked mole-rats are kept reproductively suppressed through antagonism by the queen, we speculate that status differences are due either to oxytocin's anxiolytic properties to combat the stress of this antagonism or to its ability to promote the prosocial behaviors of subordinates.
This is the first controlled study demonstrating the beneficial effects of transcranial laser stimulation on cognitive and emotional functions in humans. Photobiomodulation with red to near-infrared light is a novel intervention shown to regulate neuronal function in cell cultures, animal models, and clinical conditions. Light that intersects with the absorption spectrum of cytochrome oxidase was applied to the forehead of healthy volunteers using the laser diode CG-5000, which maximizes tissue penetration and has been used in humans for other indications. We tested whether low-level laser stimulation produces beneficial effects on frontal cortex measures of attention, memory and mood. Reaction time in a sustained-attention psychomotor vigilance task (PVT) was significantly improved in the treated (n=20) vs. placebo control (n=20) groups, especially in high novelty-seeking subjects. Performance in a delayed match-to-sample (DMS) memory task showed also a significant improvement in treated vs. control groups as measured by memory retrieval latency and number of correct trials. The Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS-X), which tracks self-reported positive and negative affective (emotional) states over time, was administered immediately before treatment and 2 weeks after treatment. The PANAS showed that while participants generally reported more positive affective states than negative, overall affect improved significantly in the treated group due to more sustained positive emotional states as compared to the placebo control group. These data imply that transcranial laser stimulation could be used as a non-invasive and efficacious approach to increase brain functions such as those related to cognitive and emotional dimensions. Transcranial infrared laser stimulation has also been proven to be safe and successful at improving neurological outcome in humans in controlled clinical trials of stroke. This innovative approach could lead to the development of non-invasive, performance-enhancing interventions in healthy humans and in those in need of neuropsychological rehabilitation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by selective loss of motor neurons which leads to progressive paralysis and death by respiratory failure. Although the cause of sporadic ALS is still unknown, oxidative stress is suggested to play a major role in the pathogenesis of this disease and of the rare familial form, which often exhibits mutations of the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. Since enhanced iron levels are discussed to participate in oxidative stress and neuronal death, we analyzed the expression levels of Fe-related mRNAs in a cell culture ALS model with the G93A mutation of SOD1. We observed an increased total iron content in G93A-SOD1 SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells compared to wild-type (WT)-SOD1 cells. mRNA expression for transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) and divalent metal transporter 1 was increased in G93A-SOD1 cells, which was in accordance with higher iron uptake. Experiments with the iron chelator deferoxamine revealed a normal reaction of WT and mutant cells to cytoplasmic iron depletion, i.e. TfR1 upregulation, suggesting a basically conserved function of the iron-responsive element/iron regulatory protein (IRE/IRP) pathway, designed to adapt gene expression to iron levels. Expression levels of mitoferrin 1 and 2, frataxin, and iron-sulfur cluster scaffold protein were also significantly increased in G93A-SOD1 cells, suggesting higher mitochondrial iron import and utilization in biosynthetic pathways within the mitochondria. Moreover, expression of these transcripts was further enhanced, if G93A-SOD1 cells were differentiated by retinoic acid (RA). Since RA treatment increased cytoplasmic reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in these cells, an IRE/IRP independent, ROS-mediated mechanism may account for dysregulation of iron-related genes.
The axonal development of serotonin (5-HT)-, noradrenaline (NA)-, or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing monoaminergic neurons is affected by rearing conditions during the juvenile period. Impaired monoaminergic axonal development is implicated in the pathophysiology of emotional and cognitive dysfunction. On the other hand, exercise may have beneficial effects on emotional and learning performance in adults. We have examined whether voluntary running exercise during social isolation after early weaning (early weaning/social isolation; EI) from postnatal day (PD) 14-28 could prevent the impaired monoaminergic axonal development associated with EI. Compared with control animals reared with their dam and siblings until PD28, the EI animals showed lower density of 5-HT and NA axons in the dorsal-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and of NA- and TH-containing axons in the ventral-mPFC. These adverse effects of EI were not observed in rats taking part in voluntary running (EI+R) when these animals were compared to controls. The 5-HT axon density in the ventral-mPFC was significantly higher in the EI+R rats than that in the EI rats, although both these values were significantly lower than those in the control rats. The density of monoaminergic axons in the dentate gyrus and CA3 of the hippocampus was not affected by either EI or EI+R. These results suggest that the beneficial effects of voluntary running may be because of the modulation of monoaminergic axonal morphology. Our findings will hopefully provide the basis for future research into the beneficial effects of voluntary exercise during the juvenile period on brain development and emotional and cognitive performance.
Early acoustic experience changes tonal frequency tuning in the inferior colliculus (IC) and the primary auditory cortex. The contributions of IC plasticity to cortical frequency map reorganization are not entirely clear. While most cortical plasticity studies exposed animals to pulsed tones, studies of IC plasticity used either noise or a continuous tone. Here we compared the effects of repeated exposure to single-frequency tone pips on cortical and IC frequency representations in juvenile rats. We found that while tone exposure caused a long-lasting increase in cortical representations of the exposure frequency, changes to IC neurons were limited to a transient narrowing of tuning bandwidth. These results suggest that previously documented cortical frequency map reorganization does not depend on similar changes in the subcortical auditory nuclei.
Small oligomeric beta amyloid (A(1-42)) injected 45 min prior to single-trial bead discrimination training resulted in impaired learning in day-old chickens. A new experimental protocol was used where the injections of drugs were at times around the time of injection of A. It was found that the Na(+) levels of the saline used to dissolve A affected cognitive impairment. Na(+) levels above the normal plasma value (140 mM) reduced A-induced learning deficits whereas levels below increased sensitivity to A. The new protocol was also used to examine the ability of certain noradrenergic adrenoceptor antagonist and agonists, insulin, glucose and minocycline to reduce learning disruption caused by A. The drugs (made up in 154 mM sodium chloride) were injected before, at the same time or after the injection of A and although all drugs prevented A-induced disruption of learning when given in the same injection as A, some injected before could prevent A disrupting learning, whereas others could rescue learning ability when given after A injection. These results are interpreted in the light of possible actions of noradrenaline on microglia and various processes: astrocytic metabolism, cerebral microcirculation, and removal of A away from the site of injection. The possible importance of hypernatremia and hyponatremia in the incidence of Alzheimer's disease is discussed.
Here we investigate the contribution of striatal dopamine receptors (D1) to the influence of reward-magnitude on learning. Pigeons (Columba livia) were trained on a discrimination-task with two pairs of stimuli; correct discrimination resulted in a large reward in one pair of stimuli and in a small reward in the other pair. Acquisition of the discrimination-task was accompanied by intracranial injections to the medial striatum, either of a dopamine-antagonist (Sch23390) or of vehicle. In the control-condition the rate of learning was modulated by the magnitude of the reward; discrimination was learned faster if contingent rewards were large and learning was slower if contingent rewards were small. Following injections of D1 antagonist this effect vanished even though the ability to discriminate between the rewards was unaffected. Interestingly, the mean rate of learning was indistinguishable between the control and antagonist conditions. Consequently, it appears that not learning per se but the effect of reward-magnitude on learning is mediated through D1 receptors in the striatum. We argue that the injections of dopamine-antagonist cause a shift in strategy underlying learning. In the control-condition animals rely on positive feedback and thus learning is affected by the magnitude of the contingent reward; in the antagonist-condition, however, learning might rely on negative feedback and is thus insensitive to reward-magnitude.
d-Cycloserine (DCS), a co-agonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, has proven to be an effective adjunct to cognitive behavioral therapies that utilize extinction. This pharmacological-based enhancement of extinction memory has been primarily demonstrated in neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by pathological fear (e.g. posttraumatic stress disorder and various phobias). More recently, there has been an interest in applying such a strategy in the disorders of appetitive learning (e.g. substance abuse and other addictions), but these studies have generated mixed results. Here we first examined whether extinction memory encoding in a sucrose self-administration model is dependent on NMDA receptors. The NMDA antagonist ()-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (5mg/kg, i.p.) administered 2h prior to the first extinction training session effectively inhibited extinction memory recall 24h later, without affecting the expression of the conditioned sucrose-seeking response while the drug was on board. This profile of effects suggests a specific effect on extinction memory consolidation. Next, we sought to enhance extinction memory using the co-agonist DCS (10 g/side) by infusion directly into infralimbic medial prefrontal cortex, a brain site implicated in extinction memory recall in conditioned fear models. Indeed, infusion of DCS immediately after the first extinction training session effectively enhanced extinction memory recall 24h later. Collectively, these data suggest that the neurobiological mechanisms and the neurocircuitry mediating extinction memory are similar regardless of the valence (aversive or appetitive) of the conditioned behavior, and that similar pharmacological strategies for treatment may be applied to neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by a failure to inhibit pathological emotional memories.
Nicotinic receptors have been linked to a wide range of cognitive and behavioral functions, but surprisingly little is known about their involvement in cost benefit decision making. The goal of these experiments was to determine how nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) expression is related to two forms of cost benefit decision making. Male Long Evans rats were tested in probability- and delay-discounting tasks, which required discrete trial choices between a small reward and a large reward associated with varying probabilities of omission and varying delays to reward delivery, respectively. Following testing, radioligand binding to 42 and 7 nAChR subtypes in brain regions implicated in cost benefit decision making was examined. Significant linear relationships were observed between choice of the large delayed reward in the delay discounting task and 42 receptor binding in both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Additionally, trends were found suggesting that choice of the large costly reward in both discounting tasks was inversely related to 42 receptor binding in the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens shell. Similar trends suggested that choice of the large delayed reward in the delay discounting task was inversely related to 42 receptor binding in the orbitofrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens core, and basolateral amygdala, as well as to 7 receptor binding in the basolateral amygdala. These data suggest that nAChRs (particularly 42) play both unique and common roles in decisions that require consideration of different types of reward costs.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptors is involved in synaptic plasticity in hippocampal mossy fibre-CA3 pyramidal neuron synapses. The ultrastructural localization of NMDA receptor subunits at this synapse type is not known. By postembedding electron microscopic immunogold cytochemistry we show that the NMDA receptor subunits GluN1, GluN2A, GluN2B, GluN2C and GluN2D are located in postsynaptic membranes of mossy fibre as well as CA3 recurrent associational commissural synapses. In the mossy fibres the GluN1, GluN2B and GluN2D labelling patterns suggested that these subunits were located also presynaptically in nerve terminal membranes and in mossy fibre axons. GluN3B was predominantly present in mossy fibre synapses as compared to recurrent associational commissural synapses, showing a presynaptic labelling pattern. In conclusion, while the postsynaptic localization of GluN1, GluN2A, GluN2B, and GluN2D is in good agreement with the recent finding of NMDA receptor-dependent long term potentiation (LTP) at CA3 mossy fibre synapses, we propose that presynaptic GluN1, GluN2B, GluN2D and GluN3B subunits could be involved in plastic phenomena such as certain types of LTP and recurrent mossy fibre growth.
In adult rats, trans-resveratrol attenuates kainic acid (KA)-induced convulsions and the associated hippocampal neurotoxicity. Increased neuronal survival was correlated with reduced lipid peroxidation. Since free radical generation after KA is age dependent and does not correlate with the onset of seizure-induced injury, the present study investigated whether daily trans-resveratrol treatment in development could protect the juvenile hippocampus from seizures and onset of damage at postnatal (P) day 21. Rat pups were treated with daily injections of trans-resveratrol under three dosage regimens (1-15 mg/kg and 20-50mg/kg). Weight, electroencephalography (EEG), histology, and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor expression were determined. Malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration was assessed from separate animals. trans-Resveratrol did not interfere with growth or attenuate KA-induced EEG seizures. However, modest protection was afforded in the CA1, the subregion most sensitive to injury at this age. The CA3 and entorhinal amygdala cortex (AMG/EC) were not spared. Changes in NR1 subunit or NR1 C2 splice variant expression were also not prevented. Baseline MDA concentrations of hippocampal subfields were low at P14, P21, and P60 and high in aged adults. Glutamate (100 M) to stimulate peroxidation products was significant at young ages but was much greater at older ages. After KA, elevated MDA levels were observed at 24h but only in adult preparations. Thus, while antioxidant therapy with trans-resveratrol may be considered as an adjunctive therapy to hinder epileptic activity and neurodegeneration at adult ages, it had only modest effects at young ages when production of free radicals within limbic structures is limited in this experimental model of seizures.
The aim of this study was to comparatively study cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) and c-Fos regulation by morphine in the brains of Lewis and Fischer 344 (F344) rats, which are known to differ in their behavioral sensitivities to several drugs of abuse. Two hours after an acute i.p. administration of morphine (10 mg kg(-1)) or saline (control), the animals were perfused and their brains prepared for immunohistochemistry. The number of CDK5 immunoreactive cells was significantly higher in the nucleus accumbens (NAC), the locus coeruleus (LC) and the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) of saline-injected F344 rats than in those of the Lewis rats. Morphine upregulated CDK5 with a varying pattern depending on the strain and brain area. The effect of the opioid was more marked in the NTS of the Lewis rats and the NAC of the F344 rats. Immunostaining of c-Fos was very low or absent in the control animals and was consistently up-regulated by morphine, especially in the LC and NTS of the F344 rats and the NAC of the Lewis rats. We propose that the acute morphine regulation of CDK5 expression in the NAC may predict the rate of drug intake and/or extinction of drug seeking, while the pattern of c-Fos activation may be more related to the differential acquisition of morphine-seeking behaviors.
Oxidative stress and inflammation play an integral role in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia that leads to a cascade of events culminating in the death of neurons and their supporting structures. The signaling pathways that link these events are not fully understood. Recent studies have demonstrated a close link between the nuclear factor-B (NF-B) signaling pathway and cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced inflammation. Flavonoids have been suggested to exert human health benefits by anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. In this study we undertook a pharmacological approach to investigate the ability of naringenin, a potent flavonoid, to prevent oxidative stress and NF-B-mediated inflammatory brain damage in the rat model of focal cerebral I/R injury. To test this hypothesis, male Wistar rats were pretreated with naringenin once daily for 21 days and then subjected to 1h of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 23 h of reperfusion. Naringenin treatment successfully upregulates the antioxidant status, decreases the infarct size and lowers the levels of myeloperoxidase, nitric oxide and cytokines, besides functional recovery returned close to the baseline. Moreover, immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses clearly demonstrated that naringenin treatment limits glial activation and downregulates the NF-B expression level and their target genes. These results show, prophylactic treatment with naringenin improved functional outcomes and abrogated the ischemic brain injury by suppressing NF-B-mediated neuroinflammation. The present study suggests that naringenin may be used as a potential neuroprotectant in patients at high risk of ischemic stroke.
Peripheral-nerve injuries are a common clinical problem and often result in long-term functional deficits. Reconstruction of peripheral-nerve defects is currently undertaken with nerve autografts. However, there is a limited availability of nerves that can be sacrificed and the functional recovery is never 100% satisfactory. We have previously shown that gene therapy with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) significantly improved nerve regeneration, neuronal survival, and muscle activity. Our hypothesis is that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) synergizes with VEGF to improve the functional outcome after sciatic nerve transection. The left sciatic nerves and the adjacent muscle groups of adult mice were exposed, and 50 or 100 g (in 50 l PBS) of VEGF and/or G-CSF genes was injected locally, just below the sciatic nerve, and transferred by electroporation. The sciatic nerves were transected and placed in an empty polycaprolactone (PCL) nerve guide, leaving a 3-mm gap to challenge nerve regeneration. After 6 weeks, the mice were perfused and the sciatic nerve, the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), the spinal cord and the gastrocnemius muscle were processed for light and transmission electron microscopy. Treated animals showed significant improvement in functional and histological analyses compared with the control group. However, the best results were obtained with the G-CSF+VEGF-treated animals: quantitative analysis of regenerated nerves showed a significant increase in the number of myelinated fibers and blood vessels, and the number of neurons in the DRG and motoneurons in the spinal cord was significantly higher. Motor function also showed that functional recovery occurred earlier in animals receiving G-CSF+VEGF-treatment. The gastrocnemius muscle showed an increase in weight and in the levels of creatine phosphokinase, suggesting an improvement of reinnervation and muscle activity. These results suggest that these two factors acted synergistically and optimized the nerve repair potential, improving regeneration after a transection lesion.
The present study was conducted to correlate rotenone-induced neurotoxicity with cellular and molecular modifications in neuronal and neuronal supportive cells in rat brain regions. Rotenone was administered (3, 6 and 12 g/l) intranigrally in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. After the 7th day of rotenone treatment, specific protein markers for neuronal cells - tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), astroglial cells - glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), microglial cells - CD11b/c, and Iba-1 were evaluated by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence in the striatum (STR) and mid brain (MB). Apoptotic cell death was assessed by caspase-3 gene expression. Higher doses of rotenone significantly lowered TH protein levels and elevated Iba-1 levels in MB. All the doses of rotenone significantly increased GFAP and CD11b/c protein in the MB. In STR, rotenone elevated GFAP levels but did not affect TH, CD11b/c and Iba-1 protein levels. Caspase-3 expression was increased significantly by all the doses of rotenone in MB but in STR only by higher doses (6 and 12 g). It may be suggested that astroglial activation and apoptosis play an important role in rotenone-induced neurotoxicity. MB appeared as more sensitive than STR toward rotenone-induced cell toxicity. The astroglial cells emerged as more susceptible than neuronal and microglial cells to rotenone in STR.
The developmental anatomy of the brain is largely directed by neural-based cues. Despite this knowledge, the developmental trajectory of the primate brain has not yet been fully characterized. To realize this goal, the advance in noninvasive imaging methods and new brain atlases are essential. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, is widely used in neuroscience research. The recent introduction of transgenic techniques has enabled the marmoset to be used as a genetically modifiable primate model for brain development. Here, a magnetic resonance histology technique involving the use of ultra-high-resolution ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to identify the developmental anatomy of the marmoset brain at different time points from gestational week 8 through to birth. The data allowed the generation of a multidimensional atlas of brain structures at different developmental stages. Furthermore, in utero MRI techniques were developed to noninvasively monitor brain development during the embryonic and fetal stages. The multidimensional atlas and the MRI tools developed herein are anticipated to further our understanding of the developing primate brain.
Although major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious neuropsychiatric illness, it's pathogenesis remains unclear. Current evidence suggests that the abnormal transmission and plasticity of hippocampal synapses play an important role in the pathogenesis of MDD. In this study, a two-dimensional gel-based proteomic approach to profile alterations of synaptosome protein expression was applied in the hippocampus of rats subjected to chronic mild stress. Through mass spectrometry and database searching, 19 differentially expressed proteins were identified, of which 5 were up-regulated and 14 were down-regulated in the chronic mild-stressed group as compared with the control group. Subsequently, several proteins of interest were further validated by Western blotting. A detailed analysis of protein functions and disease relevance revealed that synaptic exo/endocytosis-associated proteins were dysregulated in the chronic mild-stressed rats. The present study is the first reported synaptoproteomic analysis of the chronic mild-stressed rat hippocampus. The synaptic exo/endocytosis-associated proteins may participate in a central mechanism that underlies the abnormal transmission and plasticity of hippocampal synapses found in the chronic mild-stressed rats, and provides guidance to advance our understanding of the pathogenesis of MDD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia worldwide. The pathogenesis of this neurodegenerative disease, currently without curative treatment, is associated with the accumulation of amyloid  (A) in brain parenchyma and cerebral vasculature. AD patients are unable to clear this toxic peptide, leading to A accumulation in their brains and, presumably, the pathology associated with this devastating disease. Compounds that stimulate the immune system to clear A may therefore have great therapeutic potential in AD patients. Monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) is an LPS-derived Toll-like receptor 4 agonist that exhibits unique immunomodulatory properties at doses that are nonpyrogenic. We show here that repeated systemic injections of MPL, but not LPS, significantly improved AD-related pathology in APP(swe)/PS1 mice. MPL treatment led to a significant reduction in A load in the brain of these mice, as well as enhanced cognitive function. MPL induced a potent phagocytic response by microglia while triggering a moderate inflammatory reaction. Our data suggest that the Toll-like receptor 4 agonist MPL may be a treatment for AD.
Endocannabinoid, particularly 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), signaling has recently emerged as a molecular determinant of neuronal migration and synapse formation during cortical development. However, the cell type specificity and molecular regulation of spatially and temporally confined morphogenic 2-AG signals remain unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that genetic and pharmacological manipulation of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors permanently alters cholinergic projection neuron identity and hippocampal innervation. We show that nerve growth factor (NGF), implicated in the morphogenesis and survival of cholinergic projection neurons, dose-dependently and coordinately regulates the molecular machinery for 2-AG signaling via tropomyosine kinase A receptors in vitro. In doing so, NGF limits the sorting of monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL), rate limiting 2-AG bioavailability, to proximal neurites, allowing cell-autonomous 2-AG signaling at CB(1) cannabinoid receptors to persist at atypical locations to induce superfluous neurite extension. We find that NGF controls MGL degradation in vitro and in vivo and identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1) as a candidate facilitating MGL's elimination from motile neurite segments, including growth cones. BRCA1 inactivation by cisplatin or genetically can rescue and reposition MGL, arresting NGF-induced growth responses. These data indicate that NGF can orchestrate endocannabinoid signaling to promote cholinergic differentiation and implicate BRCA1 in determining neuronal morphology.
Human speech universally exhibits a 3- to 8-Hz rhythm, corresponding to the rate of syllable production, which is reflected in both the sound envelope and the visual mouth movements. Artificial perturbation of the speech rhythm outside the natural range reduces speech intelligibility, demonstrating a perceptual tuning to this frequency band. One theory posits that the mouth movements at the core of this speech rhythm evolved through modification of ancestral primate facial expressions. Recent evidence shows that one such communicative gesture in macaque monkeys, lip-smacking, has motor parallels with speech in its rhythmicity, its developmental trajectory, and the coordination of vocal tract structures. Whether monkeys also exhibit a perceptual tuning to the natural rhythms of lip-smacking is unknown. To investigate this, we tested rhesus monkeys in a preferential-looking procedure, measuring the time spent looking at each of two side-by-side computer-generated monkey avatars lip-smacking at natural versus sped-up or slowed-down rhythms. Monkeys showed an overall preference for the natural rhythm compared with the perturbed rhythms. This lends behavioral support for the hypothesis that perceptual processes in monkeys are similarly tuned to the natural frequencies of communication signals as they are in humans. Our data provide perceptual evidence for the theory that speech may have evolved from ancestral primate rhythmic facial expressions.


ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: Stem cell therapy can promote good recovery from stroke. Several studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are safe and effective. However, more information regarding appropriate cell type is needed from animal model. This study was targeted at analyzing the effects in ischemic stroke of acute intravenous (i.v.) administration of allogenic bone marrow- (BM-MSC) and adipose-derived-stem cells (AD-MSC) on functional evaluation results and brain repair markers. METHODS: Allogenic MSC (2  106 cells) were administered intravenously 30 minutes after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) to rats. Infarct volume and cell migration and implantation were analyzed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and immunohistochemistry. Function was evaluated by the Rogers and rotarod tests, and cell proliferation and cell-death were also determined. Brain repair markers were analyzed by confocal microscopy and confirmed by western blot. RESULTS: Compared to infarct group, function had significantly improved at 24 h and continued at 14 d after i.v. administration of either BM-MSC or AD-MSC. No reduction in infarct volume or any migration/implantation of cells into the damaged brain were observed. Nevertheless, cell death was reduced and cellular proliferation significantly increased in both treatment groups with respect to the infarct group. At 14 d after MSC administration vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), synaptophysin (SYP), oligodendrocyte (Olig-2) and neurofilament (NF) levels were significantly increased while those of glial fiibrillary acid protein (GFAP) were decreased. CONCLUSIONS: i.v. administration of allogenic MSC - whether BM-MSC or AD-MSC, in pMCAO infarct was associated with good functional recovery, and reductions in cell death as well as increases in cellular proliferation, neurogenesis, oligodendrogenesis, synaptogenesis and angiogenesis markers at 14 days post-infarct.

The central goal of the In the Light of Evolution (ILE) series is to promote the evolutionary sciences through state-of-the-art colloquia--in the series of Arthur M. Sackler colloquia sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences--and their published proceedings. Each installment explores evolutionary perspectives on a particular biological topic that is scientifically intriguing but also has special relevance to contemporary societal issues or challenges. This book is the outgrowth of the Arthur M. Sackler Colloquium &quot;Brain and Behavior,&quot; which was sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences on January 20-21, 2012, at the Academy's Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center in Irvine, CA. It is the sixth in a series of Colloquia under the general title &quot;In the Light of Evolution.&quot; Specifically, In Light of Evolution: Brain and Behavior focuses on the field of evolutionary neuroscience that now includes a vast array of different approaches, data types, and species.

Previous studies from our laboratory illustrated the potential for stromal cell-derived factor one [CXCL12; also referred to as SDF-1] to act on its receptor [CXCR4] within the dorsal vagal complex [DVC] of the hindbrain to suppress gastric motility (Hermann et al., 2008). While CXCR4 receptors are essential for normal brain development, they also play a critical role in the proliferation of the HIV virus and initiation of metastatic cell growth in the brain. Anorexia, nausea, and failed autonomic regulation of gastrointestinal function are significant causes of morbidity and are contributory factors in the mortality associated with these disease states. The implication of our previous study was that CXCL12 caused gastric stasis by acting on gastric reflex circuit elements in the DVC. This hindbrain complex includes vagal afferent terminations in the solitary nucleus, neurons in the solitary nucleus (NST) and visceral efferent motorneurons in the dorsal motor nucleus (DMN) that are responsible for the regulation of digestive functions from the oral cavity to the transverse colon. In the current study, in vivo single-unit neurophysiological recordings from physiologically-identified NST and DMN components of the gastric accommodation reflex show that while injection of femtomole doses of CXCL12 onto NST or DMN neurons has no effect on their basal activity, CXCL12 amplifies the effect of gastric vagal mechanosensory input to activate the NST and, in turn, inhibit DMN motor activity.
The transcription factor Pax2 actively participates in the development of the vertebrate visual system. In adults, Pax2 expression persists in a subpopulation of Mller cells and/or astrocytes in the retina and optic nerve head (ONH), although its function remains elusive. In a previous work we showed that the pax2 gene expression is modified and the Pax2(+) astrocyte population in the ONH strongly reacted during the regeneration of the retina after a lesion in goldfish. In the present work we have analyzed Pax2 expression in the goldfish ONH after optic nerve (ON) crush. At one week post-injury, when the regenerating axons arrive at the ONH, the pax2 gene expression level increases as well as the number of Pax2(+) astrocytes in this region. These Pax2(+) astrocytes show a higher number of Cytokeratin (Ck)(+)/GFAP(+) processes compared with control animals. In contrast, a different S100(+) astrocyte population is not modified and persists similar to that of controls. Furthermore, we find a ring that surrounds the posterior ONH that is formed by highly reactive astrocytes, positive to Pax2, GFAP, Ck, S100, GS and ZO1. In this region we also find a source of new astrocytes Pax2(+)/PCNA(+) that is activated after the injury. We conclude that Pax2(+) astrocytes constitute a subpopulation of ONH astrocytes that strongly reacts after ON crush and supports our previous results obtained after retina regeneration. Altogether, this suggests that pax2 gene expression and Pax2(+) astrocytes are probably directly involved in the process of axonal regeneration.
Functional activity of neurotransmitter receptor and their sensitivity to regulation are altered in DM. We evaluated the neuroprotective effect of curcumin in glutamate mediated excitotoxicity in cerebral cortex of streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Gene expression studies in diabetic rats showed a down regulation of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA leading to accumulation of glutamate. Radioreceptor binding assays showed a significant increase in -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors density which was confirmed by immunohistochemical studies. Decreased glutathione peroxidases gene expression indicates enhanced oxidative stress in diabetic rats. This leads to decreased expression of glutamate aspartate transporter, which in turn reduces glutamate transport. All these events lead to excitotoxic neuronal death in the cerebral cortex, which was confirmed by the increased expression of caspase 3, caspase 8 and BCL2-associated X protein. Curcumin and insulin treatment reversed these altered parameters to near control. We establish, a novel therapeutic role of curcumin by reducing the glutamate mediated excitotoxicity in cerebral cortex of diabetes through modulating the altered neurochemical parameters.

Neuronal activity regulates multiple aspects of the morphological and functional development of neural circuits. One mechanism by which it achieves this is through regulation of gene expression. In a screen for activity-induced genes, we identified somatostatin (SST), a neuropeptide secreted by the SST subtype of interneurons. Using real time quantitative PCR and ELISA, we showed that persistent elevation of neuronal activity increased both the gene expression and protein secretion of SST over a relatively prolonged time course of 48 h. Using primary hippocampal neuronal cultures, we found that SST treatment for 1 day significantly reduced the density of dendritic spines, the morphological bases of excitatory synapses. Furthermore, the density of pre- and postsynaptic markers of excitatory synapses was significantly lowered following SST treatment, whereas that of inhibitory synapses was not affected. Consistently, SST treatment reduced the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, without affecting inhibition. Finally, lowering the endogenous level of SST receptor subtype 4 in individual hippocampal pyramidal neurons significantly blocked the effect of SST in reducing spine density and excitatory synaptic transmission in a cell autonomous fashion, suggesting that the effect of SST in regulating excitatory synaptic transmission is mainly mediated by SST receptor subtype 4. Together, our results demonstrated that activity-dependent release of SST reduced the density of dendritic spines and the number of excitatory synapses through postsynaptic activation of SST receptor subtype 4 in pyramidal neurons. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of the long term effect of SST on neuronal morphology.


Autism is characterized by disruption in multiple dimensions of perception, emotion, language and social cognition. Many hypotheses for the underlying neurophysiological basis have been proposed. Among these is the excitation/inhibition (E/I) imbalance hypothesis, which states that levels of cortical excitation and inhibition are disrupted in autism. We tested this theory in the visual system, because vision is one of the better understood systems in neuroscience, and because the E/I imbalance theory has been proposed to explain hypersensitivity to sensory stimuli in autism. We conducted two experiments on binocular rivalry, a well-studied psychophysical phenomenon that depends critically on excitation and inhibition levels in cortex. Using a computational model, we made specific predictions about how imbalances in excitation and inhibition levels would affect perception during two aspects of binocular rivalry: mixed perception (Experiment 1) and traveling waves (Experiment 2). We found no significant differences in either of these phenomena between high-functioning adults with autism and controls, and no evidence for a relationship between these measurements and the severity of autism. These results do not conclusively rule out an excitation/inhibition imbalance in the visual system of those with autism, but they suggest that such an imbalance, if it exists, is likely to be small in magnitude.



Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is thought to be an important cellular mechanism underlying memory formation. A widely accepted model posits that LTP requires the cytoplasmic carboxyl tail (C-tail) of the AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptor subunit GluA1. To find the minimum necessary requirement of the GluA1 C-tail for LTP in mouse CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons, we used a single-cell molecular replacement strategy to replace all endogenous AMPA receptors with transfected subunits. In contrast to the prevailing model, we found no requirement of the GluA1 C-tail for LTP. In fact, replacement with the GluA2 subunit showed normal LTP, as did an artificially expressed kainate receptor not normally found at these synapses. The only conditions under which LTP was impaired were those with markedly decreased AMPA receptor surface expression, indicating a requirement for a reserve pool of receptors. These results demonstrate the synapse's remarkable flexibility to potentiate with a variety of glutamate receptor subtypes, requiring a fundamental change in our thinking with regard to the core molecular events underlying synaptic plasticity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) develops for a yet unknown period of time and can progress undiagnosed for years before its first clinical manifestation consisting of characteristic cognitive impairments. Current AD treatments offer only a small symptomatic benefit, likely because AD is diagnosed when the pathology is already well advanced, whereas treatments may be most efficient in the early phases of pathology. An accurate, early marker of AD is therefore needed to help diagnose AD earlier. It is now well documented that AD patients and animal models of AD exhibit reorganization of hippocampal and cortical networks. This reorganization is initiated by an early imbalance between excitation and inhibition, leading to altered network activity. The mechanisms underlying these changes are unknown but recent evidence suggests that either soluble amyloid-beta (A) or fibrillar forms of A are central to various network alterations observed in AD. However, recent evidence also suggests that A over-production in animal models is not systematically linked to network over-excitation. We hypothesize here that early changes in the excitation-inhibition balance within the hippocampus occurs much earlier than currently believed and initially produces only slight changes in overall hippocampal activity. In this review, we introduce the concept according to which the subtle changes in theta and gamma rhythms might occur during the very first stages of AD and thus could be used as a possible predictor for the disease.

The activity of neural populations is determined not only by sensory inputs but also by internally generated patterns. During quiet wakefulness, the brain produces spontaneous firing events that can spread over large areas of cortex and have been suggested to underlie processes such as memory recall and consolidation. Here we demonstrate a different role for spontaneous activity in sensory cortex: gating of sensory inputs. We show that population activity in rat auditory cortex is composed of transient 50-100 ms packets of spiking activity that occur irregularly during silence and sustained tone stimuli, but reliably at tone onset. Population activity within these packets had broadly consistent spatiotemporal structure, but the rate and also precise relative timing of action potentials varied between stimuli. Packet frequency varied with cortical state, with desynchronized state activity consistent with superposition of multiple overlapping packets. We suggest that such packets reflect the sporadic opening of a &quot;gate&quot; that allows auditory cortex to broadcast a representation of external sounds to other brain regions.
The striatal microcircuitry consists of a vast majority of projection neurons, the medium spiny neurons (MSNs), and a small yet diverse population of interneurons. To understand how activity is orchestrated within the striatum, it is essential to unravel the functional connectivity between the different neuronal types. Fast-spiking (FS) interneurons provide feedforward inhibition to both direct and indirect pathway MSNs and are important in sculpting their output to downstream basal ganglia nuclei. FS interneurons are also interconnected with each other via electrical and chemical synapses; however, whether and how they inhibit other striatal interneuron types remains unknown. In this study we combined multineuron whole-cell recordings with optogenetics to determine the target selectivity of feedforward inhibition by striatal FS interneurons. Using transgenic and viral approaches we directed expression of channelrhodopsin 2 (ChR2) to FS interneurons to study their connectivity within the mouse striatal microcircuit. Optogenetic stimulation of ChR2-expressing FS interneurons generated strong and reliable GABA(A)-dependent synaptic inputs in MSNs. In sharp contrast, simultaneously recorded neighboring cholinergic interneurons did not receive any synaptic inputs from photostimulated FS cells, and a minority of low-threshold spiking (LTS) interneurons responded weakly. We further tested the synaptic connectivity between FS and LTS interneurons using paired recordings, which showed only sparse connectivity. Our results show that striatal FS interneurons form a feedforward inhibitory circuit that is target selective, inhibiting projection neurons while avoiding cholinergic interneurons and sparsely contacting LTS interneurons, thus supporting independent modulation of MSN activity by the different types of striatal interneurons.
Associative learning is a fundamental form of behavioral plasticity. Octopamine plays central roles in various learning types in invertebrates; however, the target receptors and underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Drosophila provides a powerful system to uncover the mechanisms for learning and memory. Here, we report that OAMB in the mushroom body neurons mediates the octopamine's signal for appetitive olfactory learning. The octopamine receptor OAMB has two isoforms (OAMB-K3 and OAMB-AS), differing in the third cytoplasmic loop and downstream sequence. The activation of each OAMB isoform increases intracellular Ca(2+) similar to the alpha1 adrenergic receptor, while OAMB-K3 additionally stimulates cAMP production. The oamb-null mutants showed severely impaired learning in appetitive olfactory conditioning that tests flies' capacity to learn and remember the odor associated with sugar reward. This deficit was also seen in the hypomorphic mutant with reduced OAMB expression in the mushroom bodies, the brain structure crucial for olfactory conditioning. Consistently, the oamb mutant's learning phenotype was fully rescued by conditional expression of either OAMB isoform in the mushroom body  and  neurons. These results indicate that the OAMB receptor is a key molecule mediating the octopamine's signal for appetitive olfactory learning and its functional site is the mushroom body  and  neurons. This study represents a critical step forward in understanding the cellular mechanism and neural circuit mediating reward learning and memory.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is crucial in the maintenance of a controlled environment within the brain to safeguard optimal neuronal function. The endothelial cells (ECs) of the BBB possess specific properties that restrict the entry of cells and metabolites into the CNS. The specialized BBB endothelial phenotype is induced during neurovascular development by surrounding cells of the CNS. However, the molecular differentiation of the BBB endothelium remains poorly understood. Retinoic acid (RA) plays a crucial role in the brain during embryogenesis. Because radial glial cells supply the brain with RA during the developmental cascade and associate closely with the developing vasculature, we hypothesize that RA is important for the induction of BBB properties in brain ECs. Analysis of human postmortem fetal brain tissue shows that the enzyme mainly responsible for RA synthesis, retinaldehyde dehydrogenase, is expressed by radial glial cells. In addition, the most important receptor for RA-driven signaling in the CNS, RA-receptor  (RAR), is markedly expressed by the developing brain vasculature. Our findings have been further corroborated by in vitro experiments showing RA- and RAR-dependent induction of different aspects of the brain EC barrier. Finally, pharmacologic inhibition of RAR activation during the differentiation of the murine BBB resulted in the leakage of a fluorescent tracer as well as serum proteins into the developing brain and reduced the expression levels of important BBB determinants. Together, our results point to an important role for RA in the induction of the BBB during human and mouse development.
Although advances have been made regarding how the brain perceives emotional prosody, the neural bases involved in the generation of affective prosody remain unclear and debated. Two models have been forged on the basis of clinical observations: a first model proposes that the right hemisphere sustains production and comprehension of emotional prosody, while a second model proposes that emotional prosody relies heavily on basal ganglia. Here, we tested their predictions in two functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments that used a cue-target paradigm, which allows distinguishing affective from sensorimotor aspects of emotional prosody generation. Both experiments show that when participants prepare for emotional prosody, bilateral ventral striatum is specifically activated and connected to temporal poles and anterior insula, regions in which lesions frequently cause dysprosody. The bilateral dorsal striatum is more sensitive to cognitive and motor aspects of emotional prosody preparation and production and is more strongly connected to the sensorimotor speech network compared with the ventral striatum. Right lateralization during increased prosodic processing is confined to the posterior superior temporal sulcus, a region previously associated with perception of emotional prosody. Our data thus provide physiological evidence supporting both models and suggest that bilateral basal ganglia are involved in modulating motor behavior as a function of affective state. Right lateralization of cortical regions mobilized for prosody control could point to efficient processing of slowly changing acoustic speech parameters in the ventral stream and thus identify sensorimotor processing as an important factor contributing to right lateralization of prosody.
Modulatory neurotransmitters, including the histaminergic system, are essential in mediating cognitive functions affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The roles of disease genes associated with AD, most importantly the presenilin1 gene (psen1), are poorly understood. We studied the role of psen1 in plasticity of the brain histaminergic system using a novel psen1 mutant zebrafish, Danio rerio. We found that in psen1(-/-) zebrafish, the histaminergic system is altered throughout life. At 7 d postfertilization (dpf) the histamine neuron number was reduced in psen1(-/-) compared with wild-type (WT) fish; at 2 months of age the histamine neuron number was at the same level as that in WT fish. In 1-year-old zebrafish, the histamine neuron number was significantly increased in psen1(-/-) fish compared with WT fish. These changes in histamine neuron number were accompanied by changes in histamine-driven behaviors. Treatment with DAPT, a -secretase inhibitor, similarly interfered with the development of the histaminergic neurons. We also assessed the expression of -secretase-regulated Notch1a mRNA and -catenin at different time points. Notch1a mRNA level was reduced in psen1(-/-) compared with WT fish, whereas -catenin was slightly upregulated in the hypothalamus of psen1(-/-) compared with WT fish at 7 dpf. The results reveal a life-long brain plasticity in both the structure of the histaminergic system and its functions induced by altered Notch1a activity as a consequence of psen1 mutation. The new histaminergic neurons in aging zebrafish brain may arise as a result of phenotypic plasticity or represent newly differentiated stem cells.
Lateral inhibition between neurons occurs in many different sensory systems, where it can perform such functions as contrast enhancement. In the olfactory bulb, lateral inhibition may occur between odorant receptor-specific glomeruli that are linked anatomically by GABAergic granule cells (GCs) and cells within the glomerular layer, although evidence supporting lateral inhibition at a functional level is modest. Here, we used patch-clamp, imaging, and glutamate uncaging methods in rat olfactory bulb slices to test for the presence of interglomerular lateral inhibition, as well as its underlying mechanisms. We found that a conditioning stimulus applied at one or a small group of glomeruli could suppress stimulus-evoked excitation of output mitral cells (MCs) at another glomerulus for interstimulus intervals of 20-50 ms and glomerular separations of up to 600 m. The observed lateral inhibition was entirely dependent on circuitry within the glomerular layer, rather than GCs, and it involved GABAergic synaptic inputs that were targeted mainly onto tufted cells, which act as intermediaries in the excitation between olfactory sensory neurons and MCs. The key cell type responsible for mediating lateral interactions between glomeruli were GABAergic short-axon cells. These results suggest a functional segregation of GABAergic cells within the bulb, with one set located in the glomerular layer mediating suppression of MC spiking across glomeruli, and a second set, the GCs, synchronizing different glomeruli.
Stress, which involves a heightened arousal and excitability, triggers important adaptive responses to maintain homeostasis and prepare a response. In the current studies, we administered a psychological stressor of 2 h acute restraint on rats, and found that 24 h after the cessation of the restraint session, there was a significant decrease in ventral tegmental area dopaminergic (DA) neuron population activity and a significant attenuation in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Systemic or intra-basolateral nuclei of the amygdala administration of the -noradrenergic receptor antagonist, propranolol, reversed the decrease, suggesting that the delayed attenuation of DA neuron firing following a stressor depends on a noradrenaline-mediated mechanism. This alteration in DA activity may adaptively prepare the individual to avoid the stressor, or in the extreme, may be a factor that contributes to pathological changes in behavior or physiological responses.
Amphetamine exposure transiently increases Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)  expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) shell and this persistently increases local GluA1 S831 phosphorylation and enhances behavioral responding to the drug. Here we assessed whether transiently interfering with CaMKII signaling using a dominant-negative CaMKII mutant delivered to the NAcc shell with herpes simplex viral vectors could reverse these long-lasting biochemical and behavioral effects observed following exposure to amphetamine. As expected, transient expression of CaMKII K42M in the NAcc shell produced a corresponding transient increase in CaMKII and decrease in pCaMKII (T286) protein levels in this site. Remarkably, this transient inhibition of CaMKII activity produced a long-lasting reversal of the increased GluA1 S831 phosphorylation levels in NAcc shell and persistently blocked the enhanced locomotor response to and self-administration of amphetamine normally observed in rats previously exposed to the drug. Together, these results indicate that even transient interference with CaMKII signaling may confer long-lasting benefits in drug-sensitized individuals and point to CaMKII and its downstream pathways as attractive therapeutic targets for the treatment of stimulant addiction.
Neurosecretory release sites lack distinct postsynaptic partners, yet target to specific circuits. This targeting specificity regulates local release of neurotransmitters and modulation of adjacent circuits. How neurosecretory release sites target to specific regions is not understood. Here we identify a molecular mechanism that governs the spatial specificity of extrasynaptic neurosecretory terminal (ENT) formation in the serotonergic neurosecretory-motor (NSM) neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans. We show that postembryonic arborization and neurosecretory terminal targeting of the C. elegans NSM neuron is dependent on the Netrin receptor UNC-40/DCC. We observe that UNC-40 localizes to specific neurosecretory terminals at the time of axon arbor formation. This localization is dependent on UNC-6/Netrin, which is expressed by nerve ring neurons that act as guideposts to instruct local arbor and release site formation. We find that both UNC-34/Enabled and MIG-10/Lamellipodin are required downstream of UNC-40 to link the sites of ENT formation to nascent axon arbor extensions. Our findings provide a molecular link between release site development and axon arborization and introduce a novel mechanism that governs the spatial specificity of serotonergic ENTs in vivo.
When a face is flashed to an observer, a large negative component is elicited in the occipitotemporal cortex at 170 ms from the onset of presentation (N170). Previous studies have shown that the average N170 is correlated with conscious face perception; however, the single-trial mechanisms underlying such modulation remain largely unexplored. Here, we studied in human subjects the average and the single-trial N170 responses to briefly flashed faces, coupled with backward masking and varying degrees of Gaussian noise. In the average evoked responses we observed that, at fixed levels of noise, supraliminal faces exhibited significantly larger N170 amplitudes than subliminal faces. Moreover, the average N170 amplitude decreased with noise level both for the perceived and the nonperceived faces. At the single-trial level, the N170 amplitude was modulated by conscious recognition, which allowed predicting the subjects' perceptual responses above chance. In contrast, the single-trial N170 amplitudes were not modulated by the amount of noise and the effect found in the average responses was due to different latency jitters, as confirmed with latency-corrected averages. Altogether, these results suggest that conscious face perception is correlated with a boost in the activity of face-selective neural assemblies, whereas the stimulus uncertainty introduced by the added noise decreases the timing consistency (but not the amplitude) of this activation.

Attention to a spatial location or feature in a visual scene can modulate the responses of cortical neurons and affect perceptual biases in illusions. We add attention to a cortical model of spatial context based on a well-founded account of natural scene statistics. The cortical model amounts to a generalized form of divisive normalization, in which the surround is in the normalization pool of the center target only if they are considered statistically dependent. Here we propose that attention influences this computation by accentuating the neural unit activations at the attended location, and that the amount of attentional influence of the surround on the center thus depends on whether center and surround are deemed in the same normalization pool. The resulting form of model extends a recent divisive normalization model of attention (Reynolds &amp; Heeger, 2009). We simulate cortical surround orientation experiments with attention and show that the flexible model is suitable for capturing additional data and makes nontrivial testable predictions.
Brain aging is characterized by considerable heterogeneity, including varying degrees of dysfunction in specific brain systems, notably a medial temporal lobe memory system and a frontostriatal executive system. These same systems are also affected by neurodegenerative diseases. Recent work using techniques for presymptomatic detection of disease in cognitively normal older people has shown that some of the late life alterations in cognition, neural structure, and function attributed to aging probably reflect early neurodegeneration. However, it has become clear that these same brain systems are also vulnerable to aging in the absence of even subtle disease. Thus, fundamental systemic limitations appear to confer vulnerability of these neural systems to a variety of insults, including those recognized as typical disease and those that are attributed to age. By focusing on the fundamental causes of neural system vulnerability, the prevention or treatment of a wide range of late-life neural dysfunction might be possible.
Voltage-activated proton (Hv1) channels are relatives of classical voltage-activated cation channels. In this issue of Neuron, Hong etal. (2013) and Qiu etal. (2013) investigate the functional mechanisms of Hv1 gating and uncover key relationships with Kv channels.
Afferent fibers innervating the gastrointestinal tract have major roles in consciously evoked sensations including pain. We reported previously that the activation of ERK1/2, a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, in primary sensory neurons was involved in acute visceral pain. Moreover, we also revealed that this activation of ERK1/2 occurred through transient receptor potential (TRP) A1, a member of the TRP family of ion channels. In contrast, it is known that the activation of p38 MAPK (p38) contributes to the development and maintenance of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. On the basis of these results, the aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of p38 and TRPA1 in acute visceral pain. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Electromyographic responses to gastric distension (GD) were recorded from the acromiotrapezius muscle. We then examined the phosphorylated-p38 (p-p38) labeling in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after GD using immunohistochemistry. Noxious GD induced p-p38 in DRG neurons with a peak at 2 min after GD. We also found a stimulus intensity-dependent increase in the number of p-p38-immunoreactive neurons in the DRG. Intrathecal administration of the p38 inhibitor, SB203580, attenuated the electromyographic response to noxious GD. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of TRPA1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide decreased the p38 activation in DRG neurons. The activation of p38 pathways in DRG neurons by noxious GD may be correlated with the activation state of the primary afferent neurons through TRPA1, and further, involved in the development of visceral pain.
The fusiform face area, a high-level visual area, is pivotal in processing facial information. This area receives inputs from the left and right visual fields unlike the primary visual area, which only receives inputs from its contralateral visual field. Response of the fusiform face area to ipsilateral stimulation depends on the signals crossing over at the corpus callosum. We investigated the distribution of voxel-wise activation to determine whether ipsilateral-dominant voxels exist in the fusiform face area using high spatial resolution functional MRI at 7 T. We further examined the possible functional differences between ipsilateral-dominant and contralateral-dominant voxels. By unilateral visual field stimulation, we detected ipsilateral-dominant voxels in the right fusiform face area. Their distribution was spatially heterogeneous. We tested upright and inverted facial stimulation confined to unilateral visual fields and found that these ipsilateral-dominant voxels had a different functional nature from contralateral-dominant voxels.
In vertebrate eyes, the rod photoreceptor has a modified cilium with an extended cylindrical structure specialized for phototransduction called the outer segment (OS). The OS has numerous stacked membrane disks and can bend or break when subjected to mechanical forces. The OS exhibits axial structural variation, with extended bands composed of a few hundred membrane disks whose thickness is diurnally modulated. Using high-resolution confocal microscopy, we have observed OS flexing and disruption in live transgenic Xenopus rods. Based on the experimental observations, we introduce a coarse-grained model of OS mechanical rigidity using elasticity theory, representing the axial OS banding explicitly via a spring-bead model. We calculate a bending stiffness of 10(5) nNm2, which is seven orders-of-magnitude larger than that of typical cilia and flagella. This bending stiffness has a quadratic relation to OS radius, so that thinner OS have lower fragility. Furthermore, we find that increasing the spatial frequency of axial OS banding decreases OS rigidity, reducing its fragility. Moreover, the model predicts a tendency for OS to break in bands with higher spring number density, analogous to the experimental observation that transgenic rods tended to break preferentially in bands of high fluorescence. We discuss how pathological alterations of disk membrane properties by mutant proteins may lead to increased OS rigidity and thus increased breakage, ultimately contributing to retinal degeneration.

Brain metastases (BM) are the most common intracranial tumors and their incidence is increasing. Untreated brain metastases are associated with a poor prognosis and a poor performance status. Metastasis development involves the migration of a cancer cell from the bulk tumor into the surrounding tissue, extravasation from the blood into tissue elsewhere in the body, and formation of a secondary tumor. In the recent past, important results have been obtained in the management of patients affected by BM, using surgery, radiation therapy, or both. Conventional chemotherapies have generally produced disappointing results, possibly due to their limited ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. The advent of new technologies has led to the discovery of novel molecules and pathways that have better depicted the metastatic process. Targeted therapies such as bevacizumab, erlotinib, gefitinib, sunitinib and sorafenib, are all licensed and have demonstrated improved survival in patients with metastatic disease. In this review, we will report current data on targeted therapies. A brief review about brain metastatic process will be also presented.
Ischemic stroke is a multi-factorial disease where some patients present themselves with little or no risk factors. Blood microRNA expression profiles are becoming useful in the diagnosis and prognosis of human diseases. We therefore investigated the blood microRNA profiles in young stroke patients who presented with minimal or absence of risk factors for stroke such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension. Blood microRNA profiles from these patients varied with stroke subtypes as well as different functional outcomes (based on modified Rankin Score). These microRNAs have been shown to target genes that are involved in stroke pathogenesis. The findings from our study suggest that molecular mechanisms in stroke pathogenesis involving low or no risk ischemic stroke patients could differ substantially from those with pre-existing risk factors.
RATIONALE: Intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator improves outcomes in patients treated early after stroke but at the risk of causing intracranial hemorrhage. Restricting recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator use to patients with evidence of still salvageable tissue, or with definite arterial occlusion, might help reduce risk, increase benefit and identify patients for treatment at late time windows. AIMS: To determine if perfusion or angiographic imaging with computed tomography or magnetic resonance help identify patients who are more likely to benefit from recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator in the context of a large multicenter randomized trial of recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator given within six-hours of onset of acute ischemic stroke, the Third International Stroke Trial. DESIGN: Third International Stroke Trial is a prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial testing recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator (09mg/kg, maximum dose 90mg) started up to six-hours after onset of acute ischemic stroke, in patients with no clear indication for or contraindication to recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator. Brain imaging (computed tomography or magnetic resonance) was mandatory pre-randomization to exclude hemorrhage. Scans were read centrally, blinded to treatment and clinical information. In centers where perfusion and/or angiography imaging were used routinely in stroke, these images were also collected centrally, processed and assessed using validated visual scores and computational measures. STUDY OUTCOMES: The primary outcome in Third International Stroke Trial is alive and independent (Oxford Handicap Score 0-2) at 6 months; secondary outcomes are symptomatic and fatal intracranial hemorrhage, early and late death. The perfusion and angiography study additionally will examine interactions between recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator and clinical outcomes, infarct growth and recanalization in the presence or absence of perfusion lesions and/or arterial occlusion at presentation. The study is registered ISRCTN25765518.


Many species of songbirds exhibit dramatic seasonal variation in song output. Recent evidence suggests that seasonal changes in auditory processing are coincident with seasonal variation in vocal output. Here, we show, for the first time, that frequency selectivity and temporal resolution of the songbird auditory periphery change seasonally and in a sex-specific manner. Male and female house sparrows (Passer domesticus) did not differ in their frequency sensitivity during the non-breeding season, nor did they differ in their temporal resolution. By contrast, female house sparrows showed enhanced frequency selectivity during the breeding season, which was matched by a concomitant reduction of temporal resolution. However, males failed to show seasonal plasticity in either of these auditory properties. We discuss potential mechanisms generating these seasonal patterns and the implications of sex-specific seasonal changes in auditory processing for vocal communication.
The study of stroke patients with modern lesion-symptom analysis techniques has yielded valuable insights into the representation of spatial attention in the human brain. Here we introduce an approach--multivariate pattern analysis--that no longer assumes independent contributions of brain regions but rather quantifies the joint contribution of multiple brain regions in determining behavior. In a large sample of stroke patients, we found patterns of damage more predictive of spatial neglect than the best-performing single voxel. In addition, modeling multiple brain regions--those that are frequently damaged and, importantly, spared--provided more predictive information than modeling single regions. Interestingly, we also found that the superior temporal gyrus demonstrated a consistent ability to improve classifier performance when added to other regions, implying uniquely predictive information. In sharp contrast, classifier performance for both the angular gyrus and insular cortex was reliably enhanced by the addition of other brain regions, suggesting these regions lack independent predictive information for spatial neglect. Our findings highlight the utility of multivariate pattern analysis in lesion mapping, furnishing neuroscience with a modern approach for using lesion data to study human brain function.
Daily cyclical expression of thousands of genes in tissues such as the liver is orchestrated by the molecular circadian clock, the disruption of which is implicated in metabolic disorders and cancer. Although we understand much about the circadian transcription factors that can switch gene expression on and off, it is still unclear how global changes in rhythmic transcription are controlled at the genomic level. Here, we demonstrate circadian modification of an activating histone mark at a significant proportion of gene loci that undergo daily transcription, implicating widespread epigenetic modification as a key node regulated by the clockwork. Furthermore, we identify the histone-remodelling enzyme mixed lineage leukemia (MLL)3 as a clock-controlled factor that is able to directly and indirectly modulate over a hundred epigenetically targeted circadian &quot;output&quot; genes in the liver. Importantly, catalytic inactivation of the histone methyltransferase activity of MLL3 also severely compromises the oscillation of &quot;core&quot; clock gene promoters, including Bmal1, mCry1, mPer2, and Rev-erb, suggesting that rhythmic histone methylation is vital for robust transcriptional oscillator function. This highlights a pathway by which the clockwork exerts genome-wide control over transcription, which is critical for sustaining temporal programming of tissue physiology.
Successful interaction with the world depends on accurate perception of the timing of external events. Neurons at early stages of the primate visual system represent time-varying stimuli with high precision. However, it is unknown whether this temporal fidelity is maintained in the prefrontal cortex, where changes in neuronal activity generally correlate with changes in perception. One reason to suspect that it is not maintained is that humans experience surprisingly large fluctuations in the perception of time. To investigate the neuronal correlates of time perception, we recorded from neurons in the prefrontal cortex and midbrain of monkeys performing a temporal-discrimination task. Visual time intervals were presented at a timescale relevant to natural behavior (&lt;500 ms). At this brief timescale, neuronal adaptation--time-dependent changes in the size of successive responses--occurs. We found that visual activity fluctuated with timing judgments in the prefrontal cortex but not in comparable midbrain areas. Surprisingly, only response strength, not timing, predicted task performance. Intervals perceived as longer were associated with larger visual responses and shorter intervals with smaller responses, matching the dynamics of adaptation. These results suggest that the magnitude of prefrontal activity may be read out to provide temporal information that contributes to judging the passage of time.
Dynamic spatial patterns of signaling factors or macromolecular assemblies in the form of oscillations or traveling waves have emerged as important themes in cell physiology. Feedback mechanisms underlying these processes and their modulation by signaling events and reciprocal cross-talks remain poorly understood. Here we show that antigen stimulation of mast cells triggers cyclic changes in the concentration of actin regulatory proteins and actin in the cell cortex that can be manifested in either spatial pattern. Recruitment of FBP17 and active Cdc42 at the plasma membrane, leading to actin polymerization, are involved in both events, whereas calcium oscillations, which correlate with global fluctuations of plasma membrane PI(4,5)P(2), are tightly linked to standing oscillations and counteract wave propagation. These findings demonstrate the occurrence of a calcium-independent oscillator that controls the collective dynamics of factors linking the actin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane. Coupling between this oscillator and the one underlying global plasma membrane PI(4,5)P2 and calcium oscillations spatially regulates actin dynamics, revealing an unexpected pattern-rendering mechanism underlying plastic changes occurring in the cortical region of the cell.
Refinement of neural circuits in the mammalian cerebral cortex shapes brain function during development and in the adult. However, the signaling mechanisms underlying the synapse-specific shrinkage and loss of spiny synapses when neural circuits are remodeled remain poorly defined. Here, we show that low-frequency glutamatergic activity at individual dendritic spines leads to synapse-specific synaptic weakening and spine shrinkage on CA1 neurons in the hippocampus. We found that shrinkage of individual spines in response to low-frequency glutamate uncaging is saturable, reversible, and requires NMDA receptor activation. Notably, shrinkage of large spines additionally requires signaling through metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)Rs), supported by higher levels of mGluR signaling activity in large spines. Our results support a model in which signaling through both NMDA receptors and mGluRs is required to drive activity-dependent synaptic weakening and spine shrinkage at large, mature dendritic spines when neural circuits undergo experience-dependent modification.
Stress-related psychiatric disorders, such as unipolar depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), occur more frequently in women than in men. Emerging research suggests that sex differences in receptors for the stress hormones, corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and glucocorticoids, contribute to this disparity. For example, sex differences in CRF receptor binding in the amygdala of rats may predispose females to greater anxiety following stressful events. Additionally, sex differences in CRF receptor signaling and trafficking in the locus coeruleus arousal center combine to make females more sensitive to low levels of CRF, and less adaptable to high levels. These receptor differences in females could lead to hyperarousal, a dysregulated state associated with symptoms of depression and PTSD. Similar to the sex differences observed in CRF receptors, sex differences in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) function also appear to make females more susceptible to dysregulation after a stressful event. Following hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis activation, GRs are critical to the negative feedback process that inhibits additional glucocorticoid release. Compared to males, female rats have fewer GRs and impaired GR translocation following chronic adolescent stress, effects linked to slower glucocorticoid negative feedback. Thus, under conditions of chronic stress, attenuated negative feedback in females would result in hypercortisolemia, an endocrine state thought to cause depression. Together, these studies suggest that sex differences in stress-related receptors shift females more easily into a dysregulated state of stress reactivity, linked to the development of mood and anxiety disorders. The implications of these receptor sex differences for the development of novel pharmacotherapies are also discussed.
Women have a higher incidence of stress related disorders including depression and generalized anxiety disorder, and epigenetic mechanisms likely contribute to this sex difference. Evidence from preclinical research suggests that epigenetic mechanisms are responsible for both sexual dimorphism of brain regions and sensitivity of the stress response. Epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation and histone modifications can occur transgenerationally, developmentally, or in response to environmental stimuli such as stress exposure. This review will provide an overview of the various forms of epigenetic modifications observed in the central nervous system and will explain how these mechanisms contribute to a sexually dimorphic brain. It will also discuss the ways in which epigenetic alterations coincide with, and functionally contribute to, the behavioral response to stress across the lifespan. Ultimately, this review will focus on novel research utilizing animal models to investigate sex differences in epigenetic mechanisms that influence susceptibility to stress. Exploration of this relationship reveals epigenetic mechanisms with the potential to explain sexual dimorphism in the occurrence of stress related disorders.
Once hailed as insightful, the string-pulling behaviour of birds may actually rely on immediate visual feedback rather than mental simulation or planning. But is this an end to the study of animal insight or a call for a new approach?
Animals need attention to focus on one target amid alternative distracters. Dragonflies, for example, capture flies in swarms comprising prey and conspecifics, a feat that requires neurons to select one moving target from competing alternatives. Diverse evidence, from functional imaging and physiology to psychophysics, highlights the importance of such &quot;competitive selection&quot; in attention for vertebrates. Analogous mechanisms have been proposed in artificial intelligence and even in invertebrates, yet direct neural correlates of attention are scarce from all animal groups. Here, we demonstrate responses from an identified dragonfly visual neuron that perfectly match a model for competitive selection within limits of neuronal variability (r(2) = 0.83). Responses to individual targets moving at different locations within the receptive field differ in both magnitude and time course. However, responses to two simultaneous targets exclusively track those for one target alone rather than any combination of the pair. Irrespective of target size, contrast, or separation, this neuron selects one target from the pair and perfectly preserves the response, regardless of whether the &quot;winner&quot; is the stronger stimulus if presented alone. This neuron is amenable to electrophysiological recordings, providing neuroscientists with a new model system for studying selective attention.
Our subjective experience links covert visual and egocentric spatial attention seamlessly. However, the latter can extend beyond the visual field, covering all directions relative to our body. In contrast to visual representations, little is known about unseen egocentric representations in the healthy brain. Parietal cortex appears to be involved in both, because lesions in it can lead to deficits in visual attention, but also to a disorder of egocentric spatial awareness, known as hemispatial neglect. Here, we used a novel virtual reality paradigm to probe our participants' egocentric surrounding during fMRI recordings. We found that egocentric unseen space was represented by patterns of voxel activity in parietal cortex, independent of visual information. Intriguingly, the best decoding performances corresponded to brain areas associated with visual covert attention and reaching, as well as to lesion sites associated with spatial neglect.
Several new approaches for treatment of Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders are currently under investigation, including the use of rehabilitation training strategies, which are often combined with electrical and/or pharmacological modulation of spinal locomotor circuitries. While these approaches show great promise in the laboratory setting, there still exists a large gap in knowledge on how to transfer these treatments to daily clinical use. This thematic series presents a cross section of cutting edge approaches with the goal of transferring basic neuroscience principles from the laboratory to the proverbial &quot;bedside&quot;.


The central nervous system is derived from the neural plate that undergoes a series of complex morphogenetic movements resulting in formation of the neural tube in a process known as neurulation. During neurulation, morphogenesis of the mesenchyme that underlies the neural plate is believed to drive neural fold elevation. The cranial mesenchyme is comprised of the paraxial mesoderm and neural crest cells. The cells of the cranial mesenchyme form a pourous meshwork composed of stellate shaped cells and intermingling extracellular matrix (ECM) strands that support the neural folds. During neurulation, the cranial mesenchyme undergoes stereotypical rearrangements resulting in its expansion and these movements are believed to provide a driving force for neural fold elevation. However, the pathways and cellular behaviors that drive cranial mesenchyme morphogenesis remain poorly studied. Interactions between the ECM and the cells of the cranial mesenchyme underly these cell behaviors. Here we describe a simple ex vivo explant assay devised to characterize the behaviors of these cells. This assay is amendable to pharmacological manipulations to dissect the signaling pathways involved and live imaging analyses to further characterize the behavior of these cells. We present a representative experiment demonstrating the utility of this assay in characterizing the migratory properties of the cranial mesenchyme on a variety of ECM components.
ICRF-154 and bimolane have been used for the treatment of cancer, psoriasis, and uveitis in humans. Previous reports have revealed that the two drugs are topoisomerase II catalytic inhibitors, and patients treated with these agents have developed unique types of secondary leukemia. A study published in 1984 by Camerman and colleagues proposed that the therapeutic effects of bimolane could be due to ICRF-154, an impurity present within the bimolane samples that may also be responsible for the toxic effects attributed to bimolane. To date, this hypothesis has not been evaluated. In addition, little is known about the potential cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of ICRF-154. In this study, a combination of in vitro tests in human TK6 lymphoblastoid cells has been used to characterize the cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of ICRF-154 and bimolane as well as to compare the results for the two chemicals. ICRF-154 and bimolane were both cytotoxic, exhibiting very similar effects in three measures of cytotoxicity and cell proliferation. In the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay with CREST-antibody staining, the two agents similarly induced chromosome breakage and, to a lesser extent, chromosome loss. Intriguingly, both drugs resulted in the formation of binucleated cells, perhaps as a consequence of an interference with cytokinesis. To further investigate their aneugenic effects, flow cytometry and fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses revealed that both compounds also produced similar levels of non-disjunction and polyploidy. In each of the cellular and cytogenetic assays employed, the responses of the ICRF-154-treated cells were very similar to those observed with the bimolane, and generally occurred at equimolar test concentrations. Our results, combined with those from previous studies, strongly suggest that bimolane degrades to ICRF-154, and that ICRF-154 is most likely the chemical species responsible for the cytotoxic, genotoxic, and leukemogenic effects exerted by bimolane.
