The greater superficial petrosal nerve (GSP), innervating taste buds in the palate, is known to be exceptionally responsive to sucrose, especially compared with the responsiveness of the chorda tympani nerve (CT). However, whereas transection of the CT (CTX) alone has little or no effect on unconditioned licking responses to many &quot;sweet&quot; stimuli, the impact of GSP transection (GSPX) alone is equivocal. To further examine the role of the GSP on licking responses to putatively sweet-tasting substances, brief-access taste tests were conducted in nondeprived rats before and after sham surgery (SHAM) or CTX or GSPX. A range of concentrations of sucrose, L-alanine, glycine, and L-serine, with and without 1.0 mM inosine monophosphate (IMP) added, were used. All groups showed significant concentration-dependent increases in licking to all stimuli presurgically and postsurgically. CTX decreased licking responses relative to SHAM rats in the first sucrose test. There was also a group x concentration interaction for L-alanine, but post hoc tests did not reveal its basis. Other than this, there were no significant differences among the surgical groups. Interestingly, rats with GSPX tended to initiate fewer trials than SHAM rats. Overall, after GSPX, the remaining gustatory nerves are apparently sufficient to maintain concentration-dependent licking responses to all stimuli tested here. The disparity between our results and others in the literature where GSPX reduced licking responses to sucrose is possibly related to differences in surgical technique or test trial duration.
So far, angioplasty with stenting of the carotid arteries does not seem to offer any clear advantage over traditional carotid endarterectomy for patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic stenosis. This paper reviews recent and ongoing studies of carotid revascularization, with conclusions on how these treatments should be used, based on what we know now.

Previous research has demonstrated neurophysiologic effects of antidepressants in depressed subjects. We evaluated neurophysiologic effects of venlafaxine in normal subjects. Healthy adults (n=32) received a 1-week placebo lead-in followed by 4 weeks randomized double-blind treatment with venlafaxine IR 150 mg. (n = 17) or placebo (n = 15). Brain function was examined using quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) power and theta cordance. Normal subjects receiving venlafaxine showed a decrease in theta-band cordance in the midline-and-right-frontal (MRF) region at 48 hours and at 1 week after randomization. Decreases in relative power also were seen in the MRF region; there were no significant changes in absolute power. These changes were significantly different from those in subjects receiving placebo. Changes in MRF cordance accurately identified treatment condition at 48 hours in 81.3% of subjects, and relative power from this region identified 60.7% of subjects. In conclusion, cordance may detect the pharmacological effects of antidepressant medication in normal subjects. Future studies should examine other classes of medication, as well as antidepressants with other mechanisms of action, to determine if cordance detects antidepressant medication effects in general in normal subjects.
The aim of this study was to determine the serum cytokine levels in patients with Wilson's disease (WD) and correlate with phenotype, therapeutic status and laboratory data. In this cross-sectional study, the serum levels of cytokines were estimated in 34 patients (M : F, 23 : 11; drug-naive, 11) with WD (mean age: 13.8 +/- 8.6 and 19.6 +/- 9.03 years) and compared with 30 controls. The following serum cytokines were analysed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: (i) tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, (ii) interferon (IFN)-gamma, (iii) interleukin (IL)-2, (iv) IL-6 and (v) IL-4. Serum TNF-alpha (P &lt; 0.001), IFN-gamma (P = 0.005) and IL-6 (P &lt; 0.001) were detectable in WD compared with controls. However, serum level elevation of IL-4 (P = 0.49) and IL-2 (P = 0.11), although detectable compared with controls, was statistically insignificant. The disease severity and therapeutic status did not affect the cytokines. Presence of anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia and hepatic dysfunction did not influence cytokine levels. There was a significant negative correlation between IL-6 and ceruloplasmin (P = 0.04) and anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-4) and copper level (P = 0.01). Serum cytokines, both proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory subtypes, were elevated significantly in patients with WD. Further studies would establish their role in its pathogenesis.


Healthcare inequalities within the UK based on patients' ethnicity have been found over the last five years in a large number of medical specialties. One possible explanation for this lies in ignorance of ethnic minority healthcare needs among professionals. Cultural diversity programmes have been shown to improve patient outcomes including compliance, yet these are not as yet requirements for any UK healthcare professionals with the exception of psychiatrists. This paper documents the frequency, regional variation, characteristics and motivations for cultural diversity training through a questionnaire survey of the educational leads of every UK medical school, postgraduate deanery and schools of nursing, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech and language therapy, and pharmacy. The results showed a wide variation in teaching practices between healthcare professions and geographical regions. This study provides evidence for the need for national guidelines to incorporate cultural competency training by all UK healthcare professional training bodies.



A variety of sublethal or stressful stimuli induce a phenomenon in the brain known as tolerance, an adaptive response that protects the brain against the same stress, or against a different stress (cross-tolerance). Understanding the molecular mechanisms of brain preconditioning holds promise in developing innovative therapies to prevent and treat neurodegenerative disorders, particularly ischemic stroke. Many of the detailed steps involved in tolerance and cross-tolerance are unknown. It is also likely that different stressors differentially regulate sets of genes, transcription factors, and signal transduction pathways that depend upon the molecules that are released in response to the stressor, activation of particular receptors, and the surrounding milieu. The focus of this review is to highlight a few examples of stimuli that induce tolerance: 1) cortical spreading depression; 2) 3-nitropropionic acid; and 3) 2-deoxy-D-glucose. We will summarize by discussing one pathway where intracellular mediators may converge to upregulate intrinsic neuronal survival pathways to promote survival by resisting damage. This mechanism, activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and its integral relationship with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, may be a critical and general mechanism developed in brain to respond to stressful stimuli.
The role of Glutamate (Glu), one of the major excitatory neurotransmitters in the central nervous system, has been thoroughly investigated in animal models and in humans in several physiologic events, such as brain development and synaptic plasticity, but also in acute and chronic neurologic diseases and psychiatric disorders. Recently, it has been demonstrated that Glu is important for sensory input transduction, particularly along the nociceptive pathway. Glu involvement in peripheral neuropathies has also been suggested on the basis of experimental studies in animals, thus widening the spectrum of possible sites of action of this neurotransmitter from the central to the peripheral nervous system. This rather unexpected observation may have important therapeutic implications, provided that a complete characterization of the glutamatergic system in the peripheral nervous system is achieved and its changes under the different pathological conditions are investigated. This review will focus on the most recent advances in the research into the role of Glu and the glutamatergic system in the pathology of the peripheral nervous system.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, after Alzheimer's disease. In PD, motor symptoms result from the degeneration and loss of pigmented dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta of the basal ganglia. Other neuronal fields and neurotransmitter systems are also involved, including non-adrenergic, serotonergic and cholinergic neurons. Since the early 1960s the treatment of PD has been based on the pharmacologic replacement of dopamine accomplished with the precursor of dopamine, 3, 4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine (L-dopa). The addition of carbidopa, an inhibitor of the decarboxylase represented a tremendous improvement in therapy and is still a mainstay of the treatment of PD. Dopamine agonists may also be used, as well as inhibitors of monoamine oxidase-B or catechol-O-methyltransferase. Other medications include anticholinergics and amantadine. These therapies are only symptomatic and none halt or lessen dopaminergic neuron degeneration and the progression of the disease. This has prompted the search for novel and alternative pharmacological targets and neuroprotective therapies. In this context, there are data to suggest a benefit from glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, neuroimmumophilin ligands, minocycline, Coenzyme Q10, creatine, reduced glutathione, adenosine A2A receptor antagonists as well as glutamate release inhibitors. Restorative techniques to compensate for cell loss include tissue transplantation and gene transfer therapy. Due to the paucity of data regarding non-pharmacological approaches such as diet therapy or antioxidant therapy, these await more studies. There are also few studies on medicinal plants. Other areas of increasing importance would thus include the investigation of active constituents of plants and phytomedicines with a view to the discovery of new compounds. Finally, stem cell therapy may offer the promise of restoring functionality.
Developing effective treatments for chronic neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has proven extremely difficult. ALS is universally fatal, characterized by progressive weakness due to the degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons, and leads eventually to respiratory failure which is the usual cause of death. Only a single treatment has been approved, the modestly effective nonspecific neuroprotectant Rilutek (riluzole; 2-amino-6-(trifluoromethoxy)benzothiazole). KNS-760704 [(6R)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-N6-propyl-2,6-benzothiazole-diamine dihydrochloride, RPPX], a synthetic amino-benzothiazole with demonstrated activity in maintaining mitochondrial function, is being developed as a treatment for ALS. It has proven to be effective in multiple in vitro and in vivo assays of neuroprotection, including the G93A-SOD1 mutant mouse model; however, its specific mechanism of action remains unknown. The potential of KNS-760604 as a treatment for ALS was first suggested by studies showing that its optical enantiomer, Mirapex[(6S)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-N6-propyl-2,6-benzothiazole-diamine; pramipexole dihydrochloride; PPX], a high-affinity agonist at dopamine D2, D3, and D4 receptors, exhibits important neuroprotective properties independent of its dopamine receptor agonism. In cell-based assays, both RPPX and PPX reduce the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), attenuate the activation of apoptotic pathways, and increase cell survival in response to a variety of neurotoxins. However, PPX has limited utility as a clinical neuroprotective agent because the drug concentrations required for neuroprotection would likely produce unacceptable dopaminergic side effects. RPPX, on the other hand, while possessing the same neuroprotective potential as PPX, is a much lower-affinity dopamine receptor agonist and may therefore be more useful in the treatment of ALS. This review will examine the data supporting the hypothesis that the RPPX may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders including ALS. In addition, we will briefly review recent preclinical data in support of RPPX, and discuss the current status of its clinical development.

Recent research in comparative psychology suggests that similarities between the behaviour of two individuals may not be the consequence of imitation only, but also of nonimitative social-learning processes. In the present study we aimed to investigate whether these alternative learning processes can take place in human adults, specifically in patients whose ability to imitate has been reduced by brain damage. Left (LBD) and right (RBD) brain-damaged patients were asked to perform four tool use tasks in three experimental conditions: exposure to the apparatus (N); demonstration of the correct solution (C); and demonstration of a failed attempt followed by the correct solution to the problem (I + C). Results suggest that the left hemisphere is indeed critical for action and that selective neuropsychological deficits can affect action imitation and selection of goal-directed movements, independently from each other. Findings also indicate that when the ability to imitate actions is lowered emulation may become available.
Despite that fact that landmarks play a prominent role in human navigation, experimental evidence on how landmarks are selected and defined by human navigators remains elusive. Indeed, the concept of a 'landmark' is itself not entirely clear. In everyday language, the term landmark refers to salient, distinguishable, and usually nameable objects, rendering the problem of landmark recognition a special case of the general object recognition problem. In contrast, in the insect and robot literature, this notion of landmarks is often replaced by the &quot;local position information&quot; [e.g., Trullier, O., Wiener, S., Berthoz, A., &amp; Meyer, J.-A. (1997). Biologically based artificial navigation systems: Review and prospects. Progress in Neurobiology, 51, 483-544], referring to the entire set of sensor readings obtained at one location. This set may then serve as a characteristic of the particular location. Honey bees have been shown to base place recognition and homing on a snapshot-like memory of the place's visual environment, not on the distances to recognized objects [Cartwright, B., &amp; Collett, T. (1983). Landmark learning in bees. Experiments and models. Journal of Comparative Physiology A, 151, 521-543]. A number of theoretical models of snapshot-based homing [e.g., Franz, M., Schlkopf, B., Mallot, H. A., Blthoff, H. H. (1998). Where did I take that snapshot? Scene-based homing by image matching. Biological Cybernetics, 79, 191-202; Vardy, A., &amp; Mller, R. (2005). Biologically plausible visual homing methods based on optical flow techniques. Connection Science, 17, 47-89] predict that the accuracy of snapshot-based homing should depend on image contrast. For rodent hippocampal place fields, models have been developed using additional image information such as three-dimensional depth and allocentric orientations (e.g., room axes) and are thus less sensitive to image contrast and noise [e.g. Barry, C., Lever, C., Hayman, R., Hartley, T., Burton, S., O'Keefe, J., et al. (2006). The boundary vector cell model of place cell firing and spatial memory. Reviews in the Neurosciences, 17, 71-79]. Here, we study human visual homing in a virtual environment void of objects and readily detected image features. The environment was a circular room with a homogenous colour gradient covering the wall and uniform floor and ceiling. Subjects were able to approach remembered places. Accuracy decreased with colour gradient modulation and room size, in qualitative agreement with the snapshot model but not with other models of place recognition. We conclude that human memory for places can make use of a snapshot algorithm.


To date, the beta amyloid (Abeta) cascade hypothesis remains the main pathogenetic model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its role in the majority of sporadic AD cases is unclear. The mitochondria play central role in the bioenergetics of the cell and apoptotic cell death. In the past 20 years research has been directed at clarifying the involvement of mitochondria and defects in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation in late-onset neurodegenerative disorders, including AD. Morphological, biochemical and genetic abnormalities of the mitochondria in several AD tissues have been reported. Impaired mitochondrial respiration, particularly COX deficiency, has been observed in brain, platelets and fibroblasts of AD patients. The &quot;mitochondrial cascade hypothesis&quot; could explain many of the biochemical, genetic and pathological features of sporadic AD. Somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) could cause energy failure, increased oxidative stress and accumulation of Abeta, which in a vicious cycle reinforces the mtDNA damage and the oxidative stress. Despite the evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in AD, no causative mutations in the mtDNA have been detected so far. Indeed, results of studies on the role of mtDNA haplogroups in AD are controversial. In this review we discuss the role of the mitochondria in the cascade of events leading to AD, and we will try to provide an answer to the question &quot;what comes first&quot;.
Hyperinsulinemia as well as type II diabetes mellitus are among the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular and cellular basis that link insulin resistance disorders and diabetes with AD are far from clear. Here, we discuss the potential molecular mechanisms that may explain the participation of these metabolic disorders in the pathogenesis of AD. The human brain uses glucose as a primary fuel; insulin secreted by the pancreas cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), reaching neurons and glial cells, and exerts a region-specific effect on glucose metabolism. Glucose homeostasis is critical for energy generation, neuronal maintenance, neurogenesis, neurotransmitter regulation, cell survival and synaptic plasticity. It also plays a key role in cognitive function. In an insulin resistance condition, there is a reduced sensitivity to insulin resulting in hyperinsulinemia; this condition persists for several years before becoming full-blown diabetes. Toxic levels of insulin negatively influence neuronal function and survival, and elevation of peripheral insulin concentration acutely increases its cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration. Peripheral hyperinsulinemia correlates with an abnormal removal of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and an increase of tau hyperphosphorylation as a result of augmented cdk5 and GSK3beta activities. This leads to cellular cascades that trigger a neurodegenerative phenotype and decline in cognitive function. Chronic peripheral hyperinsulinemia results in a reduction of insulin transport across the BBB and a reduced insulin signaling in brain, altering all of insulin's actions, including its anti-apoptotic effect. However, the increase in brain insulin levels resulting from its peripheral administration at optimal doses has shown a cognition-enhancing effect in patient with AD. Some drugs utilized in type II diabetes mellitus reduce cognitive impairment associated with AD. The link between insulin resistance and neurodegeneration and AD, and the possible therapeutic targets in preventing the insulin-resistance disorders are analyzed.


Microelectrodes have emerged as an important tool used by scientists to study biological changes in the brain and in single cells. This review briefly summarizes the ways in which microelectrodes as chemical sensors have furthered the field of neurobiology by reporting on changes that occur on the subsecond time scale. Microelectrodes have been used in a variety of fields including their use by electrophysiologists to characterize neuronal action potentials and develop neural prosthetics. Here we restrict our review to microelectrodes that have been used as chemical sensors. They have played a major role in many important neurobiological findings.


T-box transcription factor genes are widely conserved in metazoan development and widely involved in developmental processes. With the phase of T-box gene discovery winding down, the phase of transcriptional target discovery for T-box transcription factors is finally taking off and yielding rich rewards. Mutant phenotypes in mouse and zebrafish as well as morpholino studies in zebrafish have helped to link the T-box genes to a variety of signaling pathways through diverse target genes and feedback loops. Particularly in early mesoderm development, it is emerging that a network of T-box genes interacts with Wnt/beta-catenin and Notch/Delta signaling pathways, among others, to control the important processes of mesoderm specification, somite segmentation, and left/right body axis determination.







To date, most investigation of latent myofascial trigger points (LTrPs) has occurred in pain populations. Many have thought that LTrPs are clinically relevant as -potential precursors to developing active myofascial trigger points and spontaneous pain. Nociceptive substances have been found in greater concentrations at LTrP sites compared with non-TrP sites, indicating the potential for group III and IV afferent fibers to provide input to the central nervous system from affected peripheral sites. Fatigue and neurophysiologic studies provide evidence as to the pathways via which group III and IV afferents can alter activity of the motoneuron pool and therefore affect muscle activation and performance. This article offers suggestions as to the mechanisms via which LTrP-related pathophysiology may explain the clinical examination findings associated with LTrP-containing and functionally related muscles.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) occurs with high prevalence, and the drugs used to treat OCD are limited in efficacy and have side-effect issues. The discovery of improved medicines for OCD has been hampered in part by the lack of predictive in vivo models. This unit provides a brief overview of two methods that might have such predictive utility. Marble burying and nestlet shredding are two behaviors that occur spontaneously with high frequency and repetitiveness in mice. These acute in vivo assays are relatively easy to conduct. Selective serotonin uptake inhibitors decrease these behaviors without producing motor side effects, as assessed by the behavior of walking on a rotating rod. In contrast, some other drugs (e.g., benzodiazepine anxiolytics) only affect marble burying and nestlet shredding at motor-impairing doses. The present methods might therefore provide one piece of in vivo information for the discovery of novel chemical treatment solutions for the symptoms of OCD.
We evaluated the spontaneous IL17, IFNgamma and IL10 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients affected by clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS) both in acute phase and in remission, relapsing remitting MS (RRMS) both in relapse and in remission, not-relapsing secondary progressive MS (SPMS) and controls. We observed higher IL17 levels in CIS patients both in acute phase and in remission than in SPMS patients and controls. On the contrary no difference in IL17 production was observed among RRMS patients and CIS, SPMS patients and controls. IFNgamma levels were significantly higher in CIS patients in acute phase than in CIS and RRMS patients in remission, SPMS patients and controls. Moreover, we observed higher IFNgamma spontaneous production in relapsing RRMS patients than in remitting RRMS and SPMS patients and controls. IL10 levels were significantly higher in remitting CIS and in relapsing RRMS patients than in SPMS patients and controls. There was no difference in IFNgamma, IL10 and IL17 levels between SPMS patients and controls. Our data suggest that IL17 might play a crucial role mainly in the early phase of MS, while IFNgamma seems to be involved both in the early phase and in the following relapses of the disease.
The proinflammatory cytokine Interleukin 1 beta (IL-1beta) is elevated in obese individuals and rodents and it is implicated in impaired insulin secretion, decreased cell proliferation and apoptosis of pancreatic beta cells. In this study we describe the therapeutic effects by an IL-1beta antibody to improve glucose control in hyperglycemic mice with diet-induced obesity. After 13 weeks of treatment the IL-1beta antibody treated group showed reduced glycated hemoglobin (( *)P=0.049), reduced serum levels of proinsulin (( *)P=0.015), reduced levels of insulin and smaller islet size (( *)P=1.65E-13) relative to the control antibody treated group. Neutralization of IL-1beta also significantly reduced serum amyloid A (SAA) which is an indicator of inflammation-induced acute phase response (( *)P=0.024). While there was no improvement of obesity, a significant improvement of glycemic control and of beta cell function is achieved by this pharmacological treatment which may slow/prevent disease progression in Type 2 Diabetes.
Recent research has led to a better but as yet incomplete understanding of the complex roles osteopontin plays in mammalian physiology. A soluble protein found in all body fluids, it stimulates signal transduction pathways (via integrins and CD44 variants) similar to those stimulated by components of the extracellular matrix. This appears to promote the survival of cells exposed to potentially lethal insults such as ischemia/reperfusion or physical/chemical trauma. OPN is chemotactic for many cell types including macrophages, dendritic cells, and T cells; it enhances B lymphocyte immunoglobulin production and proliferation. In inflammatory situations it stimulates both pro- and anti-inflammatory processes, which on balance can be either beneficial or harmful depending on what other inputs the cell is receiving. OPN influences cell-mediated immunity and has been shown to have Th1-cytokine functions. OPN deficiency is linked to a reduced Th1 immune response in infectious diseases, autoimmunity and delayed type hypersensitivity. OPN's role in the central nervous system and in stress responses has also emerged as an important aspect related to its cytoprotective and immune functions. Evidence suggests that either OPN or anti-OPN monoclonal antibodies (depending on the circumstances) might be clinically useful in modulating OPN function. Manipulation of plasma OPN levels may be useful in the treatment of autoimmune disease, cancer metastasis, osteoporosis and some forms of stress.
Stem cells have received significant attention for their envisioned potential to treat currently unapproachable diseases. No less important is the utility of stem cells to serve as model systems of differentiation. Analyses at the transcriptome, miRNA and proteome levels have yielded valuable insights into events underlying stem cell differentiation. Proteomic analysis is often cumbersome, detecting changes in hundreds of proteins that require subsequent identification and validation. Targeted analysis of nuclear constituents would simplify proteomic studies, focusing efforts on transcription factor abundance and modification. To facilitate such studies, a simple and efficient methodology to isolate pure nuclear fractions from Marrow Stromal Cells (MSCs), a clinically relevant stem cell population, has been developed. The modified protocol greatly enhances cell disruption, yielding free nuclei without attached cell body remnants. Light and electron microscopic analysis of purified nuclei demonstrated that preparations contained predominantly intact nuclei with minimal cytoplasmic contamination. Western analysis revealed an approximately eightfold enrichment of the transcription factor CREB in the isolated nuclei over that in the starting homogenates. This simple method for isolation of highly purified nuclear fractions from stem cell populations will allow rigorous examination of nuclear proteins critical for differentiation.
In Caenorhabditis elegans, uncoordinated (unc)-55 encodes a nuclear hormone receptor that is necessary for coordinated movement and male mating. An unc-55 reporter gene revealed a sexually dimorphic pattern: early in post-embryonic motor neurons in both sexes; and later in a subset of male-specific cells that included an interneuron and eight muscle cells. A behavioral analysis coupled with RNA interference (RNAi) revealed that males require UNC-55 to execute copulatory motor programs. Two mRNA isoforms (unc-55a and unc-55b) were detected throughout post-embryonic development in males, whereas only one, unc-55a, was detected in hermaphrodites. In unc-55 mutant males isoform a rescued the locomotion and mating defect, whereas isoform b rescued the mating defect only. Isoform b represents the first report of male-specific splicing in C. elegans. In addition, isoform b extended the number of days that transgenic unc-55 mutant males mated when compared to males rescued with isoform a, suggesting an anabolic role for the nuclear hormone receptor. The male-specific expression and splicing is part of a regulatory hierarchy that includes two key genes, male abnormal (mab)-5 and mab-9, required for the generation and differentiation of male-specific cells. We suggest that UNC-55 acts as an interface between genes involved in male tail pattern formation and those responsible for function.

Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) mediates the organization of male rat sexual behavior and medial preoptic area (MPOA) neuroanatomy during a sensitive perinatal window. PGE2 is up-regulated in response to estradiol, and initiates a two-fold increase in dendritic spines densities on neurons. All the four receptors for PGE2 and EP1-4 are present in developing POA, a critical region controlling male sexual behavior. Previous studies explored that EP receptors are involved in PGE2-induction of neonatal levels of spinophilin protein, a surrogate marker for dendritic spine formation, but did not assess behavioral masculinization. Here, we used two approaches, suppression of EP receptor expression with antisense oligonucleotides and activation of EP receptors with selective agonists, to test which receptors are necessary and sufficient, respectively, for the effects of PGE2 on behavior and neuronal morphology. In female rats, neonatal treatment with antisense oligonucleotides against EP2 or EP4 but not EP1 or EP3 completely prevented the expression of adult behavior organized by PGE2 exposure. The effects of ONO-DI-004, ONO-AE-259-01, ONO-AE-248, and ONO-AE1-329 (EP1-4 agonists respectively) were equivalent to PGE2 treatment, which suggests activating any EP receptor neonatally suffices in masculinizing sex behavior. When given alone, not all EP agonists increased neonatal POA spinophilin levels; yet giving each agonist neonatally increased adult levels. Moreover, adult spinophilin levels significantly correlated with two measures of male sexual behavior. The body of evidence suggests that EP2 and EP4 are both necessary and sufficient for PGE2-induced masculinization of sex behavior, whereas EP1 and EP3 provide redundant roles.

Despite the assumed prevalence of risk-taking behavior in adolescence, the laboratory evidence of risk taking remains scarce, and the individual variation poorly understood. Drawing from neuroscience studies, we tested whether risk and reward orientation are influenced by the perspective that adolescents take when making risky decisions. Perspective taking was manipulated by cuing participants prior to each choice whether the decision was made for &quot;self,&quot; or from the perspective of an &quot;other&quot; (the experimenter in Experiment 1; a hypothetical peer in Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, we show a developmental decrease in risk-taking behavior across different stages of adolescence. In addition, all age groups made fewer risky choices for the experimenter, but the difference between self and other was larger in early adolescence. In Experiment 2, we show that high sensation-seeking (SS) adolescents make more risky choices than low SS adolescents, but both groups make a similar differentiation for other individuals (low risk-taking or high risk-taking peers). Together, the results show that younger adolescents and high SS adolescents make more risky choices for themselves, but can appreciate that others may make fewer risky choices. The developmental change toward more rational decisions versus emotional, impulsive decisions may reflect, in part, more efficient integration of others' perspectives into one's decision making. These developmental results are discussed regarding brain systems important for risk taking and perspective taking.
This paper discusses how converging methods may form a powerful tool in unraveling the neurobiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Integrating findings from multiple disciplines can inform us on how different neurobiological and cognitive mechanisms tie together in both typical and atypical development. Examples are discussed of this approach: combining family and genetic approaches with anatomical neuroimaging illustrates how mapping familial effects can bring us closer to understanding the neurobiology of ADHD. Functional neuroimaging has convincingly linked cognitive problems in this disorder with frontostriatal functioning, but also shows that other systems may be involved in some of the symptoms of ADHD. Combining these findings has suggested new avenues for investigation, such as the role of frontocerebellar networks. Furthermore, findings may have practical applications: this paper discusses an example of how converging evidence of striatal dysregulation in ADHD suggests possible directions for treatment that are now being explored in functional imaging studies.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social and communication deficits, and repetitive behavior. Studies investigating the integrity of brain systems in autism suggest a wide range of gray and white matter abnormalities that are present early in life and change with development. These abnormalities predominantly affect association areas and undermine functional integration. Executive function, which has a protracted development into adolescence and reflects the integration of complex widely distributed brain function, is also affected in autism. Evidence from studies probing response inhibition and working memory indicate impairments in these core components of executive function, as well as compensatory mechanisms that permit normative function in autism. Studies also demonstrate age-related improvements in executive function from childhood to adolescence in autism, indicating the presence of plasticity and suggesting a prolonged window for effective treatment. Despite developmental gains, mature executive functioning is limited in autism, reflecting abnormalities in wide-spread brain networks that may lead to impaired processing of complex information across all domains.
The psychological construct of empathy refers to an intersubjective induction process by which positive and negative emotions are shared, without losing sight of whose feelings belong to whom. Empathy can lead to personal distress or to empathic concern (sympathy). The goal of this paper is to address the underlying cognitive processes and their neural underpinnings that constitute empathy within a developmental neuroscience perspective. In addition, we focus on how these processes go awry in developmental disorders marked by impairments in social cognition, such as autism spectrum disorder, and conduct disorder. We argue that empathy involves both bottom-up and top-down information processing, underpinned by specific and interacting neural systems. We discuss data from developmental psychology as well as cognitive neuroscience in support of such a model, and highlight the impact of neural dysfunctions on social cognitive developmental behavior. Altogether, bridging developmental science and cognitive neuroscience helps approach a more complete understanding of social cognition. Synthesizing these two domains also contributes to a better characterization of developmental psychopathologies that impacts the development of effective treatment strategies.


Animal models are extensively used in genetics, neuroscience and biomedical research. Recent studies illustrate the usefulness and the challenges of research utilising genetically engineered mice to explore the developmental biology of Down syndrome. These studies highlight many of the issues at the centre of what we understand about Down syndrome, and may one day point to useful ways to improve quality of life for people living with Down syndrome.
Expression of the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor HAND2 begins early in sympathetic neuron development and is essential for the differentiation of noradrenergic neurons. Here, we show that the expression of HAND2 and related HAND1 are maintained in sympathetic neurons throughout fetal and postnatal development when these neurons depend on target-derived nerve growth factor (NGF) for survival. Short interfering RNA knockdown of endogenous HAND2 and, to a lesser extent, HAND1 in neonatal sympathetic neurons cultured with NGF, reduced the expression of the NGF receptor tyrosine kinase TrkA (tropomyosin-related kinase A), as well as neuronal survival. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showed that NGF promotes HAND2 binding to the TrkA minimal enhancer and that transfection of sympathetic neurons with a TrkA expression plasmid rescued the neurons from HAND knockdown. These findings show that HAND transcription factors have a crucial function in sustaining the survival of neonatal sympathetic neurons with NGF by a feed-forward loop that maintains the expression of TrkA.
GnRH neurons are essential for the onset and maintenance of reproduction. Mutations in both fibroblast growth factor receptor (Fgfr1) and Fgf8 have been shown to cause Kallmann syndrome, a disease characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia, indicating that FGF signaling is indispensable for the formation of a functional GnRH system. Presently it is unclear which stage of GnRH neuronal development is most impacted by FGF signaling deficiency. GnRH neurons express both FGFR1 and -3; thus, it is also unclear whether FGFR1 or FGFR3 contributes directly to GnRH system development. In this study, we examined the developing GnRH system in mice deficient in FGF8, FGFR1, or FGFR3 to elucidate the individual contribution of these FGF signaling components. Our results show that the early emergence of GnRH neurons from the embryonic olfactory placode requires FGF8 signaling, which is mediated through FGFR1, not FGFR3. These data provide compelling evidence that the developing GnRH system is exquisitely sensitive to reduced levels of FGF signaling. Furthermore, Kallmann syndrome stemming from FGF signaling deficiency may be due primarily to defects in early GnRH neuronal development prior to their migration into the forebrain.
It is becoming increasingly clear that protein phosphatases are important modulators of cellular function and that disruption of these proteins are involved in neurodegenerative disease processes. Serine/threonine protein phosphatases (PP) such as protein phosphatase PP1, PP2A, and calcineurin are involved in hyperphosphorylation of tau- as well as beta-amyloid-induced cell death. We have previously shown serine/threonine protein phosphatases to be involved in estrogen-mediated neuroprotection. The purpose of this study was to delineate the role of PP1, PP2A, and calcineurin in the mechanism of estrogen mediated neuroprotection against oxidative stress and excitotoxicity. Treatment with protein phosphatases inhibitor II, endothall, or cyclosporin A, which are specific inhibitors of PP1, PP2A, and calcineurin, respectively, did not have an effect on cell viability. However, in combination, these inhibitors adversely affected cell survival, which suggests the importance of serine/threonine protein phosphatases in maintenance of cellular function. Inhibitors of PP1, PP2A, and calcineurin attenuated the protective effects of estrogen against glutamate-induced -neurotoxicity but did not completely abrogate the estrogen-mediated protection. The attenuation of estrogen-induced neuroprotection was achieved through decrease in the activity of theses serine/threonine phosphatases without the concomitant decrease in protein expression. In an animal model, transient middle cerebral artery occlusion caused a 50% decrease in levels of PP1, PP2A, and PP2B ipsilateral to the lesion in a manner that was prevented by estradiol pretreatment. Therefore, we conclude that in the face of cytotoxic challenges in vitro and in vivo, estrogens maintain the function of PP1, PP2A, and calcineurin.
In vitro studies reveal that nuclear receptor coactivators enhance the transcriptional activity of steroid receptors, including estrogen (ER) and progestin receptors (PR), through ligand-dependent interactions. Whereas work from our laboratory and others shows that steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) is essential for efficient ER and PR action in brain, very little is known about receptor-coactivator interactions in brain. In the present studies, pull-down assays were used to test the hypotheses that SRC-1 from hypothalamic and hippocampal tissue physically associate with recombinant PR or ER in a ligand-dependent manner. SRC-1, from hypothalamus or hippocampus, interacted with PR-A and PR-B in the presence of an agonist, but not in the absence of ligand or in the presence of a selective PR modulator, RU486. Interestingly, SRC-1 from brain associated more with PR-B, the stronger transcriptional activator, than with PR-A. In addition, SRC-1 from brain, which was confirmed by mass spectrometry, interacted with ERalpha and ERbeta in the presence of agonist but not when unliganded or in the presence of the selective ER modulator, tamoxifen. Furthermore, SRC-1 from hypothalamus, but not hippocampus, interacted more with ERalpha than ERbeta, suggesting distinct expression patterns of other cofactors in these brain regions. These findings suggest that interactions of SRC-1 from brain with PR and ER are dependent on ligand, receptor subtype, and brain region to manifest the pleiotropic functional consequences that underlie steroid-regulated behaviors. The present findings reveal distinct contrasts with previous cell culture studies and emphasize the importance of studying receptor-coactivator interactions using biologically relevant tissue.
The preovulatory LH surge is triggered when the circadian pacemaker, the bilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), stimulates the GnRH system in the presence of high estrogen concentrations (positive feedback). Importantly, during the remainder of the estrous cycle, estradiol inhibits LH release via negative feedback. We have recently documented the presence of a novel mammalian RFamide-related peptide (RFRP), a putative gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH), that presumably acts upstream of GnRH to modulate the negative feedback effects of estrogen. The present series of studies used female Syrian hamsters to examine the possibility that, in addition to driving the LH surge positively, the SCN concomitantly coordinates the removal of steroid-mediated RFRP inhibition of the gonadotropic axis to permit the surge. We found that the SCN forms close appositions with RFRP cells, suggesting the possibility for direct temporal control of RFRP activity. During the time of the LH surge, immediate-early gene expression is reduced in RFRP cells, and this temporal regulation is estrogen dependent. To determine whether projections from the SCN regulate the timed reduction in activation of the RFRP system, we exploited the phenomenon of splitting. In split animals in which the SCN are active in antiphase, activation of the RFRP system is asymmetrical. Importantly, this asymmetry is opposite to the state of the GnRH system. Together, these findings point to novel circadian control of the RFRP system and potential participation in the circuitry controlling ovulatory function.
Neurons in the ventromedial and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei (VMN and ARC, respectively) mediate many of leptin's effects on energy homeostasis. Some are also glucosensing, whereby they use glucose as a signaling molecule to regulate their firing rate. We used fura-2 calcium (Ca2+) imaging to determine the interactions between these two important mediators of peripheral metabolism on individual VMN neurons and the mechanisms by which leptin regulates neuronal activity in vitro. Leptin excited 24%, inhibited 20%, and had a biphasic response in 10% of VMN neurons. Excitation occurred with a EC50 of 5.2 fmol/liter and inhibition with a IC50 of 4.2 fmol/liter. These effects were independent of the ambient glucose levels, and both glucosensing and non-glucosensing neurons were affected by leptin. In contrast, the ARC showed a very different distribution of leptin-responsive neurons, with 40% leptin excited, 10% leptin inhibited, and 2% having a biphasic response (chi2=60.2; P&lt;0.0001). Using pharmacological manipulations we found that leptin inhibits VMN neurons via activation of phosphoinositol-3 kinase and activation of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel. In addition, leptin inhibition was antagonized by 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase activation in 39% of neurons but was unaffected by 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase inhibition. No mechanism was delineated for leptin-induced excitation. Thus, within the physiological range of brain glucose levels, leptin has a differential effect on VMN vs. ARC neurons, and acts on both glucosensing and non-glucosensing VMN neurons in a glucose-independent fashion with inhibition primarily dependent upon activation of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel.
The recognition of familiar faces entails sequential cognitive processing. Initial encoding of face-specific information is followed by semantic association with previously learned information, which results in a subjective feeling of familiarity. We describe here a 32-year-old woman who post-ictally developed a sense of familiarity for previously unknown people and faces in the context of bilateral temporal seizures. We postulate that the delusion resulted from modality-specific indiscriminate association of all face-specific information with the affective label of familiarity. During this delusion, the step of semantic association was not required to generate the feeling of familiarity, which resulted in every face being labeled as familiar.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a major antiepileptic drug (AED) with efficacy against multiple seizure types. It has a rapid onset of action but its anticonvulsant activity increases during prolonged treatment, which cannot be explained by drug or metabolite accumulation in plasma or brain. Among numerous other effects on diverse drug targets, VPA is an inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs) that are involved in modulation of gene expression. The functional consequences of HDAC inhibition typically develop slowly during treatment with HDAC inhibitors such as VPA. We therefore hypothesized that inhibition of brain HDACs by VPA and resultant increases in gene expression could explain the increase in anticonvulsant activity during prolonged treatment with this drug. This hypothesis was tested by comparing the effects of VPA and the selective HDAC inhibitor, trichostatin A (TSA), in a mouse model of generalized seizures. Intravenous infusion of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) was used to determine the effects of the drugs on different seizure types, i.e., myoclonic, clonic and tonic seizures. VPA (200mg/kg b.i.d.) rapidly increased PTZ thresholds to all seizure types, but this effect increased up to threefold during prolonged treatment. Following low (0.5mg/kg b.i.d.) or high (5mg/kg b.i.d.) dose treatment with TSA, no dose-dependent anticonvulsant effects were determined. This finding argues against a role of HDAC inhibition for the anticonvulsant activity of VPA. In view of the multiple extra- and intracellular targets of VPA, the experimental strategy used in the present study may be helpful to assess which specific molecular effects of VPA are relevant for the antiepileptic activity of this drug, and which are not.




Pavlovian fear conditioning has become an important model for investigating the neural substrates of learning and memory in rats, mice and humans. The hippocampus and amygdala are widely believed to be essential for fear conditioning to contexts and discrete cues, respectively. Indeed, this parsing of function within the fear circuit has been used to leverage fear conditioning as a behavioral assay of hippocampal and amygdala function, particularly in transgenic mouse models. Recent work, however, blurs the anatomical segregation of cue and context conditioning and challenges the necessity for the hippocampus and amygdala in fear learning. Moreover, nonassociative factors may influence the performance of fear responses under a variety of conditions. Caution must therefore be exercised when using fear conditioning as a behavioral assay for hippocampal- and amygdala-dependent learning.
Given the established importance of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in maintaining dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems, the nigrostriatal system and associated behaviors of mice with genetic reduction of its high-affinity receptor, GDNF receptor (GFR)alpha-1 (GFRalpha-1(+/-)), were compared with wild-type controls. Motor activity and the stimulatory effects of a dopamine (DA) D1 receptor agonist (SKF 82958) were assessed longitudinally at 8 and 18 months of age. Monoamine concentrations and dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum and the number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) were assessed. The results support the importance of GFRalpha-1 in maintaining normal function of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, with deficits being observed for GFRalpha-1(+/-) mice at both ages. Motor activity was lower and the stimulatory effects of the DA agonist were enhanced for the older GFRalpha-1(+/-) mice. DA in the striatum was reduced in the GFRalpha-1(+/-) mice at both ages, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell numbers in the SN were reduced most substantially in the older GFRalpha-1(+/-) mice. The combined behavioral, pharmacological probe, neurochemical and morphological measures provide evidence of abnormalities in GFRalpha-1(+/-) mice that are indicative of an exacerbated aging-related decline in dopaminergic system function. The noted deficiencies, in turn, suggest that GFRalpha-1 is necessary for GDNF to maintain normal function of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Although the precise mechanism(s) for the aging-related changes in the dopaminergic system remain to be established, the present study clearly establishes that genetic reductions in GFRalpha-1 can contribute to the degenerative changes observed in this system during the aging process.
Chronic blockade or activation of dopamine receptors is critical for the pharmacological treatment of diseases like schizophrenia, Parkinson's or attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder. However, the long-term impact of such treatments on dopamine neurons is unclear. Chronic blockade of the dopamine D2 receptor in vivo triggers an increase in the axonal arborization of dopamine neurons [European Journal of Neuroscience, 2002, 16, 787-794]. However, the specific involvement of presynaptic (autoreceptors) vs. postsynaptic D2 receptors as well as the molecular mechanisms involved have not been determined. Here, we examined the role of D2 autoreceptors in regulating the ability of mouse dopamine neurons to establish axon terminals. Chronic activation of this receptor with quinpirole, a specific agonist, decreased the number of axon terminals established by isolated dopamine neurons. This effect was accompanied by a decrease in dopamine release and was mediated through inhibition of protein kinase A. The decrease in axon terminal number induced by D2 receptor activation was also occluded when the mammalian Target of Rapamycin pathway of mRNA translation was blocked. Our results suggest that chronic activation of the D2 autoreceptor inhibits synaptogenesis by mesencephalic dopamine neurons through translational regulation of the synthesis of proteins required for synapse formation. This study provides a better understanding of the impact of long-term pharmacological interventions acting through the D2 receptor.
Even after reconstructive surgery, major functional impairments remain in the majority of patients with peripheral nerve injuries. The application of novel emerging therapeutic strategies, such as lentiviral (LV) vectors, may help to stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration at a molecular level. In the experiments described here, we examined the effect of LV vector-mediated overexpression of nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on regeneration of the rat peripheral nerve in a transection/repair model in vivo. We showed that LV vectors can be used to locally elevate levels of NGF and GDNF in the injured rat peripheral nerve and this has profound and differential effects on regenerating sensory and motor neurons. For sensory neurons, increased levels of NGF and GDNF do not affect the number of regenerated neurons 1 cm distal to a lesion at 4 weeks post-lesion but do cause changes in the expression of markers for different populations of nociceptive neurons. These changes are accompanied by significant alterations in the recovery of nociceptive function. For motoneurons, overexpression of GDNF causes trapping of regenerating axons, impairing both long-distance axonal outgrowth and reinnervation of target muscles, whereas NGF has no effect on these parameters. These observations show the feasibility of combining surgical repair of the transected nerve with the application of viral vectors. Furthermore, they show a difference between the regenerative responses of motor and sensory neurons to locally increased levels of NGF and GDNF.
The transcription factors Emx2 and Pax6 are expressed in the proliferating zones of the developing rodent neocortex, and gradients of expression interact in specifying caudal and rostral identities. Pax6 is also involved in corticoneurogenesis, being expressed by radial glial progenitors that give rise to cells that also sequentially express Tbr2, NeuroD and Tbr1, genes temporally downstream of Pax6. In this study, using in situ hybridization, we analysed the expression of EMX2, PAX6, TBR2, NEUROD and TBR1 mRNA in the developing human cortex between 8 and 12 postconceptional weeks (PCW). EMX2 mRNA was expressed in the ventricular (VZ) and subventricular zones (SVZ), but also in the cortical plate, unlike in the rodent. However, gradients of expression were similar to that of the rodent at all ages studied. PAX6 mRNA expression was limited to the VZ and SVZ. At 8 PCW, PAX6 was highly expressed rostrally but less so caudally, as has been seen in the rodent, however this gradient disappeared early in corticogenesis, by 9 PCW. There was less restricted compartment-specific expression of TBR2, NEUROD and TBR1 mRNA than in the rodent, where the gradients of expression were similar to that of PAX6 prior to 9 PCW. The gradient disappeared for TBR2 by 10 PCW, and for NEUROD and TBR1 by 12 PCW. These data support recent reports that EMX2 but not PAX6 is more directly involved in arealization, highlighting that analysis of human development allows better spatio-temporal resolution than studies in rodents.
The spiking activity of hippocampal neurons during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep exhibits temporally structured replay of spiking occurring during previously experienced trajectories. Here, temporally structured replay of place cell activity during REM sleep is modeled in a large-scale network simulation of grid cells, place cells and head direction cells. During simulated waking behavior, the movement of the simulated rat drives activity of a population of head direction cells that updates the activity of a population of entorhinal grid cells. The population of grid cells drives the activity of place cells coding individual locations. Associations between location and movement direction are encoded by modification of excitatory synaptic connections from place cells to speed modulated head direction cells. During simulated REM sleep, the population of place cells coding an experienced location activates the head direction cells coding the associated movement direction. Spiking of head direction cells then causes frequency shifts within the population of entorhinal grid cells to update a phase representation of location. Spiking grid cells then activate new place cells that drive new head direction activity. In contrast to models that perform temporally compressed sequence retrieval similar to sharp wave activity, this model can simulate data on temporally structured replay of hippocampal place cell activity during REM sleep at time scales similar to those observed during waking. These mechanisms could be important for episodic memory of trajectories.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord, brainstem and cerebral cortex. In this study we have analysed the electrophysiological properties of GABA(A) receptors and GABA(A) alpha1 and alpha2 subunits expression in spinal motor neurons in culture obtained from a genetic model of ALS (G93A) and compared with transgenic wild type SOD1 (SOD1) and their corresponding non transgenic litter mates (Control). Although excitotoxic motor neuron death has been extensively studied in relation to Ca(2+)-dependent processes, strong evidence indicates that excitotoxic cell death is also remarkably dependent on Cl(-) ions and on GABA(A) receptor activation. In this study we have analysed the electrophysiological properties of GABA(A) receptors and the expression of GABA(A)alpha(1) and alpha(2) subunits in cultured motor neurons obtained from a genetic model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (G93A) and compared them with transgenic wild-type Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase and their corresponding non-transgenic littermates (Control). In all tested motor neurons, the application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (0.5-100 mum) evoked an inward current that was reversibly blocked by bicuculline (100 mum), thus indicating that it was mediated by the activation of GABA(A) receptors. Our results indicate that the current density at high GABA concentrations is similar in control, Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase and G93A motor neurons. However, the dose-response curve significantly shifted toward lower concentration values in G93A motor neurons and the extent of desensitization also increased in these neurons. Finally, multiplex single-cell real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence revealed that the amount of GABA(A)alpha(1) subunit was significantly increased in G93A motor neurons, whereas the levels of alpha(2) subunit were unchanged. These data show that the functionality and expression of GABA(A) receptors are altered in G93A motor neurons inducing a higher Cl(-) influx into the cell with a possible consequent neuronal excitotoxicity acceleration.
Clinical improvements in Parkinson's disease produced by dopamine D3 receptor-preferring agonists have been related to their neuroprotective actions and, more recently, to their neuroregenerative properties. However, it is unclear whether dopamine agonists produce their neurotrophic effects by acting directly on receptors expressed by the mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons or indirectly on receptors expressed by astrocytes, via release of neurotrophic factors. In this study, we investigated the effects of the dopamine D3 receptor-preferring agonists quinpirole and 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-propyl-2-aminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT), as well as of the indirect agonist amphetamine, on dopaminergic neurons identified by tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (TH-IR). Experiments were performed on neuronal-enriched primary cultures containing less than 0.5% of astrocytes prepared from the mouse embryo mesencephalon. After 3 days of incubation, both quinpirole (1-10 microm) and 7-OH-DPAT (5-500 nm) dose-dependently increased the maximal dendrite length (P &lt; 0.001), number of primary dendrites (P &lt; 0.01) and [3H]dopamine uptake (P &lt; 0.01) of TH-IR-positive mesencephalic neurons. Similar effects were observed with 10 microm amphetamine. All neurotrophic effects were blocked by the unselective D2/D3 receptor antagonist sulpiride (5 microm) and by the selective D3 receptor antagonist SB-277011-A at a low dose (50 nm). Quinpirole and 7-OH-DPAT also increased the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) within minutes, an effect blocked by pretreatment with SB-277011-A. Inhibition of the D2/D3 receptor signalling pathway to ERK was obtained with PD98059, GF109203 or LY294002, resulting in blockade of neurotrophic effects. These data suggest that dopamine agonists increase dendritic arborizations of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons via a direct effect on D2/D3 receptors, preferentially involving D3 receptor-dependent neurotransmission.
Here we challenge the view that reward-guided learning is solely controlled by the mesoaccumbens pathway arising from dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area and projecting to the nucleus accumbens. This widely accepted view assumes that reward is a monolithic concept, but recent work has suggested otherwise. It now appears that, in reward-guided learning, the functions of ventral and dorsal striata, and the cortico-basal ganglia circuitry associated with them, can be dissociated. Whereas the nucleus accumbens is necessary for the acquisition and expression of certain appetitive Pavlovian responses and contributes to the motivational control of instrumental performance, the dorsal striatum is necessary for the acquisition and expression of instrumental actions. Such findings suggest the existence of multiple independent yet interacting functional systems that are implemented in iterating and hierarchically organized cortico-basal ganglia networks engaged in appetitive behaviors ranging from Pavlovian approach responses to goal-directed instrumental actions controlled by action-outcome contingencies.
Performance in a behavioural task can be influenced by both bottom-up and top-down processes such as stimulus modality and prior probability. Here, we exploited differences in behavioural strategy to explore the role of the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus (dSC) in covert orienting. Two monkeys were trained on a predictive cued-saccade task in which the cue predicted the target's upcoming location with 80% validity. When the delay between cue and target onset was 250 ms, both monkeys showed faster responses to the uncued (Invalid) location. This was associated with a reduced target-aligned response in the dSC on Valid trials for both monkeys and is consistent with a bottom-up (i.e. involuntary) bias. When the delay was increased to 650 ms, one monkey continued to show faster responses to the Invalid location whereas the other monkey showed faster responses to the Valid location, consistent with a top-down (i.e. voluntary) bias. This latter behaviour was correlated with an increase in activity in dSC neurons preceding target onset that was absent in the other monkey. Thus, using the information provided by the cue shifted the emphasis towards top-down processing, while ignoring this information allowed bottom-up processing to continue to dominate. Regardless of the selected strategy, however, neurons in the dSC consistently reflected the current bias between the two processes, emphasizing its role in both the bottom-up and top-down control of orienting behaviour.
It is unclear how subthalamic nucleus activity is modulated by the cerebral cortex. Here we investigate the effect of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the cortex on oscillatory subthalamic local field potential activity in the 8-35 Hz (alpha/beta) band, as exaggerated synchronization in this band is implicated in the pathophysiology of parkinsonism. We studied nine patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) to test whether cortical stimulation can modulate synchronized oscillations in the human subthalamic nucleus. With patients at rest, single-pulse TMS was delivered every 5 s over each primary motor area and supplementary motor area at intensities of 85-115% resting motor threshold. Subthalamic local field potentials were recorded from deep brain stimulation electrodes implanted into this nucleus for the treatment of PD. Motor cortical stimulation suppressed beta activity in the subthalamic nucleus from approximately 0.2 to 0.6 s after TMS (repeated measures anova; main effect of time, P &lt; 0.01; main effect of side, P = 0.03), regardless of intensity. TMS over the supplementary motor area also reduced subthalamic beta activity at 95% (P = 0.05) and 115% resting motor threshold (P = 0.01). The oscillatory activity decreased to 80 +/- 26% of baseline (averaged across sites and stimulation intensities). Suppression with subthreshold stimuli confirmed that these changes were centrally driven and not due to peripheral afference. The results may have implications for mechanisms underlying the reported therapeutic benefits of cortical stimulation.

Previous studies have suggested that bipolar disorder (BD) is associated with alterations in neuronal plasticity, but the effects of the progression of illness on brain anatomy have been poorly investigated. We studied the correlation between length of illness, age, age at onset, and the number of previous episodes and total brain, total gray, and total white matter volumes in BD, unipolar (UP) and healthy control (HC) subjects. Thirty-six BD, 31 UP and 55 HCs underwent a 1.5 T brain magnetic resonance imaging scan, and gray and white matter volumes were manually traced blinded to the subjects' diagnosis. Partial correlation analysis showed that length of illness was inversely correlated with total gray matter volume after adjusting for total intracranial volume in BD (r(p)= -0.51; p=0.003) but not in UP subjects (r(p)= -0.23; p=0.21). Age at illness onset and the number of previous episodes were not significantly correlated with gray matter volumes in BD or UP subjects. No significant correlation with total white matter volume was observed. These results suggest that the progression of illness may be associated with abnormal cellular plasticity. Prospective longitudinal studies are necessary to elucidate the long-term effects of illness progression on brain structure in major mood disorders.
The present study investigated the effects of a narrow range of interstimulus intervals (ISI; 1, 2, or 3 s) on word-learning performance in relation to age and education. Individuals (N = 338) from four age groups (24 to 76 years) with low or high educational attainment were randomly assigned to one of three ISI conditions. Older age, lower education, and shorter ISI each led to lower performance. However, age differences in performance were not affected by ISI. Furthermore, lower educated individuals needed more time to achieve the same performance level as higher educated individuals.
In this study, in order to clarify the kinetics of leptin, we focused on the ratio of leptin concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid and serum in aged male rats, and examined the weight of epididymal fat, and the passage rate of leptin through the blood-brain barrier. In the lighter animals, the epididymal fat weight was low, while leptin concentrations in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid were also low. Conversely, in the heavier animals, the weight of epididymal fat and leptin concentrations in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid were higher. With regard to the ratio of leptin in the cerebrospinal fluid and serum, the passage rate of leptin through the blood-brain barrier was lower in the heavier animals than in the lighter animals.
Here we report our ongoing investigation of the cardiovascular effects of acetaminophen, with emphasis on oxidation-induced canine myocardial dysfunction. The objective of the current study was to investigate whether acetaminophen could attenuate exogenous H(2)O(2)-mediated myocardial dysfunction in vivo. Respiratory, metabolic, and hemodynamic indices such as left ventricular function (LVDP and +/-dP/dt(max)), and percent ectopy were measured in anesthetized, open-chest dogs during intravenous administration of 0.88 mM, 2.2 mM, 6.6 mM H(2)O(2). Following 6.6 mM H(2)O(2), tissue from the left ventricle was harvested for electron microscopy. Left ventricular function did not vary significantly between vehicle and acetaminophen groups under baseline conditions. Acetaminophen-treated dogs regained a significantly greater fraction of baseline function after high concentrations of H(2)O(2) than vehicle-treated dogs. Moreover, the incidence of H(2)O(2)-induced ventricular arrhythmias was significantly reduced in the acetaminophen-treated group. Percent ectopy following 6.6 mM concentrations of H(2)O(2) was 1 +/- 0.3 vs. 0.3 +/- 0.1 (P &lt; 0.05) for vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated dogs, respectively. Additionally, electron micrograph images of left ventricular tissue confirmed preservation of tissue ultrastructure in acetaminophen-treated hearts when compared to vehicle. We conclude that, in the canine myocardium, acetaminophen is both functionally cardioprotective and antiarrhythmic against H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative injury.
The remote distractor effect is a robust finding whereby a saccade to a lateralised visual target is delayed by the simultaneous, or near simultaneous, onset of a distractor in the opposite hemifield. Saccadic inhibition is a more recently discovered phenomenon whereby a transient change to the scene during a visual task induces a depression in saccadic frequency beginning within 70 ms, and maximal around 90-100 ms. We assessed whether saccadic inhibition is responsible for the increase in saccadic latency induced by remote distractors. Participants performed a simple saccadic task in which the delay between target and distractor was varied between 0, 25, 50, 100 and 150 ms. Examination of the distributions of saccadic latencies showed that each distractor produced a discrete dip in saccadic frequency, time-locked to distractor onset, conforming closely to the character of saccadic inhibition. We conclude that saccadic inhibition underlies the remote distractor effect.
Control of familiar visually guided movements involves internal plans as well as visual and other online sensory information, though how visual and internal plans combine for reaching movements remain unclear. Traditional motor sequence learning tasks, such as the serial reaction time task, use stereotyped movements and measure only reaction time. Here, we used a continuous sequential reaching task comprised of naturalistic movements, in order to provide detailed kinematic performance measures. When we embedded pre-learned trajectories (those presumably having an internal plan) within similar but unpredictable movement sequences, participants performed the two kinds of movements with remarkable similarity, and position error alone could not reliably identify the epoch. For such embedded movements, performance during pre-learned sequences showed statistically significant but trivial decreases in measures of kinematic error, compared to performance during novel sequences. However, different sets of kinematic error variables changed significantly between learned and novel sequences for individual participants, suggesting that each participant used distinct motor strategies favoring different kinematic variables during each of the two movement types. Algorithms that incorporated multiple kinematic variables identified transitions between the two movement types well but imperfectly. Hidden Markov model classification differentiated learned and novel movements on single trials based on the above kinematic error variables with 82 +/- 5% accuracy within 244 +/- 696 ms, despite the limited extent of changes in those errors. These results suggest that the motor system can achieve markedly similar performance whether or not an internal plan is present, as only subtle changes arise from any difference between the neural substrates involved in those two conditions.
The purpose of the present study was to identify projections from auditory to visual cortex and their organization. Retrograde tracers were used to identify the sources of auditory cortical projections to primary visual cortex (areas 17 and 18) in adult cats. Two groups of animals were studied. In the first group, large deposits were centered on the lower visual field representation of the vertical meridian located along the area 17 and 18 border. Following tissue processing, characteristic patterns of cell body labeling were identified in extrastriate visual cortex and the visual thalamus (LGN, MIN, &amp; LPl). In auditory cortex, of the four tonotopically-organized regions, neuronal labeling was identified in the supragranular layers of the posterior auditory field (PAF). Little to no labeling was evident in the primary auditory cortex, the anterior auditory field, the ventral posterior auditory field or in the remaining six non-tonotopically organized regions of auditory cortex. In the second group, small deposits were made into the central or peripheral visual field representations of primary visual cortex. Labeled cells were identified in PAF following deposits into regions of primary visual cortex representing peripheral, but not central, visual field representations. Furthermore, a coarse topography was identified in PAF, with neurons projecting to the upper field representation being located in the gyral portion of PAF and neurons projecting to the lower field representation located in the sulcal portion of PAF. Therefore, direct projections can be identified from tonotopically organized auditory cortex to the earliest stages of visual cortical processing.
The main aim of this study was to examine the temporal aspects of neuronal changes during the observation and execution of simple and complex tasks to gain a greater understanding of the mirror neuron system's involvement in complex motor tasks. Eleven right-handed subjects observed simple and complex finger movement sequences. Electroencephalograms were recorded from 19 electrodes. Activity was considered in four frequency bands (8-10, 10-13, 13-20, and 20-30 Hz) using a new measure, synchronization likelihood. The results show that motor tasks of different levels of complexity did not have a significant influence on cortical synchronization. The results also provide additional indirect evidence for mirror neuron activity associated with intransitive tasks. Data are discussed in the light of recent findings from the cognitive and behavioral neuroscience literature.

Hyperreflexia develops after spinal cord injury (SCI) in the human and in the spinal cord transected animal, and can be measured by the loss of low frequency-dependent depression of the H-reflex. Previous studies demonstrated normalization of low frequency-dependent depression of the H-reflex using passive exercise when initiated prior to the development of hyperreflexia. We examined the effects of passive exercise prior to compared to after the development of hyperreflexia in the transected rat. Adult female rats underwent complete transection (Tx) at T10. Frequency-dependence of the H-reflex was tested following passive exercise for 30 days, initiated prior to hyperreflexia in one group compared to initiation after hyperreflexia became established, and compared to intact and untreated Tx groups. An additional Tx group completed 60 days of exercise initiated after hyperreflexia was established. Lumbar enlargement tissue was harvested for western blot to compare Connexin-36 protein levels in control vs Tx animals vs Tx animals that were passively exercised. No differences in whole tissue were evident, although regional differences may still be present in Connexin-36 levels. Statistically significant decreases in low frequency-dependent depression of the H-reflex were observed following 30 days of exercise initiated prior to the onset of hyperreflexia, and also after 60 days of exercise when initiated after hyperreflexia had been established, compared with Tx only animals. We concluded that modulation of spinal circuitry by passive exercise took place when initiated before and after the onset of hyperreflexia, but different durations of exercise were required.

Neuropathic pain resulting from chronic constriction injury (CCI) is critically linked to sensitization of peripheral nociceptors. Voltage gated sodium channels are major contributors to this state and their expression can be upregulated by nerve growth factor (NGF). We have previously demonstrated that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) acts antagonistically to NGF in modulation of aspects of CCI-induced changes in trkA-associated nociceptor phenotype and thermal hyperalgesia. Thus, we hypothesized that exposure of neurons to increased levels of NT-3 would reduce expression of Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 in DRG neurons subject to CCI. In adult male rats, Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 mRNAs are expressed at high levels in predominantly small to medium size neurons. One week following CCI, there is reduced incidence of neurons expressing detectable Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 mRNA, but without a significant decline in mean level of neuronal expression, and similar findings observed immunohistochemically. There is also increased accumulation/redistribution of channel protein in the nerve most apparent proximal to the first constriction site. Intrathecal infusion of NT-3 significantly attenuates neuronal expression of Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 mRNA contralateral and most notably, ipsilateral to CCI, with a similar impact on relative protein expression at the level of the neuron and constricted nerve. We also observe reduced expression of the common neurotrophin receptor p75 in response to CCI that is not reversed by NT-3 in small to medium sized neurons and may confer an enhanced ability of NT-3 to signal via trkA, as has been previously shown in other cell types. These findings are consistent with an analgesic role for NT-3.
Recent work regarding chronic central neuropathic pain (CNP) following spinal cord injury (SCI) suggests that activation of key signaling molecules such as members of the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) family play a role in the expression of at-level mechanical allodynia. Previously, we have shown that the development of at-level CNP following moderate spinal cord injury is correlated with increased expression of the activated (and thus phosphorylated) forms of the MAPKs extracellular signal related kinase and p38 MAPK. The current study extends this work by directly examining the role of p38 MAPK in the maintenance of at-level CNP following spinal cord injury. Using a combination of behavioral, immunocytochemical, and electrophysiological measures we demonstrate that increased activation of p38 MAPK occurs in the spinal cord just rostral to the site of injury in rats that develop at-level mechanical allodynia after moderate SCI. Immunocytochemical analyses indicate that the increases in p38 MAPK activation occurred in astrocytes, microglia, and dorsal horn neurons in the spinal cord rostral to the site of injury. Inhibiting the enzymatic activity of p38 MAPK dose dependently reverses the behavioral expression of at-level mechanical allodynia and also decreases the hyperexcitability seen in thoracic dorsal horn neurons after moderate SCI. Taken together, these novel data are the first to demonstrate causality that increased activation of p38 MAPK in multiple cell types play an important role in the maintenance of at-level CNP following spinal cord injury.
The analysis of neurochemicals from the brain represents a challenge for current analytical techniques due to a variety of factors, such as compositional complexity, limited amounts of sample and endogenous inferences. Advances in mass spectrometry (MS) provide great opportunities for the sensitive measurement of neurochemicals, offering benefits including simple sample preparation, broad capability for analysis of diverse compounds and rich structural information of analytes. Until recently, however, limited numbers of studies have reported on the analysis of small molecular neurochemicals, such as classical neurotransmitters, in part due to the difficulties in separation of polar molecules by using current chromatography techniques with MS-compatible conditions. By contrast, MS has become an indispensable tool for neuropeptide analysis , offering tremendous potential in the discovery of novel signaling peptides and biomarkers. This review covers recent advances in MS-based neurochemical analysis , including a comparison with related detection techniques, chromatographic separation and neuropeptide discovery. Issues relating to in vivo sample collection and sample preparation are discussed. To provide a wider view of the capability of MS in basic neuroscience and clinical research, we discuss MS-based neurochemical analysis conducted in different animal models and humans. We specifically highlight perspectives for the use of MS for brain functional studies and drug discovery in nonhuman primates.
Alterations of brain and plasma alpha-synuclein levels and SNCA gene variability have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). We therefore measured alpha-synuclein protein levels in postmortem PD and control cerebellum tissue using Western blot and investigated whether the levels correlated to SNCA genotype. We found markedly decreased alpha-synuclein levels in PD patients (n=16) compared to gender- and age-matched controls (n=14; P=0.004) normalized to alpha-tubulin. We also performed an association study of the noncoding polymorphisms rs2737029 (A/G) and rs356204 (A/G) (intron 4), and of rs356219 (T/C) (3'-region) of SNCA in a Swedish PD case-control material. Using a two-sided chi(2) test, we found significant association of rs2737029 (P=0.003; chi(2)=9.07) and rs356204 (P=0.048; chi(2)=3.91) with disease, strengthening the involvement of SNCA polymorphisms in sporadic PD. Stratification of the human postmortem brain material by genotype of the three investigated polymorphisms, did not indicate any influence of genotype on alpha-synuclein protein levels when comparing PD with controls. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that the investigated Parkinson patients have markedly reduced levels of alpha-synuclein in cerebellum, and that this reduction is general, rather then correlated to the investigated polymorphisms, although two of the polymorphisms also associated with disease in a Swedish material.
Interaction of the mu-opioid receptor (MOP) with selected ligands was investigated in live cells using advanced imaging by confocal laser scanning microscopy integrated with fluorescence correlation spectroscopy and fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy. In PC12 cells stably transformed to express the fluorescently labeled MOP-enhanced green fluorescent protein construct, two pools of MOP were identified that could be discriminated by differences in their lateral mobility in the cell membrane. The majority of MOP receptors (80+/-10%) were characterized by a diffusion coefficient D(MOP,1) = (4+/-2) x 10(-11) m(2) s(-1), compared with the slowly moving fraction, D(MOP,2) = (4+/-2) x 10(-12) m(2) s(-1). On stimulation with selected agonists ([D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin, enkephalin-heptapeptide Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met-Arg-Phe, morphine, and methadone), surface density of the MOP decreased, whereas the lateral mobility increased. In contrast, antagonists (naloxone and naltrexone) &quot;froze&quot; the receptor in the membrane, i.e., increased MOP surface density and decreased lateral mobility. Agonist activation was also accompanied by pronounced changes in the dynamics of plasma membrane lipids, as revealed by the general lipid marker 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate dye. The results provide new information about MOP activation in live cells at the molecular level, with a special focus on the dynamics of the intricate interplay between this receptor and the surrounding lipids.
Hepatoblastoma (HB) is the most important primary liver cancer in children, accounting for up to 1% of all paediatric malignancies. It affects mostly infants and young children between the age of 6 months and 3 years. Predisposing genetic factors for HB have been identified and scientific evidence clearly points out HB as a multi-factorial condition based on both genetic and environmental factors. Nevertheless, a clear understanding of the pathogenesis is yet lacking. The present review will focus on the impact of exposure to environmental chemicals, such as di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), and recognized risk factors, such as intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), on HB establishment via altered signalling pathways (Wnt and IGF). The hypothesis linking the impairment of IGF2 foetal/adult switching and exposure to DEHP is discussed as a way forward to support HB prevention and early diagnosis.
Adequate nutrition during infancy is essential for lifelong health and wellbeing. Breast-feeding is highly recommended for the first six month of life, but from then on complementary feeding is necessary. Industrially produced food is an important part of the diet for many infants and toddlers in developed countries. We have determined the concentration of major minerals and trace elements in 76 different products of infant formula, porridges, fruit pure and dinners by HR-ICP-MS. The products were collected from three suppliers on the Norwegian market (Nestl, Tine and Nyco Pharma). A daily menu was also composed and the estimated daily intake was compared with current recommendations. All products were within the upper tolerable limit for the minerals of trace elements analysed and toxic elements were present at very low levels. A diet based solely on industrially prepared food products will provide a sufficient intake of minerals and trace elements.
An expanding epistemology has generated enhanced understanding of the mechanistic basis and existential impact of pain as a complexity-based systems event, and compels the need to develop diagnostic and therapeutic approaches that reflect this progressive knowledge. The basic and clinical sciences, humanities and the experiential narratives of patients all contribute essential lenses through which we can examine and de-mystify the enigma of persistent pain. It is only through the combination of distinct domains of knowledge that we can both comprehend pain as a dysfunction of the dynamical, non-linear adaptability of the nervous system, and at the same time apprehend the manifestations of these changes within the networked-hierarchy of interacting systems that is the patient as person. These are concepts that are inherent to, and derived from complexity theory, and the use of a complexity-based model of pain may be important to fully reconcile the notions of disease and illness, and fit these within a more encompassing framework. Thus, the study of pain conjoins neuroscience to the burgeoning discourse of neurophilosophy, and in so doing, may allow a more thorough dialectical approach to addressing concepts of disease-illness, brain-mind, and ethical dimensions of care.
Outcome in anorexia nervosa remains poor and a new way of looking at this condition is therefore needed. To this aim, we review the effects of food restriction and starvation in humans. It is suggested that body weight remains stable and relatively low when the access to food requires a considerable amount of physical activity. In this condition, the human homeostatic phenotype, body fat content is also low and as a consequence, the synthesis and release of brain neurotransmitters are modified. As an example, the role of neuropeptide Y is analyzed in rat models of this state. It is suggested that the normal behavioral role of neuropeptide Y is to facilitate the search for food and switch attention from sexual stimuli to food. Descriptive neuroendocrine studies on patients with anorexia nervosa have not contributed to the management of the patients and the few studies in which hormones have been administered have, at best, reversed an endocrine consequence secondary to starvation. In a modified framework for understanding the etiology and treatment of anorexia nervosa it is suggested that the condition emerges because neural mechanisms of reward and attention are engaged. The neural neuropeptide Y receptor system may be involved in the maintenance of the behavior of eating disorder patients because the localization of these receptors overlaps with the neural systems engaged in cue-conditioned eating in limbic and cortical areas. The eating behavior of patients with anorexia nervosa, and other eating disorders as well, is viewed as a cause of the psychological changes of the patients. Patients are trained to re-learn normal eating habits using external support and as they do, their symptoms, including the psychological symptoms, dissolve.
In 1849, Berthold demonstrated that testicular secretions are necessary for aggressive behavior in roosters. Since then, research on the neuroendocrinology of aggression has been dominated by the paradigm that the brain receives gonadal hormones, primarily testosterone, which modulate relevant neural circuits. While this paradigm has been extremely useful, recent studies reveal important alternatives. For example, most vertebrate species are seasonal breeders, and many species show aggression outside of the breeding season, when gonads are regressed and circulating testosterone levels are typically low. Studies in birds and mammals suggest that an adrenal androgen precursor-dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)-may be important for the expression of aggression when gonadal testosterone synthesis is low. Circulating DHEA can be metabolized into active sex steroids within the brain. Another possibility is that the brain can autonomously synthesize sex steroids de novo from cholesterol, thereby uncoupling brain steroid levels from circulating steroid levels. These alternative neuroendocrine mechanisms to provide sex steroids to specific neural circuits may have evolved to avoid the &quot;costs&quot; of high circulating testosterone during particular seasons. Physiological indicators of season (e.g., melatonin) may allow animals to switch from one neuroendocrine mechanism to another across the year. Such mechanisms may be important for the control of aggression in many vertebrate species, including humans.
In this paper I argue that, even though there is no doubt that to understand consciousness we have to understand the brain, the idea that a complete understanding of the essence of the phenomenon of human consciousness might derive from neuroscience alone is more disputable. Major progress in our understanding of the phenomenon of consciousness can certainly derive from neuroscience, but, as far as human consciousness is concerned, the thesis that since consciousness starts as a biological reality the proper locus of its analysis and explanation lies in neuroscience encounters serious difficulties. In particular, any theory of human consciousness that entails an explanation of the genesis and the nature of the subject of experience would require reference to social and cultural phenomena as well as to biological phenomena: the science of human consciousness, then, cannot avoid being intrinsically pluralistic in character.
The ground is shifting under the traditional approaches to problems in the philosophy of mind. Earlier doctrines concerning the independence of cognition from the brain now appear untenable. As neuroscience uncovers more about the organization and dynamics of the brain, it becomes increasingly evident that theories about our nature must be informed by neuroscientific data. Consistent with this progress, we may expect that philosophical problems about the mind will be productively addressed and perhaps radically transformed by a convergence of neuroscientific, psychological and computational research.

The fragile X syndrome (FRAXA) is the most widespread heritable form of mental retardation caused by the lack of expression of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). This lack has been related to deficits in cerebellum-mediated acquisition of conditioned eyelid responses in individuals with FRAXA. In the present behavioral study, long-term effects of deficiency of FMRP were investigated by examining the acquisition, savings and extinction of delay eyeblink conditioning in male individuals with FRAXA. In the acquisition experiment, subjects with FRAXA displayed a significantly poor performance compared with controls. In the savings experiment performed at least 6 months later, subjects with FRAXA and controls showed similar levels of savings of conditioned responses. Subsequently, extinction was faster in subjects with FRAXA than in controls. These findings confirm that absence of the FMRP affects cerebellar motor learning. The normal performance in the savings experiment and aberrant performance in the acquisition and extinction experiments of individuals with FRAXA suggest that different mechanisms underlie acquisition, savings and extinction of cerebellar motor learning.
Alcoholics and heavy drinkers score higher on measures of impulsivity than nonalcoholics and light drinkers. This may be because of factors that predate drug exposure (e.g. genetics). This study examined the role of genetics by comparing impulsivity measures in ethanol-naive rats selectively bred based on their high [high alcohol drinking (HAD)] or low [low alcohol drinking (LAD)] consumption of ethanol. Replicates 1 and 2 of the HAD and LAD rats, developed by the University of Indiana Alcohol Research Center, completed two different discounting tasks. Delay discounting examines sensitivity to rewards that are delayed in time and is commonly used to assess 'choice' impulsivity. Probability discounting examines sensitivity to the uncertain delivery of rewards and has been used to assess risk taking and risk assessment. High alcohol drinking rats discounted delayed and probabilistic rewards more steeply than LAD rats. Discount rates associated with probabilistic and delayed rewards were weakly correlated, while bias was strongly correlated with discount rate in both delay and probability discounting. The results suggest that selective breeding for high alcohol consumption selects for animals that are more sensitive to delayed and probabilistic outcomes. Sensitivity to delayed or probabilistic outcomes may be predictive of future drinking in genetically predisposed individuals.
Astrocytes have an important role in synaptic formation and function but how astrocytic processes become associated with synaptic structures during development is not well understood. Here we analyzed the pattern of growth of the processes extending off the main Bergmann glial (BG) shafts during synaptogenesis in the cerebellum. We found that during this period, BG process outgrowth was correlated with increased ensheathment of dendritic spines. In addition, two-photon time-lapse imaging revealed that BG processes were highly dynamic, and processes became more stable as the period of spine ensheathment progressed. While process motility was dependent on actin polymerization, activity of cytoskeletal regulators Rac1 and RhoG did not play a role in glial process dynamics or density, but was critical for maintaining process length. We extended this finding to probe the relationship between process morphology and ensheathment, finding that shortened processes result in decreased coverage of the spine. Furthermore, we found that areas in which BG expressed dn-Rac1, and therefore had a lower level of synaptic ensheathment, showed an overall increase in synapse number. These analyses reveal how BG processes grow to surround synaptic structures, elucidate the importance of BG process structure for proper development of synaptic ensheathment, and reveal a role for ensheathment in synapse formation.
Principal neurons of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) integrate the large, excitatory inputs from anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) bushy cells with conventional inhibitory inputs to produce an inhibitory output to the lateral and medial superior olive. This circuit is critical in the sound localization pathway of the auditory brainstem. Many ionic currents act in concert to produce the rapid phase-locked firing properties characteristic of MNTB principal neurons. We report here that MNTB neurons of the mouse possess a 2-4nS instantaneous potassium-based leak current, probably mediated by TWIK two-pore potassium leak channels. The function of the leak current was examined by modulating its magnitude with a dynamic clamp. The leak current modulates the resting voltage by 5mV/nS, reduces the input resistance of the cell by 5MOmega/nS and reduces the membrane time constant by 0.075 micros/nS. The leak current also modulates spike timing. Given leak channels are highly regulated, they are well placed to influence the firing properties, and action potential timing in principal neurons of the MNTB.
When guinea pigs are deafened with ototoxic drugs spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) degenerate progressively. Application of neurotrophins can prevent this process. Morphological changes of rescued SGCs have not been quantitatively determined yet. It might be that SGCs treated with neurotrophins are more vulnerable than SGCs in cochleae of normal-hearing guinea pigs. Therefore, the mitochondria and myelinisation of type-I SGCs were studied and the perikaryal area, cell circularity and electron density were determined. Guinea pigs were deafened with a subcutaneous injection of kanamycin followed by intravenous infusion of furosemide. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) delivery was started two weeks after the deafening procedure and continued for four weeks. Four cohorts of cochleae were studied: (1) cochleae of normal-hearing guinea pigs; (2) of guinea pigs two weeks after deafening; (3) six weeks after deafening; (4) cochleae treated with BDNF after deafening. The deafening procedure resulted in a progressive loss of SGCs. Six weeks after deafening the size of mitochondria, perikaryal area and cell circularity of the remaining untreated SGCs were decreased and the number of layers of the myelin sheath was reduced. In the basal part of the cochlea BDNF treatment rescued SGCs from degeneration. SGCs treated with BDNF were larger than SGCs in normal-hearing guinea pigs, whereas circularity had normal values and electron density was unchanged. The number of layers in the myelin sheath of BDNF-treated SGCs was reduced as compared to the number of layers in the myelin sheath of SGCs in normal-hearing guinea pigs. The morphological changes of SGCs might be related to the rapid loss of SGCs that has been reported to occur after cessation of BDNF treatment.
The newly-discovered tectal longitudinal column (TLC) spans the paramedian region of the mammalian tectum. It has connections with several nuclei of the auditory system. In this report, we provide the first detailed description of the responses of TLC neurons to auditory stimuli, including monaural and binaural tones and amplitude modulated tones. For comparison, responses in the inferior colliculus (IC) were also recorded. Neurons in the TLC were sensitive to similar ranges of frequency as IC neurons, could have comparably low thresholds, and showed primarily excitatory responses to stimulation of the contralateral ear with either phasic or sustained response patterns. Differences of TLC compared to IC neurons included broader frequency tuning, higher average threshold, longer response latencies, little synchronization or rate tuning to amplitude modulation frequency and a smaller degree of inhibition evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral ear. These features of TLC neurons suggest a role for the TLC in descending auditory pathways.
We observed that recombinant ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) enhanced survival and neurite outgrowth of cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Among other neurotrophic factors (NGF and GDNF) and interleukin (IL)-6 cytokine members [IL-6, LIF, cardiotrophin-1, and oncostatin M (OSM)] at the same concentration (50 ng/ml), CNTF, as well as LIF and OSM, displayed high efficacy for the promotion of the number of viable neurons and neurite-bearing cells. CNTF enhanced the number of neurite-bearing cells in both small neurons (soma diameter &lt;30 microm) and large neurons (soma diameter &gt; or =30 microm), whereas NGF and GDNF promoted that in only small neurons. Western blot analysis revealed that CNTF induced phosphorylation of STAT3, Akt, and ERK1/2 in the neurons. Furthermore, the neurite outgrowth-promoting activity of CNTF was diminished by co-treatment with Janus kinase (JAK) 2 inhibitor, AG490; STAT3 inhibitor, STA-21; phosphatidyl inositol-3'-phosphate-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, LY294002; and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor, PD98059, in a concentration-dependent manner. Its survival-promoting activity was also affected by AG490, STA-21, and LY294002 at higher concentrations, but not by PD98059. These findings suggest the involvement of JAK2/STAT3, PI3K/Akt, and MEK/ERK signaling pathways in CNTF-induced neurite outgrowth, where the former two pathways are thought to play major roles in mediating the survival response of neurons to CNTF.
To capture patterns of normal age-associated atrophy, we previously used a multivariate statistical approach applied to voxel based morphometry that identified age-associated gray and white matter covariance networks (Brickman et al. [2007]: Neurobiol Aging 28:284-295). The current study sought to examine the stability of these patterns by forward applying the identified networks to an independent sample of neurologically healthy younger and older adults. Forty-two younger and 35 older adults were imaged with standard high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging. Individual images were spatially normalized and segmented into gray and white matter. Covariance patterns that were previously identified with scaled subprofile model analyses were prospectively applied to the current sample to identify to what degree the age-associated patterns were manifested. Older individuals were also assessed with a modified version of the Mini Mental State Examination (mMMSE). Gray matter covariance pattern expression discriminated between younger and older participants with high optimal sensitivity (100%) and specificity (90.5%). While the two groups differed in the degree of white matter pattern expression (t (75) = 5.26, P &lt; 0.001), classification based on white matter expression was relatively low (sensitivity = 80% and specificity = 61.9%). Among older adults, chronological age was significantly associated with increased gray matter pattern expression (r (32) = 0.591, P &lt; 0.001) but not with performance on the mMMSE (r (31) = -0.314, P = 0.085). However, gray matter pattern expression was significantly associated with performance on the mMMSE (r (31) = -0.405, P = 0.024). The findings suggest that the previously derived age-associated covariance pattern for gray matter is reliable and may provide information that is more functionally meaningful than chronological age.
We showed that the frequency of a LRRK2 variant (c.4883G &gt; C, R1628P) was higher in Parkinson's disease (PD) compared to controls (8.4 vs. 3.4%, P = 0.046, OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.1-5.6). In the multivariate logistic regression (with adjustments made for the effect of age, age of onset, and gender), the heterozygous R1628P genotype was associated with an increased risk of PD compared to controls (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.4- 7.9, P = 0.007). We provided an independent confirmation that the R1628P variant increases the risk of PD among Chinese.
Mutations or multiplications in alpha-synuclein gene cause familial forms of Parkinson disease or dementia with Lewy bodies (LB), and the deposition of wild-type alpha-synuclein as LB occurs as a hallmark lesion of these disorders, collectively referred to as synucleinopathies, implicating alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of synucleinopathy. To identify modifier genes of alpha-synuclein-induced neurotoxicity, we conducted an RNAi screen in transgenic C. elegans (Tg worms) that overexpress human alpha-synuclein in a pan-neuronal manner. To enhance the RNAi effect in neurons, we crossed alpha-synuclein Tg worms with an RNAi-enhanced mutant eri-1 strain. We tested RNAi of 1673 genes related to nervous system or synaptic functions, and identified 10 genes that, upon knockdown, caused severe growth/motor abnormalities selectively in alpha-synuclein Tg worms. Among these were four genes (i.e. apa-2, aps-2, eps-8 and rab-7) related to the endocytic pathway, including two subunits of AP-2 complex. Consistent with the results by RNAi, crossing alpha-synuclein Tg worms with an aps-2 mutant resulted in severe growth arrest and motor dysfunction. alpha-Synuclein Tg worms displayed a decreased touch sensitivity upon RNAi of genes involved in synaptic vesicle endocytosis, and they also showed impaired neuromuscular transmission, suggesting that overexpression of alpha-synuclein caused a failure in uptake or recycling of synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, knockdown of apa-2, an AP-2 subunit, caused an accumulation of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in neuronal cell bodies, mimicking synucleinopathy. Collectively, these findings raise a novel pathogenic link between endocytic pathway and alpha-synuclein-induced neurotoxicity in synucleinopathy.
We propose a new algorithm to derive the anisotropic conductivity of the cerebral white matter (WM) from the diffusion tensor MRI (DT-MRI) data. The transportation processes for both water molecules and electrical charges are described through a common multicompartment model that consists of axons, glia, or the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The volume fraction (VF) of each compartment varies from voxel to voxel and is estimated from the measured diffusion tensor. The conductivity tensor at each voxel is then computed from the estimated VF values and the decomposed eigenvectors of the diffusion tensor. The proposed VF algorithm was applied to the DT-MRI data acquired from two healthy human subjects. The extracted anisotropic conductivity distribution was compared with those obtained by using two existing algorithms, which were based upon a linear conductivity-to-diffusivity relationship and a volume constraint, respectively. The present results suggest that the VF algorithm is capable of incorporating the partial volume effects of the CSF and the intravoxel fiber crossing structure, both of which are not addressed altogether by existing algorithms. Therefore, it holds potential to provide a more accurate estimate of the WM anisotropic conductivity, and may have important applications to neuroscience research or clinical applications in neurology and neurophysiology.
Functional MRI (fMRI) may be possible without a priori models of the cerebral hemodynamic response. First, such data-driven fMRI requires that all cerebral territories with distinct patterns be identified. Second, a systematic selection method is necessary to prevent the subjective interpretation of the identified territories. This paper addresses the second point by proposing a novel method for the automated interpretation of identified territories in data-driven fMRI. Selection criteria are formulated using: 1) the temporal cross-correlation between each identified territory and the paradigm and 2) the spatial contiguity of the corresponding voxel map. Ten event-design fMRI data sets are analyzed with one prominent algorithm, fuzzy c-means clustering, before applying the selection criteria. For comparison, these data are also analyzed with an established, model-based method: statistical parametric mapping. Both methods produced similar results and identified potential activation in the expected territory of the sensorimotor cortex in all ten data sets. Moreover, the proposed method classified distinct territories in separate clusters. Selected clusters have a mean temporal correlation coefficient of 0.39+/-0.07 (n=19) with a mean 2.7+/-1.4 second response delay. At most, four separate contiguous territories were observed in 87% of these clusters. These results suggest that the proposed method may be effective for exploratory fMRI studies where the hemodynamic response is perturbed during cerebrovascular disease.
In magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG), independent component analysis is widely applied to separate brain signals from artifact components. A number of different methods have been proposed for the automatic or semiautomatic identification of artifact components. Most of the proposed methods are based on amplitude statistics of the decomposed MEG/EEG signal. We present a fully automated approach based on amplitude and phase statistics of decomposed MEG signals for the isolation of biological artifacts such as ocular, muscle, and cardiac artifacts (CAs). The performance of different artifact identification measures was investigated. In particular, we show that phase statistics is a robust and highly sensitive measure to identify strong and weak components that can be attributed to cardiac activity, whereas a combination of different measures is needed for the identification of artifacts caused by ocular and muscle activity. With the introduction of a rejection performance parameter, we are able to quantify the rejection quality for eye blinks and CAs. We demonstrate in a set of MEG data the good performance of the fully automated procedure for the removal of cardiac, ocular, and muscle artifacts. The new approach allows routine application to clinical measurements with small effect on the brain signal.
We report the design and performance of a brain-computer interface (BCI) system for real-time single-trial binary classification of viewed images based on participant-specific dynamic brain response signatures in high-density (128-channel) electroencephalographic (EEG) data acquired during a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) task. Image clips were selected from a broad area image and presented in rapid succession (12/s) in 4.1-s bursts. Participants indicated by subsequent button press whether or not each burst of images included a target airplane feature. Image clip creation and search path selection were designed to maximize user comfort and maintain user awareness of spatial context. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to extract a set of independent source time-courses and their minimally-redundant low-dimensional informative features in the time and time-frequency amplitude domains from 128-channel EEG data recorded during clip burst presentations in a training session. The naive Bayes fusion of two Fisher discriminant classifiers, computed from the 100 most discriminative time and time-frequency features, respectively, was used to estimate the likelihood that each clip contained a target feature. This estimator was applied online in a subsequent test session. Across eight training/test session pairs from seven participants, median area under the receiver operator characteristic curve, by tenfold cross validation, was 0.97 for within-session and 0.87 for between-session estimates, and was nearly as high (0.83) for targets presented in bursts that participants mistakenly reported to include no target features.
The endogenous cannabinoid system plays an important role in regulating the immune system. Modulation of endogenous cannabinoids represents an attractive alternative for the treatment of inflammatory disorders. This study investigated the effects of URB597, a selective inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), the enzyme catalysing degradation of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide, and AM404, an inhibitor of anandamide transport, on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced increases in plasma cytokine levels in rats. Both URB597 and AM404 potentiated the LPS-induced increase in plasma tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) antagonist, GW9662, attenuated the AM404-induced augmentation of TNF-alpha levels. Furthermore, the selective cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptor antagonists, AM251 and AM630 respectively, and the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1) antagonist, SB366791, reduced LPS-induced TNF-alpha plasma levels both alone and in combination with AM404. In contrast, AM404 inhibited LPS-induced increases in circulating interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-6. AM251 attenuated the immunosuppressive effect of AM404 on IL-1beta. None of the antagonists altered the effect of AM404 on LPS-induced IL-6. Moreover, AM251, AM630 and SB366791, administered alone, inhibited LPS-induced increases in plasma IL-1beta and IL-6 levels. In conclusion, inhibition of endocannabinoid degradation or transport in vivo potentiates LPS-induced increases in circulating TNF-alpha levels, an effect which may be mediated by PPARgamma and is also reduced by pharmacological blockade of CB1, CB2 and TRPV1. The immunosuppressive effect of AM404 on IL-1beta levels is mediated by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor. Improved understanding of endocannabinoid-mediated regulation of immune function has fundamental physiological and potential therapeutic significance.



The intricate pattern of parenting in our socio-cultural context needs evaluation hence this study was done with the objective to reveal the parenting styles of school going children. 141 school children belonging to the age group 6-10 years were included in the study. The Parental Handling Questionnaire a 14-item scale consisting of 10 items of care and 4-items of control was administered to the mothers accompanying the children. Rating was done on a 3-point. The scale showed moderate internal consistency. 5 independent factors with overlapping items of care and control were deduced on factor analysis indicating multidimensional aspects of parenting in our society.
Olive oil is a functional food, which in addition to having a high level of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), also contains multiple minor components, among them several phenolic compounds. Oleuropeine and its glycoside are the main sources of a simple phenol hydroxytyrosol with a strong antioxidant activity. Hydroxytyrosol is well absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract but its bioavailability is poor because an important first past metabolism both in gut and liver, leading to the formation of sulphate and glucuronide conjugates, to the extent that concentrations in body fluids of its free form are almost undetectable. This is a major drawback in our understanding of the antioxidant activity of this compound in vivo and the potential health benefits derived from its consumption. The picture is further compounded by the fact that hydroxytyrosol is also a dopamine metabolite and body fluids concentrations combine exogenous and endogenous sources.
The inhalation of certain metals can result in olfactory epithelial injury, an altered sense of smell, and direct delivery of the metal from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulbs and other parts of the central nervous system. The purpose of this study was to examine whether mice given an intranasal instillation of cadmium would develop altered olfactory function and to assess whether cadmium may be transported directly from the olfactory epithelium to the central nervous system. To evaluate cadmium's ability to induce anosmia and on the basis of olfactory epithelium sensitivity to metals, the aim of this study was first to study cadmium effects on the olfactory function and secondly to check whether cadmium may be transported from the nasal area to the central nervous system. After an intranasal instillation of a solution containing CdCl2 at 136 mM, we observed in treated mice: (1) a partial destruction of the olfactory epithelium, which is reduced to three or four basal cell layers followed by a progressive regeneration; (2) a loss of odor discrimination with a subsequent recovery; and (3) a cadmium uptake by olfactory bulbs demonstrated using atomic absorption spectrophotometry, but not by other parts of the central nervous system. Cadmium was delivered to the olfactory bulbs, most likely along the olfactory nerve, thereby bypassing the intact blood-brain barrier. We consider that cadmium can penetrate olfactory epithelium and hence be transported to olfactory bulbs. The olfactory route could therefore be a likely way to reach the brain and should be taken into account for occupational risk assessments for this metal.
Reported here is the overexpression, purification and partial characterization of recombinant coxsakievirus B3 2A protease (CVB3 2Apro) from bacterial cells transformed with a plasmid containing the CVB3 2Apro cDNA sequences. The structural investigation showed that the protein contains mostly beta-strand elements and requires Zn2+ ions as a structural component which appeared to be inhibitory if added exogenously. The purified enzyme activity was optimal at 4 degrees C and had a short half-life at physiological temperature. This feature can be the result of the presence of a high content of beta-structure and also hydrophobic residues in its structure.
Three articles of special interest to the hypnosis community recently appeared in the general scientific and medical literatures. The first paper is a thoughtful review of the clinical applications of hypnosis in pediatric settings. The second article reports the findings of a randomized, controlled trial of hypnosis for burn-wound care, carried out at the University of Washington Medical School. The third article describes an innovative EEG laboratory case study tracking the cortex functional connectivity of a highly hypnotizable subject across various baseline and experimental conditions. These three articles are sturdy examples of how hypnosis illuminates (and is illuminated by) medical and psychological science.
The authors review the most important Spanish contributions to hypnosis during the 19th and 20th centuries, with emphasis on the work of Santiago Ramon y Cajal, winner of the 1906 Nobel Prize in medicine. It is widely accepted that he provided a basic foundation for modern neurosciences with his work on neuronal staining and synaptic transmission. What is missing in most accounts of his work is his longstanding interest and work on hypnosis and anomalous phenomena. This article summarizes that lost legacy, discusses other Spanish hypnosis pioneers and gives a brief overview of current hypnosis activities in Spain.

Neurodegenerative disorders are typically characterized by progressive and extensive neuronal loss in specific populations of neurons and brain areas which lead to the observed clinical manifestations. Despite the recent advances in molecular neuroscience, the subcellular bases such as Golgi apparatus (GA) for most neurodegenerative diseases are poorly understood. This review gives a brief overview of the contribution of the neuronal GA in the pathogeneses of neurodegeneration, summarizes what is known of the GA machinery in these diseases, and present the relationship between GA fragmentation and the aggregation and accumulation of misfolded or aberrant proteins including mutant SOD1, a-synuclein, tau, which is considered to be a key event in the pathogenic process, and perturbating in calcium homeostasis, regulation of hormones, lipid metabolism are also linkage to the function of the GA thought to underlie neurodegeneration. Although these precise diseases mechanisms remain to be clarified, more research is needed to better understand how GA function for it and to enable physicians to use this knowledge for the benefit of the patients.
The involvement of vascular wall in response to neuronal death was challenged here using a transient forebrain ischemia model in gerbil, which causes CA1 neuronal death and trigger neurogenesis in hippocampus. We found an important vascular reaction in CA1 5 days after ischemia evaluated by Von Willebrand factor and Vimentin immunoreactivity, as well as increased expression of angiogenic and neurogenic regulators: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2). Analysing the morphology and cell phenotype by confocal microscopy, we confirmed the colocalization of the neurogenic markers (bromodeoxyuridine-neuronal nuclei-TOPRO-3) in newborn cells associated to vascular walls in CA1 and dentate gyrus of hippocampus 32 days after ischemia. The results indicate that vascular tissues may participate in neurogenesis after brain ischemia, reinforce the notion that blood vessels represent a source of neuronal progenitor cells in damaged brain areas and suggest that molecular and cellular manipulation of the vascular wall may expand the possibilities of novel regenerative therapies.
The main purpose for the expansion of supported community care for persons with serious mental illness in Sweden was to ensure the right for these persons to live as citizens in the community. However, earlier research shows that negative attitudes towards mental illness present an obstacle for social integration of persons with serious mental illness. The aim of this study, conducted in Sweden, was to evaluate an existing instrument's (Community Attitudes towards Mental Illness, CAMI), validity and reliability. An additional aim was to adapt and develop the questionnaire to Swedish circumstances. After translation and modification of the original CAMI, the Swedish version of the questionnaire (CAMI-S) was distributed to all student nurses at three different universities in Sweden. The overall Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.90 of the original CAMI-S. A corrected inter-item total correlation excluded 20 items because they showed loading &lt;0.43. The overall Cronbach's alpha coefficient on the 20 items (new CAMI-S) that showed loading, &gt;0.43, was 0.903. A factor analysis of these items revealed that the data could be extracted in three factors labelled as: open-minded and pro-integration, fear and avoidance and community mental health ideology. Finally, in order to reach reliable results in attitude research, it is important to measure the respondent's attitude towards the object in common as well as the respondent's attitude to interact with the object. Accordingly, it is important to add behavioural intention items to the 'new CAMI-S'. Statements exemplifying how something 'ought to be' in an impersonal way have a good degree of stability over time and place.


We used behavioral and pupillary measures during an analogical reasoning task to investigate the processing of conceptual and emotional relations as well as their interaction. In particular, we examined how mental resource consumption is modulated by individual differences in neuroticism in healthy participants during conditions with emotional interference. Two word pairs were presented simultaneously, each with a conceptual and an emotional relation. In one experimental block, participants had to decide whether conceptual relations between the two word pairs were corresponding (conceptual task). In the other block, participants had to decide whether emotional relations were corresponding (emotional task). When participants had to focus on the correspondence of emotional relations, they were faster, more accurate, and showed greater pupillary responses than during the conceptual task. Moreover, participants with comparably higher neuroticism scores showed increased pupillary responses during conditions with emotional interference (i.e., during the conceptual task when they had to ignore incongruent information on the correspondence provided by the task-irrelevant emotional relations). These results demonstrate that affective aspects of stimuli (here: emotional relations) are preferentially selected for information processing. Moreover, increased mental resource consumption due to emotional interference in participants with comparably higher neuroticism scores might reflect a possible mechanism making these individuals more vulnerable to mood or anxiety disorders.
In a passive auditory oddball study the development of novelty processing was examined in 5-7 (N=26), 8-9 (N=31), 10-12 (N=30), and 18-29 (N=35) years olds. Even though the main goal of this study was to replicate the findings of an earlier one, a shorter and simplified paradigm was used in order to gather developmental reference data for non-responsive patient groups that are unable to give an overt response. As expected, this adapted procedure replicated the findings regarding the development of passive novel sound processing. Firstly, the present data indicated two novelty components, each with a different topography and a different development. Secondly, both novelty components were still not mature in 10-12 years olds. The early novelty P3 had a central focus and its amplitude became more positive with increasing age. Also, its latency did not differ between the four age groups. The focus of the late novelty P3 shifted from frontocentral in 5-7 years olds to parietal in adults. In addition, the late novelty P3 amplitude at Pz became more positive with age, while the late novelty P3 latency was longer in 5-7 and 8-9 years olds compared to 10-12 years olds and adults. Thus, it appears that the adapted paradigm is a suitable tool for assessing auditory novelty processing in non-responsive patients.

William Bryan Jennett, one of the leading figures in neurosurgery of the twentieth century, has died on 26 January 2008, at the age of 81. He made fundamental contributions to the field of traumatic brain injury (TBI) that still shape diagnosis, management and prognosis worldwide, in the second part of the last century. This paper is meant to gratefully acknowledge his contributions and to reflect on the implications that his work has for neurointensive care today. Starting from his early steps, we tried to highlight his fundamental work on diagnosis of severity in TBI, on rescue, treatment and prognosis of severe TBI. Moreover, his contribution in the definition of vegetative state, minimally conscious state and brain death has been emphasized. The contribution of Professor Bryan Jennett was in fact seminal in many aspects: the application of a common language in brain damage evaluation, where GCS and GOS are now universally employed; a critical approach to TBI diagnosis and treatment, in the search of proven better therapies; a quantitative approach to TBI prognosis, based on large clinical series and appropriate statistics; a strong commitment to the ethical implication of survival after severe injury, including the vegetative status; social responsibility in the diagnosis of brain death and in organ donors procurement. For these reasons, he can be considered one of the leading figures in neurosurgery and neurology of the twentieth century. This paper is meant to gratefully acknowledge his contributions and to reflect on the implications that his work has for neuro-intensive care today.

Although materials informing parents about children's mental health (CMH) problems can improve outcomes, we know relatively little about the design factors that might influence their utilization of available resources. We used a discrete choice conjoint experiment to model the information preferences of parents seeking mental health services for 6 to 18 year olds. Parents completed 30 choice tasks presenting experimentally varied combinations of 20 four-level CMH information content, transfer process, and outcome attributes. Latent class analysis revealed three segments with different preferences. Parents in the Action segment (43%) chose materials providing step-by-step solutions to behavioral or emotional problems. They preferred weekly meetings with other parents and coaching calls from a therapist. The Information segment (41%) chose materials helping them understand rather than solve their child's problems. These parents were more sensitive to logistical factors such as receiving information in groups, the location where information was available, the modality in which the information was presented, and the time required to obtain and use the information. The Overwhelmed segment (16%) reported more oppositional and conduct problems, felt their children's difficulties exerted a greater adverse impact on family functioning, and reported higher personal depression scores than those in the Action or Information segments. Nonetheless, they did not choose information about, or solutions to, the problems their children presented. Simulations predicted that maximizing utilization and realizing the potential benefits of CMH information would require knowledge transfer strategies consistent with each segment's preferences.
The question whether executive function (EF) deficits in children are associated with conduct problems remains controversial. Although the origins of aggressive behavior are to be found in early childhood, findings from EF studies in preschool children with aggressive behavior are inconsistent. The current study aimed to investigate whether preschool children with aggressive behavior show impairments in EF. From a population-based sample, 82 preschool children who were showing aggressive behavior as indicated by scores at or above the 93rd percentile on the Aggressive Behavior Scale of the CBCL 1 1/2-5 were selected. These children with aggressive behavior were matched on IQ to a group of typically developing control children (N = 99). Six neuropsychological tasks were administered to assess set shifting, inhibition, working memory and verbal fluency. A factor analysis was conducted which yielded one clear factor: inhibition. Aggressive preschool children showed poorer performance on this inhibition factor than control children and boys performed worse on this factor than girls. This association between aggressive behavior and inhibition deficits was maintained after controlling for attention problems. In addition, gender differences in all EFs measured were found with boys exhibiting more impairment in EF than girls. These findings demonstrate that preschool children with aggressive behavior show impairments in inhibition, irrespective of attention problems.
Many aspects of perception are known to be shaped by experience, but others are thought to be innate universal properties of the brain. A specific example comes from rhythm perception, where one of the fundamental perceptual operations is the grouping of successive events into higher-level patterns, an operation critical to the perception of language and music. Grouping has long been thought to be governed by innate perceptual principles established a century ago. The current work demonstrates instead that grouping can be strongly dependent on culture. Native English and Japanese speakers were tested for their perception of grouping of simple rhythmic sequences of tones. Members of the two cultures showed different patterns of perceptual grouping, demonstrating that these basic auditory processes are not universal but are shaped by experience. It is suggested that the observed perceptual differences reflect the rhythms of the two languages, and that native language can exert an influence on general auditory perception at a basic level.
When competing sources come from different directions, a desired target is easier to hear than when the sources are co-located. How much of this improvement is the result of spatial attention rather than improved perceptual segregation of the competing sources is not well understood. Here, listeners' attention was directed to spatial or nonspatial cues when they listened for a target masked by a competing message. A preceding cue signaled the target timbre, location, or both timbre and location. Spatial separation improved performance when the cue indicated the target location, or both the location and timbre, but not when the cue only indicated the target timbre. However, response errors were influenced by spatial configuration in all conditions. Both attention and streaming contributed to spatial effects when listeners actively attended to location. In contrast, when attention was directed to a nonspatial cue, spatial separation primarily appeared to improve the streaming of auditory objects across time. Thus, when attention is focused on location, spatial separation appears to improve both object selection and object formation; when attention is directed to nonspatial cues, separation affects object formation. These results highlight the need to distinguish between these separate mechanisms when considering how observers cope with complex auditory scenes.
Autocorrelation algorithms, in combination with computational models of the auditory periphery, have been successfully used to predict the pitch of a wide range of complex stimuli. However, new stimuli are frequently offered as counterexamples to the viability of this approach. This study addresses the issue of whether in the light of these challenges the predictive power of autocorrelation can be preserved by changes to the peripheral model and the computational algorithm. An existing model is extended by the addition of a low-pass filter of the summary integration of the individual within-channel autocorrelations. Other recent developments are also incorporated, including nonlinear processing on the basilar membrane and the use of integration time constants that are proportional to the autocorrelation lags. The modified and extended model predicts with reasonable success the pitches of a range of stimuli that have proved problematic for earlier implementations of the autocorrelation principle. The evaluation stimuli include short tone sequences, click trains consisting of alternating interclick intervals, click trains consisting of mixtures of regular and irregular intervals, shuffled click trains, and transposed tones.
The impact of countervailing social network influences (i.e., pro-social, anti-social or HIV risk peers) on problem behaviors (i.e., HIV drug risk, HIV sex risk or anti-social behaviors) among 696 homeless youth was assessed using structural equation modeling. Results revealed that older youth were less likely to report having pro-social peers and were more likely to have HIV risk and anti-social peers. A longer time homeless predicted fewer pro-social peers, more anti-social peers, and more HIV risk peers. Heterosexual youth reported fewer HIV risk peers and more pro-social peers. Youth recruited at agencies were more likely to report pro-social peers. Having pro-social peers predicted less HIV sex risk behavior and less anti-social behavior. Having HIV risk peers predicted all problem behavior outcomes. Anti-social peers predicted more anti-social behavior. Once the association between anti-social and HIV risk peers was accounted for independently, having anti-social peers did not independently predict sex or drug risk behaviors.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) drug developments and clinical trials (CT) remain vulnerable to problems that undermine research validity. Investigations of CT methods reveal how numerous factors decrease active drug-placebo group differences and increase variance, thereby reducing power to reach statistical significance for outcome measure differences in AD CTs. Such factors include, amongst many, inaccuracy, imprecision, bias, failures to follow or lack of operational protocols for applying CT methods, inter-site variance, and lack of homogeneous sampling using disorder criteria. After a review of the literature and survey of a sample of AD and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) CTs, the authors question whether problems of human error preclude AD researchers from continuing their dependence on rated outcome measures for CTs. The authors propose that the realities of AD, especially a probable irreversible progression of neuropathology prior to onset of clinical symptoms or signs capable of differentiating persons at risk for AD from normal aged, require AD investigators and clinicians to privilege biomarkers and encourage their development as surrogate targets for preventive AD treatment developments, testing, and use in clinical practice.
Many lines of independent research have provided convergent evidence regarding oxidative stress, cerebrovascular disease, dementia, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinical studies spurred by these findings engage basic and clinical communities with tangible results regarding molecular targets and patient outcomes. Focusing on recent progress in characterizing age-related diseases specifically highlights oxidative stress and mechanisms for therapeutic action in AD. Oxidative stress has been investigated independently for its relationship with aging and cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases and provides evidence of shared pathophysiology across these conditions. The mechanisms by which oxidative stress impacts the cerebrovasculature and blood-brain barrier are of critical importance for evaluating antioxidant therapies. Clinical research has identified homocysteine as a relevant risk factor for AD and dementia; basic research into molecular mechanisms associated with homocysteine metabolism has revealed important findings. Oxidative stress has direct implications in the pathogenesis of age-related neurodegenerative diseases and careful scrutiny of oxidative stress in the CNS has therapeutic implications for future clinical trials. These mechanisms of dysfunction, acting independently or in concert, through oxidative stress may provide the research community with concise working concepts and promising new directions to yield new methods for evaluation and treatment of dementia and AD.


There have been several improvements to the US tissue banking industry over the past decade. Tissue banks had limited active government regulation until 1993, at which time the US Food and Drug Administration began regulatory oversight because of reports of disease transmission from allograft tissues. Reports in recent years of disease transmission associated with the use of allografts have further raised concerns about the safety of such implants. A retrospective review of allograft recall data was performed to analyze allograft recall by tissue type, reason, and year during the period from January 1994 to June 30, 2007. During the study period, more than 96.5% of all allograft tissues recalled were musculoskeletal. The reasons underlying recent musculoskeletal tissue recalls include insufficient or improper donor evaluation, contamination, recipient infection, and positive serologic tests. Infectious disease transmission following allograft implantation may occur if potential donors are not adequately evaluated or screened serologically during the prerecovery phase and if the implant is not sterilized before implantation.
1,2-Eliminations are a varied and extensive set of dissociations of ions in the gas phase. To understand better such dissociations, elimination of CH(2)=CH(2) and CH(3)CH(3) from (CH(3))(2)NH(+)CH(2)CH(3) (1) and of CH(4) from (CH(3))(2)NH(2)(+) are characterized by quantum chemical calculations. Stretching of the CN bond to ethyl is followed by shift of an H from methyl to the bridging position in ethyl and then to N to reach (CH(3))(2)NH(2)(+) + CH(2)=CH(2) from 1. CH(3)CH(3) elimination by H-transfer to C(2)H(5)(+) to form CH(3)NH(+)=CH(2) + CH(3)CH(3) also takes place. (CH(3))(2)NH(2)(+) eliminates methane by CN bond extension followed by beta-H-transfer to give CH(2)=NH(+) + CH(4). Low-energy reactions resembling complex-mediated 1,2-eliminations occur and constitute a hitherto largely unrecognized type of reaction. As in many complex-mediated reactions, these reactions transfer H between incipient fragments. They are distinguished from complex-mediated processes by the fragments not being able to rotate freely relative to each other near the transition state for reaction, as they do in complexes. Most 1,2-eliminations are ion-neutral complex-mediated, occur by the just described lower energy reactions, have 1,1-like transition states, or utilize highly asynchronous 1,2 transition states. All of these avoid synchronized 1,2-transition states that would violate conservation of orbital symmetry.
This study aims to determine the effects of a high protein diet and alkaline supplementation on bone metabolic turnover in rats. Eight-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were investigated by bone status, including bone mineral density (BMD) and biomechanical markers from blood and urine. Thirty rats were randomly divided into three groups and treated for 8 weeks as follows: baseline control group (n. 10, C), high-protein supplemented diet group (n. 10, chronic acidosis, CA group) and supplemented chronic acidosis (n.10, SCA). Diet-treated rats were fed an acidic high-protein diet and the supplementation consisted in a modified alkaline formula (Basenpulver, NaMed, Italy). At the end of the experimental period, the rats were sacrificed, blood samples were drawn and femur and tibia were removed for analysis of bone mineral density (BMD) by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). In the CA group, 24-hour urinary calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) excretion were increased 2.1-fold (p&lt;0.05 vs normal diet controls) as well as kidney weight. However, serum Ca and P concentration, as well as urinary Dpd excretion were not significantly changed. Femural and tibial BMD was significantly decreased in the CA group (p&lt;0.05), but alkaline supplementation prevented such phenomenon (p&lt;0.05 vs CA). These results suggest that blood Ca and P concentrations in chronic acidosis condition during the 12-week supplementation might be maintained by hypercalciuria and hyperphosphaturia at the expenses of bone structure. However, modified alkaline supplementation is able to prevent such derangements.
During the first 7 weeks of postnatal life, short day lengths inhibit the onset of puberty in many photoperiodic rodents, but not in Syrian hamsters. In this species, timing of puberty and fecundity are independent of the early postnatal photoperiod. Gestational day length affects postnatal reproductive development in several rodents; its role in Syrian hamsters has not been assessed. We tested the hypothesis that cumulative effects of pre- and postnatal short day lengths would restrain gonadal development in male Syrian hamsters. Males with prenatal short day exposure were generated by dams transferred to short day lengths 6 weeks, 3 weeks, and 0 weeks prior to mating. Additional groups were gestated in long day lengths and transferred to short days at birth, at 4 weeks of age, or not transferred (control hamsters). In pups of dams exposed to short day treatment throughout gestation, decreased testis growth was apparent by 3 weeks and persisted through 9 weeks of age, at which time maximum testis size was attained. A subset of males (14%), whose dams had been in short days for 3 to 6 weeks prior to mating displayed pronounced delays in testicular development, similar to those of other photoperiodic rodents. This treatment also increased the percentage of male offspring that underwent little or no gonadal regression postnatally (39%). By 19 weeks of age, males housed in short days completed spontaneous gonadal development. After prolonged long day treatment to break refractoriness, hamsters that initially were classified as nonregressors underwent testicular regression in response to a 2nd sequence of short day lengths. The combined action of prenatal and early postnatal short day lengths diminishes testicular growth of prepubertal Syrian hamsters no later than the 3rd week of postnatal life, albeit to a lesser extent than in other photoperiodic rodents.
The goal of the NeuroBase project is to facilitate collaborative research in neuroimaging through a federated system based on semantic web technologies. The cornerstone and focus of this paper is the design of a common semantic model providing a unified view on all data and tools to be shared. For this purpose, we built a multi-layered and multi-components formal ontology. This paper presents two major contributions. The first is related to the general methodology we propose for building an application ontology based on consistent conceptualization choices provided by the DOLCE foundational ontology and core ontologies of domains that we reuse; the second concerns the domain ontology we designed for neuroimaging, which encompasses both the objective nature of image data and the subjective nature of image content, through annotations based on regions of interest made by agents (humans or computer programs). We report on realistic domain use-case queries referring to our application ontology.
Rather different from their initial image as passive supportive cells of the CNS, the astrocytes are now considered as active partners at synapses, able to release a set of gliotransmitter-like substances to modulate synaptic communication within neuronal networks. Whereas glutamate and ATP were first regarded as main determinants of gliotransmission, growing evidence indicates now that the amino acid D-serine is another important player in the neuronal-glial dialogue. Through the regulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission through both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA-R) and non-NMDA-R, D-serine is helping in modelling the appropriate connections in the developing brain and influencing the functional plasticity within neuronal networks throughout lifespan. The understanding of D-serine signalling, which has increased linearly in the last few years, gives new insights into the critical role of impaired neuronal-glial communication in the diseased brain, and offers new opportunities for developing relevant strategies to treat cognitive deficits associated to brain disorders.
Exogenous ATP induces inward currents and causes the release of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) from isolated neurohypophysial terminals (NHT); both effects are inhibited by the P2X2 and P2X3 antagonists, suramin and PPADS. Here we examined the role of endogenous ATP in the neurohypophysis. Stimulation of NHT caused the release of both AVP and ATP. ATP induced a potentiation in the stimulated release of AVP, but not of oxytocin (OT), which was blocked by the presence of suramin. In loose-patch clamp recordings, from intact neurohypophyses, suramin or PPADS produces an inhibition of action potential currents in a static bath, that can be mimicked by a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential (RMP). Correspondingly, in a static versus perfused bath there is a depolarization of the RMP of NHT, which was reduced by either suramin or PPADS. We measured an accumulation of ATP (3.7 +/- 0.7 microM) released from NHT in a static bath. Applications of either suramin or PPADS to a static bath decreased burst-stimulated capacitance increases in NHT. Finally, only vasopressin release from electrically stimulated intact neurohypophyses was reduced in the presence of Suramin or PPADS. These data suggest that there was sufficient accumulation of ATP released from the neurohypophysis during stimulations to depolarize its nerve terminals. This would occur via the opening of P2X2 and P2X3 receptors, inducing an influx of Ca2+. The subsequent elevation in [Ca2+](i) would further increase the stimulated release of only vasopressin from NHT terminals. Such purinergic feedback mechanisms could be physiologically important at most CNS synapses.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays an important role in controlling the access of substances to the brain. Of the circumventricular organs (CVO), i.e. areas that lack a BBB, the median eminence and its close relationship with the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus plays an important role in controlling the entry of blood-borne substances to neurons of the mediobasal hypothalamus. In order to clarify the nature of the BBB in the median eminence-arcuate nucleus complex, we have used immunohistochemistry and antisera to protein components of the BBB-(1) tight junctions, claudin-5 and zona occludens-1 (ZO-1); (2) endothelial cells: (a) all endothelial cells: rat endothelial cell antigen-1 (RECA-1), (b) endothelial cells at BBB: endothelial barrier antigen (EBA), glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) and transferrin receptor (TfR), and (c) endothelial cells at CVOs: dysferlin; (3) basal lamina: laminin; (4) vascular smooth muscle cells: smooth muscle actin (SMA); (5) pericytes: chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2); (6) glial cells: (a) astrocytes: glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), (b) tanycytes: dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDA (DARPP-32), (c) microglia: CD11b. Neuronal cell bodies located in the ventromedial aspect of the arcuate nucleus were visualized by antiserum to agouti-related protein (AgRP). The study provides a detailed analysis on the cellular localization of BBB components in the mediobasal hypothalamus. Some vessels in the ventromedial aspect of the arcuate nucleus lacked the BBB markers EBA and TfR, suggesting an absence of an intact BBB. These vessels may represent a route of entry for circulating substances to a subpopulation of arcuate nucleus neurons.
The management of childhood brain tumors, which consist of many different histological subtypes, continues to be a challenge. Outcome, measured not only by survival rates but also by the effects of disease and therapy on quality of life, has improved over the past two decades for some tumor types, most notably medulloblastomas. For others, however, there has been little progress, and quality of life for long-term survivors remains suboptimal. Because of advances in our understanding of the biology underlying childhood brain tumors, treatments may change dramatically in the years ahead. Accordingly, survival rates may improve and long-term sequelae lessen.

Surgical management is the only option for patients presenting with acute hydrocephalus caused by intraventricular neurocysticercosis. Although various modalities have been described, endoscopic excision is becoming increasingly popular. The outcomes for 22 patients with intraventricular neurocysticercal cysts with hydrocephalus managed endoscopically are presented. Complete excision of cysts (fourth ventricle, 14; lateral ventricle, 4; third ventricle, 3; both lateral and third ventricles, 1) was performed in all patients. Internal procedures for cerebrospinal fluid diversion were performed in 20 patients. There were minimal perioperative complications, all patients were relieved of raised intracranial pressure and no patient has required shunting to date. Mean follow-up duration was 20.7 months. Follow-up imaging showed the absence of residual cysts and resolution of hydrocephalus in all patients.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is a widely abused substituted amphetamine. MDMA is predominantly O-demethylenated in humans by cytochrome P450 isoforms 2D6 and 1A2 (CYP2D6 and CYP CYP1A2, respectively). MDMA is also a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP2D6. A controlled clinical trial was conducted in 15 healthy male subjects whereby a probe drug, dextromethorphan (DEX), was administered after an oral dose of 1.5 mg/kg MDMA. The pharmacokinetics of DEX and its metabolites were used to evaluate changes in CYP2D6 activity. The urinary metabolic ratio of DEX and dextrorphan was used to calculate a recovery half-life of CYP2D6. After MDMA, DEX Cmax and area under the curve increased approximately 10-fold with corresponding decreases in dextrorphan pharmacokinetic parameters. The metabolic ratio increased almost 100-fold from 0.0061 +/- 0.0056 to 0.4322 +/- 0.2848 after MDMA administration, with 67% of the subjects having a value greater than the antimode of 0.3 for assigning the poor metabolizer phenotype. CYP2D6 activity recovered after 10 days with a recovery half-life of 46.6 hours. In addition to the possible long-term serotonergic effects of MDMA, users must be warned of the consequences of such an inhibition.
Axonal growth cones initiate and sustain directed growth in response to cues in their environment. A variety of events such as receptor internalization, kinase activation, and actin rearrangement can be stimulated by guidance cues and are essential for mediating targeted growth cone behavior. Surprisingly little is known about how such disparate actions are coordinated. Our data suggest that ezrin, radixin, and moesin (ERMs), a family of highly homologous, multifunctional proteins may be able to coordinate growth cone responses to the guidance cue Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A). We show that active ERMs concentrate asymmetrically in neocortical growth cones, are rapidly and transiently inactivated by Sema3A, and are required for Sema3A-mediated growth cone collapse and guidance. The FERM domain of active ERMs regulates internalization of the Sema3A receptor, Npn1, and its coreceptor, L1CAM, while the ERM C-terminal domain binds and caps F-actin. Our data support a model in which ERMs can coordinate membrane and actin dynamics in response to Sema3A.
OBJECTIVE: To summarize challenges unique to obtaining Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for longitudinal substance abuse research, focusing on solutions and lessons learned. METHODS: Thirteen senior Principal Investigators with experience conducting research on substance abuse treatment and health services outcomes recalled instances from the prior 5 years when obtaining UCLA and non-UCLA IRB approval was hampered by differences in the interpretation of regulatory guidelines and how those differences were resolved. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Comprehensive yet flexible research protocols regarding (1) informed and voluntary consent, (2) participant payment, and (3) re-contact efforts are essential for securing IRB approval of longitudinal substance abuse studies. Specific examples of lessons learned are provided. CONCLUSIONS: Experiences can help researchers to provide appropriate and explicit justification for longitudinal substance abuse research protocols, thereby minimizing the burden and cost associated with meeting regulatory requirements as well as enhancing the efficiency, quantity, and quality of data collected.
This study examined the selective attention abilities of a simple, artificial, evolved agent and considered implications of the agent's performance for theories of selective attention and action. The agent processed two targets in continuous time, catching one and then the other. This task required many cognitive operations, including prioritizing the first target (T1) over the second (T2); selectively focusing responses on T1, while preventing T2 from interfering with responses; creating a memory for the unselected T2 item, so that it could be efficiently processed later; and reallocating processing towards T2 after catching T1. The evolved agent demonstrated all these abilities. Analysis shows that the agent used reactive inhibition to selectively focus behavior. That is, the more salient T2, the more strongly responses towards T2 were inhibited and the slower the agent was to subsequently reallocate processing towards T2. Reactive inhibition was also suggested in two experiments with people, performing a virtually identical catch task. The presence of reactive inhibition in the simple agent and in people suggests that it is an important mechanism for selective processing.
The effect of intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) on the &quot;common gating&quot; of the CLC-1 chloride channel has been studied by several laboratories with controversial results. Our previous study on the channel expressed in Xenopus oocytes using excised inside-out patch-clamp methods showed a robust effect of ATP in shifting the open probability curve of the common gate toward more depolarizing voltages (Tseng, P.Y., B. Bennetts, and T.Y. Chen. 2007. J. Gen. Physiol. 130:217-221). The results were consistent with those from studying the channel expressed in mammalian cells using whole cell recording methods (Bennetts, B., M.W. Parker, and B.A. Cromer. 2007. J. Biol. Chem. 282:32780-32791). However, a recent study using excised-patch recording methods for channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes reported that ATP had no direct effect on CLC-1 (Zifarelli, G., and M. Pusch. 2008. J. Gen. Physiol. 131:109-116). Here, we report that oxidation of CLC-1 may be the culprit underlying the controversy. When patches were excised from mammalian cells, the sensitivity to ATP was lost quickly--within 2-3 min. This loss of ATP sensitivity could be prevented or reversed by reducing agents. On the other hand, CLC-1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes lost the ATP sensitivity when patches were treated with oxidizing reagents. These results suggest a novel view in muscle physiology that the mechanisms controlling muscle fatigability may include the oxidation of CLC-1.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the screening question phrasing on the 1-year prevalence figures of headache disorders, including migraine. Of a random sample of 563 invited participants in the Nord-Trndelag Health Survey 2006-2008 in Norway, 297 (53%) met to a face-to-face interview. There were 74.1% that reported having had headache during the last year, whereas only 31.0% stated that they had suffered from headache in the same period. The 1-year prevalence of migraine was 17.2% and of tension-type headache (TTH) 51.9%. Migraine was ten times more likely (OR = 9.96, 95% CI 4.75-20.91) among those who stated that they were headache sufferers than among those who were not. Only headache sufferers had chronic TTH or medication-overuse headache. Thus &quot;Have you suffered from headache?&quot; can be a useful screening question in population-based questionnaire studies if the goal is to identify most migraineurs and almost all individuals with chronic headache.
Multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii resistant to carbapenems (MRAB-C) has become endemic in many hospitals in the UK. We describe an outbreak of MRAB-C that occurred on two intensive care units using ORION criteria (Outbreak Reports and Intervention studies Of Nosocomial infection). All patients colonised or infected with MRAB-C were included. Enhanced infection control precautions were introduced in Phase 1 of the outbreak. The adult neurosciences critical care unit (NCCU) was partially closed in Phase 2 and strict patient segregation, barrier nursing and screening thrice weekly was introduced. When control was achieved, NCCU was reopened (Phase 3) with post-discharge steam cleaning and monthly cleaning of extract and supply vents. There were 19 cases, 16 on NCCU and three on the general intensive care unit (ICU). Mean age was 52 years, with six cases being female. All patients were mechanically ventilated and ten had either an extraventricular drain or intracranial pressure monitoring device in place. Four patients developed a bacteraemia, with one further case of ventriculitis. Nine patients had no clinical evidence of infection and four were identified initially on screening. Ten patients were treated; there were eight deaths. Environmental samples showed heavy contamination throughout NCCU. MRAB-C affects critically ill patients and is associated with high mortality. This outbreak was controlled by early involvement of management, patient segregation, screening of patients and the environment, and increased hand hygiene environmental cleaning and clinical vigilance. A multidisciplinary approach to outbreak control is mandatory.



This study examined implicit and explicit measures of bias toward mental illness among people with different levels of mental health training, and investigated the influence of stigma on clinically-relevant decision-making. Participants (N = 1539) comprised of (1) mental health professionals and clinical graduate students, (2) other health care/social services specialists, (3) undergraduate students, and (4) the general public self-reported their attitudes toward people with mental illness, and completed implicit measures to assess mental illness evaluations that exist outside of awareness or control. In addition, participants predicted patient prognoses and assigned diagnoses after clinical vignettes. Compared with people without mental health training, individuals with mental health training demonstrated more positive implicit and explicit evaluations of people with mental illness. Further, explicit (but not implicit) biases predicted more negative patient prognoses, but implicit (and not explicit) biases predicted over-diagnosis, underscoring the value of using both implicit and explicit measures.
Gamma-Aminobutyric acid B (GABA B) receptors are heterodimers composed of two subunits GABA B(1) and GABA B(2), the former existing in two isoforms GABA B(1a) and GABA B(1b). The contributions of individual receptor subunits and isoforms to GABA B auto- and heteroreceptor functions were investigated, using release experiments in cortical slice preparations from corresponding knockout mice. Presynaptic GABA B autoreceptors are located on GABAergic terminals and inhibit GABA release, whereas presynaptic GABA B heteroreceptors control the release of other neurotransmitters (e.g. glutamate). Neither baclofen nor the selective antagonist CGP55845 at maximally active concentrations affected [3H]GABA release in slices from GABA B(1)-/- mice. The amount of [3H]GABA released per pulse was unaffected by the stimulation frequency in slices from GABA B(1)-/- and GABA B(2)-/- demonstrating a loss of GABA B autoreceptor function in these knockout animals. The GABA B receptor agonist baclofen was ineffective in modulating glutamate release in cortical slices from GABA B(2)-/- mice, showing that heteroreceptor function was abolished as well. Next we investigated knockout mice for the two predominant GABA B(1) isoforms expressed in brain, GABA B(1a) and GABA B(1b). In cortical, hippocampal and striatal slices from both GABA B(1a)-/- and GABA B(1b)-/- mice, the frequency dependence of [3H]GABA released per pulse was maintained, suggesting that both isoforms participate or can substitute for each other in GABA B autoreceptor function. By contrast, the efficacy of baclofen to inhibit glutamate release was substantially reduced in GABA B(1a)-/-, but essentially unaltered in GABA B(1b)-/- mice. Our data suggest that functional GABA B heteroreceptors regulating glutamate release are predominantly, but not exclusively composed of GABA B(1a) and GABA B(2) subunits.
Peroxiredoxins are an important family of cysteine-based antioxidant enzymes that exert a neuroprotective effect in several models of neurodegeneration. However, under oxidative stress they are vulnerable to inactivation through hyperoxidation of their active site cysteine residues. We show that in cortical neurons, the chemopreventive inducer 3H-1,2-dithiole-3-thione (D3T), that activates the transcription factor Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor (Nrf2), inhibits the formation of inactivated, hyperoxidized peroxiredoxins following oxidative trauma, and protects neurons against oxidative stress. In both neurons and glia, Nrf2 expression and treatment with chemopreventive Nrf2 activators, including D3T and sulforaphane, up-regulates sulfiredoxin, an enzyme responsible for reducing hyperoxidized peroxiredoxins. Induction of sulfiredoxin expression is mediated by Nrf2, acting via a cis-acting antioxidant response element (ARE) in its promoter. The ARE element in Srxn1 contains an embedded activator protein-1 (AP-1) site which directs induction of Srxn1 by synaptic activity. Thus, raising Nrf2 activity in neurons prevents peroxiredoxin hyperoxidation and induces a new member of the ARE-gene family, whose enzymatic function of reducing hyperoxidized peroxiredoxins may contribute to the neuroprotective effects of Nrf2 activators.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) has been reported to inhibit dopamine (DA) release in basal ganglia mainly by acting on NOP receptors in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. We investigated whether N/OFQ could affect DA transmission by acting at either DA nerve endings or DA-targeted post-synaptic neurons. In synaptosomes of rat nucleus accumbens and striatum N/OFQ inhibited DA synthesis and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) phosphorylation at Ser40 via NOP receptors coupled to inhibition of the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway. Immunofluorescence studies showed that N/OFQ preferentially inhibited phospho-Ser40-TH in nucleus accumbens shell and that in this subregion NOP receptors partly colocalized with either TH or DA D(1) receptor positive structures. In accumbens and striatum N/OFQ inhibited DA D(1) receptor-stimulated cAMP formation, but failed to affect either adenosine A(2A) or DA D(2) receptor regulation of cAMP. In accumbens slices, N/OFQ inhibited DA D(1)-induced phosphorylation of NMDA and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate glutamate receptors, whereas in primary cultures of accumbal cells, which were found to coexpress NOP and DA D(1) receptors, N/OFQ curtailed DA D(1) receptor-induced cAMP-response element-binding protein phosphorylation. Thus, in accumbens and striatum N/OFQ exerts an inhibitory constraint on DA transmission by acting on either pre-synaptic NOP receptors inhibiting TH phosphorylation and DA synthesis or post-synaptic NOP receptors selectively down-regulating DA D(1) receptor signaling.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear receptors which down-regulate inflammatory signaling pathways. Therefore, we hypothesized that alterations of PPAR functions can contribute to human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)-induced dysfunction of brain endothelial cells. Indeed, treatment with HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein decreased PPAR transactivation in brain endothelial cells. We next stably over-expressed PPARalpha and PPARgamma in a newly developed cell line of human brain endothelial cells (hCMEC/D3 cells). Tat-induced up-regulation of inflammatory mediators, such as interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, CCL2, and E-selectin were markedly attenuated in hCMEC/D3 over-expressing PPARalpha or PPARgamma. These results were confirmed in CCL2 and E-selectin promoter activity studies. Similar protective effects were observed in hCMEC/D3 after activation of PPARgamma by exogenous PPAR agonists (dPGJ(2) and rosiglitazone). PPAR over-expression also prevented Tat-induced binding activity and transactivation of nuclear factor-kappaB. Importantly, increased PPAR activity attenuated induction of IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, CCL2, and E-selectin in hCMEC/D3 cells co-cultured with HIV-1-infected Jurkat cells. The protective effects of PPAR over-expression were reversed by the antagonists of PPARalpha (MK886) or PPARgamma (GW9662). The present data suggest that targeting PPAR signaling may provide a novel therapeutic approach to attenuate HIV-1-induced local inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells.
Repulsive guidance molecule A (RGM A) was recently described as a potent inhibitor of neuroregeneration in a rat spinal cord injury model. The receptor mediating RGM A's repulsive activity was shown to be Neogenin, a member of the Deleted in Colorectal Cancer (DCC) family of netrin receptors. Binding of RGM A to Neogenin induces activation of the small GTPase RhoA and of its effector Rho-kinase by an unknown mechanism. Here we show, that the cytoplasmic tail of Neogenin interacts directly with the transcriptional coactivator LIM domain only 4 (LMO4) in human SH-SY5Y cells, human Ntera neurons, and in embryonic rat cortical neurons. RGM A binding to Neogenin but not binding of Netrin-1, induces release of LMO4 from Neogenin. Down-regulation of LMO4 neutralizes the repulsive activity of RGM A in neuronal cell lines and embryonic rat cortical neurons and prevents RhoA activation. These results show for the first time that an interaction of Neogenin with LMO4 is involved in the RGM A - Neogenin signal transduction pathway for RhoA activation.
We examined the effects of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) on microglia, which may play an important role in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. LPA caused membrane ruffling as detected by scanning electron microscopy, and increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in a primary culture of rat microglia, which express LPA(3), but not LPA(1) or LPA(2) receptors. These actions were inhibited by a Galpha(q/11)-antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN), U73122, an inhibitor of phospholipase C (PLC), and apyrase, which specifically degrades ATP and ADP. When ATP release was measured using a luciferin-luciferase bioluminescence assay, LPA was shown to increase it in an LPA(3) and PLC inhibitor-reversible manner. However, LPA-induced ATP release was also blocked by the Galpha(q/11) AS-ODN, but not by pertussis toxin. These results suggest that LPA induces the release of ATP from rat primary cultured microglia via the LPA(3) receptor, Galpha(q/11) and PLC, and that the released ATP or ectopically converted ADP may in turn cause membrane ruffling via P2Y(12) receptors and Galpha(i/o) activation, and BDNF expression via activation of P2X(4) receptors.
Oligodendrocytes (OLs) are mature glial cells that myelinate axons in the brain and spinal cord. As such, they are integral to functional and efficient neuronal signaling. The embryonic lineage and postnatal development of OLs have been well-studied and many features of the process have been described, including the origin, migration, proliferation, and differentiation of precursor cells. Less clear is the extent to which OLs and damaged/dysfunctional myelin are replaced following injury to the adult CNS. OLs and their precursors are very vulnerable to conditions common to CNS injury and disease sites, such as inflammation, oxidative stress, and elevated glutamate levels leading to excitotoxicity. Thus, these cells become dysfunctional or die in multiple pathologies, including Alzheimer's disease, spinal cord injury, Parkinson's disease, ischemia, and hypoxia. However, studies of certain conditions to date have detected spontaneous OL replacement. This review will summarize current information on adult OL progenitors, mechanisms that contribute to OL death, the consequences of their loss and the pathological conditions in which spontaneous oligodendrogenesis from endogenous precursors has been observed in the adult CNS.
As in other species, exogenous administration of ghrelin, an endogenous ligand for the growth hormone (GH) secretagogue receptors can stimulates feeding behaviour and GH secretion in the sheep. However, the importance of endogenous ghrelin for these two functions as well as its central or peripheral origin remained to be established. In the present study, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ghrelin concentrations were measured in five anoestrous ewes and found to be more than 1000-fold lower than circulating plasma levels, in keeping with the even lower concentration in hypothalamic compared to abomasum tissue extracts. Cluster analysis indicated that CSF ghrelin levels were markedly pulsatile, with a greater number of peaks than plasma ghrelin. Pulsatility parameters were closer for GH and CSF ghrelin than between GH and plasma ghrelin. Plasma ghrelin and GH levels were significantly correlated in three out of five ewes but CSF ghrelin and GH in one ewe only. Half of the CSF ghrelin episodes were preceded by a ghrelin peak in plasma with a 22-min delay. Cross-correlations between plasma GH and plasma or CSF ghrelin did not reach significance but a trend towards cross-correlation was observed from 20 to 0 min between plasma and CSF ghrelin. At 09.00 h, when food was returned to ewes, voluntary food intake did not elicit a consistent change in plasma or CSF ghrelin levels. By contrast, a peripheral ghrelin injection (1 mg, i.v.) immediately stimulated feeding behaviour and GH secretion. These effects were concomitant with a more than ten-fold increase in plasma ghrelin levels, whereas CSF ghrelin values only doubled 40-50 min after the injection. This suggests that peripherally-injected ghrelin crosses the blood-brain barrier, but only in low amount and with relatively slow kinetics compared to its effects on GH release and food intake. Taken together, the results obtained in the present study support the notion that, in the ovariectomised-oestradiol implanted sheep model, peripheral ghrelin injection rapidly induces GH secretion, and feeding behaviour, probably by acting on growth hormone secretagogue receptor subtype 1 located in brain regions in which the blood-brain barrier is not complete (e.g. the arcuate nucleus).
Animal models have been used extensively to investigate neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression, and their treatment. However, the aetiology and pathophysiology of many such disorders are largely unknown, which makes validation of animal models particularly challenging. Furthermore, many diagnostic symptoms are difficult to define, operationalize and quantify, especially in experimental animals such as rats. Thus, rather than attempting to model complex human syndromes such as depression in their entirety, it can be more productive to define and model components of the illness that may account for clusters of co-varying symptoms, and that may share common underlying neurobiological mechanisms. In preclinical investigations of the neural regulatory mechanisms linking stress to depression and anxiety disorders, as well as the mechanisms by which chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs may exert their beneficial effects in these conditions, we have employed a number of behavioural tests in rats to model specific cognitive and anxiety-like components of depression and anxiety disorders. In the present study, we review the procedures for conducting four such behavioural assays: the attentional set-shifting test, the elevated-plus maze, the social interaction test and the shock-probe defensive burying test. The purpose is to serve as a guide to the utility and limitations of these tools, and as an aid in optimising their use and productivity.
The dissection of the intracranial vertebral artery (VAD) is a common cause of young age brain stem stroke. VAD can be detected by conventional angiography, but there is yet no agreement on the most effective tool to use for the detection of VAD. Here, we report a patient with VAD, who was diagnosed with an intimal flap within the left vertebral artery by the magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) source images. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) showed a reversed flow in the basilar artery. After 4 months, TCD and transcranial color-coded Doppler (TCCD) confirmed a normal anterograde flow of the vertebro-basilar arteries.




Spirochetal infections are an important cause of neurological disease. In previous studies of the pathogenesis of spirochetal brain infection, mice inoculated with Borrelia turicatae, an agent of tick-borne relapsing fever in North America, developed mild meningitis and parenchymal activation/infiltration by interleukin 10 (IL-10)-producing microglia/macrophages. Here, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of IL-10 during spirochetal infection by comparing the outcomes of B. turicatae infection in wild-type and IL-10-deficient RAG2-deficient mice. Mice were infected with either serotype 1 (Bt1), which causes more brain infection but lower bacteremia, or Bt2, which causes less brain infection but higher bacteremia. Interleukin 10 deficiency resulted in early death from subarachnoid/intraparenchymal brain hemorrhage in Bt2-infected mice. These mice had marked apoptosis of brain microvascular endothelial cells as assessed by terminal transferase-mediated DNA nick end-labeling staining. In contrast, Bt1 infection caused milder subarachnoid hemorrhage. Neuronal apoptosis was observed in mice infected with both serotypes and was prominent in the cerebellum. Neutralization of tumor necrosis factor prevented death and reduced morbidity and brain injury in mice infected by both serotypes. We conclude that IL-10 plays a critical role protecting the cerebral microcirculation from spirochetal injury possibly by inhibition effects of tumor necrosis factor.
Neurons in the auditory midbrain are sensitive to differences in the timing of sounds at the two ears--an important sound localization cue. We used broadband noise stimuli to investigate the interaural-delay sensitivity of low-frequency neurons in two midbrain nuclei: the inferior colliculus (IC) and the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. Noise-delay functions showed asymmetries not predicted from a linear dependence on interaural correlation: a stretching along the firing-rate dimension (rate asymmetry), and a skewing along the interaural-delay dimension (delay asymmetry). These asymmetries were produced by an envelope-sensitive component to the response that could not entirely be accounted for by monaural or binaural nonlinearities, instead indicating an enhancement of envelope sensitivity at or after the level of the superior olivary complex. In IC, the skew-like asymmetry was consistent with intermediate-type responses produced by the convergence of ipsilateral peak-type inputs and contralateral trough-type inputs. This suggests a stereotyped pattern of input to the IC. In the course of this analysis, we were also able to determine the contribution of time and phase components to neurons' internal delays. These findings have important consequences for the neural representation of interaural timing differences and interaural correlation-cues critical to the perception of acoustic space.
The molecular identity of non-Cav1.3 channels in auditory and vestibular hair cells has remained obscure, yet the evidence in support of their roles to promote diverse Ca2+-dependent functions is indisputable. Recently, a transient Cav3.1 current that serves as a functional signature for the development and regeneration of hair cells has been identified in the chicken basilar papilla. The Cav3.1 current promotes spontaneous activity of the developing hair cell, which may be essential for synapse formation. Here, we have isolated and sequenced the full-length complementary DNA of a distinct isoform of Cav3.1 in the mouse inner ear. The channel is derived from alternative splicing of exon14, exon25A, exon34, and exon35. Functional expression of the channel in Xenopus oocytes yielded Ca2+ currents, which have a permeation phenotype consistent with T-type channels. However, unlike most multiion channels, the T-type channel does not exhibit the anomalous mole fraction effect, possibly reflecting comparable permeation properties of divalent cations. The Cav3.1 channel was expressed in sensory and nonsensory epithelia of the inner ear. Moreover, there are profound changes in the expression levels during development. The differential expression of the channel during development and the pharmacology of the inner ear Cav3.1 channel may have contributed to the difficulties associated with identification of the non-Cav1.3 currents.
Noncanonical secretagogues such as hypertonicity or alpha-latrotoxin have been extremely informative in studying neurotransmission. Lanthanum and lanthanides can also trigger neurotransmitter release through an unknown mechanism. Here, we studied the effect of lanthanides on neurotransmission in hippocampal cultures. Application of 2 mM La3+ caused rapid and robust neurotransmitter release within seconds. In addition, transient application of La3+ uncovered a sustained facilitation of miniature neurotransmission. The response to La3+ was detectable at 2 microM and increased in a concentration-dependent manner&lt;or=2 mM. Rapid effect of La3+ was independent of extracellular and intracellular Ca2+ and did not require La3+ entry into cells or activation of phospholipaseCbeta. Synapses deficient in synaptobrevin-2, the major synaptic vesicle soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein in the brain, did not display any rapid release in response to La3+, whereas the slow facilitation of release detected after La3+ removal remained intact. In contrast, preincubation with intracellular Ca2+ chelators selectively attenuated the delayed release triggered by La3+. Moreover, synapses deficient in synaptotagmin-1 maintained a rapid response to La3+, suggesting that La3+-triggered neurotransmitter release does not require synaptotagmin-1 as a sensor. Therefore La3+ has two separate effects on synaptic transmission. For its rapid action, La3+ interacts with a target on the surface membrane, and unlike other forms of release, it triggers strictly synaptobrevin-2-dependent fusion, implying that in central synapses synaptobrevin-2 function is secretagogue specific. For the delayed action, La3+ may act intracellularly after its entry or through intracellular Ca2+ via a mechanism that does not require synaptobrevin-2.
In the human upper limb a proportion of the descending corticospinal command may be relayed through cervical propriospinal premotoneurons. This may serve to coordinate movements involving multiple joints of the arm, such as reaching. The present study was conducted to determine whether a shoulder stabilizing muscle, infraspinatus (INF), is functionally integrated into the putative cervical propriospinal network, and whether there is task-dependent modulation of the network. Fourteen healthy adults participated in this study. Responses in the right INF were evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the motor cortex and compared with responses conditioned by ulnar nerve stimulation. Interstimulus intervals were chosen to summate inputs at the level of the premotoneurons. Participants performed a forearm and shoulder muscle cocontraction task or a grip-lift task that also coactivated forearm and shoulder muscles. During the cocontraction task, INF motor-evoked potentials were significantly facilitated by ulnar nerve stimulation at low intensities and suppressed at higher intensities. Only facilitation reached significance during the grip-lift task. We have shown for the first time that propriospinal pathways may connect the hand to the rotator cuff of the shoulder. The modulation of facilitation/suppression during the grip-lift task suggests that inhibition of propriospinal premotoneurons is down-regulated in a task-dependent manner to increase the gain in the feedback reflex loop from forearm and hand muscles as required.
To minimize the effects of Ca2+ buffering and signaling, this study sought to examine single Ca2+ channel properties using Sr2+ ions, which substitute well for Ca2+ but bind weakly to intracellular Ca2+ buffers. Two single-channel fluctuations were distinguished by their sensitivity to dihydropyridine agonist (L-type) and insensitivity toward dihydropyridine antagonist (non-L-type). The L- and non-L-type single channels were observed with single-channel conductances of 16 and 19 pS at 70 mM Sr2+ and 11 and 13 pS at 5 mM Sr2+, respectively. We obtained KD estimates of 5.2 and 1.9 mM for Sr2+ for L- and non-L-type channels, respectively. At Ca2+ concentration of approximately 2 mM, the single-channel conductances of Sr2+ for the L-type channel was approximately 1.5 and 4.0 pS for the non-L-type channels. Thus the limits of single-channel microdomain at the membrane potential of a hair cell (e.g., -65 mV) for Sr2+ ranges from 800 to 2,000 ion/ms, assuming an ECa of 100 mV. The channels are &gt;or=4-fold more sensitive at the physiological concentration ranges than at concentrations&gt;10 mM. Additionally, the channels have the propensity to dwell in the closed state at high concentrations of Sr2+, which is reflected in the time constant of the first latency distributions. It is concluded that the concentration of the permeant ion modulates the gating of hair cell Ca2+ channels. Finally, the closed state/s that is/are altered by high concentrations of Sr2+ may represent divalent ion-dependent inactivation of the L-type channel.
Acute and chronic pains are characterized by a particular constellation of pain qualities, such as burning, aching, stinging, or sharp feelings. However, the temporal pattern of specific pain qualities and their relationship with pain and affect is not well understood. In addition, little is known about how the temperature time course of the stimulus impacts the temporal dynamics of pain qualities and the relationship between pain qualities. Therefore we applied two types of stimuli to the feet of 16 healthy subjects, each calibrated to evoke a similar pain magnitude (50/100): static stimulus held at constant intensity and dynamic stimulus increased in intensity in small steps. Stimulus runs consisted of three 30-s stimuli (either static or dynamic) with an interstimulus interval of 60 s. Continuous on-line ratings of pain, burning, sharp, stinging, cutting, and annoyance were obtained in separate runs, and the evoked responses were characterized by within-stimulus adaptation (early: 0- to 15-s peak vs. late: 25- to 40-s peak) and by their temporal properties (time to onset, peak, and end). The temporal profile of the burning sensation was similar to the pain and annoyance evoked by the static and dynamic stimuli. However, the sharp, stinging and cutting sensations attenuated in response to the static stimuli (P&lt;0.01) but intensified along with pain and affect in response to the dynamic stimuli (P&lt;0.05), whereas there was no attenuation in the evoked profiles of pain (P=0.61), annoyance (P=0.27), or burning quality (P=0.27). These data demonstrate that specific pain qualities with known differences in underlying mechanisms have distinct temporal dynamics that depend on the stimulus intensity dynamics.
We have developed a fully automated procedure for extracting dendritic morphology from multiple three-dimensional image stacks produced by laser scanning microscopy. By eliminating human intervention, we ensure that the results are objective, quickly generated, and accurate. The software suite accounts for typical experimental conditions by reducing background noise, removing pipette artifacts, and aligning multiple overlapping image stacks. The output morphology is appropriate for simulation in compartmental simulation environments. In this report, we validate the utility of this procedure by comparing its performance on live neurons and test specimens with other fully and semiautomated reconstruction tools.
Chronic changes in neuronal activity homeostatically regulate excitatory circuitry. However, little is known about how activity regulates inhibitory circuits or specific inhibitory neuron types. Here, we examined the activity-dependent regulation of two neocortical inhibitory circuits--parvalbumin-positive (Parv+) and somatostatin-positive (Som+)--using paired recordings of synaptically coupled neurons. Action potentials were blocked for 5 days in slice culture, and unitary synaptic connections among inhibitory/excitatory neuron pairs were examined. Chronic activity blockade caused similar and distinct changes between the two inhibitory circuits. First, increases in intrinsic membrane excitability and excitatory synaptic drive in both inhibitory subtypes were consistent with the homeostatic regulation of firing rate of these neurons. On the other hand, inhibitory synapses originating from these two subtypes were differentially regulated by activity blockade. Parv+ unitary inhibitory postsynaptic current (uIPSC) strength was decreased while Som+ uIPSC strength was unchanged. Using short-duration stimulus trains, short-term plasticity for both unitary excitatory postsynaptic current (uEPSCs) and uIPSCs was unchanged in Parv+ circuitry while distinctively altered in Som+ circuitry--uEPSCs became less facilitating and uIPSCs became more depressing. In the context of recurrent inhibition, these changes would result in a frequency-dependent shift in the relative influence of each circuit. The functional changes at both types of inhibitory connections appear to be mediated by increases in presynaptic release probability and decreases in synapse number. Interestingly, these opposing changes result in decreased Parv+-mediated uIPSCs but balance out to maintain normal Som+-mediated uIPSCs. In summary, these results reveal that inhibitory circuitry is not uniformly regulated by activity levels and may provide insight into the mechanisms of both normal and pathological neocortical plasticity.
The primate posterior thalamus has been proposed to contribute to pain sensation, but its precise role is unclear. This is in part because spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons that project to the posterior thalamus have received little attention. In this study, antidromic mapping was used to identify individual STT neurons with axons that projected specifically to the posterior thalamus in Macaca fascicularis. Each axon was located by antidromic activation at low stimulus amplitudes (&lt;30 microA) and was then surrounded distally by a grid of stimulating points in which 500-microA stimuli were unable to activate the axon antidromically, thereby indicating the termination zone. Several nuclei within the posterior thalamus were targets of STT neurons: the posterior nucleus, suprageniculate nucleus, magnocellular part of the medial geniculate nucleus, and limitans nucleus. STT neurons projecting to the ventral posterior inferior nucleus were also studied. Twenty-five posterior thalamus-projecting STT neurons recorded in lumbar spinal cord were characterized by their responses to mechanical, thermal, and chemical stimuli. Sixteen of 25 neurons were recorded in the marginal zone and the balance was located within the deep dorsal horn. Thirteen neurons were classified as wide dynamic range and 12 as high threshold. One-third of STT neurons projecting to posterior thalamus responded to noxious heat (50 degrees C). Two-thirds of those tested responded to cooling. Seventy-one percent responded to an intradermal injection of capsaicin. These data indicate that the primate STT transmits noxious and innocuous mechanical, thermal, and chemical information to multiple posterior thalamic nuclei.
Induced oscillatory activity in the auditory cortex peaks at around 40 Hz in humans. Using regional cerebral blood flow and positron emission tomography we previously confirmed frequency-selective cortical responses to 40-Hz tones in auditory primary cortices and concomitant bilateral activation of the cerebellar hemispheres. In this study, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) we estimated the influence of 40-Hz auditory stimulation on the coupling between auditory cortex and superior temporal sulcus (STS) and Crus II, using a dynamic causal model of the interactions between medial geniculate nuclei, auditory superior temporal gyrus (STG)/STS, and the cerebellar Crus II auditory region. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that 40-Hz-selective responses in the cerebellar Crus II auditory region could be explained by frequency-specific enabling of interactions in the auditory cortico-cerebellar-thalamic loop. Our model comparison results suggest that input from auditory STG/STS to cerebellum is enhanced selectively at gamma-band frequencies around 40 Hz.
Images on the retina can change drastically in only a few milliseconds. A robust description of visual temporal processing is therefore necessary to understand visual analysis in the real world. To this end, we studied subsecond visual changes and asked how prefrontal neurons in monkeys respond to stimuli presented in quick succession. We recorded the visual responses of single neurons in the frontal eye field (FEF), a prefrontal area polysynaptically removed from the retina that is involved with higher level cognition. For comparison, we also recorded from small groups of neurons in the superficial superior colliculus (supSC), an area that receives direct retinal input. Two sequential flashes of light at varying interstimulus intervals were presented in a neuron's receptive field. We found pervasive neuronal adaptation in FEF and supSC. Visual responses to the second stimulus were diminished for up to half a second after the first stimulus presentation. Adaptation required a similar amount of time to return to full responsiveness in both structures, but there was significantly more neuronal adaptation overall in FEF. Adaptation was not affected by saccades, although visual responses to single stimuli were transiently suppressed postsaccadically. Our FEF and supSC results systematically document subsecond visual adaptation in prefrontal cortex and show that this adaptation is comparable to, but stronger than, adaptation found earlier in the visual system.
The suggestion that NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent plasticity is subunit specific, with NR2B-types required for long-term depression (LTD) and NR2A-types critical for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), has generated much attention and considerable debate. By investigating the suggested subunit-specific roles of NMDARs in the mouse primary visual cortex over development, we report several important findings that clarify the roles of NMDAR subtypes in synaptic plasticity. We observed that LTD was not attenuated by application of ifenprodil, an NR2B-type antagonist, or NVP-AAM007, a less selective NR2A-type antagonist. However, we were surprised that NVP-AAM007 completely blocked adult LTP (postnatal day (P) 45-90), while only modestly affecting juvenile LTP (P21-28). To assess whether this developmental transition reflected an increasing role for NR2A-type receptors with maturity, we characterized the specificity of NVP-AAM007. We found not only that NVP-AAM007 lacks discernable subunit specificity but also that the effects of NVP-AAM077 on LTP could be mimicked using subsaturating concentrations of APV, a global NMDAR antagonist. These results indicate that the effects of NVP-AAM077 on synaptic plasticity are largely explained by nonspecific blockade of NMDARs. Moreover our findings are the first to reveal a developmental increase in the sensitivity of LTP to NMDAR antagonism. We suggest that discrepant reports describing the effect of NVP-AAM077 on LTP may be partially explained by this developmental shift in the properties of LTP. These results indicate that the degree of NMDAR activation required for LTP increases with development, providing insight into a novel underlying mechanism governing the properties of synaptic plasticity.
Neurochemically induced membrane voltage oscillations and firing episodes in spinal excitatory interneurons expressing the HB9 protein (Hb9 INs) are synchronous with locomotor-like rhythmic motor outputs, suggesting that they contribute to the excitatory drive of motoneurons during locomotion. Similar to central pattern generator neurons in other systems, Hb9 INs are interconnected via electrical coupling, and their rhythmic activity does not depend on fast glutamatergic synaptic transmission. The primary objective of this study was to determine the contribution of fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission and subthreshold voltage-dependent currents to the induced membrane oscillations in Hb9 INs in the postnatal mouse spinal cord. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) reduced the amplitude of voltage oscillations but did not alter their frequency. CNQX suppressed rhythmic motor activity. Blocking glycine and GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory synapses as well as cholinergic transmission did not change the properties of CNQX-resistant membrane oscillations. However, disinhibition triggered new episodes of slow motor bursting that were not correlated with induced locomotor-like rhythms in Hb9 INs. Our observations indicated that fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs did not control the frequency of induced rhythmic activity in Hb9 INs. We next examined the contribution of persistent sodium current (INaP) to subthreshold membrane oscillations in the absence of primary glutamatergic, GABAergic and glycinergic synaptic drive to Hb9 INs. Low concentrations of riluzole that blocked the slow-inactivating component of sodium current gradually suppressed the amplitude and reduced the frequency of voltage oscillations. Our finding that INaP regulates locomotor-related rhythmic activity in Hb9 INs independently of primary synaptic transmission supports the concept that these neurons constitute an integral component of the rhythmogenic locomotor network in the mouse spinal cord.
To understand how the brain learns, we need to identify the full neural circuit for a behavior; characterize how neural responses in the circuit change during behavioral learning; and understand the nature, location, and control of the cellular changes that are responsible for learning. This goal seems attainable for the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR), where the neural circuit basis for learning is already partially understood. The current hypothesis for VOR learning postulates cellular changes in the cerebellar cortex and the vestibular nucleus. It suggests that the brain stem contains two parallel pathways that have been modeled on the basis of extensive biological data as unmodified and modified VOR pathways with frequency-dependent internal gains and different time delays. We now show a correspondence between the responses of different groups of neurons in the vestibular nucleus and the signals emanating from the two pathways in the model. Floccular target neurons (FTNs) and position-vestibular-pause neurons (PVPs) were identified by their discharge during eye movements and by the presence or absence of inhibition by floccular stimulation. FTNs had response gains and phases that coincided with predictions for pathways that are modified in association with learning, whereas PVPs had responses in agreement with predictions for the unmodified pathways. The quantitative agreement of prior model predictions and new data supports the identity of FTNs and PVPs as brain stem interneurons in the modified and unmodified VOR pathways. Other aspects of the data make predictions about how vestibular inputs are transformed as they pass through the two pathways.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant condition that compromises behavioral output. Dysfunction of medium spiny neurons (MSNs), which are the sole output system of the striatum, is thought to underlie HD pathophysiology. What is not known is how HD alters MSN information processing during behavior, which likely drives the HD behavioral phenotype. We recorded from populations of MSNs in two freely behaving and symptomatic HD mouse models: R6/2 transgenics are based on a C57BL/6J*CBA/J background and show robust behavioral symptoms, whereas knock-in (KI) mice have a 129sv background and express relatively mild behavioral signs. At the single-unit level, we found that the MSN firing rate was elevated in R6/2 but not in KI mice compared with their respective wild-type (WT) controls. In contrast, burst activity, which corresponds to periods of high-frequency firing, was altered in both HD models compared with WT. At the population level, we found that correlated firing between pairs of MSNs was a prominent feature in WT that was reduced in both HD models. Similarly, coincident bursts, which are bursts between pairs of neurons that overlap in time and occur more often in pairs of MSNs that exhibit correlated firing, were decreased in HD mice. Our results indicate an important role in both bursting and correlated burst firing for information processing in MSNs. Dysregulation of this processing scheme, moreover, is a key component of HD pathophysiology regardless of the severity of HD symptoms, genetic construct, and background strain of the mouse models.
Control of myoelectric prostheses and brain-machine interfaces requires learning abstract neuromotor transformations. To investigate the mechanisms underlying this ability, we trained subjects to move a two-dimensional cursor using a myoelectric-controlled interface. With the upper limb immobilized, an electromyogram from multiple hand and arm muscles moved the cursor in directions that were either intuitive or nonintuitive and with high or low variability. We found that subjects could learn even nonintuitive arrangements to a high level of performance. Muscle-tuning functions were cosine shaped and modulated so as to reduce cursor variability. Subjects exhibited an additional preference for using hand muscles over arm muscles, which resulted from a greater capacity of these to form novel, task-specific synergies. In a second experiment, nonvisual feedback from the hand was degraded with amplitude- and frequency-modulated vibration. Although vibration impaired task performance, it did not affect the rate at which learning occurred. We therefore conclude that the motor system can acquire internal models of novel, abstract neuromotor mappings even in the absence of overt movements or accurate proprioceptive signals, but that the distal motor system may be better suited to provide flexible control signals for neuromotor prostheses than structures related to the arm.
Multiple single-unit recording has become one of the most powerful in vivo electro-physiological techniques for studying neural circuits. The demand has been increasing for small and lightweight chronic recording devices that allow fine adjustments to be made over large numbers of electrodes across multiple brain regions. To achieve this, we developed precision motorized microdrive arrays that use a novel motor multiplexing headstage to dramatically reduce wiring while preserving precision of the microdrive control. Versions of the microdrive array were chronically implanted on both rats (21 microdrives) and mice (7 microdrives), and relatively long-term recordings were taken.
Adopting a mixed response strategy in competitive situations can prevent opponents from exploiting predictable play. What drives stochastic action selection is unclear given that choice patterns suggest that, on average, players are indifferent to available options during mixed-strategy equilibria. To gain insight into this stochastic selection process, we examined how motor preparation was allocated during a mixed-strategy game. If selection processes on each trial reflect a global indifference between options, then there should be no bias in motor preparation (unbiased preparation hypothesis). If, however, differences exist in the desirability of options on each trial then motor preparation should be biased toward the preferred option (biased preparation hypothesis). We tested between these alternatives by examining how saccade preparation was allocated as human subjects competed against an adaptive computer opponent in an oculomotor version of the game &quot;matching pennies.&quot; Subjects were free to choose between two visual targets using a saccadic eye movement. Saccade preparation was probed by occasionally flashing a visual distractor at a range of times preceding target presentation. The probability that a distractor would evoke a saccade error, and when it failed to do so, the probability of choosing each of the subsequent targets quantified the temporal and spatial evolution of saccade preparation, respectively. Our results show that saccade preparation became increasingly biased as the time of target presentation approached. Specifically, the spatial locus to which saccade preparation was directed varied from trial to trial, and its time course depended on task timing.
Different rhythmic leg movements in vertebrates can share coordinating neural circuitry. These movements are often similar kinematically, and smooth transitions between the different movements are common. We focused on interlimb coordination of the legs in young infants to determine whether weight bearing and non-weight bearing movements might share coordinating circuitry. If interlimb coordination is controlled by the same circuitry, the same coordination (i.e., either synchronous or alternate) should be seen in different rhythmic movements. Moreover, if we altered the interlimb coordination in one movement through exercise, it should translate to a change in coordination in another rhythmic movement that received no exercise. Video and electrogoniometry were recorded while 46 infants (age, 6.2+/-1.4 mo) performed non-weight bearing and weight bearing movements. Interlimb coordination was quantified by the phase lag between the movement cycles of each leg. Most infants (83%) showed the same coordination in weight bearing and non-weight bearing movements. Ten infants practiced the form of coordination they did not exhibit in the first visit, in weight bearing for 4 wk. Following practice, 8 of 10 infants changed their interlimb coordination in weight bearing to that practiced. Some who practiced synchronous coordination also changed their coordination in non-weight bearing activity. More infants showed both forms of coordination after practice and smooth transitions between the two forms. The results suggest that interlimb coordination is malleable in infants, and there is a partial sharing of the neural substrates for interlimb coordination between different rhythmic leg movements in infants.
The synfire chain model has been proposed as the substrate that underlies computational processes in the brain and has received extensive theoretical study. In this model cortical tissue is composed of a superposition of feedforward subnetworks (chains) each capable of transmitting packets of synchronized spikes with high reliability. Computations are then carried out by interactions of these chains. Experimental evidence for synfire chains has so far been limited to inference from detection of a few repeating spatiotemporal neuronal firing patterns in multiple single-unit recordings. Demonstration that such patterns actually come from synfire activity would require finding a meta organization among many detected patterns, as yet an untried approach. In contrast we present here a new method that directly visualizes the repetitive occurrence of synfire activity even in very large data sets of multiple single-unit recordings. We achieve reliability and sensitivity by appropriately averaging over neuron space (identities) and time. We test the method with data from a large-scale balanced recurrent network simulation containing 50 randomly activated synfire chains. The sensitivity is high enough to detect synfire chain activity in simultaneous single-unit recordings of 100 to 200 neurons from such data, enabling application to experimental data in the near future.
Such perisaccadic mislocalization is maximal in the direction of the saccade and varies systematically with the target-saccade onset delay. We have recently shown that under head-fixed conditions perisaccadic errors do not follow the quantitative predictions of current visuomotor models that explain these mislocalizations in terms of spatial updating. These models all assume sluggish eye-movement feedback and therefore predict that errors should vary systematically with the amplitude and kinematics of the intervening saccade. Instead, we reported that errors depend only weakly on the saccade amplitude. An alternative explanation for the data is that around the saccade the perceived target location undergoes a uniform transient shift in the saccade direction, but that the oculomotor feedback is, on average, accurate. This &quot;visual shift&quot; hypothesis predicts that errors will also remain insensitive to kinematic variability within much larger head-free gaze shifts. Here we test this prediction by presenting a brief visual probe near the onset of gaze saccades between 40 and 70 degrees amplitude. According to models with inaccurate gaze-motor feedback, the expected perisaccadic errors for such gaze shifts should be as large as 30 degrees and depend heavily on the kinematics of the gaze shift. In contrast, we found that the actual peak errors were similar to those reported for much smaller saccadic eye movements, i.e., on average about 10 degrees, and that neither gaze-shift amplitude nor kinematics plays a systematic role. Our data further corroborate the visual origin of perisaccadic mislocalization under open-loop conditions and strengthen the idea that efferent feedback signals in the gaze-control system are fast and accurate.

Imaging, surgical, and lesion studies suggest that the prefrontal cortex (orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortexes), basal ganglia, and thalamus are involved in the pathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). On the basis of these findings several models of OCD have been developed, but have had difficulty fully integrating the psychological and neuroanatomical findings of OCD. Recent research in the field of cognitive neuroscience on the normal function of these brain areas demonstrates the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in reward, the anterior cingulate cortex in error detection, the basal ganglia in affecting the threshold for activation of motor and behavioral programs, and the prefrontal cortex in storing memories of behavioral sequences (called &quot;structured event complexes&quot; or SECs). The authors propose that the initiation of these SECs can be accompanied by anxiety that is relieved with completion of the SEC, and that a deficit in this process could be responsible for many of the symptoms of OCD. Specifically, the anxiety can form the basis of an obsession, and a compulsion can be an attempt to receive relief from the anxiety by repeating parts of, or an entire, SEC. The authors discuss empiric support for, and specific experimental predictions of, this model. The authors believe that this model explains the specific symptoms, and integrates the psychology and neuroanatomy of OCD better than previous models.
Sleep architecture is often disturbed after a stressful event; nevertheless, little is known about the brain circuitry responsible for the sleep perturbations induced by stress. We exposed rats to a psychological stressor (cage exchange) that initially causes an acute stress response, but several hours later generates a pattern of sleep disturbances similar to that observed in stress-induced insomnia in humans: increased sleep latency, decreased non-REM (nREM) and REM sleep, increased fragmentation, and high-frequency EEG activity during nREM sleep. We examined the pattern of Fos expression to identify the brain circuitry activated, and found increased Fos in the cerebral cortex, limbic system, and parts of the arousal and autonomic systems. Surprisingly, there was simultaneous activation of the sleep-promoting areas, most likely driven by ongoing circadian and homeostatic pressure. The activity in the cerebral cortex and arousal system while sleeping generates a novel intermediate state characterized by EEG high-frequency activity, distinctive of waking, during nREM sleep. Inactivation of discrete limbic and arousal regions allowed the recovery of specific sleep components and altered the Fos pattern, suggesting a hierarchical organization of limbic areas that in turn activate the arousal system and subsequently the cerebral cortex, generating the high-frequency activity. This high-frequency activity during nREM was eliminated in the stressed rats after inactivating parts of the arousal system. These results suggest that shutting down the residual activity of the limbic-arousal system might be a better approach to treat stress-induced insomnia, rather than potentiation of the sleep system, which remains fully active.
In a synapse, spontaneous and action-potential-driven neurotransmitter release is assumed to activate the same set of postsynaptic receptors. Here, we tested this assumption using (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801), a well characterized use-dependent blocker of NMDA receptors. NMDA-receptor-mediated spontaneous miniature EPSCs (NMDA-mEPSCs) were substantially decreased by MK-801 within 2 min in a use-dependent manner. In contrast, MK-801 application at rest for 10 min did not significantly impair the subsequent NMDA-receptor-mediated evoked EPSCs (NMDA-eEPSCs). Brief stimulation in the presence of MK-801 significantly depressed evoked NMDA-eEPSCs but only mildly affected the spontaneous NMDA-mEPSCs detected on the same cell. Optical imaging of synaptic vesicle fusion showed that spontaneous and evoked release could occur at the same synapse albeit without correlation between their kinetics. In addition, modeling glutamate diffusion and NMDA receptor activation revealed that postsynaptic densities larger than approximately 0.2 microm(2) can accommodate two populations of NMDA receptors with nonoverlapping responsiveness. Collectively, these results support the premise that spontaneous and evoked neurotransmissions activate distinct sets of NMDA receptors and signal independently to the postsynaptic side.
The neonatal hippocampus exhibits regularly recurring waves of synchronized neuronal activity in vitro. Because active sleep (AS), characterized by bursts of phasic motor activity in the form of myoclonic twitching, may provide conditions that are conducive to activity-dependent development of hippocampal circuits, we hypothesized that the waves of synchronous neuronal activity that have been observed in vitro would be associated with AS-related twitching. Using unanesthetized 1- to 12-d-old rats, we report here that the majority of neurons in CA1 and the dentate gyrus (DG) are significantly more active during AS than during either quiet sleep or wakefulness. Neuronal activity typically occurs in phasic bursts, during which most neurons are significantly cross-correlated both within and across the CA1 and DG fields. All AS-active neurons increase their firing rates during periods of myoclonic twitching of the limbs, and a subset of these neurons exhibit a burst of activity immediately after limb twitches, suggesting that the twitches themselves provide sensory feedback to the infant hippocampus, as occurs in the infant spinal cord and neocortex. Finally, the synchronous bursts of neuronal activity are coupled to the emergence of the AS-related hippocampal gamma rhythm during the first postnatal week, as well as the emergence of the AS-related theta rhythm during the second postnatal week. We hypothesize that the phasic motor events of active sleep provide the developing hippocampus with discrete sensory stimulation that contributes to the development and refinement of hippocampal circuits as well as the development of synchronized interactions between hippocampus and neocortex.
Basal ganglia circuits make key contributions to decision making. Distributed, synchronous feedforward inhibition of striatal medium spiny neurons by fast-spiking GABAergic interneurons (FSIs) has been argued to be important for the suppression of unwanted actions, and a deficit in FSIs has been found in human patients with Tourette syndrome. However, no studies have yet examined how striatal FSIs change their activity during behavioral tasks. Here I describe 36 presumed striatal FSIs recorded in rats during well practiced performance of a radial maze win-stay task. Although most FSIs showed robust task-related activity, the temporal patterns of firing rate change were highly idiosyncratic. In contrast to other classes of striatal neurons, FSIs showed little or no coordinated population response to major task events such as instruction cues or rewards. Even when multiple FSIs were recorded simultaneously from the same local region of striatum, firing rate changes were dissimilar, and no clear evidence for synchronous firing was found using cross-correlograms (18 FSI pairs examined). These results suggest that FSIs play a more complex role in the information processing achieved by striatal microcircuits than supposed by current theoretical models.
As an organism interacts with the world, how good or bad things are at the moment, the value of the current state of the organism, is an important parameter that is likely to be encoded in the brain. As the environment changes and new stimuli appear, estimates of state value must be updated to support appropriate responses and learning. Indeed, many models of reinforcement learning posit representations of state value. We examined how the brain mediates this process by recording amygdala neural activity while monkeys performed a trace-conditioning task requiring fixation. The presentation of different stimuli induced state transitions; these stimuli included unconditioned stimuli (USs) (liquid rewards and aversive air puffs), newly learned reinforcement-predictive visual stimuli [conditioned stimuli (CSs)], and familiar stimuli long associated with reinforcement [fixation point (FP)]. The FP had a positive value to monkeys, because they chose to foveate it to initiate trials. Different populations of amygdala neurons tracked the positive or negative value of the current state, regardless of whether state transitions were caused by the FP, CSs, or USs. Positive value-coding neurons increased their firing during the fixation interval and fired more strongly after rewarded CSs and rewards than after punished CSs and air puffs. Negative value-coding neurons did the opposite, decreasing their firing during the fixation interval and firing more strongly after punished CSs and air puffs than after rewarded CSs and rewards. This representation of state value could underlie how the amygdala helps coordinate cognitive, emotional, and behavioral responses depending on the value of one's state.
It is proposed that the acquisition and maintenance of fluent speech depend on the rapid temporal integration of motor feedforward and polysensory (auditory and somatosensory) feedback signals. In a functional magnetic resonance imaging study on 21 healthy right-handed, English-speaking volunteers, we investigated activity within these motor and sensory pathways and their integration during speech. Four motor conditions were studied: two speech conditions (propositional and nonpropositional speech) and two silent conditions requiring repetitive movement of the principal articulators (jaw and tongue movements). The scanning technique was adapted to minimize artifact associated with overt speech production. Our result indicates that this multimodal convergence occurs within the left and right supratemporal planes (STPs), with peaks of activity at their posteromedial extents, in regions classically considered as unimodal auditory association cortex. This cortical specialization contrasted sharply with the response of somatosensory association cortex (SII), in which activity was suppressed during speech but not during the silent repetitive movement of the principal articulators. It was also clearly distinct from the response of lateral auditory association cortex, which responded to auditory feedback alone, and from that within a left lateralized ventrolateral temporal and inferior frontal system, which served lexical- and sentence-level language retrieval. This response of cortical regions related to speech production is not predicted by the classical model of hierarchical cortical processing, providing new insights into the role of the STP in polysensory integration and into the modulation of activity in SII during normal speech production. These findings have novel implications for the acquisition and maintenance of fluent speech.
The barn owl midbrain contains mutually aligned maps of auditory and visual space. Throughout life, map alignment is maintained through the actions of an instructive signal that encodes the magnitude of auditory-visual mismatch. The intracellular signaling pathways activated by this signal are unknown. Here we tested the hypothesis that CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) provides a cell-specific readout of instructive information. Owls were fitted with prismatic or control spectacles and provided rich auditory-visual experience: hunting live mice. CREB activation was analyzed within 30 min of hunting using phosphorylation state-specific CREB (pCREB) and CREB antibodies, confocal imaging, and immunofluorescence measurements at individual cell nuclei. In control owls or prism-adapted owls, which experience small instructive signals, the frequency distributions of pCREB/CREB values obtained for cell nuclei within the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICX) were unimodal. In contrast, in owls adapting to prisms or readapting to normal conditions, the distributions were bimodal: certain cells had received a signal that positively regulated CREB and, by extension, transcription of CREB-dependent genes, whereas others received a signal that negatively regulated it. These changes were restricted to the subregion of the inferior colliculus that received optically displaced input, the rostral ICX, and were not evident in the caudal ICX or central nucleus. Finally, the topographic pattern of CREB regulation was patchy, not continuous, as expected from the actions of a topographically precise signal encoding discrete events. These results support a model in which the magnitude of CREB activation within individual cells provides a readout of the instructive signal that guides plasticity and learning.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by axonal demyelination and neurodegeneration, the latter having been inadequately explored in the MS animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The purpose of this study was to examine the time-dependent correlation between increased calpain and caspase activities and neurodegeneration in spinal cord tissues from Lewis rats with acute EAE. An increase in TUNEL-positive neurons and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in EAE spinal cords suggested that neuronal death was a result of apoptosis on days 8-10 following induction of EAE. Increases in calpain expression in EAE correlated with activation of pro-apoptotic proteases, leading to apoptotic cell death beginning on day 8 of EAE, which occurred before the appearance of visible clinical symptoms. Increases in calcineurin expression and decreases in phospho-Bad (p-Bad) suggested Bad activation in apoptosis during acute EAE. Increases in the Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and activation of caspase-9 showed the involvement of mitochondria in apoptosis. Further, caspase-8 activation suggested induction of the death receptor-mediated pathway for apoptosis. Endoplasmic reticulum stress leading to caspase-3 activation was also observed, indicating that multiple apoptotic pathways were activated following EAE induction. In contrast, cell death was mostly a result of necrosis on the later day (day 11), when EAE entered a severe stage. From these findings, we conclude that increases in calpain and caspase activities play crucial roles in neuronal apoptosis during the development of acute EAE.
Thomas Willis established neurology as a distinct discipline and made significant original contributions to many related fields including anatomy, pathology, cardiology, endocrinology, and gastroenterology. He is most remembered for his work in elucidating the function and anatomy of the circle of Willis. Willis' accomplishments and research methods can be credited in large part to his unconventional medical education which did not include traditional teachings, but rather emphasized learning through clinical practice. Although Willis was not the first to describe the arterial circle, he was the first to describe its function and provide a complete, undisputed illustration through his own innovative use of dye studies. The Willis classification of cranial nerves was still in use over 100 years after its original description. He has also described several disease entities and named many brain structures. Willis' accomplishments in comparative anatomy and understanding the pathophysiology of various diseases through original multidisciplinary experimental work in a clinical setting reveal that he was a true pioneer in translational research.


At the conclusion of his year as 81st president of the Society of Neurological Surgeons, the author delivered the following address at the 2007 annual meeting of the Society of Neurological Surgeons in San Francisco. In his address, Dr. Popp used the voyage of Ferdinand Magellan to illustrate the present climate affecting residency training and why the current training paradigm must be examined and, where necessary, changed. Based on this call to action the leaders of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, The American Board of Neurological Surgeons, The Congress of Neurological Surgeons, The Council of State Neurosurgical Societies, The Residency Review Committee for Neurosurgery, The Society of Neurological Surgeons, and the Washington Committee for Neurosurgery agreed to hold an unprecedented Education Summit meeting to investigate a comprehensive approach to evaluating and changing the current neurosurgical residency training model.
Central nervous system maldevelopment can have different presentations in twins. We report on a case of different presentations of spina bifida occulta in monozygotic twins. The first twin presented at birth with a lipomyelomeningocele; a tethered cord was diagnosed in the second twin at 2 years of age. Neural tube defects (NTDs) are a group of common congenital malformations of the brain and spine generated during neurulation. The genetic basis of this process is still not well known. Whenever an NTD is diagnosed in one of a pair of twins, the other twin should also be evaluated for NTDs.
A fundamental dilemma that faces both neurosurgery in general and the subspecialty field of spine surgery is the question of whether those who trained in the former and now work in the latter should maintain their links with their origins and remain under the broader umbrella of neurosurgery, or whether they should develop their own organizational structure and identity separate from organized neurosurgery. This challenge raises many questions with respect to future potential for growth and development, professional identity, and collegiality. This paper is an edited version of an invited speech to the 2007 Annual Meeting of the Joint Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves. It uses the concept of synergy to review relevant history and explore possible future options for neurosurgery, neurospine, and neuroscience. An example from medical politics is used to illustrate the importance of perspective in approaching these questions, and examples of current therapeutic cutting-edge endeavors highlight the need for team-based behavior that takes a broad view. The premise of the paper is that while individual and specialty aspirations need to be acknowledged, considered, and managed, the results from truly working together will be greater than the sum of the individual efforts-synergy.
The objective of the study was to determine whether physical exercise combined with epidural spinal cord magnetic stimulation could improve recovery after injury of the spinal cord. Spinal cord lesioning in mice resulted in reduced locomotor function and negatively affected the muscle strength tested in vitro. Acrobatic exercise attenuated the behavioral effects of spinal cord injury. The exposure to magnetic fields facilitated further this improvement. The progress in behavioral recovery was correlated with reduced muscle degeneration and enhanced muscle contraction. The acrobatic exercise combined with stimulation with magnetic fields significantly facilitates behavioral recovery and muscle physiology in mice following spinal cord injury.

In 2005, an international symposium was convened with over 100 neuroscientists from 13 countries and major research centers to review current research in traumatic brain injury (TBI) and develop a consensus document on research issues and priorities. Four levels of TBI research were the focus of the discussion: basic science, acute care, post-acute neurorehabilitation, and improving quality of life (QOL). Each working group or committee was charged with reviewing current research, discussion and prioritizing future research directions, identifying critical issues that impede research in brain injury, and establishing a research agenda that will drive research over the next five years, leading to significantly improved outcomes and QOL for individuals suffering brain injuries. This symposium was organized at the request of the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force, to follow up on the National Institutes of Health Consensus Conference on TBI as mandated by the TBI ACT of 1996. The goal was to review what progress had been made since the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Conference, and also to follow up on the 1990's Decade of the Brain Project. The major purpose of the symposium was to provide recommendations to the U.S. Congress on a priority basis for research, treatment, and training in TBI over the next five years.
This tribute article to Professor Alan G. Hannam is based on 7 presentations for him at the July 1, 2008 symposium honoring 3 &quot;giants&quot; in orofacial neuroscience: Professors B. J. Sessle, J. P. Lund, and A. G. Hannam. This tribute to Hannam's outstanding career draws examples from his 40-year academic career and spans topics from human evolution to complex modeling of the craniomandibular system. The first presentation by W. Hylander provides a plausible answer to the functional and evolutionary significance of canine reduction in hominins. The second presentation, by A. McMillan, describes research activities in the field of healthy aging, including findings that intensity-modulated radiotherapy improves the health condition and quality of life of people with nasopharyngeal carcinoma in comparison to conventional radiotherapy. The developments in dental imaging are summarized in the third paper by E. Lam, and an overview of the bite force magnitude and direction while clenching is described in the fourth paper by M. Watanabe. The last 3 contributions by G. Langenbach, I. Staveness, and C. Peck deal with the topic of bone remodeling as well as masticatory system modeling, which was Hannam's main research interest in recent years. These contributions show the considerable advancements that have been made in the last decade under Hannam's drive, in particular the development of an interactive model comprising, in addition to the masticatory system, also the upper airways. The final section of the article includes a final commentary from Professor Hannam.
This tribute article to Professor James P. Lund stems from 6 of the presentations delivered at the July 1, 2008, symposium that honored 3 &quot;giants&quot; in orofacial neuroscience: B. J. Sessle, A. G. Hannam, and J. P. Lund. It was noted that soon after his training as a dentist in Australia, Jim Lund became interested in research. At the time he decided to do a PhD, there was a lot of discussion about how rhythmic movements were programmed. The early belief, based on Sherrington's studies of motor systems, was that these movements were simply an alternating series of reflexes. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, some still shared this belief, whereas others favored Graham Brown's hypothesis that repetitive movements were centrally programmed and did not depend on reflexes triggered by sensory inputs. There was no strong evidence then for either scenario except for the rhythmic movements of respiration. Lund's pioneering work during his PhD proved the existence of a central pattern generator (CPG) for mastication in the brainstem. Since then he has been interested in understanding how CPGs function and how sensory feedback works to adjust the motor patterns that they produce. Sections in this tribute article to Lund are written by some of his close collaborators and reflect the evolution of his work throughout the years. The first 4 presentations in this article (by K.-G. Westberg, D. McFarland, A. Kolta, and C. Stohler) highlight various aspects of these interests, and the final 2 presentations (by J. Feine and A. Woda) focus especially on clinical aspects of Lund's interests. The last section of this article is a final commentary from Professor Lund.
This tribute article to Professor Barry J. Sessle summarizes the 6 presentations delivered at the July 1, 2008 symposium at the University of Toronto. The symposium honored 3 &quot;giants&quot; in orofacial neuroscience, Professors B. J. Sessle, J. P. Lund, and A. G. Hannam. The 6 presentations paying tribute to Sessle spanned the period from the early phase of his career up to some of his most recent studies with colleagues in Asia, Europe, and Australia as well as Canada. The studies have included those providing an improved understanding of the cortical control of sensory inputs in pain perception (presented by R. Dubner) and in the control of mastication and swallowing, as well as brainstem mechanisms of orofacial pain (K. Iwata, G. Murray). His current activities in his laboratory and in Denmark are also highlighted (L. Avivi-Arber, P. Svensson). The potential transfer of basic research discoveries toward drug development in pain control that stem from some of his research is also described (B. Cairns). The final section of the paper includes a commentary from Professor Sessle.

Cooperation among nonrelatives can be puzzling because cooperation often involves incurring costs to confer benefits on unrelated others. Punishment of noncooperators can sustain otherwise fragile cooperation, but the provision of punishment suffers from a &quot;second-order&quot; free-riding problem because nonpunishers can free ride on the benefits from costly punishment provided by others. One suggested solution to this problem is second-order punishment of nonpunishers; more generally, the threat or promise of higher order sanctions might maintain the lower order sanctions that enforce cooperation in collective action problems. Here the authors report on 3 experiments testing people's willingness to provide second-order sanctions by having participants play a cooperative game with opportunities to punish and reward each other. The authors found that people supported those who rewarded cooperators either by rewarding them or by punishing nonrewarders, but people did not support those who punished noncooperators--they did not reward punishers or punish nonpunishers. Furthermore, people did not approve of punishers more than they did nonpunishers, even when nonpunishers were clearly unwilling to use sanctions to support cooperation. The results suggest that people will much more readily support positive sanctions than they will support negative sanctions.
We have reported the induction of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, a potent survival factor for dopaminergic neurons, in the C17.2 neural stem cell line following in vitro treatment with melatonin. Furthermore, we have detected the melatonin MT(1) receptor in these cells. Given these findings and recent evidence that melatonin may play a role in cellular differentiation, we examined whether this indoleamine induces morphological and transcriptional changes suggestive of a neuronal phenotype in C17.2 cells. Moreover, in order to extend preliminary evidence of a potential role for melatonin in epigenetic modulation, its effects on the mRNA expression of several histone deacetylase (HDAC) isoforms and on histone acetylation were examined. Physiological concentrations of melatonin (nanomolar range) increased neurite-like extensions and induced mRNA expression of the neural stem cell marker, nestin, the early neuronal marker beta-III-tubulin and the orphan nuclear receptor nurr1 in C17.2 cells. The indoleamine also significantly increased mRNA expression for various HDAC isoforms, including HDAC3, HDAC5, and HDAC7. Importantly, treatment with melatonin for 24 hr caused a significant increase in histone H3 acetylation, which is associated with chromatin remodeling and gene transcription. Since the melatonin MT(2) receptor was not detected in C17.2 cells, it is likely that the MT(1) receptor is involved in mediating these physiological effects of melatonin. These findings suggest novel roles for melatonin in stem cell differentiation and epigenetic modulation of gene transcription.
Child maltreatment is a significant public health problem associated with a broad range of negative outcomes in children and adolescents that can extend into adulthood. This review summarizes information about programs aimed at the prevention of child maltreatment evaluated by controlled trials, with a focus on home visitation programs. It does not include programs aimed at prevention of child sexual abuse, the subject of a separate review in this series. We discuss those programs that include one or more measures of child maltreatment and related outcomes (reports of abuse and neglect, injuries, hospitalizations and emergency room visits). Most programs targeting at-risk families have not shown evidence of effectiveness in preventing abuse or neglect. An important exception is the Nurse Family Partnership (NFP), a program provided by nurses to first-time socially disadvantaged mothers beginning prenatally that has undergone rigorous evaluation in three randomized controlled trials. It has shown consistent effects in reducing reports of maltreatment and associated outcomes as well as additional benefits in maternal and child health in high-risk families. A second exception is the promising Early Start program provided by nurses and social workers to at-risk families beginning postnatally. One randomized controlled trial of the program has shown reduced rates of parental reports of severe abuse and hospital attendance for injuries and poisonings, based on records. The characteristics of the NFP and Early Start programs are discussed with special emphasis on ways in which they differ from other home visitation programs.
There is an abundance of evidence suggesting the involvement of altered levels of expression of neurotrophic factors in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Although postmortem brain studies have indicated the alterations in the expression levels of neurotrophic factors in mood disorder patients, it is unclear whether these changes are state- or trait-dependent. In this study, we examined the expression levels of the members of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family (GDNF, artemin (ARTN), neurturin, and persephin), brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 mRNAs by using quantitative real-time PCR method in peripheral blood cells of patients with major depressive and bipolar disorders in both a current depressive and a remissive states. Reduced expression levels of GDNF, ARTN, and NT-3 mRNAs were found in patients with major depressive disorder in a current depressive state, but not in a remissive state. Altered expressions of these mRNAs were not found in patients with bipolar disorder. Our results suggest that the changes in the expression levels of GDNF, ARTN, and NT-3 mRNAs might be state-dependent and associated with the pathophysiology of major depression.

Alterations in the laterality of cortical activity have been shown in depressive illnesses. One possible pathophysiological mechanism for this is an effect of corticosteroids. We have previously demonstrated that endogenous cortisol concentrations correlate with the asymmetry of cortical activity related to episodic memory in healthy subjects and depressed patients. To further-examine whether this is due to a causal effect of cortisol on the laterality of episodic memory, we studied the effect of exogenous administration of cortisol in healthy subjects. Twenty-three right-handed healthy male volunteers were tested in a double-blind cross-over study. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during an episodic memory task following a four-day course of 160mg/day cortisol or placebo. Low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) was used to identify brain regions involved in the neurocognitive task. Cortisol levels were measured in saliva samples. ERP and LORETA analysis following placebo demonstrated significant left parahippocampal activation associated with successful retrieval. Cortisol led to a decrease in the mean early frontal ERP voltage and an increase in the late right ERP voltage. LORETA suggested this to be due to a significant increased late activation of the right superior frontal gyrus. There was no significant effect of cortisol on episodic memory performance. This study suggests that exogenous cortisol leads to more positive-going waveforms over the right than the left hemisphere, possibly due to increased monitoring of the products of retrieval. The results support the hypothesis of causal effects of cortisol on the laterality of cortical activity occurring during an episodic memory task.


A substantial number of women who enter substance abuse treatment have a history of trauma and meet criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Fear regarding the extent to which PTSD treatment can evoke negative consequences remains a research question. This study explored adverse events related to the implementation of an integrated treatment for women with trauma and substance use disorder (Seeking Safety) compared with a nontrauma-focused intervention (Women's Health Education). Three hundred fifty-three women enrolled in community substance abuse treatment were randomized to 1 of the 2 study groups and monitored weekly for adverse events. There were no differences between the two intervention groups in the number of women reporting study-related adverse events (28 [9.6%] for the Seeking Safety group and 21[7.2%] for the Women's Health Education group). Implementing PTSD treatment in substance abuse treatment programs appears to be safe, with minimal impact on intervention-related adverse psychiatric and substance abuse symptoms. More research is needed on the efficacy of such interventions to improve outcomes of PTSD and substance use.



Neural plasticity is a key topic in the study of behavioral neuroscience, yet it can be a difficult concept to demonstrate in a classroom setting. In this report, we describe an interactive technique that can be used to demonstrate and quantify in a laboratory setting the plasticity of motor coordination to altered visual input, i.e. visuo-motor plasticity. Visual input can be easily altered by horizontally-displacing prism goggles. Open-loop motor coordination immediately after putting on these goggles is inaccurate. However, after performing a number of visuo-motor tasks wearing these goggles, coordination adapts and improves. Immediately after removing the goggles, a robust negative aftereffect resulting from adaptation to the goggles is consistently demonstrated. This negative aftereffect can be used to quantify the amount of adaptation that has taken place. We document how to create the prism goggles, how to quantify accuracy of motor coordination, what kinds of visuo-motor tasks consistently lead to significant adaptation, and the importance of active over passive adaptation conditions.
A current topic in neuroscience addresses the link between brain activity and visual awareness. The electroencephalogram (EEG), which uses non-invasive high temporal resolution scalp recordings to measure brain activity, is a common tool used to probe this question. EEG recordings, however, are difficult to implement in the curriculum of laboratory-based courses. Thus, undergraduate students often lack experience with EEG experiments. We report here an EEG program (Virtual EEG) that can be used in undergraduate courses to analyze averaged EEG data, termed Event Related Potentials (ERPs). The program was designed so that students can generate hypothesis-driven studies that address how the brain encodes categories of visual stimuli. The Virtual EEG is a large database of EEG recordings consisting of 32 channels taken from real human subjects who were shown 256 pictures of visual stimuli. The program provides a number of possible ways to group the stimuli. After selecting the appropriate stimuli, the program constructs graphs of the ERPs. The channels can be selected for statistical analysis. Because the program uses real data, students are encouraged to interpret their results in light of previously published work. Thus, students have the opportunity to discover something new about how the brain processes visual information. This article also includes a tutorial and summarizes the results of an assessment survey. Finally, we include information regarding the companion Virtual EEG website. The Virtual EEG has been used successfully for the past six years at Indiana University with over a thousand undergraduate students in a research methods course, and the assessment results illustrate its strengths and limitations.
In this paper we describe a lab exercise developed for the Introduction to Neuroscience course at Williams College. One of a series of five labs, this exercise demonstrated several key principles of behavioral neuroscience. In this lab, students explored the effects of post-weaning housing environment on anxiety-like behavior and psychostimulant sensitivity in rodents. The exercise was intended to emphasize the importance and utility of animal models in neuroscience research and to give students hands-on experience with behavioral neuroscience research techniques. Students tested rats reared in social isolation or environmental enrichment for anxiety-like behaviors on the elevated plus maze, and for spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in the open field. They were then asked to analyze pooled class data and prepare a short lab report. Overall, student performance was excellent. This exercise emerged as a class favorite on course evaluations. Interestingly, the first time this exercise was conducted, the effects of environmental enrichment on anxiety-like behaviors and psychostimulant sensitivity were not consistent with those published in previous studies. Key methodological issues that may account for this discrepancy and contribute to successful implementation by other programs are discussed.
Several challenges await new assistant professors setting up a neuroscience lab, and obtaining sufficient research help is typically a top priority. A secondary, but no less daunting, challenge is juggling accuracy and reliability with costs and limited start-up funds. These concerns are particularly crucial for those engaging technically sophisticated measurements, such as microdialysis. We have developed straightforward procedures that our undergraduate students have utilized to successfully construct high-quality, low-cost microdialysis probes. Students mastering the various steps involved have also gained valuable insight into their use, troubleshooting, and the implications of data obtained from these constructed probes. These procedures are explained here to foster increased use in neuroscience labs that involve undergraduates, along with pointers about teaching the technique to newcomers. Students who master the techniques can pass them on to new students easily. These procedures train students in the overall research technique of microdialysis more thoroughly than when manufactured probes are used, they save money, and will eventually save the principal investigator time when students develop independence with troubleshooting and repairs.
To circumvent the many problems in teaching neurophysiology as a &quot;wet lab,&quot; we developed SWIMMY, a virtual fish that swims by moving its virtual tail by means of a virtual neural circuit. SWIMMY diminishes the need for expensive equipment, troubleshooting, and manual skills that require practice. Also, SWIMMY effectively replaces live preparations, which some students find objectionable. Using SWIMMY, students (1) review the basics of neurophysiology, (2) identify the neurons in the circuit, (3) ascertain the neurons' synaptic interconnections, (4) discover which cells generate the motor pattern of swimming, (5) discover how the rhythm is generated, and finally (6) use an animation that corresponds to the activity of the motoneurons to discover the behavioral effects produced by various lesions and explain them in terms of their neural underpinnings. SWIMMY is a genuine inquiry-based exercise producing data that requires individual thought and interpretation. It is neither a cookbook exercise nor a demonstration. We have used SWIMMY for several terms with great success. SWIMMY solidifies students' understanding of material learned in traditional lecture courses because they must apply the concepts. Student ratings of SWIMMY have been very positive, particularly ratings from students who have also been exposed to a &quot;wet&quot; neurophysiology lab. Because SWIMMY requires only computers for implementation and makes minimal demands on instructional resources, it provides for a great deal of flexibility. Instructors could use SWIMMY as part of a traditional lab course, as a classroom exercise, in distance learning, or in blended instructional formats (internet with classroom). SWIMMY is now available for free online complete with student and instructor manuals at http://mdcune.psych.ucla.edu.
The clearance of virally infected cells from the brain is mediated by T cells that engage antigen-presenting cells to form supramolecular activation clusters at the immunological synapse. However, after clearance, the T cells persist at the infection site and remain activated locally. In the present work the long-term interactions of immune cells in brains of monkeys were imaged in situ 9 months after the viral inoculation. After viral immunity, the persistent infiltration of T cells and B cells was observed at the infection sites. T cells showed evidence of T-cell receptor signaling as a result of contacts with B cells. Three-dimensional analysis of B-cell-T-cell synapses showed clusters of CD3 in T cells and the segregation of CD20 in B cells, involving the recruitment of CD40 ligand at the interface. These results demonstrate that immunological synapses between B cells and T cells forming three-dimensional microclusters occur in vivo in the central nervous system and suggest that these interactions may be involved in the lymphocyte activation after viral immunity at the original infection site.
Although tracheotomies are the standard procedure for elective surgical airways, some patients present with challenging anatomy. In circumstances of abnormal skeletal deformities, such as kyphoscoliosis, the airway is also often tortuous and access to the trachea may be difficult. In the situation of severely distorted tracheal anatomy, where access to the trachea may require a mediansternotomy, a cricothyroidotomy may be the safer option. This article details the technique involved in approaching a substernal larynx and stomatizing a cricothyroidotomy for a patient who required a long-term surgical airway secondary to severe kyphoscoliosis from Proteus syndrome and failure to extubate.
The difficulty of using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to support early diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) stems from the subtle pathological changes in the central nervous system (CNS). In this study, texture analysis was performed on MR images of MS patients and normal controls and a combined set of texture features were explored in order to better discriminate tissues between MS lesions, normal appearing white matter (NAWM) and normal white matter (NWM). Features were extracted from gradient matrix, run-length (RL) matrix, gray level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM), autoregressive (AR) model and wavelet analysis, and were selected based on greatest difference between different tissue types. The results of the combined set of texture features were compared with our previous results of GLCM-based features alone. The results of this study demonstrated that (1) with the combined set of texture features, classification was perfect (100%) between MS lesions and NAWM (or NWM), less successful (88.89%) among the three tissue types and worst (58.33%) between NAWM and NWM; (2) compared with GLCM-based features, the combined set of texture features were better at discriminating MS lesions and NWM, equally good at discriminating MS lesions and NAWM and at all three tissue types, but less effective in classification between NAWM and NWM. This study suggested that texture analysis with the combined set of texture features may be equally good or more advantageous than the commonly used GLCM-based features alone in discriminating MS lesions and NWM/NAWM and in supporting early diagnosis of MS.
A repeat Computer Tomographic (CT) brain after 24-48 hours from the 1(st) scanning is usually practiced in most hospitals in South East Asia where intracranial pressure monitoring (ICP) is routinely not done. This interval for repeat CT would be shortened if there was a deterioration in Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS). Most of the time the prognosis of any intervention may be too late especially in hospitals with high patient-to-doctor ratio causing high mortality and morbidity. The purpose of this study was to determine the important predictors for early detection of Delayed Traumatic Intracranial Haemorrhage (DTICH) and Progressive Traumatic Brain Injury (PTBI) before deterioration of GCS occurred, as well as the most ideal timing of repeated CT brain for patients admitted in Malaysian hospitals. A total of 81 patients were included in this study over a period of six months. The CT scan brain was studied by comparing the first and second CT brain to diagnose the presence of DTICH/PTBI. The predictors tested were categorised into patient factors, CT brain findings and laboratory investigations. The mean age was 33.1  15.7 years with a male preponderance of 6.36:1. Among them, 81.5% were patients from road traffic accidents with Glasgow Coma Scale ranging from 4 - 15 (median of 12) upon admission. The mean time interval delay between trauma and first CT brain was 179.8  121.3 minutes for the PTBI group. The DTICH group, 9.9% of the patients were found to have new intracranial clots. Significant predictors detected were different referral hospitals (p=0.02), total GCS status (p=0.026), motor component of GCS (p=0.043), haemoglobin level (p&lt;0.001), platelet count (p=0.011) and time interval between trauma and first CT brain (p=0.022). In the PTBI group, 42.0% of the patients were found to have new changes (new clot occurrence, old clot expansion and oedema) in the repeat CT brain. Univariate statistical analysis revealed that age (p=0.03), race (p=0.035), types of admission (p=0.024), GCS status (p=0.02), pupillary changes (p=0.014), number of intracranial lesion (p=0.004), haemoglobin level (p=0.038), prothrombin time (p=0.016) as the best predictors of early detection of changes. Multiple logistics regression analysis indicated that age, severity, GCS status (motor component) and GCS during admission were significantly associated with second CT scan with changes. This study showed that 9.9% of the total patients seen in the period of study had DTICH and 42% had PTBI. In the early period after traumatic head injury, the initial CT brain did not reveal the full extent of haemorrhagic injury and associated cerebral oedema. Different referral hospitals of different trauma level, GCS status, motor component of the GCS, haemoglobin level, platelet count and time interval between trauma and the first CT brain were the significant predictors for DTICH. Whereas the key determinants of PTBI were age, race, types of admission, GCS status, pupillary changes, number of intracranial bleed, haemoglobin level, prothrombin time and of course time interval between trauma and first CT brain. Any patients who had traumatic head injury in hospitals with no protocol of repeat CT scan or intracranial pressure monitoring especially in developing countries are advised to have to repeat CT brain at the appropriate quickest time .
A prospective cohort study was done to evaluate the role of surgery in patients with spontaneous supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage (SICH) and to identify predictors of outcome including the use of invasive regional cortical cerebral blood flow (rCoBF) and microdialysis. Surgery consisted of craniotomy or decompressive craniectomy. The ventriculostomy for intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring and drainage and regional cortical cerebral blood flow (rCoBF) and microdialysis were performed in all subjects. Pre and post operative information on subjects were collected. The study end points was functional outcome at 6 months based on a dichotomised Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS).The selected clinical, radiological, biochemical and treatment factors that may influence the functional outcome were analysed for their significance. A total of 36 patients were recruited with 27(75%) patients had Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) between 5 to 8 on admission and 9(25%) were admitted with GCS of 9. At 6 months, 86 % had a poor or unfavourable outcome (GOS I-III) and 14% had good or favourable outcome (GOS IV-V). The mortality rate at 6 months was 55%. Univariate analysis for the functional outcome identified 2 significant variables, the midline shift (p=0.013) and mean lactate:pyruvate ratio (p=0.038). Multivariate analysis identified midline shift as the single significant independent predictor of functional outcome (p=0.013).Despite aggressive regional cortical cerebral blood flow (rCoBF) and microdialysis study for detection of early ischemia, surgical treatment for spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage only benefited a small number of patients in terms of favourable outcome (14%) and in the majority of patients (86%), the outcome was unfavourable. Patients with midline shift &gt; 5mm has almost 21 times higher chances (adj) OR 20.8 of being associated with poor outcome (GOS I-III).
Paediatric subdural empyema is frequently seen in developing Asean countries secondary to rinosinusogenic origins. A cross-sectional analysis on the surgical treatment of intracranial subdural empyema in Hospital Kuala Lumpur (HKL), a major referral center, was done in 2004. A total number of 44 children who fulfilled the inclusion criteria were included into this study. The methods of first surgery, volume of empyema on contrasted CT brain, improvement of neurological status, re-surgery, mortality and morbidity, as well as the demographic data such as age, gender, sex, duration of illness, clinical presentation, probable origin of empyema, cultures and follow-up were studied. Chi-square test was performed to determine the association between surgical methods and the survival of the patients, neurological improvement, clearance of empyema on CT brain, re-surgery and long morbidity among the survivors. If the 20% or more of the cells were having expected frequency less than five, then Fisher's Exact test was applied. The level of significance was set at 0.05. SPSS version 12.0 was used for data entry and data analysis. There were 44 patients who were less than 18 years. Their mean age was 5.90  6.01 years. There were 30 males (68.2%) and 14 females (31.8%) involved in the study. Malays were majority with 28 (63.6%) followed by Indian 8 (18.2%), Chinese 5 (11.4%) and others 3 (6.8%). The variables which were under interest were gender, race, headache, vomiting, seizures, sign of meningism, cranial nerve palsy, thickness site of abscess, first surgical treatment, improvement in neurological deficit, clearance of CT and whether re-surgery was necessary. All variables were found not to be associated with Henk W Mauser Score for PISDE grading. Comparison between this urban study and a rural setting study by the same corresponding author in the same period on subdural empyema was done. Common parameters were compared and it was found out that seizures were more prevalent in urban study where the patients are more than one year old (p=0.005). Mortality was much higher in urban study than the rural one (p=0.040). The larger proportion of urban group had volume of abscess less than or equal to 50 ml (p=&lt; 0.001).
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging has the ability to map neuronal architecture by estimating the 3D diffusion displacement within fibrous brain structures. This approach has non-invasively been demonstrated in the human brain with diffusion tensor tractography. Despite its valuable application in neuroscience and clinical studies however, it faces an inherent limit in mapping fiber tracts through areas with intervoxel incoherence. Recent advances in high angular resolution diffusion imaging have surpassed this limit and have the ability to resolve the complex fiber intercrossing within each MR voxel. To connect the fiber tracts from a multi-fiber system, this study proposed a modified fiber assignment using the continuous tracking (MFACT) algorithm and a tracking browser to propagate tracts along complex diffusion profiles. The Q-ball imaging method was adopted to acquire the diffusion displacements. Human motor pathways with seed points from the internal capsule, motor cortex, and pons were studied respectively. The results were consistent with known anatomy and demonstrated the promising potential of the MFACT method in mapping the complex neuronal architecture in the human brain.


Gamma hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), an endogenous constituent of the mammalian brain, acts as i) a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, ii) a medicine used for the treatment of narcolepsy and alcoholism, and iii) a drug illicitly used for its psychotropic effects. GHB is thought to act as a specific GHB receptor agonist as well as a weak gamma-aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B)) receptor agonist. Here, I review the in vivo and in vitro pharmacological properties of GHB and its interaction with GHB and GABA(B) receptors. When exogenously administered, GHB is rapidly absorbed, crosses the blood-brain barrier, penetrates into the brain and exerts a number of pharmacological effects including anxiolysis, sedation/hypnosis and anesthesia. Due to its effects on the central nervous system, GHB has been used for the treatment of narcolepsy and as an anesthetic adjuvant. More recently, a role for GHB in the pharmacotherapy of alcohol dependence has been described. In this review, I also focus on the abuse liability and reinforcing properties of GHB in humans and laboratory animals.

Centromeric (CEN) chromatin is placed under mechanical tension and stretches as kinetochores biorient on the mitotic spindle. This deformation could conceivably provide a readout of biorientation to error correction mechanisms that monitor kinetochore-spindle interactions, but whether CEN chromatin acts in a tensiometer capacity is unresolved. Here, we report observations linking yeast Topoisomerase II (Top2) to both CEN mechanics and assessment of interkinetochore tension. First, in top2-4 and sumoylation-resistant top2-SNM mutants CEN chromatin stretches extensively during biorientation, resulting in increased sister kinetochore separation and preanaphase spindle extension. Our data indicate increased CEN stretching corresponds with alterations to CEN topology induced in response to tension. Second, Top2 potentiates aspects of the tension checkpoint. Mutations affecting the Mtw1 kinetochore protein activate Ipl1 kinase to detach kinetochores and induce spindle checkpoint arrest. In mtw1top2-4 and mtw1top2-SNM mutants, however, kinetochores are resistant to detachment and checkpoint arrest is attenuated. For top2-SNM cells, CEN stretching and checkpoint attenuation occur even in the absence of catenation linking sister chromatids. In sum, Top2 seems to play a novel role in CEN compaction that is distinct from decatenation. Perturbations to this function may allow weakened kinetochores to stretch CENs in a manner that mimics tension or evades Ipl1 surveillance.
Metabolomics is a systems approach to studying the small, endogenous metabolites in an organ, biofluid or whole organism. It can be used as a screening tool for metabolite profiling, or to detect changes in the metabolome brought on by external or internal stressors. The purpose of this review is to summarize and evaluate the information obtained from the application of metabolomics in fish research and to discuss its future potential. It is already clear that metabolomics has contributed new knowledge about fish in areas such as basic physiology and development, disease, water pollution and aspects concerning fish as foodstuffs.
Cell adhesion molecules of the Immunoglobulin superfamily (IgCAMs) play diverse functions during neural development. Previously, we have identified SYG-1/Neph1 and SYG-2/Nephrin, IgCAMs necessary for synaptic specificity in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we conduct an in vivo structure-function analysis of SYG-1 and SYG-2 to identify domains of SYG-1 and SYG-2 necessary for heterophilic binding as well as synaptic specificity. We find the first Ig domain of SYG-1 and the first 5 Ig domains of SYG-2 are necessary and sufficient for their binding in vivo, as well as for synapse formation. We also find the SYG-2 cytoplasmic domain is required for SYG-2 subcellular trafficking, while the intracellular region of SYG-1 is required for synaptic function at earlier developmental stages, but is dispensable for later stages. This study defines the domain requirements for SYG-1/SYG-2 heterophilic binding and suggests that unknown SYG-1 extracellular interactors may play a role in SYG-1-mediated synaptic specificity.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene transduction of the brain using viral vectors in epileptogenic regions can effectively suppress seizures in animals, and is being considered as a promising alternative treatment strategy for epilepsy. Therefore, it is fundamental to understand the detailed mechanisms governing the release and action of transgene NPY in neuronal circuitries. Using whole-cell recordings from subicular neurons, we show that in animals transduced by recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector carrying the NPY gene, transgene NPY is released during high-frequency activation of CA1-subicular synapses. Released transgene NPY attenuates excitatory synaptic transmission not only in activated, but also in neighboring, non-activated synapses. Such broad action of transgene NPY may prevent recruitment of excitatory synapses in epileptic activity and could play a key role in limiting the spread and generalization of seizures.
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and the BK channel are enriched at the presynaptic nerve terminal, where CaMKII associates with synaptic vesicles whereas the BK channel colocalizes with voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels in the plasma membrane. Mounting evidence suggests that these two proteins play important roles in controlling neurotransmitter release. Presynaptic BK channels primarily serve as a negative regulator of neurotransmitter release. In contrast, presynaptic CaMKII either enhances or inhibits neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity depending on experimental or physiological conditions and properties of specific synapses. The different functions of presynaptic CaMKII appear to be mediated by distinct downstream proteins, including the BK channel.
Oxidative stress induced by glutathione depletion in the mouse HT22 neuroblastoma cell line and embryonic rat immature cortical neurons causes a delayed, sustained activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, which is required for cell death. This sustained activation of ERK1/2 is mediated primarily by a selective inhibition of distinct ERK1/2-directed phosphatases either by enhanced degradation (i.e., for mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1) or as shown here by reductions in enzymatic activity (i.e., for protein phosphatase type 2A). The inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphatases in HT22 cells and immature neurons subjected to glutathione depletion results from oxidative stress because phosphatase activity is restored in cells treated with the antioxidant butylated hydroxyanisole. This leads to reduced ERK1/2 activation and neuroprotection. Furthermore, an increase in free intracellular zinc that accompanies glutathione-induced oxidative stress in HT22 cells and immature neurons contributes to selective inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphatase activity and cell death. Finally, ERK1/2 also functions to maintain elevated levels of zinc. Thus, the elevation of intracellular zinc within neurons subjected to oxidative stress can trigger a robust positive feedback loop operating through activated ERK1/2 that rapidly sets into motion a zinc-dependent pathway of cell death.
The Epstein-Barr induced receptor 2 (EBI2) is a lymphocyte-expressed orphan seven transmembrane-spanning (7TM) receptor that signals constitutively through Galphai, as shown, for instance by guanosine 5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate incorporation. Two regions of importance for the constitutive activity were identified by a systematic mutational analysis of 29 residues in EBI2. The cAMP response element-binding protein transcription factor was used as a measure of receptor activity and was correlated to the receptor surface expression. PheVI:13 (Phe257), and the neighboring CysVI:12 (Cys256), in the conserved CW/FxP motif in TM 6, acted as negative regulators as Ala substitutions at these positions increased the constitutive activity 5.7- and 2.3-fold, respectively, compared with EBI2 wild type (wt). In contrast, ArgII:20 (Arg87) in TM-2 acted as a positive regulator, as substitution to Ala, but not to Lys, decreased the constitutive activity more than 7-fold compared with wt EBI2. IleIII:03 (Ile106) is located only 4 A from ArgII:20, and a favorable electrostatic interaction with ArgII:20 was created by introduction of Glu in III:03, given that the activity increased to 4.4-fold of that wt EBI2. It is noteworthy that swapping these charges by introduction of Glu in II:20 and Arg in III:03 resulted in a 2.7-fold increase compared with wt EBI2, thereby rescuing the two signaling-deficient single mutations, which exhibited a 3.8- to 4.5-fold decrease in constitutive activity. The uncovering of these molecular mechanisms for EBI2 activation is important from a drug development point of view, in that it may facilitate the rational design and development of small-molecule inverse agonists against EBI2 of putative importance as antiviral- or immune modulatory therapy.
The soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor protein syntaxin 1A (SYN1A) interacts with and regulates the function of transmembrane proteins, including ion channels and neurotransmitter transporters. Here, we define the first 33 amino acids of the N terminus of the dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) as the site of direct interaction with SYN1A. Amphetamine (AMPH) increases the association of SYN1A with human DAT (hDAT) in a heterologous expression system (hDAT cells) and with native DAT in murine striatal synaptosomes. Immunoprecipitation of DAT from the biotinylated fraction shows that the AMPH-induced increase in DAT/SYN1A association occurs at the plasma membrane. In a superfusion assay of DA efflux, cells overexpressing SYN1A exhibited significantly greater AMPH-induced DA release with respect to control cells. By combining the patch-clamp technique with amperometry, we measured DA release under voltage clamp. At -60 mV, a physiological resting potential, AMPH did not induce DA efflux in hDAT cells and DA neurons. In contrast, perfusion of exogenous SYN1A (3 microM) into the cell with the whole-cell pipette enabled AMPH-induced DA efflux at -60 mV in both hDAT cells and DA neurons. It has been shown recently that Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is activated by AMPH and regulates AMPH-induced DA efflux. Here, we show that AMPH-induced association between DAT and SYN1A requires CaMKII activity and that inhibition of CaMKII blocks the ability of exogenous SYN1A to promote DA efflux. These data suggest that AMPH activation of CaMKII supports DAT/SYN1A association, resulting in a mode of DAT capable of DA efflux.
The activation of G protein-coupled receptors results in a cascade of events that include acute signaling, desensitization, and internalization, and it is thought that not all agonists affect each process to the same extent. The early steps in opioid receptor signaling, including desensitization, have been characterized electrophysiologically using brain slice preparations, whereas most previous studies of opioid receptor trafficking have been conducted in heterologous cell models. This study used transgenic mice that express an epitope-tagged (FLAG) micro-opioid receptor (FLAGMOR) targeted to catecholamine neurons by regulatory elements from the tyrosine hydroxylase gene. Brain slices from these mice were used to study tagged MOR receptors in neurons of the locus ceruleus. Activation of the FLAGMOR with [Met5]enkephalin (ME) produced a hyperpolarization that desensitized acutely to the same extent as native MOR in slices from wild-type mice. A series of opioid agonists were then used to study desensitization and receptor trafficking in brain slices, which was monitored with a monoclonal antibody against the FLAG epitope (M1) conjugated to Alexa 594. Three patterns of receptor trafficking and desensitization were observed: 1) ME, etorphine, and methadone resulted in both receptor desensitization and internalization; 2) morphine and oxymorphone caused significant desensitization without evidence for internalization; and 3) oxycodone was ineffective in both processes. These results show that two distinct forms of signaling were differentially engaged depending on the agonist used to activate the receptor, and they support the hypothesis that ligand-specific regulation of opioid receptors occurs in neurons maintained in brain slices from adult animals.
Formation and extinction of aversive memories in the mammalian brain are insufficiently understood at the cellular and molecular levels. Using the novel metabotropic glutamate receptor 7 (mGluR7) agonist AMN082, we demonstrate that mGluR7 activation facilitates the extinction of aversive memories in two different amygdala-dependent tasks. Conversely, mGluR7 knockdown using short interfering RNA attenuated the extinction of learned aversion. mGluR7 activation also blocked the acquisition of Pavlovian fear learning and its electrophysiological correlate long-term potentiation in the amygdala. The finding that mGluR7 critically regulates extinction, in addition to acquisition of aversive memories, demonstrates that this receptor may be relevant for the manifestation and treatment of anxiety disorders.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) amplicon is a plasmid-based, infectious gene delivery system that carries up to 150 kilobase (kb) of exogenous DNA. We previously characterized early host responses and stability of transgene expression in mice systemically injected with HSV amplicon vectors. Transgene expression was readily detected primarily in the liver but rapidly declined to undetectable levels within 2 weeks. Molecular analyses revealed induction of type I interferons (IFN) as the primary response, and early transcriptional silencing of the vector followed IFN's activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (STAT1). In this study, we investigate vector administration by stereotactic injection into the striatum. In the brain, induction of type I IFN was rather modest, and transgene expression lasted more than 1 year despite dose-dependent inflammation and infiltration of immune cells around injection sites. Further analyses revealed dose-dependent upregulation of immunosuppressive cytokines and molecular markers specific to regulatory T cells in the injected brain regions, which supported the immune-privileged properties of the brain parenchyma. Overall, our findings indicate that the spectrum of host responses can differ significantly depending on target organs and administrative routes, and that HSV amplicon vectors hold great potential for gene therapy of chronic neurological disorders.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a devastating form of brain cancer for which there is no effective treatment. Here, we report a novel approach to brain tumor therapy through genetic modification of normal brain cells to block tumor growth and effect tumor regression. Previous studies have focused on the use of vector-based gene therapy for GBM by direct intratumoral injection with expression of therapeutic proteins by tumor cells themselves. However, as antitumor proteins are generally lethal to tumor cells, the therapeutic reservoir is rapidly depleted, allowing escape of residual tumor cells. Moreover, it has been difficult to achieve consistent transduction of these highly heterogeneous tumors. In our studies, we found that transduction of normal cells in the brain with an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector encoding interferon-beta (IFN-beta) was sufficient to completely prevent tumor growth in orthotopic xenograft models of GBM, even in the contralateral hemisphere. In addition, complete eradication of established tumors was achieved through expression of IFN-beta by neurons using a neuronal-restricted promoter. To our knowledge this is the first direct demonstration of the efficacy of targeting gene delivery exclusively to normal brain cells for brain tumor therapy.
This study investigates the role of the intact superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) in the reinnervation process of one of the laryngeal muscles, the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle (PCA), following recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) injury. Using a chronic RLN injury model in the adult rat, PCA reinnervation was assessed by retrograde double-tracing techniques in combination with electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry of muscle sections. The results demonstrate that the PCA receives dual innervation from both laryngeal nerves even in the uninjured system. Functionally significant collateral reinnervation originates from intact SLN fibers following RLN injury, mainly due to intramuscular sprouting rather than by recruitment of more motor neurons. This may be important when choosing surgical and/or medical treatment for patients with RLN injury.
Oculomotor function has not been studied in patients with myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2). We report the presence of rebound nystagmus in seven of eight patients with DM2 in the absence of a structural brainstem or cerebellar lesion. The rebound nystagmus observed in these patients is very suggestive of ocular myotonia, and examination of patients using video-Frenzel goggles may be a useful method for diagnosing myotonia of the extraocular muscles.
B cells have a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of various autoimmune neurological disorders, not only as precursors of antibody-producing cells, but also as important regulators of the T-cell activation process through their participation in antigen presentation, cytokine production, and formation of ectopic germinal centers in the intermeningeal spaces. Two B-cell trophic factors-BAFF (B-cell-activating factor) and APRIL (a proliferation-inducing ligand)-and their receptors are strongly upregulated in many immunological disorders of the CNS and PNS, and these molecules contribute to clonal expansion of B cells in situ. The availability of monoclonal antibodies or fusion proteins against B-cell surface molecules and trophic factors provides a rational approach to the treatment of autoimmune neurological diseases. This article reviews the role of B cells in autoimmune neurological disorders and summarizes the experience to date with rituximab, a B-cell-depleting monoclonal antibody against CD20, for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, autoimmune neuropathies, neuromyelitis optica, paraneoplastic neurological disorders, myasthenia gravis, and inflammatory myopathies. It is expected that ongoing controlled trials will establish the efficacy and long-term safety profile of anti-B-cell agents in several autoimmune neurological disorders, as well as exploring the possibility of a safe and synergistic effect with other immunosuppressants or immunomodulators.



Over the past decade or so, CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides have emerged as major neurotransmitters and hormones. CART peptides are widely distributed in the CNS and are involved in regulating many processes, including food intake and the maintenance of body weight, reward and endocrine functions. Recent studies have produced a wealth of information about the location, regulation, processing and functions of CART peptides, but additional studies aimed at elucidating the physiological effects of the peptides and at characterizing the CART receptor(s) are needed to take advantage of possible therapeutic applications.
High-content analysis (HCA) combines automated microscopy and automated image analysis to quantify complex cellular anatomy and biochemistry objectively, accurately and quickly. High-content assays that are applicable to neuroscience include those that can quantify various aspects of dendritic trees, protein aggregation, transcription factor translocation, neurotransmitter receptor internalization, neuron and synapse number, cell migration, proliferation and apoptosis. The data that are generated by HCA are rich and multiplexed. HCA thus provides a powerful high-throughput tool for neuroscientists.
Neuropathological changes in Parkinson's disease progress slowly and spread according to a characteristic pattern. Recent papers have shed light on this progression of pathology by examining the fate of neurons grafted into the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease. Two of these studies demonstrate that grafted healthy neurons can gradually develop the same pathology as host neurons in the diseased brains. According to these studies, implanted neurons developed alpha-synuclein- and ubiquitin-positive Lewy bodies more than a decade after transplantation. We discuss the possible underlying mechanisms and their implications for how pathology spreads in Parkinson's disease.
We describe a neural network able to rapidly establish correspondence between neural feature layers. Each of the network's two layers consists of interconnected cortical columns, and each column consists of inhibitorily coupled subpopulations of excitatory neurons. The dynamics of the system builds on a dynamic model of a single column, which is consistent with recent experimental findings. The network realizes dynamic links between its layers with the help of specialized columns that evaluate similarities between the activity distributions of local feature cell populations, are subject to a topology constraint, and can gate the transfer of feature information between the neural layers. The system can robustly be applied to natural images, and correspondences are found in time intervals estimated to be smaller than 100 ms in physiological terms.
MIIND (Multiple Interacting Instantiations of Neural Dynamics) is a highly modular multi-level C++ framework, that aims to shorten the development time for models in Cognitive Neuroscience (CNS). It offers reusable code modules (libraries of classes and functions) aimed at solving problems that occur repeatedly in modelling, but tries not to impose a specific modelling philosophy or methodology. At the lowest level, it offers support for the implementation of sparse networks. For example, the library SparseImplementationLib supports sparse random networks and the library LayerMappingLib can be used for sparse regular networks of filter-like operators. The library DynamicLib, which builds on top of the library SparseImplementationLib, offers a generic framework for simulating network processes. Presently, several specific network process implementations are provided in MIIND: the Wilson-Cowan and Ornstein-Uhlenbeck type, and population density techniques for leaky-integrate-and-fire neurons driven by Poisson input. A design principle of MIIND is to support detailing: the refinement of an originally simple model into a form where more biological detail is included. Another design principle is extensibility: the reuse of an existing model in a larger, more extended one. One of the main uses of MIIND so far has been the instantiation of neural models of visual attention. Recently, we have added a library for implementing biologically-inspired models of artificial vision, such as HMAX and recent successors. In the long run we hope to be able to apply suitably adapted neuronal mechanisms of attention to these artificial models.
The complexity of neurophysiology data has increased tremendously over the last years, especially due to the widespread availability of multi-channel recording techniques. With adequate computing power the current limit for computational neuroscience is the effort and time it takes for scientists to translate their ideas into working code. Advanced analysis methods are complex and often lack reproducibility on the basis of published descriptions. To overcome this limitation we develop FIND (Finding Information in Neural Data) as a platform-independent, open source framework for the analysis of neuronal activity data based on Matlab (Mathworks). Here, we outline the structure of the FIND framework and describe its functionality, our measures of quality control, and the policies for developers and users. Within FIND we have developed a unified data import from various proprietary formats, simplifying standardized interfacing with tools for analysis and simulation. The toolbox FIND covers a steadily increasing number of tools. These analysis tools address various types of neural activity data, including discrete series of spike events, continuous time series and imaging data. Additionally, the toolbox provides solutions for the simulation of parallel stochastic point processes to model multi-channel spiking activity. We illustrate two examples of complex analyses with FIND tools: First, we present a time-resolved characterization of the spiking irregularity in an in vivo extracellular recording from a mushroom-body extrinsic neuron in the honeybee during odor stimulation. Second, we describe layer specific input dynamics in the rat primary visual cortex in vivo in response to visual flash stimulation on the basis of multi-channel spiking activity.
Emergent (http://grey.colorado.edu/emergent) is a powerful tool for the simulation of biologically plausible, complex neural systems that was released in August 2007. Inheriting decades of research and experience in network algorithms and modeling principles from its predecessors, PDP++ and PDP, Emergent has been redesigned as an efficient workspace for academic research and an engaging, easy-to-navigate environment for students. The system provides a modern and intuitive interface for programming and visualization centered around hierarchical, tree-based navigation and drag-and-drop reorganization. Emergent contains familiar, high-level simulation constructs such as Layers and Projections, a wide variety of algorithms, general-purpose data handling and analysis facilities and an integrated virtual environment for developing closed-loop cognitive agents. For students, the traditional role of a textbook has been enhanced by wikis embedded in every project that serve to explain, document, and help newcomers engage the interface and step through models using familiar hyperlinks. For advanced users, the software is easily extensible in all respects via runtime plugins, has a powerful shell with an integrated debugger, and a scripting language that is fully symmetric with the interface. Emergent strikes a balance between detailed, computationally expensive spiking neuron models and abstract, Bayesian or symbolic systems. This middle level of detail allows for the rapid development and successful execution of complex cognitive models while maintaining biological plausibility.
In the study of information flow in the nervous system, component processes can be investigated using a range of electrophysiological and imaging techniques. Although data is difficult and expensive to produce, it is rarely shared and collaboratively exploited. The Code Analysis, Repository and Modelling for e-Neuroscience (CARMEN) project addresses this challenge through the provision of a virtual neuroscience laboratory: an infrastructure for sharing data, tools and services. Central to the CARMEN concept are federated CARMEN nodes, which provide: data and metadata storage, new, thirdparty and legacy services, and tools. In this paper, we describe the CARMEN project as well as the node infrastructure and an associated thick client tool for pattern visualisation and searching, the Signal Data Explorer (SDE). We also discuss new spike detection methods, which are central to the services provided by CARMEN. The SDE is a client application which can be used to explore data in the CARMEN repository, providing data visualization, signal processing and a pattern matching capability. It performs extremely fast pattern matching and can be used to search for complex conditions composed of many different patterns across the large datasets that are typical in neuroinformatics. Searches can also be constrained by specifying text based metadata filters. Spike detection services which use wavelet and morphology techniques are discussed, and have been shown to outperform traditional thresholding and template based systems. A number of different spike detection and sorting techniques will be deployed as services within the CARMEN infrastructure, to allow users to benchmark their performance against a wide range of reference datasets.
An increasing number of projects in neuroscience require statistical analysis of high-dimensional data, as, for instance, in the prediction of behavior from neural firing or in the operation of artificial devices from brain recordings in brain-machine interfaces. Although prevalent, classical linear analysis techniques are often numerically fragile in high dimensions due to irrelevant, redundant, and noisy information. We developed a robust Bayesian linear regression algorithm that automatically detects relevant features and excludes irrelevant ones, all in a computationally efficient manner. In comparison with standard linear methods, the new Bayesian method regularizes against overfitting, is computationally efficient (unlike previously proposed variational linear regression methods, is suitable for data sets with large numbers of samples and a very high number of input dimensions) and is easy to use, thus demonstrating its potential as a drop-in replacement for other linear regression techniques. We evaluate our technique on synthetic data sets and on several neurophysiological data sets. For these neurophysiological data sets we address the question of whether EMG data collected from arm movements of monkeys can be faithfully reconstructed from neural activity in motor cortices. Results demonstrate the success of our newly developed method, in comparison with other approaches in the literature, and, from the neurophysiological point of view, confirms recent findings on the organization of the motor cortex. Finally, an incremental, real-time version of our algorithm demonstrates the suitability of our approach for real-time interfaces between brains and machines.
The global scale of neuroinformatics offers unprecedented opportunities for scientific collaborations between and among experimental and theoretical neuroscientists. To fully harvest these possibilities, a set of coordinated activities is required that will improve three key ingredients of neuroscientific research: data access, data storage, and data analysis, together with supporting activities for teaching and training. Focusing on the development of tools aiming at neurophysiological data, the newly established German Neuroinformatics Node (G-Node) aims at addressing these aspects as part of the International Neuroinformatics Coordination Facility (INCF). Based on its technical and scientific scope, the Node could play a substantial role for cellular and systems neurophysiology as well as for the neuroscience community at large.
Insect brains are excellent models for analyzing neuronal function in moderately complex central nervous systems due to the vast potential they offer for revealing the intricate details of the workings of a biological neural network. For a systematic approach to understanding neuronal mechanisms, it is important to integrate research results from various fields, such as morphology, physiology and immunohistochemistry. We are developing a database system, the Bombyx Neuron Database (BoND) for assembling and sharing experimental and analytical data. The system is designed and developed based on experimental data, mostly obtained from intracellular recordings. A new WWW technology, CMS (Content Management System), was implemented in our system. That is, PHP-based CMS, XOOPS, provides several functions for web-based database management, for instance, user accounting, web page designing and data backup. The BoND was developed by our original database module of XOOPS, in order to deal with electrophysiological and anatomical data. Research resources from various fields are combined in the database for realizing a conjunction of experiments and analysis, which will assist progress in understanding neural network mechanisms as a virtual laboratory.
We propose a new technique, called Spatial Objective Relational Transformation (SORT), as an automated approach for derivation of logical relationships between cortical areas in different brain maps registered in the same Euclidean space. Recently, there have been large amounts of voxel-based three-dimensional structural and functional imaging data that provide us with coordinate-based information about the location of differently defined areas in the brain, whereas coordinate-independent, parcellation-based mapping is still commonly used in the majority of animal tracing and mapping studies. Because of the impact of voxel-based imaging methods and the need to attribute their features to coordinate-independent brain entities, this mapping becomes increasingly important. Our motivation here is not to make vague statements where more precise spatial statements would be better, but to find criteria for the identity (or other logical relationships) between areas that were delineated by different methods, in different individuals, or mapped to three-dimensional space using different deformation algorithms. The relevance of this problem becomes immediately obvious as one superimposes and compares different datasets in multimodal databases (e.g. CARET, http://brainmap.wustl.edu/caret), where voxel-based data are registered to surface nodes exploited by the procedure presented here. We describe the SORT algorithm and its implementation in the Java 2 programming language (http://java.sun.com/, which we make available for download. We give an example of practical use of our approach, and validate the SORT approach against a database of the coordinate-independent statements and inferences that have been deduced using alternative techniques.
This paper presents a preliminary analysis of the neuroscience knowledge domain, and an application of cluster analysis to identify topics in neuroscience. A collection of posters presented at the Society for Neuroscience (SfN) Annual Meeting in 2006 is first explored by viewing existing topics and poster sessions using multidimensional scaling. Based on the Vector Space Model, several Term Spaces were built on the basis of a set of terms extracted from the posters' abstracts and titles, and a set of free keywords assigned to the posters by their authors. The ensuing Term Spaces were compared from the point of view of retrieving the genuine category titles. Topics were extracted from the abstracts of posters by clustering the documents using a bisecting k-means algorithm and selecting the most salient terms for each cluster by ranking. The terms extracted as topic descriptors were evaluated by comparing them to existing titles assigned to thematic categories defined by human experts in neuroscience. A comparison of two approaches for terms ranking (Document Frequency and Log-Entropy) resulted in better performance of the Log-Entropy scores, allowing to retrieve 31.0% of original title terms in clustered documents (and 37.1% in original thematic categories).
Therapies targeting glioma cells that diffusely infiltrate normal brain are highly sought after. Our aim was to identify novel approaches to this problem using glioma spheroid migration assays. Lithium, a currently approved drug for the treatment of bipolar illnesses, has not been previously examined in the context of glioma migration. We found that lithium treatment potently blocked glioma cell migration in spheroid, wound-healing, and brain slice assays. The effects observed were dose dependent and reversible, and worked using every glioma cell line tested. In addition, there was little effect on cell viability at lithium concentrations that inhibit migration, showing that this is a specific effect. Lithium treatment was associated with a marked change in cell morphology, with cells retracting the long extensions at their leading edge. Examination of known targets of lithium showed that inositol monophosphatase inhibition had no effect on glioma migration, whereas inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) did. This suggested that the effects of lithium on glioma cell migration could possibly be mediated through GSK-3. Specific pharmacologic GSK-3 inhibitors and siRNA knockdown of GSK-3alpha or GSK-3beta isoforms both reduced cell motility. These data outline previously unidentified pathways and inhibitors that may be useful for the development of novel anti-invasive therapeutics for the treatment of brain tumors.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator acting through inhibitory A(1) receptors (A(1)Rs) and facilitatory A(2A)Rs. Since A(2A)R antagonists attenuate memory deficits in aged animals and memory deficits might involve a decreased cholinergic function, we investigated how aging affects the density and function of adenosine receptors in rat hippocampal cholinergic terminals. In young adult (2 months) rats, 64 and 36% of cholinergic terminals (immunopositive for vesicular ACh transporters) possessed A(1)Rs and A(2A)Rs, respectively. In aged (24 months) rats, the percentage of cholinergic terminals with A(1)Rs was preserved, whereas that with A(2A)Rs was larger (49%). In young adults adenosine only tonically inhibited ACh release through A(1)Rs, whereas in aged rats there was a greater A(1)R-mediated inhibition and a simultaneous A(2A)R-mediated facilitation of ACh release. Thus, the enhanced A(2A)R density and facilitation compensates for the greater tonic A(1)R modulation, preserving the global adenosine modulation of ACh release in aged rats. Furthermore, since A(2A)R antagonists inhibit ACh release, the beneficial effects of A(2A)R antagonists on memory in aged rats might not result from ACh release modulation.
Phosphorylation of cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) is required for hippocampus-dependent long-term memory formation. The present study was designed to determine whether spatial memory deficits in aged mice were associated with alteration of hippocampal CREB phosphorylation. We examined the temporal pattern of CREB activation in 5-6 and 23-24-month-old 129T2/Sv mice trained on a spatial reference memory task in the water maze. Phosphorylated CREB (pCREB), total CREB (t-CREB) and c-Fos immunoreactivity (ir) were measured at four time points after the end of training. In young mice, pCREB-ir was significantly increased 15 and 60 min after training in the CA1 region and dentate gyrus. In aged mice sacrificed 15 min after training, pCREB-ir in these structures was reduced whereas t-CREB-ir remained unchanged compared to respective young-adults. An age-related reduction of c-Fos-ir also occurred selectively in hippocampal CA1 region. Since reduced pCREB-ir in CA1 from the 15 min-aged group strongly correlated with individual learning performance, we suggest that altered CREB phosphorylation in CA1 may account for spatial memory impairments during normal aging.
Evidence has emerged for age-related amplification of basic sensory processing indexed by early components of the visual evoked potential (VEP). However, since these age-related effects have been incidental to the main focus of these studies, it is unclear whether they are performance dependent or alternately, represent intrinsic sensory processing changes. High-density VEPs were acquired from 19 healthy elderly and 15 young control participants who viewed alphanumeric stimuli in the absence of any active task. The data show both enhanced and delayed neural responses within structures of the ventral visual stream, with reduced hemispheric asymmetry in the elderly that may be indicative of a decline in hemispheric specialization. Additionally, considerably enhanced early frontal cortical activation was observed in the elderly, suggesting frontal hyper-activation. These age-related differences in early sensory processing are discussed in terms of recent proposals that normal aging involves large-scale compensatory reorganization. Our results suggest that such compensatory mechanisms are not restricted to later higher-order cognitive processes but may also be a feature of early sensory-perceptual processes.
Cognitive changes in normal aging have been explained by the frontal-executive hypothesis, but the assumptions made by this hypothesis concerning the neurobiological causes are still a matter of debate. Executive functions (EF) may activate neural networks that include disparate grey matter regions, and rely on the integrity of white matter connections. In 118 adults (50-90 years old) from the GENIE study, white matter integrity was measured using diffusion tensor imaging, and information processing speed, fluid intelligence and EF were assessed. A theory-driven structural equation model was developed to test associations between variables. The model was revised, removing non-significant paths. The adjusted model explained well the covariance in our data; and suggested that the reduction in white matter integrity associated with age directly affected only working memory. Fluid intelligence was mediated by all measured cognitive variables. The results suggest that white matter integrity may be particularly important for abilities activating complex neural networks, as occurs in working memory. Integration of the information processing speed and frontal-executive hypotheses may provide important information regarding common, unique, and mediating factors in cognitive aging.
Post mortem studies in the hippocampus of schizophrenia patients revealed increased expression of neuronal Ca(2+)-sensor VILIP-1 (visinin-like protein) and enhanced co-localization with alpha4beta2 nAChR in interneurons. To study the pathological role of VILIP-1, particularly in interneurons, in the context of the glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia, we have used ketamine-treated rats, a NMDA receptor hypofunction model, and hippocampal cultures as model systems for schizophrenia. Treatment with ketamine leads to enhanced VILIP-1 expression in interneurons in rat hippocampal CA1 region. In cultures glutamate treatment led to an increase in VILIP-1-positive interneurons, which is not dependent on NMDA receptor but metabotropic glutamate receptor activation. VILIP-1 mainly co-localizes with the interneuron marker calretinin, mGluR1alpha and the VILIP-1 interaction partner alpha4beta2 nAChR in hippocampal slices. Overexpression of VILIP-1 leads to enhanced nAChR-dependent inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) generation by interneurons. This novel molecular link between the pathological role of mGluRs, VILIP-1 and its interaction partner alpha4beta2 nAChR by converging pathological glutamatergic and nicotinergic transmission may underlie cognitive impairments in schizophrenia.
Histamine plays a suppressive role in seizure. The tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) is the only locus of histaminergic neurons in the brain. To determine whether deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the TM provides protection against seizures, we tested the effects of low-frequency stimulation (LFS, 1 Hz), high frequency stimulation (HFS, 100 Hz), and electrolytic lesions of the TM on seizures generated by amygdaloid kindling, pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) and maximal electroshock (MES) in rats. LFS of TM accelerated the progression of behavioral seizure stage and increased the mean afterdischarge duration (ADD) during acquisition of amygdaloid-kindling seizures, but had no considerable anticonvulsive effect in fully kindled animals. It augmented the MES-induced seizures as well, but had no appreciable effects on PTZ-kindled seizures. In addition, both HFS and bilateral lesions of the TM exacerbated the progression of amygdaloid-kindling seizures. These results suggest that specific negative sites for DBS exist in the brain, such as the TM. This study indicates that it is crucial to choose a suitable target for DBS in the clinical treatment of epilepsy.
Many animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) begin with status epilepticus (SE) followed by a latency period. Increased hippocampal pyramidal neuron excitability may contribute to seizures in TLE. I(h), mediated by h channels, regulates intrinsic membrane excitability by modulating synaptic integration and dampening dendritic calcium signaling. In a rat model of TLE, we found bidirectional changes in h channel function in CA1 pyramidal neurons. 1-2 d after SE, before onset of spontaneous seizures, physiological parameters dependent upon h channels were augmented and h channel subunit surface expression was increased. 28-30 d following SE, after onset of spontaneous seizures, h channel function in dendrites was reduced, coupled with diminished h channel subunit surface expression and relocalization of subunits from distal dendrites to soma. These results implicate h channel localization as a molecular mechanism influencing CA1 excitability in TLE.
Misexpression and intracellular retention of peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is associated with hereditary neuropathies in humans, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A). Mice expressing extra copies of the human PMP22, termed C22, display morphologic and behavioral characteristics of CMT1A. In neuropathic Schwann cells, the turnover of the newly-synthesized PMP22 is decreased, leading to the formation of cytosolic protein aggregates. To aid the processing of PMP22 and alleviate the associated myelin defects, we pharmacologically stimulated the expression of protein chaperones by synthetic small-molecule inhibitors of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). The exposure of Schwann cells to these compounds enhanced the levels of cytosolic chaperones in a time- and dose-dependent manner, with minimal cytotoxicity. Treatment of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) explants from neuropathic mice improved myelin formation and the processing of PMP22. These results warrant further studies with HSP90 inhibitors as potential therapeutic candidates for hereditary demyelinating neuropathies.
Prion diseases are heterogeneous in clinical presentation, suggesting that different prion diseases have distinct pathophysiological changes. To understand the pathophysiology specific to variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (vCJD), in vitro electrophysiological studies were performed in a mouse model in which human-derived vCJD prions were transmitted to transgenic mice expressing human instead of murine prion protein. Paired-pulse stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals evoked hypersynchronous bursting in the hippocampus of vCJD-inoculated mice; comparable bursts were never observed in control or Prnp knockout mice, or in mice inoculated with a strain of prion associated with classical CJD. Furthermore, NMDA receptor-mediated excitation was increased in vCJD-inoculated mice. Using pharmacological experiments and computer simulations, we demonstrate that the increase in NMDA receptor-mediated excitation is necessary and sufficient to explain the distinctive bursting pattern in vCJD. These pathophysiological changes appear to result from a prion strain-specific gain-of-function and may explain some of the distinguishing clinical features of vCJD.
Huntington disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited human neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor deficits, cognitive impairment, and psychiatric symptoms leading to inexorable decline and death. Since the identification of the huntingtin gene and the characteristic expanded CAG repeat/polyglutamine mutation, multiple murine genetic models and one rat genetic model have been generated. These models fall into two general categories: transgenic models with ectopic expression of the characteristic expanded CAG codon mutation, and knock-in models with expression of mutant huntingtin under control of endogenous regulatory elements. Rodent genetic models are valuable tools for studying mechanisms of pathogenesis in HD and for preclinical evaluation of possible therapies. In this mini-review, we provide a concise comparative summary of rodent genetic models of HD.
The hippocampus is believed to play a role in processing information relative to the context in which emotionally salient experiences occur but evidence on the specific contribution of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) to these processes is limited. Here, we have used two classical behavioral paradigms to study the participation of the dorsal DG in context-conditioned reward and context-conditioned fear. Rats received intra-hippocampal vehicle or colchicine injections (4 microg/microl solution; 0.2 microl injections at 10 sites) that damaged the DG but spared other hippocampal subfields. In the first experiment, we used a place conditioning procedure pairing cocaine exposure (20 mg/kg, i.p.) with a specific context and vehicle treatment with another. While rats with sham lesions exhibited preference for the cocaine-paired context following conditioning, rats with lesions of the DG showed no evidence of cocaine-induced place preference. In the second experiment, rats with sham or colchicine lesions received a foot shock in a given context and conditioned freezing was measured upon reexposure to the shock-paired context (2, 24, 48 and 96 h after conditioning). Rats with sham lesions exhibited high levels of conditioned freezing when exposed to the conditioning context but rats with lesions of the DG showed impaired conditioning, behaving as controls that had experienced shock in a different context. These observations indicate that the integrity of the DG is essential for establishing a coherent representation of the context to which emotional experiences, either hedonic or aversive, are bound.
In the present study the effects of sub-chronic rolipram treatment in an object recognition task in 3-month-old male rats were investigated. Rats remember which object they have explored in a previous trial (T1) when they are tested 1 h later (T2). However, when tested 24 h later, they do not remember which object was presented to them in the first trial. Drug treatments may improve discrimination performance after 24 h, i.e., improve memory for the familiar object. Rats were sub-chronically treated with 0.5 mg/kg rolipram (p.o.) for five consecutive days and tested with a 24 h delay between T1 and T2. Memory performance in the object recognition task was assessed before, during and after sub-chronic treatment. In addition, we investigated whether the timing of the final dose, i.e., 24, 1, or 6 h before training, had an effect on memory performance. During sub-chronic treatment, i.e., after 2-3 days of rolipram treatment, moderate effects on memory performance were observed. Regardless of when the final administration was given, sub-chronic rolipram treatment improved long-term memory performance. Since plasma and brain rolipram levels were undetectable at 24 h before the test, and acute treatment with rolipram 24 h before training had no effects, the observed memory enhancement cannot be attributed to acute rolipram effects. The long-term memory enhancing effects of rolipram might be explained by long-lasting neuronal changes by the chronic treatment due to recurring activation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway leading to CREB phosphorylation.

Recent empirical findings have contributed valuable mechanistic information in support of a regulated de novo biosynthetic pathway for chemically authentic morphine and related morphinan alkaloids within animal cells. Importantly, we and others have established that endogenously expressed morphine represents a key regulatory molecule effecting local circuit autocrine/paracrine cellular signaling via a novel mu(3) opiate receptor coupled to constitutive nitric oxide production and release. The present report provides an integrated review of the biochemical, pharmacological, and molecular demonstration of mu(3) opiate receptors in historical linkage to the elucidation of mechanisms of endogenous morphine production by animal cells and organ systems. Ongoing research in this exciting area provides a rare window of opportunity to firmly establish essential biochemical linkages between dopamine, a morphine precursor, and animal biosynthetic pathways involved in morphine biosynthesis that have been conserved throughout evolution.
Obesity is becoming one of the most common health problems in the world. Many other disorders, such as hypertension and diabetes are considered as the consequences of obesity. Since effective remedies are rare (only two drugs, Orlistat and Sibutramine, were officially approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for long-term obesity treatment so far), researchers are trying to discover new therapies for obesity, and acupuncture is among the most popular alternative approaches. To facilitate weight reduction, one can use manual acupuncture, electroacupuncture (EA) or transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS). As the parameters of the EA or TEAS can be precisely characterized and the results are more or less reproducible, this review will focus on EA as a treatment modality for obesity. Results obtained in this laboratory in recent five years will be summarized in some detail.
Over the last three decades there has been an increasing interest in acupuncture treatment of substance abuse around the world. Three important steps can be identified in this field. Dr. Wen of Hong Kong was the first (1972) to report that acupuncture at 4 body points and 2 ear points combined with electrical stimulation can relieve opioid withdrawal signs in the addicts. The second major step was made by Dr. M. Smith in New York, the head of the National Acupuncture Detoxification Association (NADA) of the USA, who finalized a protocol (1985), using only ear points without electrical stimulation for the treatment of drug abuse. The recent advance in this field was made by Dr. Han of the Peking University, Beijing, who characterized a protocol (2005), using electrical stimulation of identified frequencies on body points to ameliorate heroin withdrawal signs and prevent relapse of heroin use. In this review, the efficacy of acupuncture and related techniques for the treatment of drug dependence in experimental settings and clinical practice will be reviewed, and the possible mechanisms underlying this effect be discussed.
Transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1) is specifically expressed in the nociceptive receptors and can detect a variety of noxious stimuli, thus potentiating pain sensitization. While peripheral delivery of capsaicin causes the desensitization of sensory neurons, thus alleviating pain. Therefore capsaicin is used in the clinical treatment of various types of pain; however, these treatments will bring many side effects, such as a strong burning pain in the early stages of treatment which hampers the further use of capsaicin. Thus, the studies of the functional regulation of TRPV1 are mainly focused on two aspects: to develop more potent analogues of capsaicin with less side effects; or to elucidate the mechanisms of TRPV1 in pain sensitivity, especially of that TRPV1 as a target of various protein kinases such as PKD1 and Cdk5 is involved pain hypersensitivity. Thus we would summarize the progress of these two aspects in this mini review.
We previously reported that vanilloid receptor type 1 (VR1, or TRPV1) was up-regulated in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the spinal dorsal horn after chronic inflammatory pain produced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection into the plantar of rat hind paw. In the present study, we found that subcutaneous or intrathecal application of capsazepine (CPZ), a TRPV1 competitive antagonist, could inhibit thermal hyperalgesia on day 1 and on day 14 but not on day 28 after CFA injection. With extracellular electrophysiological recording, the effect of CPZ on noxious electrical or heat stimulation evoked responses of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the deep layers of the spinal dorsal horn was evaluated. Under noxious electrical stimulation to sciatic nerve, CPZ applied to the spinal cord produced an inhibition on Adelta- and C-fiber evoked responses of WDR neurons on day 1 and 14, but not on day 28. Under radiant heat stimulation to the receptive field skin, subcutaneous application of CPZ significantly inhibited the background activity and extended the response latency of WDR neurons on day 14. These results provide new evidence for the functional significance of TRPV1 at the early stage, but not the late stage, in the rat model of CFA-induced inflammatory pain.
Neuropathic pain is induced by the injury to nervous systems and characterized by hyperalgesia, allodynia and spontaneous pain. The underlying mechanisms include peripheral and central sensitization resulted from neuronal hyperexcitability. A number of ion channels are considered to contribute to the neuronal hyperexcitability. Here, we particularly concentrate on an interesting ion channel, hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide gated (HCN) channels. We overview its biophysical properties, physiological functions, followed by focusing on the current progress in the study of its role in the development of neuropathic pain. We attempt to provide a comprehensive review of the potential valuable target, HCN channels, in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
In search for the substrate of naltrexone and acamprosate action on alcohol craving, we investigated the effects of ethanol alone and combined with naltrexone or acamprosate on expression of nerve growth factor-inducible clone A (NGFI-A; zif268). In Experiments 1 and 3, alcohol (2 g/kg) alone or in combination with naltrexone (15 mg/kg) or acamprosate (300 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally into mice. In Experiment 2, treatment was nor-BNI (0.5 mg/kg) to investigate whether the effect of naltrexone involved blockade of kappa-opioid receptors. Both ethanol and naltrexone alone induced NGFI-A in the central amygdala, but not in several other areas; these effects were additive. However, acamprosate alone or in combination with ethanol had no effect on NGFI-A mRNA, while nor-BNI induced NGFI-A mRNA in the basolateral amygdala. The central amygdala appears to be an important target of both alcohol and naltrexone. Acamprosate may not share the site of action with naltrexone despite being used for the same therapeutic purpose.
The rapidly inactivating (A-type) potassium channels regulate membrane excitability that defines the fundamental mechanism of neuronal functions such as pain signaling. Cytosolic Kv channel-interacting proteins KChIPs that belong to neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) family of calcium binding EF-hand proteins co-assemble with Kv4 (Shal) alpha subunits to form a native complex that encodes major components of neuronal somatodendritic A-type K+ current, I(SA), in neurons and transient outward current, I(TO), in cardiac myocytes. The specific binding of auxiliary KChIPs to the Kv4 N-terminus results in modulation of gating properties, surface expression and subunit assembly of Kv4 channels. Here, I attempt to emphasize the interaction between KChIPs and Kv4 based on recent progress made in understanding the structure complex in which a single KChIP1 molecule laterally clamps two neighboring Kv4.3 N-termini in a 4:4 manner. Greater insights into molecular mechanism between KChIPs and Kv4 interaction may provide therapeutic potentials of designing compounds aimed at disrupting the protein-protein interaction for treatment of membrane excitability-related disorders.

Our previous results indicated that dynorphin in the spinal dorsal horn mediates the analgesic effect of high frequency electroacupuncture stimulation (EAS). Here we report that the transcriptional repressor downstream regulatory element antagonist modulator (DREAM) of dynorphin precursor-preprodynorphin (PPD) may participate in this process. In normal rats, 100 Hz, but not 2 Hz EAS triggered the nuclear export and membrane translocation of DREAM concomitantly with the upregulation of PPD mRNA in the dorsal horn. In inflammatory rats, both 2 and 100 Hz EAS alleviated thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity and caused the nuclear export and membrane translocation of DREAM, but only 100 Hz EAS enhanced the mRNA level of PPD and DREAM. These results suggest the role of DREAM in the dorsal horn in the regulation of PPD gene expression by EAS is frequency dependent, and DREAM may exert different roles in different frequency EAS under physiological and inflammatory conditions.
In China, it has been estimated that there are more than 2.0 million people suffering from Parkinson's disease, which is currently becoming one of the most common chronic neurodegenerative disorders during recent years. For many years, scientists have struggled to find new therapeutic approaches for this disease. Since 1994, our research group led by Drs. Ji-Sheng Han and Xiao-Min Wang of Neuroscience Research Institute, Peking University has developed several prospective treatment strategies for the disease. These studies cover the traditional Chinese medicine-herbal formula or acupuncture, and modern technologies such as gene therapy or stem cell replacement therapy, and have achieved some original results. It hopes that these data may be beneficial for the research development and for the future clinical utility for treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The cytoplamsic auxiliary KChIPs modulate surface expression and gating properties of Kv4 channels. Recent co-crystal structure of Kv4.3 N-terminus and KChIP1 reveals a clamping action of the complex in which a single KChIP1 molecule laterally binds two neighboring Kv4.3 N-termini at different locations, thus forming two contact interfaces involved in the protein-protein interaction. In the second interface, it functions to stabilize the tetrameric assembly, but the role it plays in channel trafficking remains elusive. In this study, we examined the effects of KChIP1 on Kv4 protein trafficking in COS-7 cells expressing EGFP-tagged Kv4.3 channels using confocal microscopy. Mutations either in KChIP1 (KChIP1 L39E-Y57A-K61A) or Kv4.3 (Kv4.3 E70A-F73E) that disrupt the protein-protein interaction within the second interface can reduce surface expression of Kv4 channel proteins. Kv4.3 C110A, the Zn2+ binding site mutation in T1 domain, that disrupts the tetrameric assembly of the channels can be rescued by WT KChIP1, but not the KChIP1 triple mutant. These results were further confirmed by whole cell current recordings in oocytes. Our findings show that key residues of second interface involved in stabilizing tetrameric assembly can regulate the channel trafficking, indicating an intrinsic link between tetrameric assembly and channel trafficking. The results also suggest that formation of octameric Kv4 and KChIP complex by KChIPs clamping takes place before their trafficking to final destination on the cell surface.

The c.G4883C variant in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene (protein effect: Arg1628Pro) has been recently proposed as a second risk factor for sporadic Parkinson's disease in the Han Chinese population (after the Gly2385Arg variant). In this paper, we analyze the Arg1628Pro variant and the associated haplotype in a large sample of 1,337 Han subjects (834 patients and 543 controls) ascertained from a single referral center in Taiwan. In our sample, the Arg1628Pro allele was more frequent among patients (3.8%) than among controls (1.8%; p = 0.004, OR 2.13, 95% CI 1.29-3.52). Sixty heterozygous and two homozygous carriers of the Arg1628Pro variant were identified among the patients, of which only one was also a carrier of the LRRK2 Gly2385Arg variant. We also show that carriers of the Arg1628Pro variant share a common, extended haplotype, suggesting a founder effect. Parkinson's disease onset age was similar in patients who carried the Arg1628Pro variant and in those who did not carry it. Our data support the contention that the Arg1628Pro variant is a second risk factor for Parkinson's disease in the Han Chinese population. Adding the estimated effects of Arg1628Pro (population attributable risk [PAR] approximately 4%) and Gly2385Arg variants (PAR approximately 6%) yields a total PAR of approximately 10%.
Some motivational theories of substance dependence (SD) posit either pathologically increased or decreased ventral striatum (VS) recruitment by cues for nondrug rewards. The incentive-sensitization hypothesis, alternatively, attributes SD to enhanced incentive salience of drug-predictive cues specifically, with no requirement for altered nondrug incentive processing. We assessed whether individuals undergoing inpatient therapy for SD are characterized by altered recruitment of mesolimbic incentive neurocircuitry by cues and deliveries of nondrug rewards. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, substance-dependent patients (SDP) and controls performed a modified monetary incentive delay task featuring: a) anticipatory cues that signaled opportunities to respond to a target to either win money or avoid losing money, b) notifications of wins and losses, and c) unexpected replacement of reward trial outcomes with a demand to repeat the trial. Both anticipatory reward cues and loss cues elicited similar mood responses and VS activation between SDP and controls. However, in SDP (but not controls), reward notifications also activated VS and mesial frontal cortex, and loss notifications activated anterior insula. Finally, substitution of expected outcomes in reward trials with notifications to repeat the trial deactivated the VS in SDP but not in controls. These data do not suggest that SD is characterized by altered recruitment of VS circuitry by cues for nondrug incentives. Rather, SDP may instead have increased limbic system sensitivity to reward and loss delivery, consistent with the role of impulsivity in SD.
Cortical lesions (CLs) can be detected in the majority of patients with established multiple sclerosis (MS), but little is known about their evolution over time. This study was performed to investigate the short-term MRI evolution of CLs, with the ultimate aim to achieve a better in vivo understanding of their nature. Seven hundred and sixty-eight CLs from 107 MS patients (76 with relapsing-remitting [RR] and 31 with secondary progressive [SP] MS) were followed with brain MR examinations, including a double inversion recovery (DIR) sequence, every 6 months for 1 year. CLs' number, volume and morphological features were assessed at each time-point. Six hundred and eighty CLs (88.5%) remained morphologically unchanged during the follow-up period, while 74 (9.6%) showed an increase in size. Only 6 (0.8%) CLs seen at baseline (all in RRMS patients) disappeared at follow-up MRI scans. No enlarging CLs spread into the subcortical white matter. No CLs ever showed gadolinium enhancement. At baseline, the mean number of CLs was higher in SPMS than in RRMS patients (p&lt;0.001), whereas the mean number of new CLs per patient after 1 year did not differ between the two groups. Over a one-year period, CLs can increase their number and size in a relevant proportion of MS patients, without spreading into the subcortical white matter or showing inflammatory features similar to those of white matter lesions. The short-term rate of CLs accumulation does not seem to vary according to the clinical stage of MS.
In western tonal music, musical phrases end with an explicit harmonic consequent which is highly expected. As such expectation is a consequence of musical background, cerebral processing of incongruities of musical grammar might be a function of expertise. We hypothesized that a subtle incongruity of standard closure should evoke a profound and rapid reaction in an expert's brain. If such a reaction is due to neuroplasticity as a consequence of musical training, it should be correlated with distinctive activations in sensory, motor and/or cognitive function related brain areas in response to the incongruent closure. Using event related potential (ERP) source imaging, we determined the temporal dynamics of neuronal activity in highly trained pianists and musical laymen in response to syntactic harmonic incongruities in expressive music, which were easily detected by the experts but not by the laymen. Our results revealed that closure incongruity evokes a selective early response in musical experts, characterized by a strong, right lateralized negative ERP component. Statistical source analysis could demonstrate putative contribution to the generation of this component in right temporal-limbic areas, encompassing hippocampal complex and amygdala, and in right insula. Its early onset (approximately 200 ms) preceded responses in frontal areas that may reflect more conscious processing. These results go beyond previous work demonstrating that musical training can change activity of sensory and motor areas during musical or audio-motor tasks, and suggest that functional plasticity in right medial-temporal structures and insula also modulates processing of subtle harmonic incongruities.
Neighboring contextual elements can dramatically affect the manner in which the brain processes the perceptual characteristics of an object. Indeed, many well-known visual illusions rely on misleading contextual cues to create misperceptions of size, length or orientation (e.g., in the Ebbinghaus, Muller-Lyer or rod-and-frame illusions, respectively). However, little is known about the brain regions underlying these integrative computations. The current study used fMRI to delineate the brain areas responsible for processing visuospatial contextual information. Participants were asked to determine whether a small target was positioned left or right of midline in the presence of an offset rectangle designed to induce a shift in the participant's perception of straight-ahead (the induced Roelofs effect). We found localized, bilateral regions in superior parietal cortex and precuneus that were specifically active when participants judged the target location in the presence of this shifted context; significantly less activation was present when a color judgment was made with identical stimuli, or when the location judgment was made without a Roelofs-inducing frame. We propose that this portion of parietal cortex is selectively involved in processing visuospatial contextual information. Additional findings support the notion that perceptual judgments of target location based on an egocentric frame of reference fall within the purview of the dorsal stream of visual processing, rather than the ventral stream.
In humans, it is generally not possible to use invasive techniques in order to identify brain activity corresponding to activity of individual muscles. Further, it is believed that the spatial resolution of non-invasive brain imaging modalities is not sufficient to isolate neural activity related to individual muscles. However, this study shows that it is possible to reconstruct muscle activity from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We simultaneously recorded surface electromyography (EMG) from two antagonist muscles and motor cortices activity using fMRI, during an isometric task requiring both reciprocal activation and co-activation of the wrist muscles. Bayesian sparse regression was used to identify the parameters of a linear mapping from the fMRI activity in areas 4 (M1) and 6 (pre-motor, SMA) to EMG, and to reconstruct muscle activity in an independent test data set. The mapping obtained by the sparse regression algorithm showed significantly better generalization than those obtained from algorithms commonly used in decoding, i.e., support vector machine and least square regression. The two voxel sets corresponding to the activity of the antagonist muscles were intermingled but disjoint. They were distributed over a wide area of pre-motor cortex and M1 and not limited to regions generally associated with wrist control. These results show that brain activity measured by fMRI in humans can be used to predict individual muscle activity through Bayesian linear models, and that our algorithm provides a novel and non-invasive tool to investigate the brain mechanisms involved in motor control and learning in humans.

Basic changes in environmental conditions are fundamental to understanding brain cortical mechanisms. Several studies have reported impairment of central nervous processes during weightlessness. There is ongoing debate as to whether these impairments are attributable to primary physiological effects or secondary psychological effects of the weightlessness environment. This study evaluates the physiological effects of changed gravity conditions on brain cortical activity. In a first experiment, EEG activity of seven participants was recorded at normal, increased and zero gravity during a parabolic flight. Additionally an EEG under normal gravity conditions preflight was recorded. In a second experiment, 24 participants were exposed to a supine, seated and 9 degree head-down tilt position while EEG was recorded. Data were analysed using low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). Beta-2 EEG activity (18-35 Hz) was found to be increased in the right superior frontal gyrus under normal gravity conditions inflight. By exposure to weightlessness a distinct inhibition of this activity within the same areas could be noticed. As the tilt experiment showed changes in the left inferior temporal gyrus in supine and tilted positions we conclude that the observed changes under weightlessness are not explainable by hemodynamic changes but rather reflect emotional processes related to the experience of weightlessness. These findings suggest that weightlessness has a major impact on electro cortical activity and may affect central nervous and adaptation processes.
Short-term memory (STM) for order information, as compared to STM for item information, has been shown to be a critical determinant of language learning capacity. The present fMRI study asked whether the neural substrates of order STM can serve as markers for bilingual language achievement. Two groups of German-French bilinguals differing in second language proficiency were presented STM tasks probing serial order or item information. During order STM but not item STM tasks, the high proficiency group showed increased activation in the lateral orbito-frontal and the superior frontal gyri associated with updating and grouped rehearsal of serial order information. Functional connectivity analyses for order encoding showed a functional network involving the left IPS, the right IPS and the right superior cerebellum in the high proficiency group while the low proficiency group showed enhanced connectivity between the left IPS and bilateral superior temporal and temporo-parietal areas involved in item processing. The present data suggest that low proficiency bilinguals activate STM networks for order in a less efficient and differentiated way, and this may explain their poorer storage and learning capacity for verbal sequences.
Recent studies have used pattern classification algorithms to predict or decode task parameters from individual fMRI activity patterns. For fMRI decoding, it is important to choose an appropriate set of voxels (or features) as inputs to the decoder, since the presence of many irrelevant voxels could lead to poor generalization performance, a problem known as overfitting. Although individual voxels could be chosen based on univariate statistics, the resulting set of voxels could be suboptimal if correlations among voxels carry important information. Here, we propose a novel linear classification algorithm, called sparse logistic regression (SLR), that automatically selects relevant voxels while estimating their weight parameters for classification. Using simulation data, we confirmed that SLR can automatically remove irrelevant voxels and thereby attain higher classification performance than other methods in the presence of many irrelevant voxels. SLR also proved effective with real fMRI data obtained from two visual experiments, successfully identifying voxels in corresponding locations of visual cortex. SLR-selected voxels often led to better performance than those selected based on univariate statistics, by exploiting correlated noise among voxels to allow for better pattern separation. We conclude that SLR provides a robust method for fMRI decoding and can also serve as a stand-alone tool for voxel selection.
The aim of this study was to use BOLD fMRI to evaluate the effect of alcohol intoxication on neuronal activation, when controlling for expectancy. Behavioural studies have shown that both alcohol intoxication and expectancy affect cognition, mood and behaviour. However, previous neuroimaging studies have not separated the effects of alcohol intoxication from the possible confounding effects of expectancy. Forty-five healthy male participants participated in the study. A balanced placebo design with four groups was used together with a working memory paradigm. Half of the participants consumed a soft-drink before the MR scanning session (half of them were correctly informed about the content of their drink, and half were incorrectly informed that they consumed an alcoholic beverage), and the other half consumed an alcoholic beverage before the MR scanning session (half of them were correctly informed about the content of their drink, and half were incorrectly informed that they consumed a soft-drink). A blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.08% was used as the alcohol intoxication level. The most conspicuous result was that alcohol intoxication decreased neuronal activation especially in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) and in prefrontal areas, while expectancy increased neuronal activation in the same areas. This study shows that alcohol intoxication and expectancy have opposite effects on neuronal activation. The present results could have implications for pharmacological imaging studies.

Resuscitation of head injured patients at the accident site is paramount in minimizing morbidity and mortality. This can be achieved through prehospital care which is nonexistent in our country. This review is a step forward, so that we can formulate guidelines in this regard.


The traditional boundary between primary psychiatric disorders, as &quot;diseases of the mind&quot;, and neurological conditions, as &quot;diseases of the brain&quot;, has been challenged since advances in brain imaging techniques have allowed the correlation of functional and structural brain abnormalities with the presence and severity of psychopathological symptoms in psychiatric illnesses, thus suggesting a neural basis for their onset and progression and providing an in vivo pathological anatomy of psychiatric diseases.
We report a case of cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) due to tyrotoxicosis in a patient with methylenetetrahydro-folate-reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphism C677T, (genotype 677TT), in which discontinuation of intravenous heparin was followed by clinical and radiological worsening despite warfarin treatment. We discuss the relationship between CVT, MTHFR hyperthiroidism and anticoagulant therapy.
We describe the case of a patient with symptomatic strictly unilateral paroxysmal headache mimicking cluster headache related to an ipsilateral forehead lipoma. Interestingly, immediately after the surgical excision of the lipoma pain attacks disappeared with no recurrence during a follow-up period of 18 months. Like other descriptions of cluster-like headaches secondary to extracranial lesions, this case report focuses on the hypothetical role of a peripheral trigger factor for trigeminal autonomic cephalgias (TACs). To our knowledge, this is the first well-described cluster-like headache case secondary to an extracerebral lipoma. This case offered the opportunity to discuss the possible pathophysiological mechanisms underlying probable TACs and the relationship with peripheral extracerebral activation of the trigeminal-autonomic reflex.
Objectives. The aims of this study were to clarify the direction and degree of brain shift, and to determine the predictive factors for a brain shift during deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Materials and Methods. To evaluate the brain shift during bilateral STN-DBS, the position of the anterior commissure (AC), posterior commissure (PC), midcommissure point (MC), and tip of the frontal lobe and anterior horn of the lateral ventricle were calculated pre- and poststereotactic operations in the three-dimensional direction employing special software (Leksell SurgiPlan). To determine the predictive factors for a brain shift, patient's age, operation hours, width of the third ventricle, bicaudate index (BCI), and cella media index (CMI) were compared with the shift of MC. Results. In 50 patients, the MC shifted mainly in the posterior direction (y-axis: 1.270.7mm), and the shifts in the inferior direction (z-axis: 0.110.43mm) and lateral direction (x-axis: 0.020.39mm) were small. The shift of the MC in the posterior direction correlated well with the shift of the tip of the anterior lobe and anterior horn. Among the predictive factors examined, namely, the patient's age, operation hours, width of the third ventricle, BCI, and CMI, only the CMI showed a correlation with the shift of the MC (r=0.42, p&lt;0.01, Pearson's correlation coefficient; and p&lt;0.05, logistic regression analysis). Conclusions. In bilateral STN-DBS, brain shift occurred mainly in the posterior direction, and the CMI is useful for the prediction of a brain shift. Enlargement of the body part of the lateral ventricle is the most reliable factor for predicting a brain shift.



Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a 37 amino acid peptide which acts on central nervous system (CNS) neurons and is involved in activities related to dopamine. These effects of CGRP suggest that the peptide may have a role in pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia where dopaminergic system hypoactivity in the frontal cortex and hyperactivity in the subcortical structures have been demonstrated. In this study we measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) the brain levels of CGRP-like immunoreactivity (CGRP-LI) in rats treated with either classical (haloperidol) or atypical (risperidone and olanzapine) antipsychotic drugs. Both haloperidol and risperidone decreased CGRP-LI in the striatum. Risperidone also decreased CGRP-LI in the occipital cortex. On the other hand, olanzapine increased CGRP-LI in the striatum, the frontal cortex and hypothalamus. The differential effects on CGRP could reflect a different profile of side effects and further suggest that CGRP is involved in CNS functions related to psychiatric disorders.
The number of surface and synaptic GABA(A) receptors is an important determinant of inhibitory synapse strength. Surface receptor number is in part controlled by removal of receptors from the membrane by interaction with the clathrin adaptor AP2. Here we demonstrate that there are two binding sites for AP2 in the gamma2-subunit: a Yxxvarphi type motif specific to gamma2-subunits and a basic patch AP2 binding motif, that is also found in GABA(A) receptor beta-subunits. Blocking GABA(A) receptor-AP2 interactions using a peptide that inhibits AP2 binding to GABA(A) receptors via the conserved basic patch mechanism increases synaptic responses within minutes, whereas simultaneously blocking both binding mechanisms has an additive effect. These data suggest that multiple AP2 internalization signals control the levels of surface and synaptic GABA(A) receptors to regulate synaptic inhibition.
The mechanism by which the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta degenerate in Parkinson's disease, is partly unknown. Dopamine could be implicated in this phenomenon, and in order to explain its toxicity several hypotheses have been suggested. The similarity between apomorphine and dopamine as regards their chemical, pharmacological and toxicological properties provided a basis for investigating the nature of the toxicity of the former agent. In this study we describe some effects of apomorphine on mouse mesencephalic cell cultures at relatively low concentrations (from 0.5 to 2.5microM), apomorphine produced a neurotrophic effect, consisting of a 60% increase in dopaminergic neuron survival as measured by [(3)H] dopamine uptake. At high concentrations (over 20microM), however, apomorphine induced an increasing cytotoxic effect, as measured by the marked decrease in [(3)H] dopamine uptake, and by the direct observation of the dopaminergic neurons after TH immunostaining. This study may offer a new strategy for investigating the mechanisms underlying DA neuron vulnerability.
Ethanol exerts effects on the brain noradrenergic system, and these are thought to contribute to the sedative/hypnotic (depressant) effects of ethanol. Recent studies suggest that the norepinephrine transporter (NET) plays an important role in modulating ethanol's depressant effects. The aim of the present study was to further characterize this role. Transporter blockers with varying affinity for NET versus the serotonin transporter (desipramine&gt;fluoxetine&gt;citalopram) were tested for their ability to alter ethanol's depressant effects, and for comparison, hypothermic effects. Effects of desipramine on another depressant, pentobarbital, were examined. Desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was assessed following depletion of brain norepinephrine via N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4) treatment, or depletion of brain 5-HT via para-chlorophenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride (PCPA) treatment. The effects of co-administration of either the selective alpha2-adrenoreceptor agonist (dexmedetomidine) or the selective alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist (atipamezole) on desipramine's effect on ethanol's depressant effects were examined. Given the close link between stress, ethanol and norepinephrine, desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was tested following repeated forced swim stress. Results showed that desipramine, but not SERT-selective doses of citalopram or fluoxetine, strongly potentiated the depressant (not hypothermic) effects of ethanol. These effects were mimicked by dexmedetomidine and blocked by atipamezole, but not by depletion of either norepinephrine or 5-HT. Desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was abolished following repeated stress. Present findings further support a major role for NET and the alpha2-adrenoreceptor in modulating the depressant effects of ethanol, with possible implications for understanding the role of noradrenergic dysfunction in stress-related alcoholism.
Selective inhibitors of the glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) have been implicated in central nervous system disorders related to hypoglutamatergic function such as schizophrenia. The selective GlyT1 inhibitors ALX5407 (NFPS) and LY2365109 {[2-(4-benzo[1,3]dioxol-5-yl-2-tert-butylphenoxy)ethyl]-methylamino}-acetic acid increased cerebrospinal fluid levels of glycine and potentiated NMDA-induced increases in dialysate levels of neurotransmitters in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the striatum. However, higher doses produced both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on motor performance and impaired respiration, suggesting significant involvement of cerebellar and brain stem areas. A dual probe microdialysis study showed that ALX5407 transiently elevated extracellular levels of glycine in the PFC with more sustained increases in the cerebellum. In support of these findings, immuno-staining with pan-GlyT1 and GlyT1a antibodies showed a higher abundance of immunoreactivity in the brain stem/cerebellum as compared to the frontal cortical/hippocampal brain areas in four different species studied, including the mouse, rat, monkey and human. In addition, the inhibitory effects of ALX5407 on cerebellar levels of cGMP in the mouse could be reversed by the glycine A receptor antagonist strychnine but not the glycine B receptor antagonist L-701324. We propose that the adverse events seen with higher doses of ALX5407 and LY2365109 are the result of high GlyT1 inhibitory activity in caudal areas of the brain with sustained elevations of extracellular glycine. High levels of glycine in these brain areas may result in activation of strychnine-sensitive glycine A receptors that are inhibitory on both motor activity and critical brain stem functions such as respiration.
Nicotine-associated paraphernalia such as cigarettes and ashtrays are potent smoking relapse triggers. In addition to these discrete cues, environmental contexts previously associated with smoking elicit strong cigarette craving, indicating that contextual stimuli also contribute to high smoking relapse rates. Nonetheless, little is known about the precise role of these stimuli in smoking relapse and the neuropharmacological mechanisms implicated herein. To address this issue, we determined whether re-exposure to the nicotine self-administration context after long-term extinction reinstates nicotine seeking behavior in rats. Further, we examined the effects of SR141716A (Rimonabant), a selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist which has been shown to attenuate cue-induced relapse to nicotine seeking, on context-induced reinstatement of nicotine seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer nicotine intravenously (30microg/kg/infusion). Nicotine infusions were paired with an audiovisual compound stimulus. Subsequently, nose poking behavior was extinguished in the presence of this discrete cue in a context different from the self-administration context. Hereafter, rats were injected with 0, 1, or 3mg/kg Rimonabant (i.p.) prior to re-exposure to either the self-administration or the extinction context. Re-exposure to the self-administration context, but not to the extinction context robustly reinstated responding for the discrete nicotine cues, an effect that was dose-dependently attenuated by Rimonabant. This is the first demonstration of contextual renewal of nicotine seeking in rodents after prolonged withdrawal. Further, our results indicate that the endocannabinoid system is involved in context-induced relapse to nicotine seeking, and as such these data provide further evidence for the use of CB1 antagonists in smoking cessation.

Anxiety disorders (ADs) are the most common type of psychiatric disorders, with a mean incidence of 18.1% and a lifetime prevalence of 28.8%. Pharmacologic options studied for treating ADs may include benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants (TCA), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), noradrenergic and specific serotonergic drug (NaSSA) and dual-reuptake inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine (SNRIs). In this context, the development of SNRIs (venlafaxine and duloxetine) has been particularly useful. As a dual-acting intervention that targets two neurotransmitter systems, these medications would appePar promising for the treatment of ADs. The purpose of this review was to elucidate current facts and views about the role of duloxetine in the treatment of ADs. In February 2007, duloxetine was approved by FDA for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The results of trials evaluating the use duloxetine in the treatment of GAD are supportive on its efficacy even if further studies on long-term use are needed. Apart from some interesting case reports, no large studies are, to date, present in literature about duloxetine and other ADs such as panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder. Therefore, the clinical efficacy and the relative good tolerability of duloxetine may be further investigated to widen the therapeutic spectrum of ADs.
The judgement of personality change following acquired brain injury (ABI) is a powerful subjective and social action, and has been shown to be associated with a range of serious psychosocial consequences. Traditional conceptualisations of personality change (e.g., Lishman, 1998) have largely derived from individualist concepts of personality (e.g., Eysenck, 1967). These assume a direct link between neurological damage and altered personhood, accounting predominantly for their judgements of change. This assumption is found as commonly in family accounts of change as in professional discourse. Recent studies and perspectives from the overlapping fields of social neuroscience, cognitive approaches to self and identity and psychosocial processes following ABI mount a serious challenge to this assumption. These collectively identify a range of direct and indirect factors that may influence the judgement or felt sense of change in personhood by survivors of ABI and their significant others. These perspectives are reviewed within a biopsychosocial framework: neurological and neuropsychological deficits, psychological mechanisms and psychosocial processes. Importantly, these perspectives are applied to generate a range of clinical interventions that were not identifiable within traditional conceptualisations of personality changes following ABI.
Most research investigating the efficacy of neurorehabilitation has focused upon pre- versus post-intervention functioning, which is important for evidence-based practice but overlooks the therapeutic process. Therefore, this qualitative study aimed to investigate a participant's perspective of experiences in therapy throughout an awareness rehabilitation intervention. The participant(CP), a young male with awareness deficits following a right thalamic stroke,had repeatedly attempted to return to work and experienced recurrent periods of depression associated with his employment difficulties. Throughout a12-session rehabilitation intervention, which targeted self-awareness and self-regulation skills, CP provided interview feedback concerning his experiences of different therapy exercises. The key themes emerging from the data regarding CP's perspectives included: understanding benchmarks and the value of feedback, learning through practical exercises, and individualising therapy. In collaboration with a disability employment support service, CP achieved paid durable employment. This study highlights the importance of considering participants' perspectives of the therapeutic process to assist in the design and evaluation of awareness rehabilitation interventions.
When a conflict task involves congruent, neutral, and incongruent conditions, it is possible to examine facilitation (neutral vs. congruent) and interference (incongruent vs. neutral) components. Very few studies investigated the brain areas that are specifically involved in facilitation or interference. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging while participants performed a magnitude conflict task (the size congruity paradigm). We observed four findings: (1) while most of the brain areas that were activated by conflict tasks showed interference effects, the intraparietal sulcus was the only region activated for both interference and facilitation components. (2) Two groups of participants could be distinguished based on the pattern of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) activity, one with classical facilitation (congruent&lt;neutral), one with reverse facilitation. (3) Functional connectivity analysis of the areas that were modulated by the conflict task revealed an anterior cingulate - lateral prefrontal cortex network and a dorsal parietal - premotor cortex network. We suggest that the former plays a role in cognitive control and conflict detection, whereas the latter participates in top-down selection of task-relevant stimuli and response mapping. (4) These networks were modulated by the two groups that we distinguished based on the ACC activation.
A wealth of research identifies the amygdala as a key brain region mediating negative affect, and implicates amygdala dysfunction in the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders. Although there is a strong genetic component to anxiety disorders such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) there remains debate about whether abnormalities in amygdala function predispose to these disorders. In the present study, groups of C57BL/6 x DBA/2 (B x D) recombinant inbred strains of mice were selected for differences in volume of the basolateral amygdala complex (BLA). Strains with relatively small, medium, or large BLA volumes were compared for Pavlovian fear learning and memory, anxiety-related behaviors, depression-related behavior, and glucocorticoid responses to stress. Strains with relatively small BLA exhibited stronger conditioned fear responses to both auditory tone and contextual stimuli, as compared to groups with larger BLA. The small BLA group also showed significantly greater corticosterone responses to stress than the larger BLA groups. BLA volume did not predict clear differences in measures of anxiety-like behavior or depression-related behavior, other than greater locomotor inhibition to novelty in strains with smaller BLA. Neither striatal, hippocampal nor cerebellar volumes correlated significantly with any behavioral measure. The present data demonstrate a phenotype of enhanced fear conditioning and exaggerated glucocorticoid responses to stress associated with small BLA volume. This profile is reminiscent of the increased fear processing and stress reactivity that is associated with amygdala excitability and reduced amygdala volume in humans carrying loss of function polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter and monoamine oxidase A genes. Our study provides a unique example of how natural variation in amygdala volume associates with specific fear- and stress-related phenotypes in rodents, and further supports the role of amygdala dysfunction in anxiety disorders such as PTSD.
The present study on rat examined the role of galanin receptor subtypes in regulation of depression-like behavior as well as potential molecular mechanisms involved in the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe (DR). The effect of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of galanin or galanin receptor GalR1- and GalR2-selective ligands was studied in the forced swim test, followed by quantitative in situ hybridization studies. Naive control, non-treated (swim control), saline- and fluoxetine-treated rats were used as controls in the behavioral and in situ hybridization studies. Subchronic treatment with fluoxetine reduced immobility and climbing time. Intracerebroventricular infusion of galanin, the GalR1 agonist M617 or the GalR2 antagonist M871 increased, while the GalR2(R3) agonist AR-M1896 decreased, immobility time compared to the aCSF-treated animals. Galanin also decreased the time of climbing. Galanin mRNA levels were upregulated by the combination of injection+swim stress in the saline- and the fluoxetine-treated groups in the LC, but not in the DR. Also tyrosine hydroxylase levels in the LC were increased following injection+swim stress in the saline- and fluoxetine-treated rats. Tryptophan hydroxylase 2 and serotonin transporter mRNAs were not significantly affected by any treatment. 5-HT(1A) mRNA levels were downregulated following i.c.v. galanin, M617 or AR-M1896 infusion. These results indicate a differential role of galanin receptor subtypes in depression-like behavior in rodents: GalR1 subtype may mediate 'prodepressive' and GalR2 'antidepressant' effects of galanin. Galanin has a role in behavioral adaptation to stressful events involving changes of molecules important for noradrenaline and/or serotonin transmission.
Few and often contradictory reports exist on the long-term neurobiological consequences of cannabinoid consumption in adolescents. The endocannabinoid system plays an important role during the different stages of brain development as cannabinoids influence the release and action of different neurotransmitters and promote neurogenesis. This study tested whether long-lasting interference by cannabinoids with the developing endogenous cannabinoid system during adolescence caused persistent behavioral alterations in adult rats. Adolescent female and male rats were treated with increasing doses of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) for 11 days (postnatal day (PND) 35-45) and left undisturbed until adulthood (PND 75) when behavioral and biochemical assays were carried out. CB1 receptor level and CB1/G-protein coupling were significantly reduced by THC exposure in the amygdala (Amyg), ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) of female rats, whereas male rats had significant alterations only in the amygdala and hippocampal formation. Neither female nor male rats showed any changes in anxiety responses (elevated plus maze and open-field tests) but female rats presented significant 'behavioral despair' (forced swim test) paralleled by anhedonia (sucrose preference). In contrast, male rats showed no behavioral despair but did present anhedonia. This different behavioral picture was supported by biochemical parameters of depression, namely CREB alteration. Only female rats had low CREB activity in the hippocampal formation and prefrontal cortex and high activity in the NAc paralleled by increases in dynorphin expression. These results suggest that heavy cannabis consumption in adolescence may induce subtle alterations in the emotional circuit in female rats, ending in depressive-like behavior, whereas male rats show altered sensitivity to rewarding stimuli.
The purpose of this case report is to increase awareness of the spectrum of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs). We report the MRI findings and histological features of an uncommon case of a single giant (maximum diameter: &gt;6 cm) cystic CCM of the left lateral ventricle occurring in a 26-year-old man who had undergone 30 Gy cranial irradiation for acute leukemia at the age of six years. Large cystic CCMs must be included in the neuroradiological differential diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhagic cystic lesions.
We used quantitative proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) to evaluate mean relative concentrations ratios for NAA, Cr, Cho and mI during the study of cervical spinal cord plaques in a relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). A cervical spine MR exam was repeated five times on the following days for two months starting from the onset of a relapse phase, using a 3T whole-body system, with the voxel placed along the demyelinazation lesion. The quantification results were compared with the healthy metabolites content. Quantitative cervical spectroscopy is a reliable tool and can offer important metabolic information as already used on the brain to evaluate the severity, progression and pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.
The role of individual factors in behavioural neuroscience is an important, but still neglected area of research. The present review aims to give, first, an outline of the most elaborated theory on animal behaviour, and second, an overview of systematic approaches of historic and present animal models of human psychopathology based on individual differences. This overview will be focused on animal models of unselected subjects (i.e. natural variance of a specific behaviour within a given population) and selected breeding for a specific behaviour. Accordingly, an outline of the personality model from Gray and McNaughton of individual behaviour in animals is given first. Then, a comprehensive overview of past and current animal models in novelty-seeking (i.e. psychomotor activation and exploration behaviour) based on systematic individual differences and its relationship to addiction is presented. Third, this will be followed by a comprehensive overview of individual differences in previous and present animal models for anxiety. Finally, critical aspects of such approaches in animal research are discussed, and suggestions are given where to go from here.
It is very important to probe into the axonal regeneration and functional recovery of central nervous system (CNS) after implantation of cells into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for spinal cord injury (SCI). Transplantation of cells via CSF poses great potentials for SCI in clinic. Studies on administration of cells via CSF indicate that the method is safe and convenient. The method is more suitable to treating multiple lesions of the CNS since it does not produce open lesions. However, there are disputes over its promotion effects on axonal regeneration and functional recovery of spinal cord after injury; and some questions, such as the mechanisms of functional recovery of spinal cord, the proper time window of cell transplantation, and cell types of transplantation, still need to be handled. This review summarized the method of cell transplantation via CSF for treatment of SCI.
Inflammation has been shown to play an important role in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent epidemical study indicates that the incidence of AD in some populations is substantially influenced by the gene polymorphisms of the inflammation mediators. Meanwhile, an ensured risk factor, the ApoE epsilon4 allele is also reported to directly promote inflammation. Accordingly, it appears that an individual genetic background has partly determined his predisposition for AD by the extent of the inflammation response to the chronic stimulus by beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposits and other antigen stressor in the elderly. Hence we present a hypothesis that the inflammation genotypes may contribute to AD susceptibility. This may provide a new orientation both for future identification of individuals at risk and for personalized medication.
Spinal cord injury without radiographic abnormality (SCIWORA) usually occurs in the hypermobile, immature cervical spine of young children. In a comatose child, a normal spine x-ray, and CT scan exclude most cases of gross fracture and dislocation, but not SCIWORA. We present 2 children that sustained a polytrauma, which rendered each of them unconscious at the outset. In both, cervical spine x-ray excluded bony injuries, however, CT scan raised the suspicious of spinal cord injury in one, and MRI demonstrated significant cord injury in both. The first patient died from severe head and cervical spinal cord injury. The second patient recovered with mild Brown-Sequard syndrome. A high index of suspicious of SCIWORA is necessary in injured comatose children in whom movement of all limbs is not seen. Therefore, spine MRI should be considered if they are expected to remain ventilated for an unknown time.







Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare life-threatening condition, usually induced by typical and atypical antipsychotics. A middle-aged woman with bipolar disorder and acute back pain due to multiple falls was admitted to the trauma ward of a general hospital. After 3 days, she suddenly developed signs and symptoms of NMS possibly caused by PRN injectable haloperidol, although the additional role of olanzapine could not be ruled out. A 3-day delayed diagnosis of NMS led to serious complications, which could be prevented by its prompt management contingent on its early diagnosis, even in the absence of certain diagnostic criteria. Although she improved substantially with treatment interventions and continued to have dialysis, she died later due to renal complications. The PRN administration of antipsychotic medications needs to be avoided among such psychiatric patients admitted to general hospitals.
During the cerebral dissection of a 67-year-old male cadaver, a unique combination of variations at the circle of Willis and anterior cerebral artery (ACA) distribution were encountered. The A1 segment of both ACA were fused without an anterior communicating artery (ACoA), forming an X shape and giving rise to a common pericallosal artery (CPA), an incomplete distal ACA, and an incomplete distal anterior cerebral artery (IACA). The IACA had an unusual course, which may be important from the surgical point of view. The CPA continued as the A2 and A3 segments, and bifurcated into 2 pericallosal arteries. Branching patterns of the varied arteries to the interhemispheric region were evaluated, and results were discussed. Additionally, both posterior communicating arteries were hypoplastic. There was no aneurysm formation at the circle of Willis and its branches.
Vanishing white matter disease (VWMD) is an under-diagnosed condition that affects the brains white matter at all ages, especially in the pediatric age group. It belongs to a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders, collectively known as eukaryotic initiation factor 2B-related disorders. The disorder has been described in different ethnic groups. Here, we describe a case of VWMD from Saudi Arabia.
We report a 65-year-old lady who presented with rapidly progressive dementia and was found to have Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD). On reviewing the literature, there have been only 3 case reports of CJD from Saudi Arabia. Our aim is to report this rare disease and to include it in the differential diagnosis of rapidly progressive dementia in our practice.















Brain death implies the permanent absence of all cerebral and brainstem functions. The diagnosis of brain death is usually made clinically. The criteria require the occurrence of acute and irreversible CNS insult. Drug intoxication, poisoning, metabolic derangements, and hypothermia should be corrected for accurate brain death evaluation. At least 2 expert examiners are required to make the brain death determination. It is advisable to involve an independent examiner not involved in the patients care or the recovery of donated organs. The objective of this article is to present updated guidelines for the process of brain death determination. All brain and brainstem functions should be absent on neurological examination including cerebral response to external stimuli and brain stem reflexes. An apnea test should be performed in all patients. However, if the clinical criteria cannot be applied, other confirmatory ancillary tests are required, particularly EEG, and radionuclide scan. They are also needed to supplement the clinical assessment in young children. An EEG is more reliable in the setting of hypotension or with disorders that lower intracranial pressure. While tests of brain blood flow are preferred in the setting of hypothermia, metabolic, or drug confounders.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death and a major cause of disability worldwide. Most cases of ischemic stroke are attributable to hypertension and other risk factors, but in over 20% of cases, the cause is unknown. Recent research has implicated some novel genes in the etiology of ischemic stroke, including genes for soluble epoxide hydrolase (sHE), 5-lipoxygenase activating protein (FLAP) and phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D). Moreover, thrombophilic states such as prothrombin G20210A mutation and factor V Leiden are now known to cause arterial stroke as well as venous thrombosis. Meanwhile, the recent availability of enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry disease and the proven benefits of regular blood transfusion in certain patients with sickle cell disease have greatly altered the outlook of these devastating inherited disorders. Thus, our understanding of the role of genetic factors in stroke raises the prospects for accurate assessment of future stroke risk among susceptible individuals, in whom early preventive measures may be life-saving. Further research into the genetics of stroke will clearly compliment ongoing national and international efforts to reduce the global burden of stroke.
Although the past 25 years have witnessed increasing interest in human brain stimulation, its historical development is marked by phases of fascination and obscurity. Its history dates back to the 19th century when the first reports describing application of an electric current to an isolated point on the exposed brain made brain stimulation a major neuroscientific novelty of the time. In this article, the authors present and discuss a number of early experiments involving electrical stimulation of the exposed human brain. In this important, albeit unexplored, historical chapter of brain stimulation, the 3 investigators, Bartholow, Sciamanna, and Alberti, were the first to reproduce findings in animals with electrical brain stimulation in humans.
Overactivation of glutamate receptors is a critical mechanism for neuronal death in ischemic stroke. Previously, we reported that overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor induced calpain-mediated truncation of metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1alpha, resulting in suppression of its neuroprotective signaling pathway. A fusion peptide containing the transactivating regulatory protein (TAT) protein transduction domain (PTD) and the mGluR1alpha sequence spanning the calpain cleavage site effectively blocked mGluR1alpha truncation and protected neurons against NMDA-induced neuronal toxicity. We recently evaluated the role of this mechanism in ischemia-induced cell death. We found that mGluR1alpha was truncated in both in vitro and in vivo models of stroke and that this truncation was accompanied by the typical calpain-mediated proteolysis of spectrin. The TAT-mGluR1 fusion peptide produced robust neuroprotective effect in the in vitro model of stroke. In addition, we found that the TAT protein transduction domain peptide itself altered the function of membrane channels through some unknown mechanisms and showed some mild neuroprotective effects. Together, these experiments indicated a synergistic relationship between the TAT carrier sequence and the mGluR1alpha peptide cargo sequence, and this synergy might account for the neuroprotective properties of the TAT-mGluR1 peptide.
Cerebral convolutions were unknown until the 17th century. A constant sulcus was not recognized until the mid-1600s; it was named &quot;the fissure of Sylvius,&quot; after the person who had always been considered as the one who discovered it. It is commonly asserted that the first description of the lateral scissure was made by Caspar Bartholin, who attributed its discovery to Sylvius. However, this was not actually the case, as Caspar Bartholin died in 1629, whereas Sylvius started studying medicine in 1632. The description could have been made either by Caspar Bartholin's son Thomas or by Sylvius himself. Irrespective of the description's author, the key to the history of the lateral fissure is that it was first identified by Fabrici d'Acquapendente in 1600, 40 years before Sylvius' description. In one of the 300 colored plates (Tabulae Pictae) by Fabrici, the lateral fissure is perfectly depicted, as are the temporal convolutions. Therefore, even if it was an accidental discovery, Fabrici should be the one noted as having discovered the fissure. This article ends with a short history of the plates. They were painted in oil on paper and were thought to further a great work, the Theatrum Totius Animalis Fabricae, which was begun in 1591 and never completed or published. Only the colored illustrations of this project remain. These plates were forgotten for more than 200 years, until they were rediscovered by Giuseppe Sterzi in 1909. They are among the best examples of anatomic iconography in terms of innovation, accuracy, and artistic accomplishment.
In the last few years, muscular dystrophies due to reduced glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan (ADG) have emerged as a common group of conditions, now referred to as dystroglycanopathies. Mutations in six genes (POMT1, POMT2, POMGnT1, Fukutin, FKRP and LARGE) have so far been identified in patients with a dystroglycanopathy. Allelic mutations in each of these genes can result in a wide spectrum of clinical conditions, ranging from severe congenital onset with associated structural brain malformations (Walker Warburg syndrome; muscle-eye-brain disease; Fukuyama muscular dystrophy; congenital muscular dystrophy type 1D) to a relatively milder congenital variant with no brain involvement (congenital muscular dystrophy type 1C), and to limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) type 2 variants with onset in childhood or adult life (LGMD2I, LGMD2L, and LGMD2N). ADG is a peripheral membrane protein that undergoes multiple and complex glycosylation steps to regulate its ability to effectively interact with extracellular matrix proteins, such as laminin, agrin, and perlecan. Although the precise composition of the glycans present on ADG are not known, it has been demonstrated that the forced overexpression of LARGE, or its paralog LARGE2, is capable of increasing the glycosylation of ADG in normal cells. In addition, its overexpression is capable of restoring dystroglycan glycosylation and laminin binding properties in primary cell cultures of patients affected by different genetically defined dystroglycanopathy variants. These observations suggest that there could be a role for therapeutic strategies to overcome the glycosylation defect in these conditions via the overexpression of LARGE.
Mitochondrial disorders are a heterogeneous group of diseases affecting different organs (brain, muscle, liver, and heart), and the severity of the disease is highly variable. The chronicity and heterogeneity, both clinically and genetically, means that many patients require surveillance follow-up over their lifetime, often involving multiple disciplines. Although our understanding of the genetic defects and their pathological impact underlying mitochondrial diseases has increased over the past decade, this has not been paralleled with regards to treatment. Currently, no definitive pharmacological treatment exists for patients with mitochondrial dysfunction, except for patients with primary deficiency of coenzyme Q10. Pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatments increasingly being investigated include ketogenic diet, exercise, and gene therapy. Management is aimed primarily at minimizing disability, preventing complications, and providing prognostic information and genetic counseling based on current best practice. Here, we evaluate therapies used previously and review current and future treatment modalities for both adults and children with mitochondrial disease.
The Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory proposes that a neurobiological system, the Behavioral Activation System, defines individual differences on the subject's sensitivity and reactivity to appetitive stimuli associated with mesocorticolimbic structures, while this system does not mediate aversive stimulus processing. However, Jeffrey A. Gray's model also predicts the system's antagonism between this appetitive system and another aversive stimulus sensitive system, the Behavioral Inhibitory System/Fight-Flight-Freeze System, mostly associated with limbic structures. Therefore, direct modulation of brain activation during appetitive stimulus processing should be expected from the Behavioral Activation System, while inverse modulation during aversive stimulus processing may be expected to reflect the system's antagonism. Using the Sensitivity to Reward scale of the SPSR questionnaire to assess individual differences in the activity of the reward system, we present different behavioral and neuroimaging data to illustrate our view. The first experiment was based on a simple letter-judgment task while viewing erotic and aversive pictures selected from the International Affective Picture System. A second experiment employed a task performed by participants to detect infrequent aversive (i.e., stop) signals when responding to reward. The results from these studies were consistent with the idea that Behavioral Activation System-related personality traits mediate the brain activation associated with appetitive stimulus processing in reward-related areas, while it also showed its antagonism to aversive systems through a negative mediation on the limbic cortex activation. To conclude, sensitivity to reward may be understood as a form of impulsivity related to both better appetitive learning and poorer aversive learning.
It has been proposed that the progressive development of addiction from social use into a compulsive relapsing disorder results from a decrease in executive control over behavior and/or a strengthening of cortico-striatal habit circuitry. Based upon a review of the literature using the reinstatement model of drug relapse in rodents, it will be proposed that a transition between executive prefrontal cortical regulation of relapse to cortico-striatal habit circuitry can be modeled in animals trained to self-administer cocaine. Accordingly, prefrontal regulation of the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking can be modeled by extinguishing the animals, thereby engaging cortical circuitry. In contrast, if animals are placed in forced abstinence, the prefrontal cortex is not as fully engaged when the animal is returned to the cocaine context to seek drug. In parallel with distinctions between the circuitry involved in abstinent versus extinguished subjects, the magnitude of reinstatement is greater in animals placed in abstinence versus undergoing extinction training, and reinstatement progressively increases with the duration of forced abstinence. These findings will be described and integrated relative to modeling the transition from regulated relapse (social use) to compulsive (addicted) relapse.
The anhedonia hypothesis--that brain dopamine plays a critical role in the subjective pleasure associated with positive rewards--was intended to draw the attention of psychiatrists to the growing evidence that dopamine plays a critical role in the objective reinforcement and incentive motivation associated with food and water, brain stimulation reward, and psychomotor stimulant and opiate reward. The hypothesis called to attention the apparent paradox that neuroleptics, drugs used to treat a condition involving anhedonia (schizophrenia), attenuated in laboratory animals the positive reinforcement that we normally associate with pleasure. The hypothesis held only brief interest for psychiatrists, who pointed out that the animal studies reflected acute actions of neuroleptics whereas the treatment of schizophrenia appears to result from neuroadaptations to chronic neuroleptic administration, and that it is the positive symptoms of schizophrenia that neuroleptics alleviate, rather than the negative symptoms that include anhedonia. Perhaps for these reasons, the hypothesis has had minimal impact in the psychiatric literature. Despite its limited heuristic value for the understanding of schizophrenia, however, the anhedonia hypothesis has had major impact on biological theories of reinforcement, motivation, and addiction. Brain dopamine plays a very important role in reinforcement of response habits, conditioned preferences, and synaptic plasticity in cellular models of learning and memory. The notion that dopamine plays a dominant role in reinforcement is fundamental to the psychomotor stimulant theory of addiction, to most neuroadaptation theories of addiction, and to current theories of conditioned reinforcement and reward prediction. Properly understood, it is also fundamental to recent theories of incentive motivation.
Studies into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia have consistently demonstrated a dysfunction of dopamine (DA) system regulation in this disorder. This includes hyper-responsivity to DA agonists, the therapeutic efficacy of DA antagonists, and augmented striatal DA release in response to amphetamine. Nonetheless, there is little evidence for a pathological alteration with the DA system itself in schizophrenia. Instead, it is suggested that the disturbance lies in the manner by which the DA system is regulated. Recently, rodent models of schizophrenia have been advanced based on developmental disruption that recapitulates many of the symptoms observed in human schizophrenia patients. We found that administration of the mitotoxin methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) to rats at gestational day 17 leads to adult rats that exhibit neuroanatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral characteristics consistent with schizophrenia. These rats also exhibit hyperactivity within the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus that corresponds to a loss of parvalbumin-containing interneurons. This hyperactivity causes an increase in the population activity of the DA neurons (i.e., more DA neurons are firing spontaneously), thus increasing the responsivity of the DA system to stimuli. When the ventral subiculum is inactivated, DA neuron population activity is restored to baseline, and the hyper-responsivity to amphetamine is normalized to that observed in control rats. These findings demonstrate a direct link between the hippocampal pathophysiology, interneuronal alterations, and hyperdopaminergic state observed in the schizophrenia patient. Moreover, this suggests an alternate pharmacotherapeutic approach based on the normalization of hippocampal activity in the treatment of schizophrenia in humans.
Accurate prediction of ischemic tissue fate could aid clinical decision-making in the treatment of acute stroke. We investigated predictions of tissue fate for three (30-min, 60-min and permanent) stroke models in rats. Quantitative cerebral blood flow (CBF), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and spin-spin relaxation time constant (T(2)) were acquired during the acute phase and at the end point followed by histological examination. Probability-of-infarct profiles based on ADC and CBF data were constructed using a training dataset. Probability-of-infarct maps were predicted using only acute stroke data from a separate experimental dataset, revealing the likelihood of future infarction. Performance measures of sensitivity and specificity showed accurate predictions. Sensitivities (mean +/- SD) for the 30-min, 60-min and permanent stroke were, respectively, 82 +/- 6%, 82 +/- 7%, and 86 +/- 4%, specificities were 83 +/- 5%, 86 +/- 5%, and 89 +/- 6%, and the areas under the receiver operating curve were 87 +/- 3%, 90 +/- 4%, and 93 +/- 3%. Importantly, to improve prediction accuracy, we took into account regional susceptibility to infarction. Spatial frequency-of-infarct maps were constructed and predictions were made by taking the weighted average of the probability-of-infarct map and spatial frequency-of-infarct map. The optimal weighting coefficient of spatial frequency-of-infarct was small (10%) for the permanent occlusion group but surprisingly large (40%) for the reperfusion groups, indicating that regional susceptibility of infarction was important for accurate prediction in reperfusion stroke. We concluded that the likelihood of cerebral infarction in rats can be accurately predicted and that accounting for regional susceptibility of infarct further improves prediction accuracy. Predictive models have the potential to provide a valuable quantitative framework for clinicians to consider different stroke treatment options.



Oxidative stress is regarded as a mediator of nerve cell death in several neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease. Sesamin, a lignan mainly found in sesame oil, is currently under study for its anti-oxidative and possible neuroprotective properties. We used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridine (MPP(+)) ion, the active metabolite of the potent parkinsonism-causing toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine, to produce oxidative stress and neurodegeneration in neuronal PC12 cells, which express dopamine, as well as neurofilaments. Our results show that picomolar doses of sesamin protected neuronal PC12 cells from MPP(+)-induced cellular death, as revealed by colorimetric measurements and production of reactive oxygen species. We also demonstrated that sesamin acted by rescuing tyrosine hydroxylase levels from MPP(+)-induced depletion. Sesamin, however, did not modulate dopamine transporter levels, and estrogen receptor-alpha and -beta protein expression. By examining several parameters of cell distress, we found that sesamin also elicited a strong increase in superoxide dismutase activity as well as protein expression and decreased catalase activity and the MPP(+) stimulated inducible nitric oxide synthase protein expression, in neuronal PC12 cells. Finally, sesamin possessed significant anti-inflammatory properties, as disclosed by its potential to reduce MPP(+)-induced interleukin-6 mRNA levels in microglia. From these studies, we determined the importance of the lignan sesamin as a neuroprotective molecule and its possible role in complementary and/or preventive therapies of neurodegenerative diseases.
Previously, we have shown that the window of opportunity for nicotinamide (NAM) therapy (50 mg/kg) following cortical contusion injuries (CCI) extended to 4-8 hrs post-CCI when administered over a six day post-CCI interval. The purpose of the present study was to determine if a more chronic NAM treatment protocol administered following CCI would extend the current window of opportunity for effective treatment onset. Groups of rats received either unilateral CCI's or sham procedures. Initiation of NAM therapy (50 mg/kg, ip) began at either 15-min, 4-hrs, 8-hrs or 24-hrs post-injury. All groups received daily systemic treatments for 12 days post-CCI at 24 hr intervals. Behavioral assessments were conducted for 28 days post injury and included: vibrissae forelimb placing, bilateral tactile adhesive removal, forelimb asymmetry task and locomotor placing testing. Behavioral analysis on both the tactile removal and locomotor placing tests showed that all NAM-treated groups facilitated recovery of function compared to saline treatment. However, on the vibrissae-forelimb placing and forelimb asymmetry tests only the 4-hr and 8-hr NAM-treated groups were significantly different from the saline-treated group. The lesion analysis showed that treatment with NAM out to 8 hrs post-CCI significantly reduced the size of the injury cavity. The window of opportunity for NAM treatment is task-dependent and in some situations can extend to 24 hrs post-CCI. These results suggest that a long term treatment regimen of 50 mg/kg of NAM starting at the clinically relevant time points may prove efficacious in human TBI.


A new scale for children and adolescents aged 4-18 years, called the Movement Disorder Childhood Rating Scale, was designed to: (1) describe clinical features of different types of movement disorders; (2) evaluate the intensity of movement disorders in different body regions at rest and during specific tasks; and (3) assess the influence of movement disorders on motor function and daily living activities. The scale is divided into 2 parts: Part I for general assessment, and Part II for movement-disorder severity. It includes a 20-minute standardized video protocol of all items. The scale was applied to 61 patients with different types of movement disorder, and was independently scored by 3 observers. Reliability, construct validity, and consistency indexes are reported. High interrater agreement on each item, and a high degree of internal consistency on several proposed items, were evident.
Cholecystokinin [CCK] is a peptide released as a hormone by the proximal gut in response to the presence of peptones and fatty acid in the gut. Considerable evidence suggests that CCK inhibits feeding behavior and gastric function by acting as a paracrine modulator of vagal afferents in the periphery, especially in the duodenum. CCK is also widely distributed throughout the mammalian brain and appears to function as a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator. More recent studies have suggested that CCK may act directly within the CNS to activate central vagal afferent terminal inputs to the solitary nucleus. We have developed an in vitro calcium imaging method that reveals, for the first time, the direct effects of this peptide on vagal terminals in the solitary nucleus. In vitro imaging reveals that CCK provokes increases in intracellular calcium in vagal afferent terminals as a consequence of a complex interaction between protein kinase A [PKA] and phospholipase C [PLC] transduction mechanisms that open L-type calcium channels and causes endoplasmic reticular [ER] calcium release. The subsequent activation of PKC may be responsible for initiating calcium spiking which is dependent on a TTX-sensitive mechanism. Thus, imaging of the isolated but spatially intact hindbrain slice has allowed a more complete appreciation of the interdependent transduction mechanisms used by CCK to excite identified central vagal afferent fibers and varicosities.
We studied the influence of rate of intravenous infusion of cocaine or amphetamine on drug-taking and seeking behavior. First, drug-naive rats were tested for acquisition of self-administration of increasing doses of amphetamine or cocaine infused over 5 or 100 s. Second, self-administration of cocaine or amphetamine infused over 5-100 s was assessed on fixed or progressive-ratio (PR) reinforcement schedules. Finally, the ability of a single 5 or 100 s amphetamine or cocaine infusion to reinstate extinguished drug seeking was assessed. Although slower infusion rates produced a small effect on drug taking under continuous-reinforcement conditions, infusion rate did not alter drug taking on intermittent or PR reinforcement schedules, or the ability of cocaine or amphetamine to reinstate drug seeking. Taken together, our results suggest that variation in drug delivery rate over a range that we previously found alters the induction of behavioral sensitization, gene-expression and striatal dopamine activity, does not markedly alter drug-taking or seeking behavior.
The effects of Tat, an HIV-1 protein, on intravenous cocaine-induced locomotor activity were examined in ovariectomized rats. Animals were habituated to activity chambers, administered an i.v. baseline/saline injection, and 24 h later, received bilateral, intra-accumbal microinjections of Tat1-72 (15 microg/microl) or vehicle. Twenty four hours later, rats received the first of 14 daily i.v. cocaine injections (3.0 mg/kg/inj, 1 /day) or saline. Locomotor activity was measured in automated chambers for 30 min following baseline and after the 1st and 14th cocaine injections. Observational time sampling following cocaine was also performed. Following acute cocaine/saline, Tat significantly increased cocaine-induced total activity over the 30-min session, with no significant effects for activity in the central compartment. Repeated cocaine injections produced behavioral sensitization with approximately 2-fold higher levels of total activity, approximately 3-fold higher levels of centrally directed activity, and increased locomotor scores via direct observations. Following repeated cocaine/saline, Tat altered the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization for total activity with prior Tat exposure attenuating the development of cocaine-induced sensitization. Collectively, these data show that bilateral microinjection of Tat into the N Acc alters i.v. cocaine-induced behavior, suggesting that Tat produces behavioral changes by disrupting the mesocorticolimbic pathway.
Prenatal ethanol exposure is associated with an increased incidence of depressive disorders in patient populations. However, the mechanisms that link prenatal ethanol exposure and depression are unknown. Several recent studies have implicated reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in the hippocampal formation and frontal cortex as important contributors to the etiology of depression. In the present studies, we sought to determine whether prenatal ethanol exposure is associated with behaviors that model depression, as well as with reduced BDNF levels in the hippocampal formation and/or medial frontal cortex, in a mouse model of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). Compared to control adult mice, prenatal ethanol-exposed adult mice displayed increased learned helplessness behavior and increased immobility in the Porsolt forced swim test. Prenatal ethanol exposure was associated with decreased BDNF protein levels in the medial frontal cortex, but not the hippocampal formation, while total BDNF mRNA and BDNF transcripts containing exons III, IV or VI were reduced in both the medial frontal cortex and the hippocampal formation of prenatal ethanol-exposed mice. These results identify reduced BDNF levels in the medial frontal cortex and hippocampal formation as potential mediators of depressive disorders associated with FASD.
Selective breeding offers several important advantages over using inbred strain panels in detecting genetically correlated traits to the selection phenotype. The purpose of the current study was to selectively breed for prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response (ASR), to pharmacologically and behaviorally characterize the selected lines and to use the lines for quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping. Starting with heterogeneous stock mice formed by crossing the C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, BALB/cJ and LP/J inbred strains and using a short-term selective breeding strategy, animals were selected for High and Low PPI. The selection phenotype was the 80 dB prepulse tone (15 dB above the background noise). After five generations of selection, the High and Low lines differed significantly (78.1 +/- 3.1 vs. 45.2 +/- 3.9 [percent inhibition], p &lt; 0.00001). The effects of haloperidol and MK-801 on PPI were not different between the High and Low lines. However, at the highest dose tested (10 mg/kg), the High line was more sensitive than the Low line to the disruptive PPI effects of methamphetamine. The lines did not differ in terms of basal activity or methamphetamine-induced changes in locomotor activity. The High and Low lines were genotyped using a panel of 768 SNPs. Significant QTLs (LOD &gt; 10) were detected on chromosomes 11 and 16 that appeared similar to those detected previously [Hitzemann, R., Bell, J., Rasmussen, E., McCaughran, J. Mapping the genes for the acoustic startle response (ASR) and prepulse inhibition of the ASR in the BXD recombinant inbred series: effect of high-frequency hearing loss and cochlear pathology. In: Willott JF, editor. Handbook of mouse auditory research: From behavior to molecular biology. New York: CRC Press; 2001, p. 441-455.; Petryshen, T. L, Kirby, A., Hammer, R.P. Jr, Purcell, S., O'Leary, S.B., Singer, J.B., et al. Two quantitative trait loci for prepulse inhibition of startle identified on mouse chromosome 16 using chromosome substitution strains. Genetics 2005; 171: 1895-1904.]. Overall, the current study illustrates that the heritability of PPI is sufficient for shortterm selective breeding and that the lines which are developed can be used to characterize the factors associated with the regulation of PPI.
An important task of the brain is to represent the outside world. It is unclear how the brain may do this, however, as it can only rely on neural responses and has no independent access to external stimuli in order to &quot;decode&quot; what those responses mean. We investigate what can be learned about a space of stimuli using only the action potentials (spikes) of cells with stereotyped -- but unknown -- receptive fields. Using hippocampal place cells as a model system, we show that one can (1) extract global features of the environment and (2) construct an accurate representation of space, up to an overall scale factor, that can be used to track the animal's position. Unlike previous approaches to reconstructing position from place cell activity, this information is derived without knowing place fields or any other functions relating neural responses to position. We find that simply knowing which groups of cells fire together reveals a surprising amount of structure in the underlying stimulus space; this may enable the brain to construct its own internal representations.
Traditionally brain function is studied through measuring physiological responses in controlled sensory, motor, and cognitive paradigms. However, even at rest, in the absence of overt goal-directed behavior, collections of cortical regions consistently show temporally coherent activity. In humans, these resting state networks have been shown to greatly overlap with functional architectures present during consciously directed activity, which motivates the interpretation of rest activity as day dreaming, free association, stream of consciousness, and inner rehearsal. In monkeys, it has been shown though that similar coherent fluctuations are present during deep anesthesia when there is no consciousness. Here, we show that comparable resting state networks emerge from a stability analysis of the network dynamics using biologically realistic primate brain connectivity, although anatomical information alone does not identify the network. We specifically demonstrate that noise and time delays via propagation along connecting fibres are essential for the emergence of the coherent fluctuations of the default network. The spatiotemporal network dynamics evolves on multiple temporal scales and displays the intermittent neuroelectric oscillations in the fast frequency regimes, 1-100 Hz, commonly observed in electroencephalographic and magnetoencephalographic recordings, as well as the hemodynamic oscillations in the ultraslow regimes, &lt;0.1 Hz, observed in functional magnetic resonance imaging. The combination of anatomical structure and time delays creates a space-time structure in which the neural noise enables the brain to explore various functional configurations representing its dynamic repertoire.
Reward-modulated spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) has recently emerged as a candidate for a learning rule that could explain how behaviorally relevant adaptive changes in complex networks of spiking neurons could be achieved in a self-organizing manner through local synaptic plasticity. However, the capabilities and limitations of this learning rule could so far only be tested through computer simulations. This article provides tools for an analytic treatment of reward-modulated STDP, which allows us to predict under which conditions reward-modulated STDP will achieve a desired learning effect. These analytical results imply that neurons can learn through reward-modulated STDP to classify not only spatial but also temporal firing patterns of presynaptic neurons. They also can learn to respond to specific presynaptic firing patterns with particular spike patterns. Finally, the resulting learning theory predicts that even difficult credit-assignment problems, where it is very hard to tell which synaptic weights should be modified in order to increase the global reward for the system, can be solved in a self-organizing manner through reward-modulated STDP. This yields an explanation for a fundamental experimental result on biofeedback in monkeys by Fetz and Baker. In this experiment monkeys were rewarded for increasing the firing rate of a particular neuron in the cortex and were able to solve this extremely difficult credit assignment problem. Our model for this experiment relies on a combination of reward-modulated STDP with variable spontaneous firing activity. Hence it also provides a possible functional explanation for trial-to-trial variability, which is characteristic for cortical networks of neurons but has no analogue in currently existing artificial computing systems. In addition our model demonstrates that reward-modulated STDP can be applied to all synapses in a large recurrent neural network without endangering the stability of the network dynamics.


This is the second in a series of canonical reviews on invertebrate muscle. We cover here thin and thick filament structure, the molecular basis of force generation and its regulation, and two special properties of some invertebrate muscle, catch and asynchronous muscle. Invertebrate thin filaments resemble vertebrate thin filaments, although helix structure and tropomyosin arrangement show small differences. Invertebrate thick filaments, alternatively, are very different from vertebrate striated thick filaments and show great variation within invertebrates. Part of this diversity stems from variation in paramyosin content, which is greatly increased in very large diameter invertebrate thick filaments. Other of it arises from relatively small changes in filament backbone structure, which results in filaments with grossly similar myosin head placements (rotating crowns of heads every 14.5 nm) but large changes in detail (distances between heads in azimuthal registration varying from three to thousands of crowns). The lever arm basis of force generation is common to both vertebrates and invertebrates, and in some invertebrates this process is understood on the near atomic level. Invertebrate actomyosin is both thin (tropomyosin:troponin) and thick (primarily via direct Ca(++) binding to myosin) filament regulated, and most invertebrate muscles are dually regulated. These mechanisms are well understood on the molecular level, but the behavioral utility of dual regulation is less so. The phosphorylation state of the thick filament associated giant protein, twitchin, has been recently shown to be the molecular basis of catch. The molecular basis of the stretch activation underlying asynchronous muscle activity, however, remains unresolved.

In addition to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition, donepezil binds to sigma-1 receptors. In this study, we examined the effects of donepezil on nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Donepezil significantly potentiated the NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in a concentration-dependent manner whereas the AChE inhibitor physostigmine did not alter NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. Potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by donepezil was significantly blocked by co-administration of the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100 or the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) receptor antagonist xestospongin C. These findings suggest that sigma-1 receptors and interaction with IP3 receptors may be involved in the pharmacological action of donepezil.
The fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) can be activated through direct interaction with the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). The extracellular part of the FGFR consists of three immunoglobulin-like (Ig) modules, and that of the NCAM consists of five Ig and two fibronectin type III (F3) modules. NCAM-FGFR interactions are mediated by the third FGFR Ig module and the second NCAM F3 module. Using surface plasmon resonance and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses, the present study demonstrates that the second Ig module of FGFR also is involved in binding to the NCAM. The second Ig module residues involved in binding were identified and shown to be localized on the &quot;opposite sides&quot; of the module, indicating that when NCAMs are clustered (e.g., due to homophilic binding), high-affinity FGFR binding sites may be formed by the neighboring NCAMs.

In the mnemonic model of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), the current memory of a negative event, not the event itself, determines symptoms. The model is an alternative to the current event-based etiology of PTSD represented in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed., text rev.; American Psychiatric Association, 2000). The model accounts for important and reliable findings that are often inconsistent with the current diagnostic view and that have been neglected by theoretical accounts of the disorder, including the following observations. The diagnosis needs objective information about the trauma and peritraumatic emotions but uses retrospective memory reports that can have substantial biases. Negative events and emotions that do not satisfy the current diagnostic criteria for a trauma can be followed by symptoms that would otherwise qualify for PTSD. Predisposing factors that affect the current memory have large effects on symptoms. The inability-to-recall-an-important-aspect-of-the-trauma symptom does not correlate with other symptoms. Loss or enhancement of the trauma memory affects PTSD symptoms in predictable ways. Special mechanisms that apply only to traumatic memories are not needed, increasing parsimony and the knowledge that can be applied to understanding PTSD.
Skilled athletes often maintain that overthinking disrupts performance of their motor skills. Here, we examined whether these experiences have a basis in verbal overshadowing, a phenomenon in which describing memories for ineffable perceptual experiences disrupts later retention. After learning a unique golf-putting task, golfers of low and intermediate skill either described their actions in detail or performed an irrelevant verbal task. They then performed the putting task again. Strikingly, describing their putting experience significantly impaired higher skill golfers' ability to reachieve the putting criterion, compared with higher skill golfers who performed the irrelevant verbal activity. Verbalization had no such effect, however, for lower skill golfers. These findings establish that the effects of overthinking extend beyond dual-task interference and may sometimes reflect impacts on long-term memory. We propose that these effects are mediated by competition between procedural and declarative memory, as suggested by recent work in cognitive neuroscience.








The influence of orthographic knowledge on lexical tone processing was examined by manipulating the congruency between the tone and the tone marker of Thai monosyllabic words presented in three metalinguistic tasks. In tone monitoring (Experiment 1) and same-different tone judgement (Experiment 2)--that is, tasks that require an explicit analysis of tone information---an orthographic congruency effect was observed: Better performance was found when both tone and tone marker led to the same response than when they led to opposite, competing responses. In rhyme judgement (Experiment 3), a metaphonological task that allows tone to be processed in a more natural way since it does not require explicit analysis of tone, the orthographic effect emerged only when the interstimulus interval was lengthened from 30 to 1,200 ms. In addition to demonstrating the generalization of the orthographic congruency effect to the suprasegmental domain in Thai, the present data also suggest relatively late and task-dependent activation of orthographic representations of tone.
Mice deficient in apoE (Apoe-/-) can be used to assess the potential role of apoE in the effects of cranial irradiation on hippocampal function. Radiation-induced impairments in hippocampal function may be more pronounced in female Apoe-/- mice and more pronounced in mice irradiated and tested cognitively later in life. To assess this possibility, female wild-type and Apoe-/- mice were irradiated at 6 months of age with 10 Gy 137Cs gamma rays and tested cognitively 3 months later. Sham-irradiated wild-type female mice showed enhanced hippocampal-dependent novel location recognition compared to sham-irradiated Apoe-/- female mice. However, cranial irradiation impaired novel location recognition similarly in both genotypes. Cranial irradiation also impaired hippocampal-dependent spatial memory retention similarly in wild-type and Apoe-/- female mice in the water maze. Because novel location recognition was not affected after 137Cs gamma irradiation in younger mice, these data support the possibility that older mice are more susceptible to the effects of gamma radiation on novel location recognition. Together with the impairments in spatial memory retention in the water maze after irradiation, these data support the existence of detrimental effects of cranial irradiation on hippocampal function. In addition, compared to wild-type female mice, Apoe-/- female mice showed enhanced levels of anxiety, and in Apoe-/-, but not in wild-type, female mice, radiation decreased levels of anxiety. Because levels of anxiety during the hidden session of the water maze were associated with ability to locate the hidden platform, assessments of anxiety need to be considered in evaluating the effects of cranial irradiation on cognitive performance after cranial irradiation.
Bisphenol-A (BPA), a monomer used in production of polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins, has established estrogenic properties. We assessed the impact of acute and repeated subcutaneous BPA administration upon intrauterine implantation of fertilized ova and urinary levels of 17beta-estradiol and progesterone in inseminated female mice. In Experiment 1, females received varied doses of BPA on days 1-4 of gestation. Daily doses of 6.75 and 10.125mg/animal significantly reduced the number of implantation sites. Urinary progesterone was significantly reduced by the higher dose, but no other dose had an effect on progesterone levels and no dose altered estradiol levels. In Experiment 2, inseminated females received a single dose of BPA on days 0, 1, or 2 of gestation. A single dose of 10.125mg reduced the number of implantation sites when given on day 0 or day 1, and 6.75mg on day 1 also produced fewer implantation sites, but there was no such effect of any dose when administered on day 2. These data show a lower threshold for BPA-induced pregnancy disruption than previously reported, also indicating effects of just one exposure. They confirm that this disruption is due to the actions of BPA upon implantation sites, and show that higher doses can influence systemic progesterone levels.
In spite of recent discoveries both in the neuroscience of pain mechanisms and in the pharmacologic management of pain, numerous patients with cancer continue to suffer of untreated or under treated pain. This article will give an overview of the different therapeutic modalities including the World Health Organization (WHO) stepladder, more invasive techniques such as the spinal delivery of drugs, the use of neurostimulation and radiofrequency neuroablation. It will also look at complementary and alternative therapies such as acupuncture and end of life care or palliative/supportive care.
Some subjects may overeat when they experience anxiety even if they chronically restrict their food consumption. This contradictory behavior is a dysfunctional emotional regulation mechanism, which promotes the development of obesity and eating disorders. We review studies from a research program where alimentary restriction and overeating are conceived under the perspective of affective neuroscience. In this framework, restrained eaters (RE) are described as subjects that are emotionally vulnerable and have dysfunctional emotional modulation strategies. We discuss empiric evidence about the influence of motivational systems on alimentary behavior. Electrophysiological observations in RE reveal a self-referential processing of food stimulus as well as dysfunctional processing during the differentiation of emotional expressions. We stress the role of emotional education and the creation of psychometric instruments designed for early detection of restrained eaters.
New tests of the vestibular function have been developed. They should help to explain some clinical situations. The paper describes 3 tests today used routinely in most centers, with a special emphasis on the sign of Halmagyi, or head impulse test. It is designed to detect deficits of the semicircular canal function in the horizontal and vertical directions as well. It is feasible without any equipment. However, an infrared camera connected to a computer increases markedly its sensitivity.


We report a 70-year-old man, who developed painful involuntary muscle contraction of the left leg after the lumbar discectomy, which exacerbated after a vertebral fracture of Th12. This involuntary movement was accompanied with the abnormal position of left leg simulating triple flexion response, and was induced by active or passive movement of his left knee and foot joints. Several drugs including benzodiazepines and dantrolene were ineffective, although treatment with baclofen or carbamazepine was effective. These findings suggest that hyperexcitability of the anterior horn cells following the disturbance of spinal inhibitory interneurons was involved. Electophysiological studies suggested the disturbance of left lumber nerve roots. The spinal root blocks from L3 to S1 were performed, after which the painful involuntary muscle spasm was resolved. The lumbar sympathetic ganglia block was also effective; suggesting that abnormal afferent neuronal input to spinal cord was caused by the nerve root trauma which triggered the formation of secondary abnormal network in the spine. Lumbar sympathetic ganglia block should be recommended to a therapeutic option for the refractory painful muscle spasm of the leg.
Here, we report on the discovery of a locus in the human genome, which evolved by gene duplication followed by an internal DNA inversion. This locus exhibits high sequence similarity to the gene for the inducible isoform of NOS protein (NOS2A) and is transcribed into a noncoding RNA containing a region of significant antisense homology with the NOS2A mRNA. We show that this antisense transcript (anti-NOS2A RNA) is expressed in different types of brain tumors, including meningiomas and glioblastomas. More importantly, we demonstrate that the expression profiles of the anti-NOS2A RNA and the NOS2A mRNA exhibit concurrent reciprocal changes in undifferentiated human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and in hESCs induced to differentiate into neurogenic precursors such as neurospheres. As NOS2A has a role in neurogenesis, our results suggest that the anti-NOS2A RNA is involved in the regulation of neuronal differentiation of hESCs through the modulation of NOS2A gene expression.
The DcpS scavenger decapping enzyme carries out the final step of the 3' to 5' end mRNA decay pathway by clearing the cell of residual cap structure that would otherwise accumulate. Its ability to modulate cap structure accumulation in a cell implies that DcpS could influence the pool of available cap-binding proteins and in turn impact their downstream functions. Since the 5' cap and corresponding cap-binding proteins are integral components of various aspects of mRNA metabolism including pre-mRNA splicing, nuclear export, translation and decay, DcpS has been proposed as a possible regulator of these processes. There is now increasing evidence that DcpS could impact at least some of these events. Indeed, DcpS can regulate the cap-dependent first intron pre-mRNA splicing in mammalian cells and a DcpS ortholog is important for 5' to 3' exonucleolytic activity in yeast. Moreover, the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling property of DcpS indicates that it could function as a regulator of cap-dependent processes in both cellular compartments by buffering cap structure concentrations and the resulting availability of cap-binding proteins in a cell. In this review, we discuss known and potential roles of DcpS in mRNA metabolism.


Prospective memory (PM) refers to the ability to execute a delayed intention and is different from retrospective memory (RM) in its nature and underlying mechanism (e.g., intention formation, maintenance, detection of PM cue and intention execution). Although preliminary studies have found PM impairment in patients with schizophrenia, the nature and magnitude of this problem in this clinical group is not yet fully known. The current study aimed to further clarify the nature of this impairment in schizophrenia. Fifty-four patients with schizophrenia and fifty-four healthy volunteers matched on demographic variables, IQ and executive functions took part in the study. Time-, event-, and activity-based PM tasks and a set of neurocognitive tests were administered to the participants. Results showed that patients with schizophrenia performed significantly worse on all sub-types of PM tasks, even after controlling for neurocognitive functions such as working memory, verbal memory, visual memory, and executive function. These findings suggest PM deficit is a primary deficit rather than a secondary consequence of neurocognitive impairments in schizophrenia. Analysis found that PM deficits may be mainly due to the impairment of the cue detection and intention retrieval stage.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a severe neurological condition that can result in brain damage. In animals, SE is associated with cell loss and aberrant synaptogenesis. These pathological processes appear to be activity-dependent and may continue after the SE has ended. We postulated that suppression of electrical activity following SE at the site of the epileptic focus will reduce seizure-induced damage. To achieve this goal, tetrodotoxin (TTX) was used to suppress electrical activity in the hippocampi bilaterally following SE. Adult rats experienced lithium-pilocarpine-induced SE for 2h while controls underwent sham-SE with saline injections. Starting 12h after the SE or sham-SE rats received either continuous TTX (1 microM) or saline infusions through cannulas implanted in the bilateral hippocampi for 5h daily for 4 days. TTX resulted in significant EEG suppression and reduction in spikes and sharp waves. Rats were sacrificed 2 weeks after SE and the brains examined for cell loss and sprouting. Rats receiving TTX following SE had significantly more cell loss as well as a trend toward more mossy fiber sprouting than saline-treated rats following SE. TTX injection in sham-SE rats caused no cell loss or mossy fiber sprouting. These results suggest that suppression of electrical activity following SE is detrimental.
Incomplete case finding is a problem in epidemiological studies of epilepsy. We tried to optimize case ascertainment by combining information from individual interviews and medical records. During 2 years, 1838 inhabitants of Vg, Norway, aged 18-65 (88.6% of the target population) were interviewed as part of an epidemiological study of headache. Individuals with learning disability, mental disorders and dementia were excluded. One question concerning epilepsy was presented to 1793 consecutive cases (mean age 35, males 49%): &quot;Have you ever had convulsions, epileptic fits or other epileptic symptoms?&quot; The medical records of the 133 subjects who acknowledged this possibility were reviewed, and telephone interviews were performed when needed. A diagnosis of epilepsy had been made in 41 subjects. Twenty-one were treated with antiepileptic drugs, of whom 12 had had seizures within the last 5 years. By this unique method of case ascertainment, the prevalence of epilepsy in adults (cases under treatment) was 1.2%, and of active cases 0.7%, despite the fact that high-risk groups for epilepsy, such as elderly people and individuals with cognitive deficits, were excluded. Although these findings were derived from a small population in a circumscribed rural area, they suggest that the true prevalence of epilepsy may be higher than reflected in many previous studies.

Over the last three decades there has been an increasing interest in acupuncture treatment of substance abuse around the world. Three important steps can be identified in this field. Dr. H. L. Wen of Hong Kong was the first (1973) to report that acupuncture at 4 body points and 2 ear points combined with electrical stimulation can relieve opiate withdrawal signs in the addicts. The second major step was made by Dr. M. Smith in New York, the head of the National Acupuncture Detoxification Association (NADA) of the U.S.A., who finalized a protocol (1985), using only ear points without electrical stimulation for the treatment of drug abuse. The recent advance in this field was made by Prof. J. S. Han and his colleagues in Neuroscience Research Institute of the Peking University, Beijing, who characterized a protocol (1992- ), using electrical stimulation of identified frequencies on body points to ameliorate heroin withdrawal signs and prevent relapse to heroin use. In this review, the efficacy of acupuncture and related techniques for the treatment of drug dependence in experimental settings and clinical practice will be reviewed, and the possible mechanisms underlying this effect be discussed.

How do brain representations of the utility of a hedonic goal guide decisions about whether to pursue it? Our focus here will be on brain mechanisms of reward utility operating at particular decision moments in life. Moments such as when you encounter an image, sound, scent or other cue associated in your past with a particular reward; or perhaps just vividly imagine that cue. Such a cue can often trigger a sudden motivational urge to pursue that goal, and sometimes a decision to do so. In drug addicts trying to quit, a cue for the addicted drug might trigger urges that rise to compulsive levels of intensity, despite prior commitments to abstain, leading to the decision to relapse into taking the drug again. Normal or addicted, the urge and decision may well have been lacking immediately before the cue was encountered. The decision to pursue the cued reward might never have happened if the cue had not been encountered. Why can such cues momentarily dominate decision making? The answer involves brain mesolimbic dopamine mechanisms that amplify the incentive salience of reward cues, selectively elevating decision utility to trigger &quot;wanting&quot; for the goal. We describe affective neuroscience studies of brain limbic generators of &quot;wanting&quot; that shed light on how cues trigger pursuit of their goals, both normally and even under intense conditions of irrational goal pursuit.
Stem cell-based therapies hold therapeutic promise for degenerative motor neuron diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and for spinal cord injury. Fetal neural progenitors present less risk of tumor formation than embryonic stem cells but inefficiently differentiate into motor neurons, in line with their low expression of motor neuron-specific transcription factors and poor response to soluble external factors. To overcome this limitation, we genetically engineered fetal rat spinal cord neurospheres to express the transcription factors HB9, Nkx6.1, and Neurogenin2. Enforced expression of the three factors rendered neural precursors responsive to Sonic hedgehog and retinoic acid and directed their differentiation into cholinergic motor neurons that projected axons and formed contacts with cocultured myotubes. When transplanted in the injured adult rat spinal cord, a model of acute motor neuron degeneration, the engineered precursors transiently proliferated, colonized the ventral horn, expressed motor neuron-specific differentiation markers, and projected cholinergic axons in the ventral root. We conclude that genetic engineering can drive the differentiation of fetal neural precursors into motor neurons that efficiently engraft in the spinal cord. The strategy thus holds promise for cell replacement in motor neuron and related diseases. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Stem cell-based treatment is a promising frontier for neurodegenerative diseases. We propose a novel protocol for inducing the differentiation of rat mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) toward neurotrophic factor (NTF)-secreting cells as a possible neuroprotective agent. One of the major caveats of stem cell transplantation is their fate post-transplantation. To test the viability of the cells, we tracked the transplanted cells in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans and validated the results by histology. MSCs went through a two-step medium-based differentiation protocol, followed by in vitro characterization using immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting analysis of the cell media. We examined the migratory properties of the cells in the quinolinic acid (QA)-induced striatal lesion model for Huntington's disease. The induced cells were labeled and transplanted posterior to the lesion. Rats underwent serial MRI scans to detect cell migration in vivo. On the 19th day, animals were sacrificed, and their brains were removed for immunostaining. Rat MSCs postinduction exhibited both neuronal and astrocyte markers, as well as production and secretion of NTFs. High-resolution two-dimensional and three-dimensional magnetic resonance images revealed that the cells migrated along a distinct route toward the lesion. The in vivo MRI results were validated by the histological study, which demonstrated that phagocytosis had only partially occurred and that MRI could correctly depict the status of the migrating cells. The results show that these cells migrated toward a QA lesion and therefore survived for 19 days post-transplantation. This gives hope for future research harnessing these cells for treating neurodegenerative diseases. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Previous studies described that neurons could be generated in vitro from human umbilical cord blood cells. However, there are few data concerning their origin. Notably, cells generating neurons are not well characterized. The present study deals with the origin of cord blood cells generating neurons and mechanisms allowing the neuronal differentiation. We studied neuronal markers of both total fractions of cord blood and stem/progenitor cord blood cells before and after selections and cultures. We also compared neuronal commitment of cord blood cells to that observed for the neuronal cell line SK-N-BE(2). Before cultures, neuronal markers are found within the total fraction of cord blood cells. In CD133+ stem/progenitor cell fraction only immature neuronal markers are detected. However, CD133+ cells are unable to give rise to neurons in cultures, whereas this is achieved when total fraction of cord blood cells is used. In fact, mature functional neurons can be generated from CD133+ cells only in cell-to-cell close contact with either CD133- fraction or a neurogenic epithelium. Furthermore, since CD133+ fraction is heterogenous, we used several selections to precisely identify the phenotype of cord blood-derived neuronal stem/progenitor cells. Results reveal that only CD34- cells from CD133+ fraction possess neuronal potential. These data show the phenotype of cord blood neuronal stem/progenitor cells and the crucial role of direct cell-to-cell contact to achieve their commitment. Identifying the neuron supporting factors may be beneficial to the use of cord blood neuronal stem/progenitor cells for regenerative medicine.




Changes in synaptic strength on ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons are thought to play a critical role in the development of addiction-related behaviors. However, it is unknown how a single injection of cocaine at different doses affects locomotor activity, behavioral sensitization, and glutamatergic synaptic strength on VTA dopamine neurons in mice. We observed that behavioral sensitization to a challenge cocaine injection scaled with the dose of cocaine received 1 day prior. Interestingly, the locomotor activity after the initial exposure to different doses of cocaine corresponded to the changes in glutamatergic strength on VTA dopamine neurons. These results in mice suggest that a single exposure to cocaine dose-dependently affects excitatory synapses on VTA dopamine neurons, and that this acute synaptic alteration is directly associated with the locomotor responses to cocaine and not to behavioral sensitization.
It is well known that the nucleus accumbens plays an important role in drug reinforcing effect and relapse. However, the cellular neuroadaptations that take place in accumbens neurons after repeated drug exposure are still not well understood, especially for opioids. Here, we examined how nucleus accumbens neuronal excitability becomes affected in rats exposed to morphine using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Medium spiny neurons recorded from brain slices of repeated morphine treated rats exhibited a significant decrease in the intrinsic excitability after 3-4 days withdrawal, compared to that of neurons from saline treated animals, which was indicated by the increase of current to evoke the first spike and the decrease of spike number induced by depolarizing current steps in the morphine group. Moreover, the excitability decrease was accompanied by related membrane property changes, such as resting membrane potential hyperpolarization, input resistance, and membrane time constant decrease, inward rectification increase, and action potential duration decrease. Taken together, repeated morphine exposure and short-term withdrawal may reduce nucleus accumbens activity and output by modulating intrinsic membrane properties of its output neurons, which could be an important neuroadaptation process that mediates morphine addictive effect.
The neurotransmitters DA and serotonin are known to be important modulators of aggression, but endogenous differences in these systems between aggressive and nonaggressive animals are poorly understood. To examine this issue, the mesocorticolimbic DA and serotonin systems of two mouse strains that differ in aggressive behavior, BALB/cJ and A/J, were analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography and quantitative receptor autoradiography. Significant differences in both serotonergic and dopaminergic systems were found between aggressive and nonaggressive mice. The nonaggressive A/J mice exhibited higher DA utilization in the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex, higher D1 receptor expression in the rostral pole of the accumbens, and lower D2 receptor expression throughout the accumbens, as compared with aggressive BALB/cJ mice. Although correlative in nature, these data suggest that differences in mesocorticolimbic DA and serotonin systems may contribute to endogenous differences in aggression.
Strokes recur in 6-20% of the patients, most commonly within the first year; after a TIA or minor stroke; most recurrences will occur within the first 90 days. Our ability to identify patients at high risk is poor and most recurrent strokes cannot be explained by traditional risk factors. In 30-45% of the cases the second stroke will be of a different subtype. Moreover, patients are faced with other risks, like cardiac events and cognitive decline. With the population aging, the need for timely and effective secondary prevention strategies is more pressing than ever. This paper summarizes recent advances in pharmacological secondary prevention after a non-cardioembolic ischaemic stroke, and highlights critical questions still in need of answers.
The ability to use physiologic imaging with either magnetic resonance (MR) or computed tomography to help define irreversibly injured brain (the infarct core) and tissue at risk of infarct (reversible ischemic penumbra) holds great promise in the future treatment of stroke. The physiologic principles and concepts underlying the evaluation for mismatch between injured tissue and tissue at risk are similar for the 2 imaging techniques. Multimodal MR imaging (diffusion-weighted imaging/perfusion-weighted imaging/MR angiography) provides a validated penumbral selection criteria based on the results of 2 clinical trials (diffusion and perfusion imaging evaluation for understanding stroke evolution and echoplanar imaging thrombolysis evaluation). Computed tomographic perfusion parameters have also been calculated to optimize final infarct prediction. Both techniques await further study to prove their capability of selecting cases for short-term recanalization/reperfusion therapy.
Berberine [Natural Yellow 18, 5,6-dihydro-9,10-dimethoxybenzo(g)-1,3-benzodioxolo (5,6-a) quinolizinium] is an alkaloid present in plants of the Berberidaceae family and used in traditional Chinese and North American medicine. We have previously demonstrated that berberine causes mitochondrial depolarization and fragmentation, with simultaneous increase in oxidative stress. We also demonstrated that berberine causes an inhibition of mitochondrial respiration and a decrease on calcium loading capacity through induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). The objective of the present work is to investigate a common target for both induction of the MPT and inhibition of respiration. The hypothesis is that berberine induces the MPT through interacting with the adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT). By measuring induction of the MPT through increased mitochondrial swelling, membrane depolarization and loss of calcium retention, we observed that the effects of berberine were not inhibited by bongkrekic acid although adenosine diphosphate (ADP)/oligomycin completely prevented the MPT. Also, we observed that berberine increased the depolarization effect of oleic acid on liver mitochondria. The initial depolarization observed when berberine is added to mitochondria was not affected by ANT inhibitors. Taken together, we propose that berberine acts on the ANT, altering the binding of the protein to bongkrekic acid but not to cyclosporin A or ADP. It is also clear that the membrane potential is required for berberine effects, most likely for allowing for its mitochondrial accumulation. Mitochondrial effects of berberine can be relevant not only for its proposed antitumor activity but also for the assessment of its organ toxicity, depending on factors such as tissue accumulation or delivery.


Spatial navigation is a core cognitive ability in humans and animals. Neuroimaging studies have identified two functionally defined brain regions that activate during navigational tasks and also during passive viewing of navigationally relevant stimuli such as environmental scenes: the parahippocampal place area (PPA) and the retrosplenial complex (RSC). Recent findings indicate that the PPA and RSC have distinct and complementary roles in spatial navigation, with the PPA more concerned with representation of the local visual scene and RSC more concerned with situating the scene within the broader spatial environment. These findings are a first step towards understanding the separate components of the cortical network that mediates spatial navigation in humans.
Defects in rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (RAS)-extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-mammalian target of rapamycin (MTOR) signaling pathways have recently been shown to cause several genetic disorders classified as neuro-cardio-facial-cutaneous (NCFC) and Hamartoma syndromes. Although these pathways are well-known players in cell proliferation and cancer, their role in cognitive function is less appreciated. Here, we focus on the cognitive problems associated with mutations in the RAS-ERK and PI3K-MTOR signaling pathways and on the underlying mechanisms revealed by recent animal studies. Cancer drugs have been shown to reverse the cognitive deficits in mouse models of NCFC and Hamartoma syndromes, raising hopes for clinical trials.
Until recently, dogma dictated that the immune system and the central nervous system (CNS) live mostly separate, parallel lives, and any interactions between the two were assumed to be limited to extreme cases of pathological insult. It was only a decade ago that T cells in the injured brain were shown to play a protective rather than a destructive role. In this article, we explore the role of the immune system in the healthy brain, focusing on the key function that T lymphocytes have in the regulation of cognition. We discuss candidate mechanisms underlying T cell-mediated control of cognitive function in human cognitive diseases associated with immune decline, such as age- and HIV-related dementias, 'chemo-brain' and others.
Polyglutamine diseases are a major cause of neurodegeneration worldwide. Recent studies highlight the importance of protein quality control mechanisms in regulating polyglutamine-induced toxicity. Here we discuss a model of disease pathogenesis that integrates current understanding of the role of protein folding in polyglutamine disease with emerging evidence that alterations in native protein interactions contribute to toxicity. We also incorporate new findings on other age-related neurodegenerative diseases in an effort to explain how protein aggregation and normal aging processes might be involved in polyglutamine disease pathogenesis.
Paralysis of the diaphragm is a severe consequence of cervical spinal cord injury. This condition can be experimentally modeled by lateralized, high cervical lesions that interrupt descending inspiratory drive to the corresponding phrenic nucleus. Although partial recovery of ipsilateral diaphragm function occurs over time, recent findings show persisting chronic deficits in ventilation and phrenic motoneuron activity. Some evidence suggests, however, that spontaneous recovery can be enhanced by modulating neural pathways to phrenic motoneurons via synaptic circuitries which appear more complex than previously envisioned. The present review highlights these and other recent experimental multidisciplinary findings pertaining to respiratory neuroplasticity in the rat. Translational considerations are also emphasized, with specific attention directed at the clinical and interpretational strengths of different lesion models and outcome measures.

Although the role of a genetic factor is established in bipolar disorder, causative genes or robust genetic risk factors have not been identified. Increased incidence of subcortical hyperintensity, altered calcium levels in cells derived from patients and neuroprotective effects of mood stabilizers suggest vulnerability or impaired resilience of neurons in bipolar disorder. Mitochondrial dysfunction or impaired endoplasmic reticulum stress response is suggested to play a role in the neurons' vulnerability. Progressive loss or dysfunction of 'mood-stabilizing neurons' might account for the characteristic course of the illness. The important next step in the neurobiological study of bipolar disorder is identification of the neural systems that are responsible for this disorder.
Totally cystic intradural extramedullary lesions are uncommon and form a different spectrum of conditions as compared to the commonly seen intradural extramedullary tumors. Spinal schwannomas are benign tumors arising from spinal nerve root sheaths and are the most common intradural extramedullary spinal tumors. Though cystic changes in schwannomas are well described, most spinal schwannomas are solid or heterogeneous solid tumors and a totally cystic schwannoma is uncommon. The authors describes a case of totally cystic intradural extramedullary schwannoma and stress the importance of complete contrast imaging to differentiate this rare but almost completely curable tumor from other common intradural cystic lesions of the spine.
Crowding of oriented signals has been explained as linear, compulsory averaging of the signals from target and flankers [Parkes, L., Lund, J., Angelucci, A., Solomon, J. A., &amp; Morgan, M. (2001). Compulsory averaging of crowded orientation signals in human vision. Nature Neuroscience, 4(7), 739-744]. On the other hand, a comparable search task with sparse stimuli is well modeled by a 'Signed-Max' rule that integrates non-linearly local tilt estimates [Baldassi, S., &amp; Verghese, P. (2002). Comparing integration rules in visual search. Journal of Vision, 2(8), 559-570], as reflected by the bimodality of the distributions of reported tilts in a magnitude matching task [Baldassi, S., Megna, N., &amp; Burr, D. C. (2006). Visual clutter causes high-magnitude errors. PLoS Biology, 4(3), e56]. This study compares the two models in the context of crowding by using a magnitude matching task, to measure distributions of perceived target angles and a localization task, to probe the degree of access to local information. Response distributions were bimodal, implying uncertainty, only in the presence of abutting flankers. Localization of the target is relatively preserved but it quantitatively falls in between the predictions of the two models, possibly suggesting local averaging followed by a max operation. This challenges the notion of global averaging and suggests some conscious access to local orientation estimates.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive method to investigate motor pathways and to create a map of the somatotopical organization of the motor cortex: ordinary mapping procedures requires a focal brain stimulation over different spots of the scalp and electromyographic (EMG) recording from a muscle. Finding an appropriate and a valid visual representation of collected data is a crucial step in research and clinical field to allow a relatively fast, intra- and inter-patient comparison of motor cortex mapping. Aim of this study was to develop and to validate a method to map cortical representation of an intrinsic hand muscle (abductor digiti minimi, ADM) using a two-dimensional spline interpolation of EMG peak amplitudes obtained with TMS. The interpolated model will result in a graphical colour-scaled representation of the motor cortex for the investigated muscle; fitted model was finally validated by comparing derived parameters with those directly measured to ensure the strength and reliability of the model. Ten healthy volunteers (mean age+/-S.D.: 35.3+/-4.7 years, 4 males and 6 females) were enrolled in the study. Transcranial stimulation was performed by placing a figure-of-eight coil over a predefined grid on the scalp of the subject. EMG responses were recorded from the right abductor digiti minimi (ADM): averaged EMG peak amplitudes obtained at each node were then used to perform spline interpolation and to derive other parameters like center of gravity (CoG). Arithmetical mean of all resting motor threshold at the hotspot was 50.6+/-3.4% of the maximal stimulator output. Average amplitude at the hotspot was 1.72+/-0.80 mV and its coordinates, expressed as median, were x=4.5 cm and y=0.0 cm. Mean CoG was located at x=4.86+/-0.57 cm and y=0.35+/-0.10 cm. Mean interpolated peak coordinates for ADM were xf=4.86+/-0.58 cm and yf=0.36+/-0.12 cm, while mean fitted peak amplitude was 0.87+/-0.47 mV. Results suggest how it is possible to map the primary motor cortex using two-dimensional spline interpolation of peak-to-peak amplitudes obtained by single pulse TMS delivered on several scalp positions, which will result in a smooth, easy to read, colour-scaled map. However, like other visual representation modalities, the interpolation should become complementary to traditional methods and not a substitute of a precise and accurate cortical motor mapping.

This study reports an online temperature correction method for determining tissue oxygen partial pressure P(tO2) in the striatum and a novel simultaneous measurement of brain P(tO2) and temperature (T(brain)) in conjunction with global oxygen consumption V(O2) in non-sedated and non-anesthetized freely moving Arctic ground squirrels (AGS, Spermophilus parryii). This method fills an important research gap-the lack of a suitable method for physiologic studies of tissue P(O2) in hibernating or other cool-blooded species. P(tO2) in AGS brain during euthermy (21.22+/-2.06 mmHg) is significantly higher (P=0.016) than during hibernation (13.21+/-0.46 mmHg) suggests brain oxygenation in the striatum is normoxic during euthermy and hypoxic during hibernation. These results in P(tO2) are different from blood oxygen partial pressure P(aO2) in AGS, which are significantly lower during euthermy than during hibernation and are actually hypoxic during euthermy and normoxic during hibernation in our previous study. This intriguing difference between the P(O2) of brain tissue and blood during these two physiological states suggests that regional mechanisms in the brain play a role in maintaining tissue oxygenation and protect against hypoxia during hibernation.
Systems and cognitive neuroscience depend on carefully designed and precisely implemented behavioral tasks to elicit the neural phenomena of interest. To facilitate this process, we have developed a software system that allows for the straightforward coding and temporally-reliable execution of these tasks in Matlab. We find that, in most cases, millisecond accuracy is attainable, and those instances in which it is not are usually related to predictable, programmed events. In this report, we describe the design of our system, benchmark its performance in a real-world setting, and describe some key features.
Precise axon growth is required for making proper connections in development and after injury. One method of studying axon guidance and growth is through in vitro outgrowth assays that present controlled microenvironments. In this study, we applied circular statistical methods to evaluate directional neurite response. Visualization of data on a circular scale allows more accurate representation of the data, as neurite angles are inherently expressed on a circle. Here, the direction of neurite outgrowth from dorsal root ganglia derived neurons on different substrate types was quantitatively measured. Further, simulations of datasets with known circular parameters reflecting expected neurite angle distributions from different substrate types were also generated. Circular statistical methods were utilized and compared to linear statistical models widely used in the neuroscience literature. For small samples, Rao's spacing test showed the smallest occurrence of Type I errors (false positives) when tested against simulated uniform distributions. V-test and Rayleigh's test showed highest statistical power when tested against a unimodal distribution with known and unknown mean direction, respectively. For bimodal samples, Watson's U(2)-test showed the highest statistical power. Overall, circular statistical uniformity tests showed higher statistical power than linear non-parametric tests, particularly for small samples (n=5). Circular analysis methods represent a useful tool for evaluation of directionality of neurite outgrowth with applications including: (1) assessment of neurite outgrowth potential; (2) determination of isotropy of cellular responses to single and multiple cues and (3) determination of the relative strengths of cues present in a complex environment.
The mechanisms underlying the pain relieving effect of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) on neuropathic pain remain unclear. We have previously demonstrated that suppression of tactile hypersensitivity produced by SCS may be potentiated by i.t. clonidine in a rat model of mononeuropathy. Since the analgesic effect of this drug is mediated mainly via cholinergic mechanisms, a study exploring the possible involvement of the spinal cholinergic system in SCS was undertaken. The effect of SCS was assessed with von Frey filaments in rats displaying tactile hypersensitivity after partial ligation of the sciatic nerve and both SCS-responding and non-responding as well as normal rats were subjected to microdialysis in the dorsal horn. Acetylcholine (ACh) was analyzed with HPLC before, during and after SCS. SCS produced significantly increased release of ACh in the dorsal horn in rats responding to SCS whereas the release was unaffected in the non-responding animals. Furthermore, the basal release of ACh was significantly lower in nerve lesioned than in normal rats. In another group of rats it was found that the response to SCS was completely eliminated by i.t. atropine and a muscarinic M(4) receptor antagonist while a partial attenuation was produced by M(1) and M(2) antagonists. Blocking of nicotinic receptors did not influence the SCS effect. In conclusion, the attenuating effect of SCS on pain related behavior is associated with the activation of the cholinergic system in the dorsal horn and mediated via muscarinic receptors, particularly M(4,) while nicotinic receptors appear not to be involved.
Keratinocytes are implicated in sensory transduction and can influence nociception, but whether these contribute to chronic pain is not known. In neurons, voltage-gated sodium channels (Na(v)) are involved in neuropathic pain and are activated by depolarization. Since keratinocytes can also show changes in membrane potential, we used RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry to investigate the expression of sodium channels in these cells. Na(v)1.1, Na(v)1.6, and Na(v)1.8 were localized within keratinocytes in rat epidermis. In addition, sodium channels contribute to the release of ATP from rat keratinocytes in response to increased [K(+)](o), implicating sodium channels in keratinocyte ligand release and nociception. To examine whether keratinocytes may contribute to human pain states, we analyzed sodium channel expression in human skin biopsies from subjects with complex regional pain syndrome Type 1 (CRPS) and post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) using immunohistochemistry. Control skin exhibited immunolabeling for Na(v)1.5, Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.7. In contrast, painful skin from CRPS and PHN subjects displayed Na(v)1.1, Na(v)1.2, and Na(v)1.8 immunolabeling, in addition to substantially increased signal for Na(v)1.5, Na(v)1.6, Na(v)1.7. These observations lead us to propose that pathological increases in keratinocyte sodium channel expression may contribute to pain by increasing epidermal ATP release, resulting in excessive activation of P2X receptors on primary sensory axons. Consistent with this hypothesis, animal models of neuropathic pain exhibit increases in subcutaneous ATP release and activity of primary sensory neurons, and peripheral administration of P2X antagonists has been shown to reduce neuropathic pain in humans.
L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+)channels (VGCC) play an important role in dendritic development, neuronal survival, and synaptic plasticity. Recent studies have demonstrated that the gonadal steroid estrogen rapidly induces Ca(2+) influx in hippocampal neurons, which is required for neuroprotection and potentiation of LTP. The mechanism by which estrogen rapidly induces this Ca(2+) influx is not clearly understood. We show by electrophysiological studies that extremely low concentrations of estrogens acutely potentiate VGCC in hippocampal neurons, hippocampal slices, and HEK-293 cells transfected with neuronal L-type VGCC, in a manner that was estrogen receptor (ER)-independent. Equilibrium, competitive, and whole-cell binding assays indicate that estrogen directly interacts with the VGCC. Furthermore, a L-type VGCC antagonist to the dihydropyridine site displaced estrogen binding to neuronal membranes, and the effects of estrogen were markedly attenuated in a mutant, dihydropyridine-insensitive L-type VGCC, demonstrating a direct interaction of estrogens with L-type VGCC. Thus, estrogen-induced potentiation of calcium influx via L-type VGCC may link electrical events with rapid intracellular signaling seen with estrogen exposure leading to modulation of synaptic plasticity, neuroprotection, and memory formation.
The navigational system of the mammalian cortex comprises a number of interacting brain regions. Grid cells in the medial entorhinal cortex and place cells in the hippocampus are thought to participate in the formation of a dynamic representation of the animal's current location, and these cells are presumably critical for storing the representation in memory. To traverse the environment, animals must be able to translate coordinate information from spatial maps in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus into body-centered representations that can be used to direct locomotion. How this is done remains an enigma. We propose that the posterior parietal cortex is critical for this transformation.

In this report we describe a novel radioligand, [(3)H](S)-2-((S)-3-Acetylamino-3-sec-butyl-2-oxo-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-N-[(1S,2R)-1-benzyl-2-hydroxy-3-(3-methoxy-benzylamino)-propyl]-4-phenyl-butyramide ([(3)H]BMS-599240), that exhibits robust specific binding in homogenates from cell cultures overexpressing beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1). Radioligand binding exhibited high affinity, K(d)=2 nM, commensurate with its inhibitory potency against BACE1. Inhibition of radioligand binding in the presence of a range of different BACE1 inhibitors exhibited the same rank order of potency as for inhibition of BACE1 enzymatic activity. BACE1-dependent binding of the radioligand was also demonstrated in mouse brain homogenates, where genetic ablation of BACE1 eliminated high affinity binding. Thus, the radioligand [(3)H]BMS-599240 is a novel tool potentially useful for evaluation of BACE1 enzyme in biological samples, and for evaluation of inhibitor binding to BACE1.

Agonist potency at some neurotransmitter receptors has been shown to be regulated by transmembrane voltage, a mechanism which has been suggested to play a crucial role in the regulation of neurotransmitter release by autoreceptors and in synaptic plasticity. We have recently described the voltage-sensitivity of the dopamine D(2L) receptor and we now extend our studies to include the other members of the D(2)-like receptor subfamily; the D(2S), D(3), and D(4) dopamine receptors. Electrophysiological recordings were performed on Xenopus oocytes coexpressing human dopamine D(2S), D(3), or D(4) receptors with G protein-coupled potassium (GIRK) channels. Comparison of concentration-response relationships at -80 mV and at 0 mV for dopamine-mediated GIRK activation revealed significant rightward shifts for both D(2S) and D(4) upon depolarization. In contrast, the concentration-response relationships for D(3)-mediated GIRK activation were not appreciably different at the two voltages. Our findings provide new insight into the functional differences of these closely related receptors.
Circadian timekeeping is a ubiquitous feature of all eukaryotes which allows for the imposition of a biologically appropriate temporal architecture on an animal's physiology, behavior and metabolism. There is growing evidence that in mammals the processes of circadian timing are under the influence of the immune system. Such a role for the neuroimmune regulation of the circadian clock has inferences for phenomena such as sickness behavior. Conversely, there is also accumulating evidence for a circadian influence on immune function, raising the likelihood that there is a bidirectional communication between the circadian and immune systems. In this review, we examine the evidence for these interactions, including circadian rhythmicity in models of disease and immune challenge, distribution of cytokines and their receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the site of the master circadian pacemaker, and the evidence for endogenous circadian timekeeping in immune cells.
We examined the effects of aging on visuo-spatial attention. Participants performed a bi-field visual selective attention task consisting of infrequent target and task-irrelevant novel stimuli randomly embedded among repeated standards in either attended or unattended visual fields. Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) responses to the different classes of stimuli were measured using functional magnetic resonance imaging. The older group had slower reaction times to targets, and committed more false alarms but had comparable detection accuracy to young controls. Attended target and novel stimuli activated comparable widely distributed attention networks, including anterior and posterior association cortex, in both groups. The older group had reduced spatial extent of activation in several regions, including prefrontal, basal ganglia, and visual processing areas. In particular, the anterior cingulate and superior frontal gyrus showed more restricted activation in older compared with young adults across all attentional conditions and stimulus categories. The spatial extent of activations correlated with task performance in both age groups, but the regional pattern of association between hemodynamic responses and behavior differed between the groups. Whereas the young subjects relied on posterior regions, the older subjects engaged frontal areas. The results indicate that aging alters the functioning of neural networks subserving visual attention, and that these changes are related to cognitive performance.
In the hippocampal formation (HF), the enkephalin opioids and estrogen are each known to modulate learning and cognitive performance relevant to drug abuse. Within the HF, leu-enkephalin (LENK) is most prominent in the mossy fiber (MF) pathway formed by the axons of dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells. To examine the influence of ovarian steroids on MF pathway LENK levels, we used quantitative light microscopic immunocytochemistry to evaluate LENK levels in normal cycling rats and in estrogen-treated ovariectomized rats. Rats in estrus had increased levels of LENK-immunoreactivity (ir) in the DG hilus compared to rats in diestrus or proestrus. Rats in estrus and proestrus had higher levels of LENK-ir in CA3a-c compared to rats in diestrus. Ovariectomized (OVX) rats 24 h (but not 6 or 72 h) after estradiol benzoate (EB; 10 microg) administration had increased LENK-ir in the DG hilus and CA3c. Electron microscopy showed a larger proportion of LENK-labeled small terminals and axons in the DG hilus compared to CA3 which may have contributed to region-specific changes in LENK-ir densities. Next we evaluated the subcellular relationships of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha, ERbeta and progestin receptor (PR) with LENK-labeled MF pathway profiles using dual-labeling electron microscopy. ERbeta-ir colocalized in some LENK-labeled MF terminals and smaller terminals while PR-ir was mostly in CA3 axons, some of which also showed colocalization with LENK. ERalpha-ir was in dendritic spines, but no colocalization with LENK-labeled profiles was observed. The present studies indicate that estrogen can modulate LENK in subregions of the MF pathway in a dose-and time-dependent manner. These effects might be triggered by direct activation of ERbeta or PR in LENK-containing terminals.
HIV-1 proteins, such as Tat and gp120, are believed to play a crucial role in the central nervous system (CNS) pathology of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). The present study sought to determine the potential role of Tat and/or gp120 on behavioral development and the relationship to the long-term effects of the HIV-1 proteins on the rat hippocampus. Male pups of 13 Sprague-Dawley litters were bilaterally injected on postnatal day (P)1. Every litter contributed an animal to each of four treatment condition: VEH (0.5 microl sterile buffer), gp120 (100 ng), Tat (25 microg) or combined gp120+Tat (100 ng+25 microg). Body weight was not affected by either protein treatment. Tat revealed a transient effect on many of the behavioral assessments early in development as well as on preattentive processes and spatial memory in adulthood. Gp120 had more selective effects on negative geotaxis (P8-P10) and on locomotor activity (P94-P96). Combined gp120+Tat effects were noted for eye opening with potential interactive effects of gp120 and Tat on negative geotaxis. Anatomical assessment at approximately 7 1/2 months of age was conducted by using design-based stereology to quantify the total cell number in five hippocampal subregions [granule layer (GL), hilus of the dentate gyrus (DGH), cornu ammonis fields (CA)2/3, CA1, and subiculum (SUB)] [Fitting, S., Booze, R.M., Hasselrot, U., Mactutus, C.F., 2007a. Differential long-term neurotoxicity of HIV-1 proteins in the rat hippocampal formation: a design-based stereological study. Hippocampus 18(2), 135-147]. A relationship between early reflex development and estimated cell number in the adult hippocampus was indicated by simple regression analyses. In addition, estimated number of neurons and astrocytes in the DGH explained 81% of the variance of the distribution of searching behavior in the probe test. Collectively, these data indicate that the DGH may participate in the spatial memory alterations observed in adulthood consequent to neonatal exposure to HIV-1 proteins.
Energized mouse liver mitochondria displayed the same calcium retention capacity (a sensitive measure of the propensity of the permeability transition pore (PTP) to open) irrespective of whether phosphate, arsenate, or vanadate was the permeating anion. Unexpectedly, however, phosphate was specifically required for PTP desensitization by cyclosporin A (CsA) or by genetic inactivation of cyclophilin D (CyP-D). Indeed, when phosphate was replaced by arsenate, vanadate, or bicarbonate, the inhibitory effects of CsA and of CyP-D ablation on the PTP disappeared. After loading with the same amount of Ca(2+) in the presence of arsenate or vanadate but in the absence of phosphate, the sensitivity of the PTP to a variety of inducers was identical in mitochondria from wild-type mice, CyP-D-null mice, and wild-type mice treated with CsA. These findings call for a reassessment of conclusions on the role of the PTP in cell death that are based on the effects of CsA or of CyP-D ablation.
Although many stimuli activate extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), the kinetics and compartmentalization of ERK1/2 signals are stimulus-dependent and dictate physiological consequences. ERKs can be inactivated by dual specificity phosphatases (DUSPs), notably the MAPK phosphatases (MKPs) and atypical DUSPs, that can both dephosphorylate and scaffold ERK1/2. Using a cell imaging model (based on knockdown of endogenous ERKs and add-back of wild-type or mutated ERK2-GFP reporters), we explored possible effects of DUSPs on responses to transient or sustained ERK2 activators (epidermal growth factor and phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, respectively). For both stimuli, a D319N mutation (which impairs DUSP binding) increased ERK2 activity and reduced nuclear accumulation. These stimuli also increased mRNA levels for eight DUSPs. In a short inhibitory RNA screen, 12 of 16 DUSPs influenced ERK2 responses. These effects were evident among nuclear inducible MKP, cytoplasmic ERK MKP, JNK/p38 MKP, and atypical DUSP subtypes and, with the exception of the nuclear inducible MKPs, were paralleled by corresponding changes in Egr-1 luciferase activation. Simultaneous removal of all JNK/p38 MKPs or nuclear inducible MKPs revealed them as positive and negative regulators of ERK2 signaling, respectively. The effects of JNK/p38 MKP short inhibitory RNAs were not dependent on protein neosynthesis but were reversed in the presence of JNK and p38 kinase inhibitors, indicating DUSP-mediated cross-talk between MAPK pathways. Overall, our data reveal that a large number of DUSPs influence ERK2 signaling. Together with the known tissue-specific expression of DUSPs and the importance of ERK1/2 in cell regulation, our data support the potential value of DUSPs as targets for drug therapy.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) contains a narrow and deep active site gorge with two sites of ligand binding, an acylation site (or A-site) at the base of the gorge and a peripheral site (or P-site) near the gorge entrance. The P-site contributes to catalytic efficiency by transiently binding substrates on their way to the acylation site, where a short-lived acyl enzyme intermediate is produced. Carbamates are very poor substrates that, like other AChE substrates, form an initial enzyme-substrate complex and proceed to an acylated enzyme intermediate which is then hydrolyzed. However, the hydrolysis of the carbamoylated enzyme is slow enough to resolve the acylation and deacylation steps on the catalytic pathway. Here we show that the reaction of carbachol (carbamoylcholine) with AChE can be monitored both with acetylthiocholine as a reporter substrate and with thioflavin T as a fluorescent reporter group. The fluorescence of thioflavin T is strongly enhanced when it binds to the P-site of AChE, and this fluorescence is partially quenched when a second ligand binds to the A-site to form a ternary complex. These fluorescence changes allow not only the monitoring of the course of the carbamoylation reaction but also the determination of carbachol affinities for the A- and P-sites.
A wide range of evidences show that cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors can interfere with the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The earliest known ChE inhibitors, namely, physostigmine and tacrine, showed modest improvement in the cognitive function of AD patients. However, clinical studies show that physostigmine has poor oral activity, brain penetration and pharmacokinetic parameters while tacrine has hepatotoxic liability. Studies were then focused on finding a new type of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor that would overcome the disadvantages of these two compounds. During the study, by chance we found a seed compound. We then conducted a structure-activity relationship (SAR) study of this compound. After four years of exploratory research, we found donepezil hydrochloride (donepezil). Recently, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) have been studied for other mechanisms of action, such as neuroprotective action and lowering of beta-amyloid (beta-amyloid). Donepezil also reduced beta-amyloid plaque in in vitro. The amyloid hypothesis is believed to be the most promising approach in the development of anti-AD drugs. We speculate the mechanism of lowering beta-amyloid by donepezil implicate alpha-secretase (alpha-secretase) enhancer.



The time course of the requirement for local protein synthesis in the stabilization of learning-related synaptic growth and the persistence of long-term memory was examined using Aplysia bifurcated sensory neuron-motor neuron cultures. We find that, following repeated pulses of serotonin (5-HT), the local perfusion of emetine, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, or a TAT-AS oligonucleotide directed against ApCPEB blocks long-term facilitation (LTF) at either 24 or 48 hr and leads to a selective retraction of newly formed sensory neuron varicosities induced by 5-HT. By contrast, later inhibition of local protein synthesis, at 72 hr after 5-HT, has no effect on either synaptic growth or LTF. These results define a specific stabilization phase for the storage of long-term memory during which newly formed varicosities are labile and require sustained CPEB-dependent local protein synthesis to acquire the more stable properties of mature varicosities required for the persistence of LTF.
AMPA-type glutamate receptors (GluRs) play major roles in excitatory synaptic transmission. Neuronal AMPA receptors comprise GluR subunits and transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs). Previous studies identified five mammalian TARPs, gamma-2 (or stargazin), gamma-3, gamma-4, gamma-7, and gamma-8, that enhance AMPA receptor function. Here, we classify gamma-5 as a distinct class of TARP that modulates specific GluR2-containing AMPA receptors and displays properties entirely dissimilar from canonical TARPs. Gamma-5 increases peak currents and decreases the steady-state currents selectively from GluR2-containing AMPA receptors. Furthermore, gamma-5 increases rates of GluR2 deactivation and desensitization and decreases glutamate potency. Remarkably, all effects of gamma-5 require editing of GluR2 mRNA. Unlike other TARPs, gamma-5 modulates GluR2 without promoting receptor trafficking. We also find that gamma-7 regulation of GluR2 is dictated by mRNA editing. These data establish gamma-5 and gamma-7 as a separate family of &quot;type II TARPs&quot; that impart distinct physiological features to specific AMPA receptors.

VGF is a neurotrophin-inducible, activity-regulated gene product that is expressed in CNS and PNS neurons, in which it is processed into peptides and secreted. VGF synthesis is stimulated by BDNF, a critical regulator of hippocampal development and function, and two VGF C-terminal peptides increase synaptic activity in cultured hippocampal neurons. To assess VGF function in the hippocampus, we tested heterozygous and homozygous VGF knock-out mice in two different learning tasks, assessed long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) in hippocampal slices from VGF mutant mice, and investigated how VGF C-terminal peptides modulate synaptic plasticity. Treatment of rat hippocampal slices with the VGF-derived peptide TLQP62 resulted in transient potentiation through a mechanism that was selectively blocked by the BDNF scavenger TrkB-Fc, the Trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a (100 nm), and tPA STOP, an inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), an enzyme involved in pro-BDNF cleavage to BDNF, but was not blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist APV, anti-p75(NTR) function-blocking antiserum, or previous tetanic stimulation. Although LTP was normal in slices from VGF knock-out mice, LTD could not be induced, and VGF mutant mice were impaired in hippocampal-dependent spatial learning and contextual fear conditioning tasks. Our studies indicate that the VGF C-terminal peptide TLQP62 modulates hippocampal synaptic transmission through a BDNF-dependent mechanism and that VGF deficiency in mice impacts synaptic plasticity and memory in addition to depressive behavior.
Physiological dependence and associated withdrawal episodes are thought to constitute a motivational force that sustains ethanol (alcohol) use/abuse and may contribute to relapse in alcoholics. Although no animal model duplicates alcoholism, models for specific factors, like the withdrawal syndrome, are useful for identifying potential genetic and neural determinants of liability in humans. We generated congenic mice that confirm a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 4 with a large effect on predisposition to alcohol withdrawal. Using c-Fos expression as a high-resolution marker of neuronal activation, congenic mice demonstrated significantly less neuronal activity associated with ethanol withdrawal than background strain mice in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), subthalamic nucleus (STN), rostromedial lateral globus pallidus, and ventral pallidum. Notably, neuronal activation in subregions of the basal ganglia associated with limbic function was more intense than in subregions associated with sensorimotor function. Bilateral lesions of caudolateral SNr attenuated withdrawal severity after acute and repeated ethanol exposures, whereas rostrolateral SNr and STN lesions did not reduce ethanol withdrawal severity. Caudolateral SNr lesions did not affect pentylenetetrazol-enhanced convulsions. Our results suggest that this QTL impacts ethanol withdrawal via basal ganglia circuitry associated with limbic function and that the caudolateral SNr plays a critical role. These are the first analyses to elucidate circuitry by which a confirmed addiction-relevant QTL influences behavior. This mouse QTL is syntenic with human chromosome 9p. Given the growing body of evidence that a gene(s) on chromosome 9p influences alcoholism, our results can facilitate human research on alcohol dependence and withdrawal.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is an integral part of limbic circuits proposed to play a central role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, and is positioned to integrate information from limbic and cortical regions, including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the hippocampus. The ventral subiculum (vSub) of the hippocampus, in particular, is proposed to gate information flow within the NAc, a factor that is disrupted in models of schizophrenia. Using in vivo extracellular recordings in anesthetized rats, we examined the response of NAc neurons to vSub stimulation and how this is modulated by the mPFC. We found that inactivation of mPFC by tetrodotoxin attenuates the ability of the vSub to drive spike firing in the NAc. Thus, a contribution of the mPFC is required for the activation of NAc by the vSub. However, when long-term potentiation is induced in the vSub-NAc pathway, the vSub is now capable of driving the NAc without the participation of the mPFC. Moreover, this interaction is dependent on activation of dopaminergic D(2) receptors in the NAc. This work demonstrates the critical role of the mPFC in the ability of vSub to drive NAc neurons in normal anesthetized animals. One model of schizophrenia posits that vSub hyperactivity may underlie both the hyperdopaminergic state and disruption of information flow in this circuit in schizophrenia. Therefore, inactivation of the mPFC, as would occur with mPFC leukotomy in schizophrenia, may prevent the abnormal vSub drive of the NAc.
Opiate addiction is characterized by progressive increases in drug intake over time suggesting maladaptive changes in motivational and reward systems. These behaviors are mediated by dopaminergic neurons originating from the ventral tegmental area (VTA), and long-term changes of these dopaminergic neurons are attributed to increased postsynaptic glutamatergic activation. Indeed, chronic morphine administration is known to increase AMPA receptor glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunit in the VTA. However, there is no ultrastructural evidence that morphine affects the expression or surface availability of GluR1 subunits in VTA neurons of defined distribution or transmitter phenotype. Therefore, we examined electron microscopic immunolabeling of GluR1 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in two VTA regions of rats perfused 1 h after a single injection of morphine, or chronic morphine in intermittent-escalating doses for 14 d, and appropriate saline controls. Acute morphine administration produced a significant increase in GluR1 immunogold particles at the plasma membrane and postsynaptic densities in both TH- and non-TH-containing dendrites in the parabrachial VTA, a region that contains mainly prefrontal-cortical-projecting dopaminergic neurons involved in motivation and drug-seeking behavior. Chronic morphine administration maintained the increased synaptic GluR1 labeling in the parabrachial VTA, but also increased the number of GluR1-labeled synapses and TH immunoreactivity in dendrites of the paranigral VTA where substantially more dopaminergic neurons project to limbic structures implicated in locomotor activation and reward. These results demonstrate a region- and dose-dependent redistribution of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors, which is consistent with acute morphine activation of cortical-projecting VTA neurons and chronic morphine activation of limbic-projecting VTA neurons.
The Morris water maze is widely used to study spatial memory and learning. Animals are placed in a pool of water that is colored opaque with powdered non-fat milk or non-toxic tempera paint, where they must swim to a hidden escape platform. Because they are in opaque water, the animals cannot see the platform, and cannot rely on scent to find the escape route. Instead, they must rely on external/extra-maze cues. As the animals become more familiar with the task, they are able to find the platform more quickly. Developed by Richard G. Morris in 1984, this paradigm has become one of the &quot;gold standards&quot; of behavioral neuroscience.
Traditionally, the visual enumeration of a small number of items (1 to about 4), referred to as subitizing, has been thought of as a parallel and pre-attentive process and functionally different from the serial attentive enumeration of larger numerosities. We tested this hypothesis by employing a dual task paradigm that systematically manipulated the attentional resources available to an enumeration task. Enumeration accuracy for small numerosities was severely decreased as more attentional resources were taken away from the numerical task, challenging the traditionally held notion of subitizing as a pre-attentive, capacity-independent process. Judgement of larger numerosities was also affected by dual task conditions and attentional load. These results challenge the proposal that small numerosities are enumerated by a mechanism separate from large numerosities and support the idea of a single, attention-demanding enumeration mechanism.

Recent results show that humans can respond with a saccadic eye movement toward faces much faster and with less error than toward other objects. What feature information does your visual cortex need to distinguish between different objects so rapidly? In a first step, we replicated the &quot;fast saccadic bias&quot; toward faces. We simultaneously presented one vehicle and one face image with different contrasts and asked our subjects to saccade as fast as possible to the image with higher contrast. This was considerably easier when the target was the face. In a second step, we scrambled both images to the same extent. For one subject group, we scrambled the orientations of wavelet components (local orientations) while preserving their location. This manipulation completely abolished the face bias for the fastest saccades. For a second group, we scrambled the phases (i.e., the location) of Fourier components while preserving their orientation (i.e., the 2-D amplitude spectrum). Even when no face was visible (100% scrambling), the fastest saccades were still strongly biased toward the scrambled face image! These results suggest that the ability to rapidly saccade to faces in natural scenes depends, at least in part, on low-level information contained in the Fourier 2-D amplitude spectrum.
Activation of presynaptic cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) triggers presynaptic long-term plasticity in synapses such as cerebellar parallel fiber and hippocampal mossy fiber synapses. RIM1alpha, a large multidomain protein that forms a scaffold at the presynaptic active zone, is essential for presynaptic long-term plasticity in these synapses and is phosphorylated by PKA at serine-413. Previous studies suggested that phosphorylation of RIM1alpha at serine-413 is required for presynaptic long-term potentiation in parallel fiber synapses formed in vitro by cultured cerebellar neurons and that this type of presynaptic long-term potentiation is mediated by binding of 14-3-3 proteins to phosphorylated serine-413. To test the role of serine-413 phosphorylation in vivo, we have now produced knockin mice in which serine-413 is mutated to alanine. Surprisingly, we find that in these mutant mice, three different forms of presynaptic PKA-dependent long-term plasticity are normal. Furthermore, we observed that in contrast to RIM1alpha KO mice, RIM1 knockin mice containing the serine-413 substitution exhibit normal learning capabilities. The lack of an effect of the serine-413 mutation of RIM1alpha is not due to compensation by RIM2alpha because mice carrying both the serine-413 substitution and a RIM2alpha deletion still exhibited normal long-term presynaptic plasticity. Thus, phosphorylation of serine-413 of RIM1alpha is not essential for PKA-dependent long-term presynaptic plasticity in vivo, suggesting that PKA operates by a different mechanism despite the dependence of long-term presynaptic plasticity on RIM1alpha.
Positive allosteric modulators of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have attracted considerable interest as potential tools for the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. However, despite the potential therapeutic usefulness of these compounds, little is known about their mechanism of action. Here, we have examined two allosteric potentiators of alpha7 nAChRs (PNU-120596 and LY-2087101). From studies with a series of subunit chimeras, we have identified the transmembrane regions of alpha7 as being critical in facilitating potentiation of agonist-evoked responses. Furthermore, we have identified five transmembrane amino acids that, when mutated, significantly reduce potentiation of alpha7 nAChRs. The amino acids we have identified are located within the alpha-helical transmembrane domains TM1 (S222 and A225), TM2 (M253), and TM4 (F455 and C459). Mutation of either A225 or M253 individually have particularly profound effects, reducing potentiation of EC(20) concentrations of acetylcholine to a tenth of the level seen with wild-type alpha7. Reference to homology models of the alpha7 nAChR, based on the 4A structure of the Torpedo nAChR, indicates that the side chains of all five amino acids point toward an intrasubunit cavity located between the four alpha-helical transmembrane domains. Computer docking simulations predict that the allosteric compounds such as PNU-120596 and LY-2087101 may bind within this intrasubunit cavity, much as neurosteroids and volatile anesthetics are thought to interact with GABA(A) and glycine receptors. Our findings suggest that this is a conserved modulatory allosteric site within neurotransmitter-gated ion channels.
The oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) arises from the subventricular zone (SVZ) during early vertebrate development to migrate and proliferate along axon tracts before differentiating into the myelin-forming oligodendrocyte. We demonstrate that the spatial and temporal regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation depends intimately on the axonal microenvironment and the density of precursor cells along a specified axonal area. Differentiation does not require dynamic axonal signaling, but instead is induced by packing constraints resulting from intercellular interactions. Schwann cells and even artificial beads bound to the axonal surface can mimic these constraints and promote differentiation. Together, these results describe the coordinately controlled biophysical interaction of oligodendrocyte precursors within an axonal niche leading to self-renewal and differentiation.
The carboxyl terminal &quot;tail&quot; domains of the heavy and middle molecular weight mammalian neurofilament (NF) proteins regulate inter-NF spacing and formation of organized networks. The C-terminal region of the larger of the two lamprey NF subunits (NF-180) resembles these mammalian proteins in that it consists of a proximal glutamate-rich region and a distal region containing multiple phosphorylation sites. To investigate the role of these two sidearm domains in the organization of lamprey NFs, we generated plasmids lacking the glutamate-rich domain, the domain containing multiple phosphorylation sites, or both, and examined the impact of the resultant mutant proteins on the endogenous NF network in differentiated NB21/d1 neuroblastoma cells. We present evidence that, like mammalian NFs, the glutamate-rich region of NF-180 sidearm plays a critical role in NF architecture.
Systemic (s.c.) injection in nave mice of cyclic AMP-phosphodiesterase (cAMP-PDE) inhibitors, e.g. 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine [(IBMX) or caffeine, 10 mg/kg] or the more specific cAMP-PDE inhibitor, rolipram (1 mug/kg), rapidly evokes thermal hyperalgesia (lasting &gt;5 h). These effects appear to be mediated by enhanced excitatory opioid receptor signaling, as occurs during withdrawal in opioid-dependent mice. Cotreatment of these mice with ultra-low-dose naltrexone (NTX, 0.1 ng/kg-1 pg/kg, s.c.) results in prominent opioid analgesia (lasting &gt;4 h) even when the dose of rolipram is reduced to 1 pg/kg. Cotreatment of these cAMP-PDE inhibitors in nave mice with an ultra-low-dose (0.1 ng/kg) of the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) or the mu-opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA) also results in opioid analgesia. These excitatory effects of cAMP-PDE inhibitors in nave mice may be mediated by enhanced release of small amounts of endogenous bimodally-acting (excitatory/inhibitory) opioid agonists by neurons in nociceptive networks. Ultra-low-dose NTX, nor-BNI or beta-FNA selectively antagonizes high-efficacy excitatory (hyperalgesic) Gs-coupled opioid receptor-mediated signaling in nave mice and results in rapid conversion to inhibitory (analgesic) Gi/Go-coupled opioid receptor-mediated signaling which normally requires activation by much higher doses of opioid agonists. Cotreatment with a low subanalgesic dose of kelatorphan, an inhibitor of multiple endogenous opioid peptide-degrading enzymes, stabilizes endogenous opioid agonists released by cAMP-PDE inhibitors, resulting in conversion of the hyperalgesia to analgesia without requiring selective blockade of excitatory opioid receptor signaling. The present study provides a novel pharmacologic paradigm that may facilitate development of valuable non-narcotic clinical analgesics utilizing cotreatment with ultra-low-dose rolipram plus ultra-low-dose NTX or related agents.
Prions are the infectious agents responsible for prion diseases, which appear to be composed exclusively by the misfolded prion protein (PrP(Sc)). The mechanism of prion transmission is unknown. In this study, we attempted to detect prions in urine of experimentally infected animals. PrP(Sc) was detected in approximately 80% of the animals studied, whereas no false positives were observed among the control animals. Semi-quantitative calculations suggest that PrP(Sc) concentration in urine is around 10-fold lower than in blood. Interestingly, PrP(Sc) present in urine maintains its infectious properties. Our data indicate that low quantities of infectious prions are excreted in the urine. These findings suggest that urine is a possible source of prion transmission.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptor antagonists have gained much attention for their potential to treat inflammatory and neuropathic pain. However, systemic administration of TRPV1 antagonists induces a period of hyperthermia, a potential liability for small molecule development. Here we characterize the effects of the TRPV1 antagonist A-425619 on body temperature (T(b)) in the rat when administered: (1) alone at different times of the circadian cycle, (2) as repeated hourly or daily treatment, (3) as pre-treatment to prevent capsaicin-induced hypothermia, (4) to capsaicin-desensitized animals, and (5) prior to a heat challenge. Changes in T(b) were compared with compound exposure data, locomotor activity, and time course of efficacy in inflammatory pain models. Without affecting locomotor activity, oral administration of A-425619 induced a transient period of hyperthermia that was followed by a period of hypothermia, a profile unique among reported TRPV1 antagonists. Repeated hourly administration of A-425619 produced an increase in T(b) similar to a single administration. A-425619 had no effect on T(b) when administered to capsaicin-desensitized rats. The duration of A-425619-induced hyperthermia, but not hypothermia, was dependent on the time of the circadian cycle when administered. Pre-treatment with A-425619 attenuated capsaicin-induced hypothermia and did not potentiate T(b) or alter thermoregulatory behavioral responses during a heat challenge. These results indicate that A-425619-induced hyperthermia is transient, circadian-dependent, not related to exposure levels, locomotor activity, or time course of analgesic action, and does not affect the ability to thermoregulate during a heat challenge.
There is increasing evidence that a subset of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons uses glutamate as a co-transmitter and expresses vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 2, one of the three vesicular glutamate transporters. In the present study, double in situ hybridization was used to examine tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and VGLUT2 mRNA expression during the embryonic development of these neurons, and postnatally, in normal rats and rats injected with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) at P4 to destroy partially DA neurons. At embryonic days 15 and 16, there was a regional overlap in the labeling of TH and VGLUT2 mRNA in the ventral mesencephalon, which was no longer found at late embryonic stages (E18-E21) and postnatally. In normal pups from P5 to P15, only 1-2% of neurons containing TH mRNA in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra, pars compacta, also displayed VGLUT2 mRNA. In contrast, after the cerebroventricular administration of 6-OHDA at P4, 26% of surviving DA neurons in the VTA of P15 rats expressed VGLUT2. To search for a colocalization of TH and VGLUT2 protein in axon terminals of these neurons, the nucleus accumbens of normal and 6-OHDA-lesioned P15 rats was examined by electron microscopy after dual immunocytochemical labeling. In normal rats, VGLUT2 protein was found in 28% of TH positive axon terminals in the core of nucleus accumbens. In 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, the total number of TH positive terminals was considerably reduced, and yet the proportion also displaying VGLUT2 immunoreactivity was modestly but significantly increased (37%). These results lead to the suggestion that the glutamatergic phenotype of a VTA DA neurons is highly plastic, repressed toward the end of normal embryonic development, and derepressed postnatally following injury. They also support the hypothesis of co-release of glutamate and DA by mesencephalic neurons in vivo, at least in the developing brain.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder associated with cortical malformations (cortical tubers) and the development of glial tumors (subependymal giant-cell tumors, SGCTs). Expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes is developmentally regulated and several studies suggest an involvement of mGluR-mediated glutamate signaling in the regulation of proliferation and survival of neural stem-progenitor cells, as well as in the control of tumor growth. In the present study, we have investigated the expression and cell-specific distribution of group I (mGluR1, mGluR5), group II (mGluR2/3) and group III (mGluR4 and mGluR8) mGluR subtypes in human TSC specimens of both cortical tubers and SGCTs, using immunocytochemistry. Strong group I mGluR immunoreactivity (IR) was observed in the large majority of TSC specimens in dysplastic neurons and in giant cells within cortical tubers, as well as in tumor cells within SGCTs. In particular mGluR5 appeared to be most frequently expressed, whereas mGluR1alpha was detected in a subpopulation of neurons and giant cells. Cells expressing mGluR1alpha and mGluR5, demonstrate IR for phospho-S6 ribosomal protein (PS6), which is a marker of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway activation. Group II and particularly group III mGluR IR was less frequently observed than group I mGluRs in dysplastic neurons and giant cells of tubers and tumor cells of SGCTs. Reactive astrocytes were mainly stained with mGluR5 and mGluR2/3. These findings expand our knowledge concerning the cellular phenotype in cortical tubers and in SGCTs and highlight the role of group I mGluRs as important mediators of glutamate signaling in TSC brain lesions. Individual mGluR subtypes may represent potential pharmacological targets for the treatment of the neurological manifestations associated with TSC brain lesions.
Mossy and climbing fibers convey a broad array of signals from vestibular end organs to Purkinje cells in the vestibulo-cerebellum. We have shown previously that Purkinje cell simple spikes (SSs) and climbing fiber-evoked complex spikes (CSs) in the mouse uvula-nodulus are arrayed in 400 microm wide sagittal climbing fiber zones corresponding to the rotational axes of the vertical semicircular canals. It is often assumed that mossy fibers modulate a higher frequency of SSs through the intermediary action of granule cells whose parallel fibers course through the Purkinje cell dendritic tree. This assumption is complicated by the diffuse topography of vestibular primary afferent mossy fiber projections to the uvula-nodulus and the dispersion of mossy fiber signals along folial axes by parallel fibers. Here we measure this parallel fiber dispersion. We made microinjections of neurobiotin into the molecular layers of different folia within the mouse vestibulo-cerebellum and measured the distribution of granule cells retrogradely labeled by the injected neurobiotin. Sixty-two percent of labeled granule cells were located outside a 400 microm sagittal zone flanking the injection site. The dispersion of labeled granule cells was approximately 2.5 mm along folial axes that were 2.7-2.9 mm wide. Our data suggest that topographic specificity of SSs could not be attributed to the topography of vestibular primary afferent mossy fiber-granule cell projections. Rather the response specificity of SSs must be attributed to other mechanisms related to climbing fiber-evoked Purkinje cell and interneuronal activity.
The brainstem reticular formation is an area important to the control of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. The antagonist of GABA-type A (GABA(A)) receptors, bicuculline methiodide (BMI), injected into the rat nucleus pontis oralis (PnO) of the reticular formation resulted in a long-lasting increase in REM sleep. Thus, one factor controlling REM sleep appears to be the number of functional GABA(A) receptors in the PnO. The long-lasting effect produced by BMI may result from secondary influences on other neurotransmitter systems known to have long-lasting effects. To study this question, rats were surgically prepared for chronic sleep recording and additionally implanted with guide cannulas aimed at sites in the PnO. Multiple, 60 nl, unilateral injections were made either singly or in combination. GABA(A) receptor antagonists, BMI and gabazine (GBZ), produced dose-dependent increases in REM sleep with GBZ being approximately 35 times more potent than BMI. GBZ and the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, produced very similar results, both increasing REM sleep for about 8 h, mainly through increased period frequency, with little reduction in REM latency. Pre-injection of the muscarinic antagonist, atropine, completely blocked the REM sleep-increase by GBZ. GABAergic control of REM sleep in the PnO requires the cholinergic system and may be acting through presynaptic modulation of acetylcholine release.
Down syndrome (DS) results from triplication of the whole or distal part of human chromosome 21. Persons with DS suffer from deficits in learning and memory and cognitive functions in general, and, starting from early development, their brains show dendritic and spine structural alterations and cell loss. These defects concern many cortical brain regions as well as the hippocampus, which is known to play a critical role in memory and cognition. Most of these abnormalities are reproduced in the mouse model Ts65Dn, which is partially trisomic for the mouse chromosome 16 that is homologous to a portion of human chromosome 21. Thus, Ts65Dn is widely utilized as an animal model of DS. To better understand the molecular defects underlying the cognitive and particularly the memory impairments of DS, we investigated whether the expression of several molecules known to play critical roles in long-term synaptic plasticity and long-term memory in a variety of species is dysregulated in either the neonatal brain or adult hippocampus of Ts65Dn mice. We found abnormal expression of the synaptic proteins synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) and of the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). Both the neonatal brain and adult hippocampus revealed significant abnormalities. These results suggest that a dysregulation in the expression of neurotrophins as well as proteins involved in synaptic development and plasticity may play a potential role in the neural pathology of DS in humans.
Cortical surface evoked potentials (SEPs) are larger during sleep and characterize a sleep-like state in cortical columns. Since tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) may be involved in sleep regulation and is produced as a consequence of waking activity, we tested the hypothesis that direct application of TNF to the cortex will induce a sleep-like state within cortical columns and enhance SEP amplitudes. We found that microinjection of TNF onto the surface of the rat somatosensory cortex enhanced whisker stimulation-induced SEP amplitude relative to a control heat-inactivated TNF microinjection. We also determined if whisker stimulation enhanced endogenous TNF expression. TNF immunoreactivity (IR) was visualized after 2 h of deflection of a single whisker on each side. The number of TNF-IR cells increased in layers II-IV of the activated somatosensory barrel column. In two separate studies, unilateral deflection of multiple whiskers for 2 h increased the number of TNF-IR cells in layers II-V in columns that also exhibited enhanced cellular ongogene (Fos-IR). TNF-IR also colocalized with NeuN-IR suggesting that TNF expression was in neurons. Collectively these data are consistent with the hypotheses that TNF is produced in response to neural activity and in turn enhances the probability of a local sleep-like state as determined by increases in SEP amplitudes.
In recent years a role for EphB receptor tyrosine kinases and their ephrinB ligands in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the CNS has been identified. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that EphB receptor activation in the adult rat spinal cord is involved in synaptic plasticity and processing of nociceptive inputs, through modulation of the function of the glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate). In particular, EphB receptor activation would induce phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor by a Src family non-receptor tyrosine kinase. Intrathecal administration of ephrinB2-Fc in adult rats, which can bind to and activate EphB receptors and induce behavioral thermal hyperalgesia, led to NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation, which could be blocked by the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2. Furthermore animals pre-treated with PP2 did not develop behavioral thermal hyperalgesia following EphrinB2-Fc administration, suggesting that this pathway is functionally significant. Indeed, EphB1-Fc administration, which competes with the endogenous receptor for ephrinB2 binding and prevents behavioral allodynia and hyperalgesia in the carrageenan model of inflammation, also inhibited NR2B phosphorylation in this model. Taken together these findings support the hypothesis that EphB-ephrinB interactions play an important role in NMDA-dependent, activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the adult spinal cord, inducing the phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit of the receptor via Src family kinases, thus contributing to chronic pain states.
Although circadian rhythms of males and females are different in a variety of ways in many species, their mechanisms have been primarily studied in males. Furthermore, rhythms are dramatically different in diurnal and nocturnal animals but have been studied predominantly in nocturnal ones. In the present study, we examined rhythms in one element of the circadian oscillator, the PER1 protein, in a variety of cell populations in brains of diurnal female grass rats. Every 4 h five adult female grass rats kept on a 12-h light/dark (LD) cycle were perfused and their brains were processed for immunohistochemical detection of PER1. Numbers of PER1-labeled cells were rhythmic not only within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the locus of the primary circadian clock in mammals, but also in the peri-suprachiasmatic region, the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central amygdala, and the nucleus accumbens. In addition, rhythms were detected within populations of neuroendocrine cells that contain tyrosine hydroxylase. The phase of the rhythm within the SCN was advanced compared with that seen previously in male grass rats. Rhythms beyond the SCN were varied and different from those seen in most nocturnal species, suggesting that signals originating in the SCN are modified by its direct and/or indirect targets in different ways in nocturnal and diurnal species.
Neovascularization may contribute to functional recovery after neural injury. Combination treatment of stroke with a nitric oxide donor, (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl) amino] diazen-1-ium-1, 2-diolate (DETA-NONOate) and bone marrow stromal cells promotes functional recovery. However, the mechanisms underlying functional improvement have not been elucidated. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that combination treatment upregulates angiopoietin-1 and its receptor Tie2 in the ischemic brain and bone marrow stromal cells, thereby enhancing cerebral neovascularization after stroke. Adult wild type male C57BL/6 mice were i.v. administered PBS, bone marrow stromal cells 5x10(5), DETA-NONOate 0.4 mg/kg or combination DETA-NONOate with bone marrow stromal cells (n=12/group) after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Combination treatment significantly upregulated angiopoietin-1/Tie2 and tight junction protein (occludin) expression, and increased the number, diameter and perimeter of blood vessels in the ischemic brain compared with vehicle control (mean+ or -S.E., P&lt;0.05). In vitro, DETA-NONOate significantly increased angiopoietin-1/Tie2 protein (n=6/group) and Tie2 mRNA (n=3/group) expression in bone marrow stromal cells. DETA-NONOate also significantly increased angiopoietin-1 protein (n=6/group) and mRNA (n=3/group) expression in mouse brain endothelial cells (P&lt;0.05). Angiopoietin-1 mRNA (n=3/group) was significantly increased in mouse brain endothelial cells treated with DETA-NONOate in combination with bone marrow stromal cell-conditioned medium compared with cells treated with bone marrow stromal cell-conditioned medium or DETA-NONOate alone. Mouse brain endothelial cell capillary tube-like formation assays (n=6/group) showed that angiopoietin-1 peptide, the supernatant of bone marrow stromal cells and DETA-NONOate significantly increased capillary tube formation compared with vehicle control. Combination treatment significantly increased capillary tube formation compared with DETA-NONOate treatment alone. Inhibition of angiopoietin-1 significantly attenuated combination treatment-induced tube formation. Our data indicated that combination treatment of stroke with DETA-NONOate and bone marrow stromal cells promotes neovascularization, which is at least partially mediated by upregulation of the angiopoietin-1/Tie2 axis.
Noradrenaline (NA) modulates glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission in various areas of the brain. It is reported that some alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes are expressed in the cerebellar cortex and alpha2-adrenoceptors may play a role in motor coordination. Our previous study demonstrated that the selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine partially depresses spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in mouse cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs). Here we found that the inhibitory effect of clonidine on sIPSCs was enhanced during postnatal development. The activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors by clonidine did not affect sIPSCs in PCs at postnatal days (P) 8-10, when PCs showed a few sIPSCs and interneurons in the molecular layer (MLIs) did not cause action potential (AP). In the second postnatal week, the frequency of sIPSCs increased temporarily and reached a plateau at P14. By contrast, MLIs began to fire at P11 with the firing rate gradually increasing thereafter and reaching a plateau at P21. In parallel with this rise in the rate of firing, the magnitude of the clonidine-mediated inhibition of sIPSCs increased during postnatal development. Furthermore, the magnitude of the clonidine-mediated firing suppression in MLIs, which seemed to be mediated by a reduction in amplitude of the hyperpolarization-activated nonselective cation current, I(h), was constant across development. Both alpha2A- and alpha2B-, but not alpha2C-, adrenoceptors were strongly expressed in MLIs at P13, and P31. Therefore, the developmental enhancement of the clonidine-mediated inhibition of sIPSCs is attributed to an age-dependent increase in AP-derived sIPSCs, which can be blocked by clonidine. Thus, presynaptic activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors inhibits cerebellar inhibitory synaptic transmission after the second postnatal week, leading to a restriction of NA signaling, which is mainly mediated by alpha1- and beta2-adrenoceptors in the adult cerebellar neuronal circuit.
While the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown, there is overwhelming evidence that neuroinflammation plays a critical role in the progressive loss of dopamine (DA) neurons. Because nearly all persons suffering from PD receive l-DOPA, it is surprising that inflammation has not been examined as a potential contributor to the abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) that occur as a consequence of chronic l-DOPA treatment. As an initial test of this hypothesis, we examined the effects of exogenously administered corticosterone (CORT), an endogenous anti-inflammatory agent, on the expression and development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) in unilateral DA-depleted rats. To do this, male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Three weeks later, l-DOPA primed rats received acute injections of CORT (0-3.75 mg/kg) prior to l-DOPA to assess the expression of LID. A second group of rats was used to examine the development of LID in l-DOPA nave rats co-treated with CORT and l-DOPA for 2 weeks. AIMs and rotations were recorded. Exogenous CORT dose-dependently attenuated both the expression and development of AIMs without affecting rotations. Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction of striatal tissue implicated a role for interleukin-1 (IL-1) beta in these effects as its expression was increased on the lesioned side in rats treated with l-DOPA (within the DA-depleted striatum) and attenuated with CORT. In the final experiment, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) was microinjected into the striatum of l-DOPA-primed rats to assess the impact of IL-1 signaling on LID. Intrastriatal IL-1ra reduced the expression of LID without affecting rotations. These findings indicate a novel role for neuroinflammation in the expression of LID, and may implicate the use of anti-inflammatory agents as a potential adjunctive therapy for the treatment of LID.
Evidence is presented to show that cells of the ependymal layer surrounding the ventricles of the mammalian (rat) forebrain act as neural stem cells (NSCs), and that these cells can be activated to divide by a combination of injury and growth factor stimulation. Several markers of asymmetric cell division (ACD), a characteristic of true stem cells, are expressed asymmetrically in the ependymal layer but not in the underlying subventricular zone (SVZ), and when the brain is treated with a combination of local 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) with systemic delivery of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha), ependymal cells divide asymmetrically and transfer progeny into the SVZ. The SVZ cells then divide as transit amplifying cells (TACs) and their progeny enter a differentiation pathway. The stem cells in the ependymal layer may have been missed in many previous studies because they are usually quiescent and divide only in response to strong stimuli.
Prostaglandin D2(PGD2) is the most produced prostanoid in the CNS of mammals, and in behavioral experiments it has been implicated in the modulation of spinal nociception. In the present study we addressed the effects of spinal PGD2 on the discharge properties of nociceptive spinal cord neurons with input from the knee joint using extracellular recordings in vivo, both in normal rats and in rats with acute inflammation in the knee joint. Topical application of PGD2 to the spinal cord of normal rats did not influence responses to mechanical stimulation of the knee and ankle joint except at a high dose. Specific agonists at either the prostaglandin D2 receptor 1 (DP1) or the prostaglandin D2 receptor 2 (DP2) receptor had no effect on responses to mechanical stimulation of the normal knee. By contrast, in rats with inflamed knee joints either PGD2 or a DP1 receptor agonist decreased responses to mechanical stimulation of the inflamed knee and the non-inflamed ankle thus reducing established inflammation-evoked spinal hyperexcitability. Vice versa, spinal application of an antagonist at DP1 receptors increased responses to mechanical stimulation of the inflamed knee joint and the non-inflamed ankle joint suggesting that endogenous PGD2 attenuated central sensitization under inflammatory conditions, through activation of DP1 receptors. Spinal application of a DP2 receptor antagonist had no effect. The conclusion that spinal PGD2 attenuates spinal hyperexcitability under inflammatory conditions is further supported by the finding that spinal coapplication of PGD2 with prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) attenuated the PGE2-induced facilitation of responses to mechanical stimulation of the normal joint.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is highly sensitive to regulation by neuronal activity and is critically involved in several forms of synaptic plasticity. These features suggested that alterations in ERK signaling might occur in epilepsy. Previous studies have described increased ERK phosphorylation immediately after the induction of severe seizures, but patterns of ERK activation in epileptic animals during the chronic period have not been determined. Thus, the localization and abundance of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) were examined in a pilocarpine model of recurrent seizures in C57BL/6 mice during the seizure-free period and at short intervals after spontaneous seizures. Immunolabeling of pERK in control animals revealed an abundance of distinctly-labeled neurons within the hippocampal formation. However, in pilocarpine-treated mice during the seizure-free period, the numbers of pERK-labeled neurons were substantially decreased throughout much of the hippocampal formation. Double labeling with a general neuronal marker suggested that the decrease in pERK-labeled neurons was not due primarily to cell loss. The decreased ERK phosphorylation in seizure-prone animals was interpreted as a compensatory response to increased neuronal excitability within the network. Nevertheless, striking increases in pERK labeling occurred at the time of spontaneous seizures and were evident in large populations of neurons at very short intervals (as early as 2 min) after detection of a behavioral seizure. These findings suggest that increased pERK labeling could be one of the earliest immunohistochemical indicators of neurons that are activated at the time of a spontaneous seizure.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) regulates acute ethanol sensitivity and voluntary alcohol consumption in rodents. In Drosophila melanogaster, NPY-like neuropeptide F (NPF) and its receptor NPFR1 display a parallel function, suggesting that an evolutionarily conserved mechanism may underlie similar behavioral effects of ethanol in diverse organisms. We have used the fly model to uncover novel genes and molecular pathways important for acute ethanol response. Here we report a critical role of the conserved protein kinase C (PKC) pathway in mediating the intoxicating effect of ethanol. Flies expressing a pseudo-substrate inhibitor of PKC, directed by npf-gal4, displayed decreased ethanol sensitivity. Furthermore, the RNA interference analysis suggests that a calcium-independent PKC isoform (PKC98E, related to mammalian novel PKCs) is largely responsible for the behavioral phenotype. Finally, we provide evidence that the NPF/PKC-dependent mechanism selectively affects acute sensitivity but not rapid tolerance to ethanol intoxication. These findings reveal an uncharacterized role of PKC in NPY/NPF-mediated acute ethanol sensitivity in flies and possibly mammals.
Although there is evidence that reduced inhibition in the spinal dorsal horn contributes to neuropathic pain, the mechanisms that underlie this are poorly understood. We have previously demonstrated that there is no loss of neurons from laminae I-III in the spared nerve injury (SNI) model [Polgr E, Hughes DI, Arham AZ, Todd AJ (2005) Loss of neurons from laminas I-III of the spinal dorsal horn is not required for development of tactile allodynia in the SNI model of neuropathic pain. J Neurosci 25:6658-6666]. In this study we investigated whether there was a difference between ipsilateral and contralateral sides in the levels of GABA, the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT), or the beta3 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor at synapses in the medial part of the superficial dorsal horn in this model. Tissue from rats that had undergone SNI 4 weeks previously was examined with an electron microscopic immunogold method to reveal GABA, following pre-embedding detection of GABA(A) beta3 to allow identification of GABAergic terminals. Assessment of labeling for the GABA(A) beta3 subunit and VGAT was performed by using immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. We found no difference in the intensity of immunolabeling for any of these markers on the two sides of the superficial dorsal horn. These results suggest that there is no significant loss of GABAergic boutons from the denervated area after SNI (which is consistent with the finding that neuronal death does not occur in this model) and that there is no depletion of GABA or GABA(A) receptors at GABAergic synapses within this region. An alternative explanation for disinhibition after nerve injury is that it results from reduced excitatory drive to GABAergic dorsal horn neurons following loss of primary afferent input to these cells.
Half of the cholinergic neurons of human and primate intrinsic cardiac ganglia (ICG) have a dual cholinergic/noradrenergic phenotype. Likewise, a large subpopulation of cholinergic neurons of the mouse heart expresses enzymes needed for synthesis of norepinephrine (NE), but they lack the vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2) required for catecholamine storage. In the present study, we determined the full scope of noradrenergic properties (i.e. synthetic enzymes and transporters) expressed by cholinergic neurons of mouse ICG, estimated the relative abundance of neurons expressing different elements of the noradrenergic phenotype, and evaluated the colocalization of cholinergic and noradrenergic markers in atrial nerve fibers. Stellate ganglia were used as a positive control for noradrenergic markers. Using fluorescence immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy, we found that about 30% of cholinergic cell bodies contained tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), including the activated form that is phosphorylated at Ser-40 (pSer40 TH). Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) and norepinephrine transporter (NET) were present in all cholinergic somata, indicating a wider capability for dopamine metabolism and catecholamine uptake. Yet, cholinergic somata lacked VMAT2, precluding the potential for NE storage and vesicular release. In contrast to cholinergic somata, cardiac nerve fibers rarely showed colocalization of cholinergic and noradrenergic markers. Instead, these labels were closely apposed but clearly distinct from each other. Since cholinergic somata expressed several noradrenergic proteins, we questioned whether these neurons might also contain trophic factor receptors typical of noradrenergic neurons. Indeed, we found that all cholinergic cell bodies of mouse ICG, like noradrenergic cell bodies of the stellate ganglia, contained both tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA) and p75 neurotrophin receptors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that mouse intrinsic cardiac neurons (ICNs), like those of humans, have a complex neurochemical phenotype that goes beyond the classical view of cardiac parasympathetic neurons. They also suggest that neurotrophins and local NE synthesis might have important effects on neurons of the mouse ICG.
Paradigms requiring either a GO or a NO-GO response are often used to study the neural mechanisms of response inhibition. Here this issue is examined from the perspective of event-related beta (14-30 Hz) oscillatory activity. Two macaque monkeys performed a task that began with a self-initiated lever depression and maintenance (sustained motor output) and required a visual pattern discrimination followed by either a lever release (GO) or continued lever-holding (NO-GO) response. Analyzing simultaneous local field potentials (LFPs) from primary somatosensory, frontal motor, and posterior parietal cortices, we report two results. First, beta oscillation desynchronized shortly after stimulus presentation, the onset of which was approximately the same for both the GO and NO-GO conditions ( approximately 110 ms). Since it is well known that beta desynchronization is a reliable indicator of movement preparation, this result suggests that early motor preparation took place in both conditions. Second, following the GO/NO-GO decision ( approximately 190 ms), beta activity rebounded significantly ( approximately 300 ms) only in the NO-GO condition. Coherence and Granger causality measures revealed that the dynamical organization of the rebounded beta network was similar to that existing during the sustained motor output prior to stimulus onset. This finding suggests that response inhibition led to the restoration of the sensorimotor network to its prestimulus state.
In this study, we have used the expression of non-phosphorylated neurofilament (NNF), a protein that exhibits differential areal and laminar neuronal patterning, to assess the chemoarchitectural organization of the rat temporal association cortex (Te). Since expression of NNF is associated with the latter stages of neuronal development, this enabled us to profile the hierarchical development of this region of the cortex. We also examined the expression of the protein Fos, the product of the immediate-early gene cFos, as a neuronal activity marker to determine which areas within this region are visually responsive. Our findings reveal the existence of two previously undescribed subdivisions within the dorsal and ventral domains of the rat temporal association cortical area 2 (Te2) which we have termed Te2d and Te2v, respectively. We also demonstrated the early maturation of the caudal region of Te2d while preceding the primary visual cortex. Within this region of the cortex, the Fos protein indicates that both subdivisions are visually responsive.
Food restriction has been shown to be beneficial for a number of brain processes. In the current study, we characterized the impact of food restriction on hippocampal damage 70 days following ischemia. We assessed memory and cognitive flexibility of ad libitum fed (AL) and food-restricted (FR) animals using complex delayed non-matching- and matching-to-sample tasks in the radial arm maze. Our findings demonstrate that food restriction led to significant improvement of ischemia-induced memory impairments. FR ischemic animals rapidly reached comparable performance as both AL and FR sham animals in delayed-non-matching (win-shift) and matching (win-stay) radial arm maze tasks. They also made considerably fewer microchoices in the retention trials than AL ischemic animals. In contrast, AL ischemic rats showed persistent spatial memory impairments in the same paradigms. Assessment of basal and stress-induced corticosterone (CORT) secretion revealed no significant differences in baseline levels in AL and FR rats prior to or following global ischemia. However, FR animals showed a more pronounced attenuation of CORT secretion 45 min following restraint. Both FR and AL ischemic rats had comparable cell loss within CA1 and CA3 subfields of Ammon's horn (CA1 and CA3) at 70 days following reperfusion, although a trend toward increased CA3 cell survival was observed in FR ischemic rats. The functional sparing in the FR ischemic animals in the face of equivalent hippocampal cell loss suggests that food restriction somehow enhanced the efficacy of remaining hippocampal or extrahippocampal neurons following ischemia. In the current study, this phenomenon was not associated with diet- and or ischemia-related alterations of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 expression in various hippocampal regions although lower vesicular GABA transporter immunostaining was present in the CA1 stratum oriens and the CA3 stratum radiatum in FR sham and ischemic rats.
Elevated concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) are present within the CNS following neurotrauma and are implicated in the pathogenesis of the accompanying neurologic deficits. We tested the hypothesis that elevated extracellular concentrations of ONOO(-), introduced by the donor 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), induce reversible axonal conduction deficits in neurons of the guinea-pig spinal cord. The compound action potential (CAP) and compound membrane potential (CMP) of excised ventral cord white matter were recorded before, during, and after, bathing the tissue (30 min) in varying concentrations (0.125-2.0 mM) of SIN-1 (3.75-60 microM ONOO(-)). The principal results were rapid onset, concentration-dependent, reductions in amplitude of the CAP (P&lt;0.05). At a concentration of 0.25 mM of SIN-1 the reduction in CAP amplitude was fully reversible and was not accompanied by any changes in CMP. At higher concentrations of SIN-1 (&gt; or =0.5 mM) the reversibility was incomplete and there was concurrent depolarization of the CMP. These electrophysiological changes were not evident when the donor had been a priori depleted of ONOO(-) by uric acid or was co-administered with the ONOO(-) scavenger ebselen (3 mM). Immuno-fluorescence staining for nitrotyrosine (Ntyr) revealed extensive nitration of tyrosine residues in neurons exposed to higher concentrations of SIN-1. These results are the first to demonstrate that ONOO(-) induces reversible conduction deficits within axons of the spinal cord. The dissociation of CAP and CMP changes at low concentrations of SIN-1, when the CAP changes were reversible and there was no evidence of nitration of tyrosine residues, is consistent with ONOO(-)-induced alteration in Na+ channel conductance in the axolemma. The results support the view that ONOO(-) contributes to both reversible and non-reversible neurologic deficits following neurotrauma. The reversal of immune-mediated conduction deficits may contribute to spontaneous neurologic deficits following neurotrauma.
The fat-derived hormone leptin regulates food intake and body weight in part by modulating the activity of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC). To investigate the electrophysiological activity of these neurons and their responses to leptin, we recorded whole-cell calcium currents on NPY and POMC neurons in the ARC of rats, which we identified by morphologic features and immunocytochemical identification at the end of recording. Leptin decreased the peak amplitude of high voltage-activated calcium currents (I(HVA)) in the isolated neurons from ARC, which were subsequently shown to be immunoreactive for NPY. The inhibition was prevented by pretreatment with inhibitors of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK). In contrast, leptin increased the amplitude of I(HVA) in POMC-containing neurons. The stimulations of I(HVA) were inhibited by blockers of JAK2 and phosphatidylino 3-kinase (PI3-k). Both of these effects were counteracted by the L-type calcium channel antagonist nifedipine, suggesting that L-type calcium channels were involved in the regulation induced by leptin. These data indicated that leptin exerted opposite effects on these two classes of neurons. Leptin directly inhibited I(HVA) in NPY neurons via leptin receptor (LEPR) -JAK2-MAPK pathways, whereas evoked I(HVA) in POMC neurons by LEPR-JAK2-PI3-k pathways. These neural pathways and intracellular signaling mechanisms may play key roles in regulating NPY and POMC neuron activity, anorectic action of leptin and, thereby, feeding.

Parkinson's disease (PD) can be triggered by genetic or environmental factors. Although the precise etiopathogenesis of the disease remains unknown, recent studies focusing on the K(+) channel gene have uncovered the dysfunctions in various K(+) channels (e.g., Kir2, Kv, K(ATP), and SKCa) that are involved in the pathological mechanisms underlying PD. Here we show that Kir2.3 overexpression can protect against rotenone-induced apoptosis in cell models in the neurodegenerative process, suggesting Kir2.3's general neuroprotective function. The protection of Kir2.3 against neurodegeneration may be associated with the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway, as PKC is downregulated by Kir2.3 overexpression and the PKC activator can reduce the protective effect of Kir2.3. Our studies provide an entry point for understanding the novel roles of Kir2.3 in cell models of PD, and they offer clues for the common mechanisms underlying different neurodegenerative conditions.


The different cell types in the central nervous system develop from a common pool of progenitor cells. The nuclei of progenitors move between the apical and basal surfaces of the neuroepithelium in phase with their cell cycle, a process termed interkinetic nuclear migration (INM). In the retina of zebrafish mikre oko (mok) mutants, in which the motor protein Dynactin-1 is disrupted, interkinetic nuclei migrate more rapidly and deeply to the basal side and more slowly to the apical side. We found that Notch signaling is predominantly activated on the apical side in both mutants and wild-type. Mutant progenitors are, thus, less exposed to Notch and exit the cell cycle prematurely. This leads to an overproduction of early-born retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) at the expense of later-born interneurons and glia. Our data indicate that the function of INM is to balance the exposure of progenitor nuclei to neurogenic versus proliferative signals.
The function of dopamine D(3) receptors present in the striatum has remained elusive. In the present study evidence is provided for the existence of dopamine D(1)-D(3) receptor heteromers and for an intramembrane D(1)-D(3) receptor cross-talk in living cells and in the striatum. The formation of D(1)-D(3) receptor heteromers was demonstrated by fluorescence resonance energy transfer and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer techniques in transfected mammalian cells. In membrane preparations from these cells, a synergistic D(1)-D(3) intramembrane receptor-receptor interaction was observed, by which D(3) receptor stimulation enhances D(1) receptor agonist affinity, indicating that the D(1)-D(3) intramembrane receptor-receptor interaction is a biochemical characteristic of the D(1)-D(3) receptor heteromer. The same biochemical characteristic was also observed in membrane preparations from brain striatum, demonstrating the striatal co-localization and heteromerization of D(1) and D(3) receptors. According to the synergistic D(1)-D(3) intramembrane receptor-receptor interaction, experiments in reserpinized mice showed that D(3) receptor stimulation potentiates D(1) receptor-mediated behavioral effects by a different mechanism than D(2) receptor stimulation. The present study shows that a main functional significance of the D(3) receptor is to obtain a stronger dopaminergic response in the striatal neurons that co-express the two receptors.
Rho kinase (ROCK), a downstream effector of Rho GTPase, is a serine/threonine protein kinase that regulates many crucial cellular processes via control of cytoskeletal structures. The C-terminal PH-C1 tandem of ROCKs has been implicated to play an autoinhibitory role by sequestering the N-terminal kinase domain and reducing its kinase activity. The binding of lipids to the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain not only regulates the localization of the protein but also releases the kinase domain from the close conformation and thereby activates its kinase activity. However, the molecular mechanism governing the ROCK PH-C1 tandem-mediated lipid membrane interaction is not known. In this study, we demonstrate that ROCK is a new member of the split PH domain family of proteins. The ROCK split PH domain folds into a canonical PH domain structure. The insertion of the atypical C1 domain in the middle does not alter the structure of the PH domain. We further show that the C1 domain of ROCK lacks the diacylglycerol/phorbol ester binding pocket seen in other canonical C1 domains. Instead, the inserted C1 domain and the PH domain function cooperatively in binding to membrane bilayers via the unconventional positively charged surfaces on each domain. Finally, the analysis of all split PH domains with known structures indicates that split PH domains represent a unique class of tandem protein modules, each possessing distinct structural and functional features.
Here we describe a novel role for the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/AKT pathway in mediating induction of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in response to IL-1. Pharmacological inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibited IL-6 mRNA and protein production. Overexpression of either dominant-negative AKT or IkappaB kinase alpha mutant, IKKalphaT23A, containing a mutation in a functional AKT phosphorylation site, shown previously to be important for NFkappaB activation, completely abrogated IL-6 promoter activation in response to IL-1. However, mutation of the consensus NFkappaB site on the IL-6 promoter did not abrogate promoter activation by IL-1 in contrast to the AP-1 site mutation. IL-1 induces phosphorylation of IKKalpha on the NFkappaB inducing kinase (NIK) phosphorylation sites Ser(176)/Ser(180) and on the Thr(23) site, and although phosphorylation of IKKalphaT23 is inhibited both by LY294002 and wortmannin, phosphorylation of Ser(176)/Ser(180) is not. Neither inhibition of PI 3-kinase/AKT nor IKKalphaT23A overexpression affected IkappaBalpha degradation in response to IL-1. Only partial inhibition by dominant-negative AKT and no inhibitory effect of IKKalphaT23A was observed on an IL-6 promoter-specific NFkappaB site in contrast to significant inhibitory effects on the AP-1 site. Taken together, we have discovered a novel PI 3-kinase/AKT-dependent pathway in response to IL-1, encompassing PI 3-kinase/AKT/IKKalphaT23 upstream of AP-1. This novel pathway is a parallel pathway to the PI 3-kinase/AKT upstream of NFkappaB and both are involved in IL-6 gene transcription in response to IL-1.
We have previously demonstrated that differences in neuropathic pain-like behaviors after sciatic nerve injury genetically maps to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in rats carrying RT1(c) or RT1(av1) haplotypes on the Piebald Virol Glaxo (PVG) background. In order to further explore the genetic contribution to neuropathic pain, we have here examined the MHC-congenic rat strains PVG-RT1(n) and PVG-RT1(av1) and the inbred strains PVG (RT1(c)) and Brown-Norway (BN; RT1(n)). All studied strains developed mechanical hypersensitivity (allodynia-like behavior) of the hind paw after photochemically induced sciatic nerve injury. However, the PVG-RT1(n) and PVG strains displayed significantly more allodynia than PVG-RT1(av1) and BN rats. In addition, the BN strain demonstrated an elevated threshold for the baseline response. The results demonstrate that both MHC and non-MHC genes influence experimental neuropathic pain in rats and also suggest that allelic variation contained in the RT1(av1) haplotype on the PVG background protects against neuropathic pain.
Stress and environmental enrichment have opposing effects on cerebral cellular plasticity. Stress-induced disturbances in neuronal and glial plasticity have been implicated in the pathophysiology of affective disorders. Patients with depression often show volume reductions in specific brain regions. The mechanisms behind these changes are not well understood, but animal studies have indicated that increased levels of glucocorticoids and stress have negative impact on the neuronal and glial cell populations. On the contrary, enriched environment and physical activity have positive effects. In this study we have examined the effect of corticosterone (CORT), environmental enrichment (EE) and running on angiogenesis in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC). We demonstrate a dramatic inhibition in endothelial cell proliferation in these brain regions in CORT-treated rats. Environmental enrichment had the opposite effect and stimulated endothelial cell proliferation both in the hippocampus and in the PFC. Running had a stimulatory effect in hippocampus, but not in the PFC. We suggest that the angiostatic effect of CORT demonstrated in this study might be paralleled in human subjects exposed to high levels of stress hormones for prolonged periods of time. Raised cortisol levels in depressed or old patients could, by reducing endothelial cell formation/turnover, lead to rarefaction and aging of the vascular bed, and as a result, neuronal function could be impaired. It is tempting to speculate that a physically and intellectually active life may protect against stress-induced vascular changes. Therapeutic agents also targeting the cerebral vasculature could consequently constitute a new tool in the combat of stress-related disorders.
The TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has been identified as the major disease protein in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin inclusions (FTLD-U), defining a novel class of neurodegenerative conditions: the TDP-43 proteinopathies. The first pathogenic mutations in the gene encoding TDP-43 (TARDBP) were recently reported in familial and sporadic ALS patients, supporting a direct role for TDP-43 in neurodegeneration. In this study, we report the identification and functional analyses of two novel and one known mutation in TARDBP that we identified as a result of extensive mutation analyses in a cohort of 296 patients with variable neurodegenerative diseases associated with TDP-43 histopathology. Three different heterozygous missense mutations in exon 6 of TARDBP (p.M337V, p.N345K, and p.I383V) were identified in the analysis of 92 familial ALS patients (3.3%), while no mutations were detected in 24 patients with sporadic ALS or 180 patients with other TDP-43-positive neurodegenerative diseases. The presence of p.M337V, p.N345K, and p.I383V was excluded in 825 controls and 652 additional sporadic ALS patients. All three mutations affect highly conserved amino acid residues in the C-terminal part of TDP-43 known to be involved in protein-protein interactions. Biochemical analysis of TDP-43 in ALS patient cell lines revealed a substantial increase in caspase cleaved fragments, including the approximately 25 kDa fragment, compared to control cell lines. Our findings support TARDBP mutations as a cause of ALS. Based on the specific C-terminal location of the mutations and the accumulation of a smaller C-terminal fragment, we speculate that TARDBP mutations may cause a toxic gain of function through novel protein interactions or intracellular accumulation of TDP-43 fragments leading to apoptosis.
The Publisher regrets that this article is an accidental duplication of an article that has already been published in MCN, doi:10.1016/j.mcn.2008.07.023. The duplicate article has therefore been withdrawn.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and other neurotrophins have a vital role in the development of the rat and mouse nervous system by influencing the expression of many specific genes that promote differentiation, cell survival, synapse formation and, later, synaptic plasticity. Although nitric oxide (NO) is known to be an important mediator of BDNF signalling in neurons, the mechanisms by which neurotrophins influence gene expression during development and plasticity remain largely unknown. Here we show that BDNF triggers NO synthesis and S-nitrosylation of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in neurons, resulting in changes to histone modifications and gene activation. S-nitrosylation of HDAC2 occurs at Cys 262 and Cys 274 and does not affect deacetylase activity. In contrast, nitrosylation of HDAC2 induces its release from chromatin, which increases acetylation of histones surrounding neurotrophin-dependent gene promoters and promotes transcription. Notably, nitrosylation of HDAC2 in embryonic cortical neurons regulates dendritic growth and branching, possibly by the activation of CREB (cyclic-AMP-responsive-element-binding protein)-dependent genes. Thus, by stimulating NO production and S-nitrosylation of HDAC2, neurotrophic factors promote chromatin remodelling and the activation of genes that are associated with neuronal development.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous human herpesvirus that can cause life-threatening disease in the fetus and the immunocompromised host. Upon attachment to the cell, the virus induces robust inflammatory, interferon- and growth-factor-like signalling. The mechanisms facilitating viral entry and gene expression are not clearly understood. Here we show that platelet-derived growth factor-alpha receptor (PDGFR-alpha) is specifically phosphorylated by both laboratory and clinical isolates of HCMV in various human cell types, resulting in activation of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI(3)K) signalling pathway. Upon stimulation by HCMV, tyrosine-phosphorylated PDGFR-alpha associated with the p85 regulatory subunit of PI(3)K and induced protein kinase B (also known as Akt) phosphorylation, similar to the genuine ligand, PDGF-AA. Cells in which PDGFR-alpha was genetically deleted or functionally blocked were non-permissive to HCMV entry, viral gene expression or infectious virus production. Re-introducing human PDGFRA gene into knockout cells restored susceptibility to viral entry and essential viral gene expression. Blockade of receptor function with a humanized PDGFR-alpha blocking antibody (IMC-3G3) or targeted inhibition of its kinase activity with a small molecule (Gleevec) completely inhibited HCMV viral internalization and gene expression in human epithelial, endothelial and fibroblast cells. Viral entry in cells harbouring endogenous PDGFR-alpha was competitively inhibited by pretreatment with PDGF-AA. We further demonstrate that HCMV glycoprotein B directly interacts with PDGFR-alpha, resulting in receptor tyrosine phosphorylation, and that glycoprotein B neutralizing antibodies inhibit HCMV-induced PDGFR-alpha phosphorylation. Taken together, these data indicate that PDGFR-alpha is a critical receptor required for HCMV infection, and thus a target for novel anti-viral therapies.

Parkinson's disease (PD) patients express motor symptoms only after 60-80% striatal dopamine (DA) depletion. The presymptomatic phase of the disease may be sustained by biochemical modifications within the striatum. We used an appropriate specific 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkey model (Mounayar et al., 2007) to study the compensatory mechanisms operating in recovery from PD motor symptoms. We assessed the levels of DA and its metabolites (DOPAC, homovanillic acid), GABA, glutamate (Glu), serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite (5HIAA) by repeated intracerebral microdialysis in awake animals before exposure to MPTP during full expression of the motor symptoms induced by MPTP and after recovery from these symptoms. Measurements were obtained from two functionally and anatomically different striatal areas: the associative-limbic territory and sensorimotor territory. Animals with motor symptoms displayed an extremely large decrease in levels of DA and its metabolites and an increase in Glu and GABA levels, as reported by other studies. However, we show here for the first time that serotonin levels increased in these animals. We found that increases in DA levels in the sensorimotor and/or associative-limbic territory and high levels of 5-HT and of its metabolite, 5HIAA, were associated with recovery from motor symptoms in this model. Determining whether similar changes in DA and 5-HT levels are involved in the compensatory mechanisms delaying the appearance of motor symptoms in the early stages of PD might make it possible to develop new treatment strategies for the disease.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) provide feedback to their projection neuron inputs. However, it is unknown whether this feedback is regulated and how that might shape CPG output. We are studying feedback from the pyloric CPG to identified projection neurons that regulate the gastric mill CPG, in the crab stomatogastric nervous system. Both CPGs are located in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) and are influenced by projection neurons originating in the paired commissural ganglia (CoGs). Two extrinsic inputs [ventral cardiac neurons (VCNs) and postoesophageal commissure (POC) neurons] trigger distinct gastric mill rhythms despite acting via the same projection neurons [modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1); commissural projection neuron 2 (CPN2)]. These projection neurons receive feedback inhibition from the pyloric CPG interneuron anterior burster (AB), resulting in their exhibiting pyloric-timed activity during the retraction phase of the VCN- and POC-triggered gastric mill rhythms. However, during the gastric mill protraction phase, MCN1/CPN2 exhibit pyloric-timed activity during the POC-triggered rhythm but fire tonically during the VCN-triggered rhythm. Here, we show that the latter, tonic activity pattern results from the elimination of AB inhibition of MCN1/CPN2, despite persistent AB actions within the STG and AB action potentials still propagating into each CoG. This loss of pyloric-timed AB input likely results from presynaptic inhibition of AB in each CoG because, when a secondary rhythmic AB burst initiation zone in the CoG is activated, the associated action potentials are selectively suppressed during the VCN protraction phase. Thus, rhythmic CPG feedback can be locally regulated, in a state-dependent manner, enabling the same projection neurons to drive multiple motor patterns from the same neuronal circuit.
Osmosensory neurons transduce osmotic signals into a neural spike code that commands behavioral and endocrine responses that mediate body fluid homeostasis. Although changes in osmoregulatory reflex gain are known to occur under physiological and pathological conditions, the basis for this modulation is unknown. Here, we show that angiotensin II amplifies osmosensory transduction by enhancing the proportional relationship between osmolality, receptor potential, and action potential firing in rat supraoptic nucleus neurons. This effect is mediated by a phospholipase C- and protein kinase C-dependent increase in cellular mechanosensitivity that is associated with a rapid increase in cortical actin filament density. Preventing this increase with cytochalasin D eliminated the enhancement of mechanosensitivity, whereas enhancing actin filament density with jasplakinolide potentiated mechanosensitivity and occluded the effects of angiotensin II. These results indicate that a receptor-mediated increase in cortical actin density can enhance osmosensitivity in acutely isolated supraoptic neurons.
Chronic recordings in the medial entorhinal cortex of behaving rats have found grid cells, neurons that fire when the rat is in a hexagonal array of locations. Grid cells recorded at different dorsal-ventral anatomical positions show systematic changes in size and spacing of firing fields. To test possible mechanisms underlying these differences, we analyzed properties of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current I(h) in voltage-clamp recordings from stellate cells in entorhinal slices from different dorsal-ventral locations. The time constant of h current was significantly different between dorsal and ventral neurons. The time constant of h current correlated with membrane potential oscillation frequency and the time constant of the sag potential in the same neurons. Differences in h current could underlie differences in membrane potential oscillation properties and contribute to grid cell periodicity along the dorsal-ventral axis of medial entorhinal cortex.
Sleep is a fundamental process, but its regulation and function are still not well understood. The Drosophila model for sleep provides a powerful system to address the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying sleep and wakefulness. Here we show that a Drosophila biogenic amine, octopamine, is a potent wake-promoting signal. Mutations in the octopamine biosynthesis pathway produced a phenotype of increased sleep, which was restored to wild-type levels by pharmacological treatment with octopamine. Moreover, electrical silencing of octopamine-producing cells decreased wakefulness, whereas excitation of these neurons promoted wakefulness. Because protein kinase A (PKA) is a putative target of octopamine signaling and is also implicated in Drosophila sleep, we investigated its role in the effects of octopamine on sleep. We found that decreased PKA activity in neurons rendered flies insensitive to the wake-promoting effects of octopamine. However, this effect of PKA was not exerted in the mushroom bodies, a site previously associated with PKA action on sleep. These studies identify a novel pathway that regulates sleep in Drosophila.
Regulation of gene expression is known to contribute to the long-term adaptations taking place in response to drugs of abuse. Recent studies highlighted the regulation of gene transcription in neurons by chromatin remodeling, a process in which posttranslational modifications of histones play a major role. To test the involvement of epigenetic regulation on drug-reinforcing properties, we submitted rats to the cocaine operant self-administration paradigm. Using the fixed ratio 1 schedule, we found that the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors trichostatin A and phenylbutyrate dose-dependently reduced cocaine self-administration. Under the progressive ratio schedule, both trichostatin A and depudecin significantly reduced the breaking point, indicating that HDAC inhibition attenuated the motivation of rats for cocaine. Conversely, HDAC inhibition did not decrease self-administration for the natural reinforcer sucrose. This observation was correlated with measurements of HDAC activity in the frontal cortex, which was inhibited in response to cocaine, but not to sucrose self-administration. Control experiments showed that the decrease in the motivation for the drug was not attributable to a general motivational dysfunction because trichostatin A had no adverse effect on locomotion during the habituation session or on cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. It was not attributable to anhedonia because the inhibitor had no effect on the sucrose preference test. In contrast, trichostatin A completely blocked the cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. Together, the data show that epigenetic regulation of gene transcription in adult brain is able to influence a motivated behavior and suggest that HDAC inhibition may counteract the neural sensitization leading to drug dependence.
Injured axons of the adult CNS undergo lengthy retraction from the initial site of axotomy after spinal cord injury. Macrophage infiltration correlates spatiotemporally with this deleterious phenomenon, but the direct involvement of these inflammatory cells has not been demonstrated. In the present study, we examined the role of macrophages in axonal retraction within the dorsal columns after spinal cord injury in vivo and found that retraction occurred between days 2 and 28 after lesion and that the ends of injured axons were associated with ED-1+ cells. Clodronate liposome-mediated depletion of infiltrating macrophages resulted in a significant reduction in axonal retraction; however, we saw no evidence of regeneration. We used time-lapse imaging of adult dorsal root ganglion neurons in an in vitro model of the glial scar to examine macrophage-axon interactions and observed that adhesive contacts and considerable physical interplay between macrophages and dystrophic axons led to extensive axonal retraction. The induction of retraction was dependent on both the growth state of the axon and the activation state of the macrophage. Only dystrophic adult axons were susceptible to macrophage &quot;attack.&quot; Unlike intrinsically active cell line macrophages, both primary macrophages and microglia required activation to induce axonal retraction. Contact with astrocytes had no deleterious effect on adult dystrophic axons, suggesting that the induction of extensive retraction was specific to phagocytic cells. Our data are the first to indicate a direct role of activated macrophages in axonal retraction by physical cell-cell interactions with injured axons.


Neurogenesis occurs in two neurogenic regions of the adult mammalian brain: the subgranular zone and the subventricular zone. We have recently demonstrated that the number of bromodeoxyuridine-positive and doublecortin-positive cells is decreased in the subgranular zone of amyloid precursor protein with a Swedish mutation and presenilin-1 with a deletion of exon 9 transgenic mice, an animal model of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we characterized neurogenesis in the subventricular zone of amyloid precursor protein with a Swedish mutation and presenilin-1 with a deletion of exon 9 transgenic mice at 9 months of age and compared it with neurogenesis in the subgranular zone. In the subventricular zone, the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive and bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells were normal. In the subgranular zone, the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive cells was normal; however, the number of bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells was significantly decreased. These results suggest that neurogenesis, probably reflecting the survival of neural progenitor cells, differs between the subgranular zone and the subventricular zone.

Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), also called hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM), is characterized clinically by weakness and atrophy that initially involves the distal muscles and pathologically by the presence of rimmed vacuoles (RVs) or intracellular protein deposits in myofibers. It is caused by mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene that is important in sialic acid synthesis. Recently, we generated a mouse model (Gne(-/-)hGNED176VTg) that exhibits muscle weakness and pathological changes similar to DMRV patients. To gain better understanding of the pathomechanism of DMRV, we determined temporal changes in the overall motor performance of this model mouse for DMRV in correlation with the structure and function of isolated skeletal muscles and muscle pathology. These DMRV mice exhibited muscle weakness, decreased whole muscle mass and cross-sectional area (CSA), and reduced contractile power in an age-related manner. Single-fiber CSA further supported the finding of muscle atrophy that involved both type I and type II fibers. These results suggest that atrophy is highly correlated with reduced production of force at young age, both in vivo and ex vivo, thereby implicating the important role of atrophy in the pathomechanism of DMRV. In older age, and particularly in gastrocnemius muscles, RVs and intracellular inclusions were seen in type IIA fibers, further aggravating reduction of force and specific increase in twitch-tetanus ratio.
Many people experience transient difficulties in recognizing faces but only a small number of them cannot recognize their family members when meeting them unexpectedly. Such face blindness is associated with serious problems in everyday life. A better understanding of the neuro-functional basis of impaired face recognition may be achieved by a careful comparison with an equally unique object category and by a adding a more realistic setting involving neutral faces as well facial expressions. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neuro-functional basis of perceiving faces and bodies in three developmental prosopagnosics (DP) and matched healthy controls. Our approach involved materials consisting of neutral faces and bodies as well as faces and bodies expressing fear or happiness. The first main result is that the presence of emotional information has a different effect in the patient vs. the control group in the fusiform face area (FFA). Neutral faces trigger lower activation in the DP group, compared to the control group, while activation for facial expressions is the same in both groups. The second main result is that compared to controls, DPs have increased activation for bodies in the inferior occipital gyrus (IOG) and for neutral faces in the extrastriate body area (EBA), indicating that body and face sensitive processes are less categorically segregated in DP. Taken together our study shows the importance of using naturalistic emotional stimuli for a better understanding of developmental face deficits.
Despite a better overall tolerance as compared to classical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics are not devoid of side-effects, notably metabolic factors (weight gain, alteration of lipid and glucose profile). These side-effects are very troubling concerning long term morbidity and mortality and may also influence compliance towards drugs. The department of psychiatry of the Hospital University Centre has established a guideline on the clinical monitoring of patients receiving atypical antipsychotics, based on recently published consensus, which will be presented here. In addition, recent studies show that weight gain and metabolic alterations induced by this type of medication may be influenced by the genetic background of the patients. Such studies should allow, in the near future, to adapt the treatment for each patient.
A novel truncated form (residues 1-214, with a randomized C-terminal tail) of the ligand-binding extracellular domain (ECD) of the human alpha1 glycine receptor (GlyR), with amino acids from the corresponding sequence of an acetylcholine binding protein (AChBP) substituted for two relatively hydrophobic membrane-proximal loops, was overexpressed using a baculovirus expression system. The mutant GlyR ECD, named GlyBP, was present in both soluble and membrane-associated fractions after cell lysis, though only the latter appeared to be in a native-like conformation capable of binding strychnine, a GlyR specific antagonist. The membrane-associated GlyBP was solubilized, and detergent/lipid/protein micelles were affinity purified. After detergent removal, GlyBP may be isolated in either aqueous or vesicular form. Binding assays and spectroscopic studies using circular dichroism and FRET are consistent with both forms adopting equivalent native-like conformations. Thus, GlyBP may be isolated as a soluble or membrane-associated assembly that serves as a structural and functional homologue of the ECD of GlyR.

Learning associations between people's faces and names is a universal cognitive function with important social implications. The goal of the present study was to examine brain activity patterns associated with cross-modal encoding of names and faces. Learning face-name pairs was compared to unimodal learning tasks using the same visual and auditory stimuli. Spatiotemporal brain activation profiles were obtained with magnetoencephalography using an automated source estimation method. Results showed activation foci in left (for names) and right (for faces) temporal lobe perisylvian cortices, predominantly right-hemisphere occipital and occipitotemporal regions (for faces), and right hemisphere dorsolateral prefrontal regions during the encoding phase for both types of stimuli presented in isolation. Paired (face-name) stimulus presentation elicited bilateral prefrontal and temporal lobe perisylvian activity for faces and enhanced visual cortex activation in response to names (compared to names in the unpaired condition). These findings indicate distinct patterns of brain activation during the formation of associations between meaningful visual and auditory stimuli.
Nitric oxide (NO) induces cell proliferation or cell death, depending on the cell type involved, the isoform of nitric oxide synthase activated, and its cellular localisation. In neurons, the damaging effect of NO is usually attributed to the highly toxic peroxynitrite, formed by its reaction with superoxide. Peroxynitrite induces DNA damage and consequently the activation of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). This study set out to examine the contribution of peroxynitrite to the damage induced in cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) by treatment with the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), for short (6 h) or prolonged (24 h) exposures. The Alamar blue assay was used to quantify CGN viability, which was also assessed by morphological examination. SNAP (10 microM-1 mM) induced a concentration- and time-dependent reduction of CGN viability, with associated damage to cell bodies and neurite processes evident following 100 microM SNAP treatments. Damage from 6 h exposures was prevented by the presence of haemoglobin (a NO scavenger), uric acid (a peroxynitrite scavenger), melatonin (a non-specific antioxidant), and by cyclosporin A (a permeability transition pore blocker). It was reduced by the PARP-1 inhibitor 3,4-dihydro-5-[4-(1-piperidinyl)butoxyl]-1(2H)-isoquinolinone (DPQ), whilst superoxide dismutase (SOD) potentiated the effects. Following 24 h exposure to SNAP, damage was only partially blocked by haemoglobin, melatonin, cyclosporin A and DPQ, but was not affected by uric acid or SOD. The data suggest that short exposure to NO induces neuronal damage through peroxynitrite produced by its interaction with superoxide, whereas a longer exposure to NO can induce damage partly by a mechanism which is independent of peroxynitrite formation.
In the present study, the interaction between morphine and the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist, propranolol (PROP), in memory consolidation was investigated in a two-trial recognition Y-maze task. Four sets of Y-maze experiments were carried out in mice, with 2 and 4 h inter-trial intervals (ITI) and all drugs administered immediately after the training trials. In the first and second sets of experiments, post-training administration of morphine (0.25 and 2.5 mg/kg) or PROP (2, 10 and 20 mg/kg) alone did not impair memory consolidation after a 2 h ITI. However, in the third and fourth sets of experiments, co-administration of these ineffective doses of morphine (0.25 and 2.5 mg/kg) and PROP (2, 10 and 20 mg/kg) disrupted memory consolidation after a 2 h ITI. Moreover, the relatively higher dose of morphine (2.5 mg/kg) plus the relatively higher doses of PROP (10 and 20 mg/kg) disrupted memory consolidation to a greater extent after a 2 h ITI. Locomotor activity was not affected by any of the drug treatments. Our data shows that morphine and PROP co-administration disrupts the consolidation of spatial recognition memory, suggesting that inactivation of the beta-adrenergic system may contribute to morphine-induced impairment of memory.
In neurons, spike timing is determined by integration of synaptic potentials in delicate concert with intrinsic properties. Although the integration time is functionally crucial, it remains elusive during network activity. While mechanisms of rapid processing are well documented in sensory systems, agility in motor systems has received little attention. Here we analyze how intense synaptic activity affects integration time in spinal motoneurons during functional motor activity and report a 10-fold decrease. As a result, action potentials can only be predicted from the membrane potential within 10 ms of their occurrence and detected for less than 10 ms after their occurrence. Being shorter than the average inter-spike interval, the AHP has little effect on integration time and spike timing, which instead is entirely determined by fluctuations in membrane potential caused by the barrage of inhibitory and excitatory synaptic activity. By shortening the effective integration time, this intense synaptic input may serve to facilitate the generation of rapid changes in movements.


New neurons are continuously generated in restricted regions of the adult mammalian brain. Although these adult-born neurons have been shown to receive synaptic inputs, little is known about their synaptic outputs. Using retrovirus-mediated birth-dating and labeling in combination with serial section electron microscopic reconstruction, we report that mossy fiber en passant boutons of adult-born dentate granule cells form initial synaptic contacts with CA3 pyramidal cells within 2 weeks after their birth and reach morphologic maturity within 8 weeks in the adult hippocampus. Knockdown of Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) in newborn granule cells leads to defects in axonal targeting and development of synaptic outputs in the adult brain. Together with previous reports of synaptic inputs, these results demonstrate that adult-born neurons are fully integrated into the existing neuronal circuitry. Our results also indicate a role for DISC1 in presynaptic development and may have implications for the etiology of schizophrenia and related mental disorders.
What are the origins of the efficient language learning abilities that allow humans to acquire their mother tongue in just a few years very early in life? Although previous studies have identified different mechanisms underlying the acquisition of auditory and speech patterns in older infants and adults, the earliest sensitivities remain unexplored. To address this issue, we investigated the ability of newborns to learn simple repetition-based structures in two optical brain-imaging experiments. In the first experiment, 22 neonates listened to syllable sequences containing immediate repetitions (ABB; e.g., &quot;mubaba,&quot; &quot;penana&quot;), intermixed with random control sequences (ABC; e.g., &quot;mubage,&quot; &quot;penaku&quot;). We found increased responses to the repetition sequences in the temporal and left frontal areas, indicating that the newborn brain differentiated the two patterns. The repetition sequences evoked greater activation than the random sequences during the first few trials, suggesting the presence of an automatic perceptual mechanism to detect repetitions. In addition, over the subsequent trials, activation increased further in response to the repetition sequences but not in response to the random sequences, indicating that recognition of the ABB pattern was enhanced by repeated exposure. In the second experiment, in which nonadjacent repetitions (ABA; e.g., &quot;bamuba,&quot; &quot;napena&quot;) were contrasted with the same random controls, no discrimination was observed. These findings suggest that newborns are sensitive to certain input configurations in the auditory domain, a perceptual ability that might facilitate later language development.
A novel dual channel in vitro apparatus, derived from a previously described design, has been coupled with dopamine (DA) microsensors for the flow-through detection of DA secreted from PC12 cells. The device, including two independent microdialysis capillaries, was loaded with a solution containing PC12 cells while a constant phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) medium perfusion was carried out using a dual channel miniaturized peristaltic pump. One capillary was perfused with normal PBS, whereas extracellular calcium was removed from extracellular fluid of the second capillary. After a first period of stabilization and DA baseline recording, KCl (75 mM) was added to the perfusion fluid of both capillaries. In this manner, a simultaneous &quot;treatment-control&quot; experimental design was performed to detect K+-evoked calcium-dependent DA secretion. For this purpose, self-referencing DA microsensors were developed, and procedures for making, testing, and calibrating them are described in detail. The electronic circuitry was derived from previously published schematics and optimized for dual sensor constant potential amperometry applications. The microdialysis system was tested and validated in vitro under different experimental conditions, and DA secretion was confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC). PC12 cell viability was quantified before and after each experiment. The proposed apparatus serves as a reliable model for studying the effects of different drugs on DA secretion through the direct comparison of extracellular DA increase in treatment-control experiments performed on the same initial PC12 cell population.
Cell-to-cell signaling peptides play important roles in neurotransmission, neuromodulation, and hormonal signaling. Significant progress has been achieved in qualitative investigations of signaling peptides in the nervous system using single cell matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry. However, quantitative information about signaling peptides is difficult to obtain with this approach because only small amounts of analytes are available for analysis. Here we describe several methods for quantitative microanalysis of peptides in individual Aplysia californica neurons and small pieces of tissue. Stable isotope labeling with d0- and d4-succinic anhydride and iTRAQ reagents has been successfully adopted for relative quantitation of nanoliter volume samples containing the Aplysia insulin C beta peptide. Comparative analysis of the C beta peptide release site, the upper labial nerve, and its synthesis location, the F- and C-clusters, shows that the release site possesses almost three times more of this compound. The method of standard addition permits absolute quantitation of the physiologically active neuropeptide cerebrin from small structures, including nerves and neuronal clusters, in the femtomole range with a limit of detection of 19 fmol. The simplicity of these methods and the commercial availability of the reagents allow quantitative measurements from a variety of small-volume biological samples.
Venom of the Australian ant species Myrmecia pilosula contains a number of allergenic peptides including pilosulins. To obtain novel cDNA clones that encode the pilosulin-related bioactive peptides, mRNA of M. pilosula species complex was subjected to RT-PCR in which the forward primer corresponds to a nucleotide sequence in the leader sequences of pilosulins. We isolated a cDNA clone encoding the novel bioactive peptide pilosulin 5. Tandem mass analysis was entirely consistent with the cDNA derived sequence, and indicated that pilosulin 5 is connected by a single disulfide bridge to create a dimmer peptide of 8546Da. Synthetic pilosulin 5 peptide caused a significant histamine release in a dose-dependent manner, and the mastoparan homologous region of pilosulin 5 was responsible for the activity.



A series of 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridyl-4-carboxamides, exemplified by 6, have been synthesized and evaluated for in vitro TRPV1 antagonist activity, and in vivo analgesic activity in animal pain models. The tetrahydropyridine 6 is a novel TRPV1 receptor antagonist that potently inhibits receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx in vitro induced by several agonists, including capsaicin, N-arachidonoyldopamine (NADA), and low pH. This compound penetrates the CNS and shows potent anti-nociceptive effects in a broad range of animal pain models upon oral dosing due in part to its ability to antagonize both central and peripheral TRPV1 receptors. The SAR leading to the discovery of 6 is presented in this report.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of diseases in which many different mutations cause rod photoreceptor cells to die and then gradually cone photoreceptors die due to progressive oxidative damage. In this study, we have shown that peroxynitrite-induced nitrosative damage also occurs. In the rd1 mouse model of RP, there was increased staining for S-nitrosocysteine and nitrotyrosine protein adducts that are generated by peroxynitrite. Peroxynitrite is generated from nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide radicals. After degeneration of rods, injection of hydroethidine resulted in strong fluorescence in the retina of rd1 mice, indicating high levels of superoxide radicals, and this was reduced, as was nitrotyrosine staining, by apocynin, suggesting that overaction of NADP(H) oxidase is at least partially responsible. Treatment of rd1 mice with a mixture of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors markedly reduced S-nitrosocysteine and nitrotyrosine staining and significantly increased cone survival, indicating that NO-derived peroxynitrite contributes to cone cell death. Treatment with 7-nitroindazole, a relatively specific inhibitor of neuronal NOS, also significantly reduced cone cell death, but aminoguanidine, a relatively specific inhibitor of inducible NOS, did not. These data suggest that NO generated by neuronal NOS exacerbates oxidative damage to cones in RP and that combined therapy to reduce NO and oxidative stress should be considered.
The cellular mechanisms that may underlie the death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease are ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) impairment, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. The goal of this work was to elucidate the correlation between mitochondrial dysfunction and UPS impairment, focusing on the role of oxidative stress. Our data revealed that mitochondria-DNA-depleted cells (rho0) are compromised at the mitochondrial and UPS levels and also show an alteration of the oxidative status. In parental cells (rho+), MPP(+) induced a clear inhibition of complex I activity, as well as an increase in ubiquitinylated protein levels, which was not observed in cells treated with lactacystin. Moreover, MPP(+) induced a decreased in the 20S chymotrypsin-like and peptidyl-glutamyl peptide hydrolytic-like proteolytic activities after 24 h of exposure. ROS production was increased in rho+ cells treated with MPP(+) or lactacystin, at early treatment periods. MPP(+) induced an increase in carbonyl group formation in rho+ cells. The results suggest that a mitochondrial alteration leads to an imbalance in the cellular oxidative status, inducing a proteasomal deregulation, which may exacerbate protein aggregation, and consequently degenerative events.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative condition characterized by progressive motor neuron degeneration and muscle paralysis. Genetic evidence from man and mouse has indicated that mutations in the dynein/dynactin motor complex are correlated with motor neuron degeneration. In this study, we have generated transgenic mice with neuron-specific expression of Bicaudal D2 N-terminus (BICD2-N) to chronically impair dynein/dynactin function. Motor neurons expressing BICD2-N showed accumulation of dynein and dynactin in the cell body, Golgi fragmentation and several signs of impaired retrograde trafficking: the appearance of giant neurofilament swellings in the proximal axon, reduced retrograde labelling by tracer injected in the muscle and delayed expression of the injury transcription factor ATF3 after axon transection. Despite these abnormalities, BICD2-N mice did not develop signs of motor neuron degeneration and motor abnormalities. Interestingly, the BICD2-N transgene increased lifespan in 'low copy' SOD1-G93A ALS transgenic mice. Our findings indicate that impaired dynein/dynactin function can explain several pathological features observed in ALS patients, but may be beneficial in some forms of ALS.
Vaccination therapy of AD animal models and patients strongly suggests an active role of brain mononuclear phagocytes in immune-mediated clearance of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) in brain. Although Abeta uptake by macrophages can be regulated by pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, their effects on macrophage-mediated Abeta degradation are poorly understood. To better understand this mechanism of degradation, we examined whether pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines affect the degradation of Abeta using primary cultured human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) and microglia using pulse-chase analysis of fibrillar and oligomer (125)I-Abeta40 and Abeta42. Initial uptake of fibrillar Abeta40 and Abeta42 was 40% and its degradation was saturated by 120 h in both MDM and microglia, compared with an initial uptake of oligomeric Abeta less than 0.5% and saturation of degradation within 24 h. IFN-gamma increased the intracellular retention of fibrillar Abeta40 and Abeta42 by inhibiting degradation, whereas IL-4, IL-10, and TGF-beta1, but not IL-13 and IL-27, enhanced degradation. Fibrillar Abeta degradation in MDM is sensitive to lysosomal and insulin degrading enzyme inhibitors but insensitive to proteasomal and neprilysin inhibitors. IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha directly reduced the expression of insulin degrading enzyme and chaperone molecules (heat shock protein 70 and heat shock cognate protein 70), which are involved in refolding of aggregated proteins. Coculture of MDM with activated, but not naive T cells, suppressed Abeta degradation in MDM, which was partially blocked by a combination of neutralizing Abs against proinflammatory cytokines. These data suggest that proinflammatory cytokines suppress Abeta degradation in MDM, whereas select anti-inflammatory and regulatory cytokines antagonize these effects.

In early-onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG), the thymus is colonized by lymph node-like infiltrates including T cell areas and germinal centers. Our Group(1) showed (1978) spontaneous anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) autoantibody production by EOMG thymic cells. Especially after enzymic dispersal, these are enriched in plasma cells that are evidently autonomous, long-lived, terminally differentiated and radio-resistant. Radiolabeled AChR is highly sensitive both for localizing them in situ and detecting their ongoing antibody production in culture at limiting cell numbers. Thus EOMG thymi are a readily available source of specific autoimmune human plasma cells suitable for studying their biology and testing new therapies.
John Newsom-Davis was a key figure in the field of neuroimmunology and combined many outstanding personal qualities with considerable clinical and scientific expertise. His first report of plasma exchange in myasthenia in the late 1970s demonstrated its use both as a treatment and as an experimental tool to establish the pathogenic role of antibodies in neurological disorders. Subsequent investigations into the Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome and acquired neuromyotonia showed that these were caused by antibodies to specific ion channels. The field of autoimmune channelopathies is continuing to expand with identification of new antibody-mediated diseases including those affecting the central nervous system. This review will highlight some of his most seminal findings and those that are following on from his work.
Currently used non-specific immunosuppressive drugs often require intervention in myasthenia gravis (MG) and clinical improvement varies widely. To analyze the therapeutic effect of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG), rats were immunized with acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) and subsequently treated with MMF or vehicle. MMF treatment resulted in a significant suppression of anti-rat AChR antibody titers. Interestingly, no abnormalities of neuromuscular transmission and adverse side effects were detected in MMF-treated EAMG animals. Moreover, anti-rat AChR antibody titers correlated to an improvement of clinical outcome. In conclusion, our data suggest that MMF acts as a potent immunosuppressant drug in EAMG.
Recent research into the Guillain-Barr syndromes (GBS) has focused on anti-ganglioside antibodies that correlate with specific clinical phenotypes. Our increasing understanding of the role of antibodies in mediating GBS has naturally focused our attention on complement involvement in the pathological procession. We have studied the axonal and glial components of the murine motor nerve terminal as a model site of antibody and complement mediated injury. Such studies are providing us with clear information on the molecular components underlying our clinicopathological model for GBS and have lead us to the testing of emerging complement therapeutics that are potentially suitable for human use.
The role of antigen expression by thymomas in myasthenia gravis (MG) is not clear. Previous reports of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) mRNA expression by the highly sensitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR) produced varying results. To try to clarify this issue, we first used RT-PCR but then turned to the more accurate and quantitative RNase protection assays (RPA) to assess AChR subunit mRNA expression in thymomas from 25 patients (22 with MG). By RT-PCR, all five AChR subunits could be detected in many thymomas. However, by RPA, the mRNA for the adult-specific AChR epsilon-subunit was found in 13/25 (52%) thymomas, but not mRNA for the other subunits. AChR epsilon-subunit was more frequently detected in thymomas of A or AB histology (WHO classification) than those with B1-B3 histology. Overall, 6/6 with thymomas of A or AB histology were positive compared with only 8/19 with B histology (p=0.02). Autoantibodies in the two patients with the highest levels of epsilon-subunit mRNA bound better to adult (alpha(2)betadeltaepsilon) AChR than to fetal (alpha(2)betadeltagamma) AChR, whereas the other sera bound better to fetal AChR. The greater abundance of mRNA for AChR epsilon-subunit than for other subunits suggests that the AChR epsilon-subunit may play a distinctive role in autosensitization in MG-associated thymomas, particularly those of type A or AB.
Myasthenia gravis (MG), the most common of autoimmune myasthenic syndromes, is characterized by antibodies directed against the skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). Endplate Na(+) channels ensure the efficiency of neuromuscular transmission by reducing the threshold depolarization needed to trigger an action potential. Postsynaptic AChRs and voltage-gated Na(+) channels are both lost from the neuromuscular junction in MG. This study examined the impact of postsynaptic voltage-gated Na(+) channel loss on the safety factor for neuromuscular transmission. In intercostal nerve-muscle preparations from MG patients, we found that endplate AChR loss decreases the size of the endplate potential, and endplate Na(+) channel loss increases the threshold depolarization needed to produce a muscle action potential. To evaluate whether AChR-specific antibody impairs the function of Na(+) channels, we tested omohyoid nerve-muscle preparations from rats injected with monoclonal myasthenogenic IgG (passive transfer model of MG [PTMG]). The AChR antibody that produces PTMG did not alter the function of Na(+) channels. We conclude that loss of endplate Na(+) channels in MG is due to complement-mediated loss of endplate membrane rather than a direct effect of myasthenogenic antibodies on endplate Na(+) channels.


Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis is a progressive disease causing degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons with an average survival of 2 to 3 years. We retrospectively analyzed 1,153 patients of classical sporadic ALS seen over 30 years for the clinical manifestations and survival pattern. There were 855 (74.2%) men and 298 (25.8%) women with a M:F ratio of 3:1. The mean age of onset was 46.2+/-14.1 years (18-85) and the mean duration of illness at evaluation was 17.7+/-20.7 months (0.5-180). Mean age of onset for bulbar onset group was 52.8+/-11.6 and for limb onset was 43.7+/-14.1 (p&lt;0.0001). One third of patients had onset before 40 years of age. The overall median survival duration (MSD) was 114.8+/-25.9(SE) months (3.3-194.4). Survival did not differ between the men [101.7+/-27.4(SE)] and women [118.9+/-6.3(SE)]. Information on death was available in 124 patients. The mean age at death was 52.95 years (25.7-82.6). The MSD for bulbar onset group was 55.9+/-2.9(SE) months and for limb onset group 177.9+/-3.2(SE) (p&lt;0.0001). Gender did not have an effect on the survival period. The clinical manifestations are similar to findings from other developing countries with regards to age of onset, sex ratio and survival. When compared to studies among Caucasians the age of onset was one to two decades earlier and the male preponderance was more. The survival pattern is close to those reported from developing countries particularly from Africa and among Asian immigrants to the West, while it is significantly longer compared to Caucasians who generally have a dismal prognosis. Thus, Indians appear to have a relatively younger age of onset and prolonged survival suggesting the relatively slow course of ALS among Indian patients.
We compared the effects of mode of delivery of neuroactive agents and the effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), a vehicle for dissolving neuroactive agents, on locomotor-like activity in vitro. By superfusion, d-glutamate (0.3-0.9 mM) produced robust walking-like activity at superfusion rates 10-25 ml/min. In contrast, bolus application of the same or higher doses of glutamate (0.1-1.5 mM) failed to induce any rhythmic activity. Superfusion with AP-5, a NMDA receptor antagonist, produced dose-dependent inhibition of the ongoing walking-like activity induced by D-glutamate and completely blocked the activity at 20 microM. In contrast, bolus application of AP-5 did not block the walking-like activity at concentrations up to 120 microM. Similarly, superfusion of AP-5 inhibited the initiation of walking-like activity and completely blocked the initiation at 20 microM, while bolus application of AP-5 failed to do so at concentrations up to 120 microM. Superfusion of strychnine, a glycine receptor antagonist, blocked the walking-like activity at concentrations of 3-5 microM, while its bolus application altered NMDA-induced, but not glutamate-induced, walking-like activity to a synchronized pattern. DMSO significantly affected the walking-like activity in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations ranging 1-10% (v/v). These results demonstrate that the way by which the neuroactive agents are applied is a significant factor that determines the outcome of experiments on the neural control of locomotion. Also, the dose-dependent effects of DMSO on the activity of neural networks for locomotion should be taken into account in data interpretation.
Implantable microfabricated microelectrode arrays represent a versatile and powerful tool to record electrophysiological activity across multiple spatial locations in the brain. Spikes and field potentials, however, correspond to only a fraction of the physiological information available at the neural interface. In urethane-anesthetized rats, microfabricated microelectrode arrays were implanted acutely for simultaneous recording of striatal local field potentials, spikes, and electrically evoked dopamine overflow on the same spatiotemporal scale. During these multi-modal recordings we observed (1) that the amperometric method used to detect dopamine did not significantly influence electrophysiological activity, (2) that electrical stimulation in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) region resulted in electrochemically transduced dopamine transients in the striatum that were spatially heterogeneous within at least 200 microm, and (3) following MFB stimulation, dopamine levels and electrophysiological activity within the striatum exhibited similar temporal profiles. These neural probes are capable of incorporating customized microelectrode geometries and configurations, which may be useful for examining specific spatiotemporal relationships between electrical and chemical signaling in the brain.
The fluorescent carbocyanine dye DiI (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate) has been widely used for tracing of neuronal pathways. To examine identities of the DiI-labeled neuronal pathways, it is desirable to combine DiI labeling with immunofluorescent staining. However, DiI labeling and immunofluorescent staining are not well compatible, mainly because treatment of DiI-labeled neurons with detergents, which are commonly used for immunohistochemistry, results in high levels of diffusion of the DiI label. In this study, we searched for detergents that are compatible with DiI labeling, and found that a cholesterol-specific detergent digitonin is useful for fluorescent double-labeling with DiI tracing and immunohistochemistry. We show that digitonin treatment, in contrast to Triton X-100, methanol and Nonidet P-40 treatment, preserves DiI labeling, even at higher concentrations. We also show that digitonin also preserves the signal of a DiI derivative CM-DiI. Moreover, we demonstrate that digitonin efficiently increases antibody penetration into brain sections. As a result, immunohistochemical images obtained with digitonin treatment are as good as those obtained with Triton X-100 treatment. In addition, we also try another cholesterol-specific detergent quillaja saponin, but find that it degrades the DiI label. Our simple double-labeling protocol using digitonin should prove useful in enabling detailed examination of the neuronal circuitry of the nervous system.
Songbirds are the preeminent animal model for understanding how the brain encodes and produces learned vocalizations. Here, we report a new statistical method, the Kullback-Leibler (K-L) distance, for analyzing vocal change over time. First, we use a computerized recording system to capture all song syllables produced by birds each day. Sound Analysis Pro software [Tchernichovski O, Nottebohm F, Ho CE, Pesaran B, Mitra PP. A procedure for an automated measurement of song similarity. Anim Behav 2000;59:1167-76] is then used to measure the duration of each syllable as well as four spectral features: pitch, entropy, frequency modulation, and pitch goodness. Next, two-dimensional scatter plots of each day of singing are created where syllable duration is on the x-axis and each of the spectral features is represented separately on the y-axis. Each point in the scatter plots represents one syllable and we regard these plots as random samples from a probability distribution. We then apply the standard information-theoretic quantity K-L distance to measure dissimilarity in phonology across days of singing. A variant of this procedure can also be used to analyze differences in syllable syntax.
Intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG) is clinically indicated for medically refractory epilepsy and is a promising approach for developing neural prosthetics. These recordings also provide valuable data for cognitive neuroscience research. Accurate localization of iEEG electrodes is essential for evaluating specific brain regions underlying the electrodes that indicate normal or pathological activity, as well as for relating research findings to neuroimaging and lesion studies. However, electrodes are frequently tucked underneath the edge of a craniotomy, inserted via a burr hole, or placed deep within the brain, where their locations cannot be verified visually or with neuronavigational systems. We show that one existing method, registration of postimplant computed tomography (CT) with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), can result in errors exceeding 1cm. We present a novel method for localizing iEEG electrodes using routinely acquired surgical photographs, X-ray radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging scans. Known control points are used to compute projective transforms that link the different image sets, ultimately allowing hidden electrodes to be localized, in addition to refining the location of manually registered visible electrodes. As the technique does not require any calibration between the different image modalities, it can be applied to existing image databases. The final result is a set of electrode positions on the patient's rendered MRI yielding locations relative to sulcal and gyral landmarks on individual anatomy, as well as MNI coordinates. We demonstrate the results of our method in eight epilepsy patients implanted with electrode grids spanning the left hemisphere.
Assessment of methylation state of DNA extracted from brain is becoming one of the most investigated issues in the study of epigenetics and psychopathology. pH effects in brain are known to affect gene transcription, though pH effects on DNA methylation state are unknown. We demonstrate in vitro using an artificially methylated plasmid that DNA methylation state remains stable, even under extreme pH conditions. Next, using two different genomic regions from human DNA, we assess methylation state from both cortical and sub-cortical brain regions using subjects with varying pH levels. No correlation was found between DNA methylation state and pH. These results suggest that DNA methylation state is stable in post-mortem brain.
As the frequency of a flickering light is increased, the perception of flicker is replaced by the perception of steady light at what is known as the critical flicker fusion threshold (CFFT). This threshold provides a useful measure of the brain's information processing speed, and has been used in medicine for over a century both for diagnostic and drug efficacy studies. However, the hardware for presenting the stimulus has not advanced to take advantage of computers, largely because the refresh rates of typical monitors are too slow to provide fine-grained changes in the alternation rate of a visual stimulus. For example, a cathode ray tube (CRT) computer monitor running at 100Hz will render a new frame every 10 ms, thus restricting the period of a flickering stimulus to multiples of 20 ms. These multiples provide a temporal resolution far too low to make precise threshold measurements, since typical CFFT values are in the neighborhood of 35 ms. We describe here a simple and novel technique to enable alternating images at several closely-spaced periods on a standard monitor. The key to our technique is to programmatically control the video card to dynamically reset the refresh rate of the monitor. Different refresh rates allow slightly different frame durations; this can be leveraged to vastly increase the resolution of stimulus presentation times. This simple technique opens new inroads for experiments on computers that require more finely-spaced temporal resolution than a monitor at a single, fixed refresh rate can allow.
The ability to detect and sort overlapping spike waveforms in extracellular recordings is key to studies of neural coding at high spatial and temporal resolution. Most spike-sorting algorithms are based on initial spike detection (e.g. by a voltage threshold) and subsequent waveform classification. Much effort has been devoted to the clustering step, despite the fact that conservative spike detection is notoriously difficult in low signal-to-noise conditions and often entails many spike misses. Hidden Markov models (HMMs) can serve as generative models for continuous extracellular data records. These models naturally combine the spike detection and classification steps into a single computational procedure. They unify the advantages of independent component analysis (ICA) and overlap-search algorithms because they blindly perform source separation even in cases where several neurons are recorded on a single electrode. We apply HMMs to artificially generated data and to extracellular signals recorded with glass electrodes. We show that in comparison with state-of-art spike-sorting algorithms, HMM-based spike sorting exhibits a comparable number of false positive spike classifications but many fewer spike misses.

Loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels cause cerebellar ataxia in mice and humans, but the underlying mechanism(s) are unknown. These Ca(2+) channels play important roles in regulating both synaptic transmission and intrinsic membrane properties, and defects in either could contribute to ataxia. Our previous work described changes in intrinsic properties and excitability of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) resulting from the leaner mutation, which is known to reduce whole-cell Ca(2+) currents in PCs and cause severe ataxia. Here we describe the impact of this mutation on excitatory synaptic transmission from parallel and climbing fibres (PFs, CFs) to PCs in acute cerebellar slices. We found that in leaner PCs, PF-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (PF-EPSCs) are approximately 50% smaller, and CF-evoked EPSCs are approximately 80% larger, than in wild-type (WT) mice. To investigate whether reduced presynaptic Ca(2+) entry plays a role in attenuating PF-EPSCs in leaner mice, we examined paired-pulse facilitation (PPF). We found that PPF is enhanced in leaner, suggesting that reduced presynaptic Ca(2+) entry reduces neurotransmitter release at these synapses. Short-term plasticity was unchanged at CF-PC synapses, suggesting that CF-EPSCs are larger in leaner PCs because of increased synapse number or postsynaptic sensitivity, rather than enhanced presynaptic Ca(2+) entry. To investigate the functional impact of the observed EPSC changes, we also compared excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by PF and CF stimulation in WT and leaner PCs. Importantly, we found that despite pronounced changes in PF- and CF-EPSCs, evoked EPSPs in leaner mice are very similar to those observed in WT animals. These results suggest that changes in synaptic currents and intrinsic properties of PCs produced by the leaner mutation together maintain PC responsiveness to excitatory synaptic inputs. They also implicate other consequences of the leaner mutation as causes of abnormal cerebellar motor control in mutant mice.
Interhemispheric interactions between the primary motor cortices (M1) have been described with a variety of TMS methods. Here we give a detailed description of the interhemispheric interactions of a period of theta burst simulation (TBS), a rapid method of producing long lasting after-effects on the excitability of the stimulated M1. A total of 18 right handed healthy subjects participated. In most experiments, continuous and intermittent TBS (cTBS and iTBS) were delivered over the right M1 using a coil orientated to induce antero-posterior followed by postero-anterior (AP-PA) currents in the brain. The intensity of stimulation was 80% of active motor threshold (AMT), and a total of 600 pulses were applied. The effects on the amplitude of motor evoked potentials (MEPs), short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) were evaluated in the left and right M1 before and at three different times after TBS. We also tested long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) in right M1 and interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) from right to left M1. Finally, to explore the effect of different polarities of cTBS over dominant and non-dominant hemisphere we delivered AP-PA and postero-anterior followed by antero-posterior (PA-AP) cTBS over either right or left M1 and tested MEPs in both hemispheres. In the stimulated hemisphere, cTBS reduced MEPs and SICI whereas iTBS increased MEPs and SICI. In the non-stimulated hemisphere cTBS increased MEPs and reduced SICI, while iTBS reduced MEPs and increased SICI. There were no effects on ICF, LICI or IHI. Although both AP-PA cTBS and PA-AP cTBS reduced MEPs in the stimulated M1, the former increased MEPs from non-stimulated M1 whereas the latter did not. There was no difference in the effect of cTBS on the dominant or non-dominant hemisphere.
Experimental reduction in placental growth often leads to increased placental efficiency measured as grams of fetus produced per gram of placenta, although little is known about the mechanisms involved. This study tested the hypothesis that the smallest placenta within a litter is the most efficient at supporting fetal growth by examining the natural intra-litter variation in placental nutrient transfer capacity in normal pregnant mice. The morphology, nutrient transfer and expression of key growth and nutrient supply genes (Igf2P0, Grb10, Slc2a1, Slc2a3, Slc38a1, Slc38a2 and Slc38a4) were compared in the lightest and heaviest placentas of a litter at days 16 and 19 of pregnancy, when mouse fetuses are growing most rapidly in absolute terms. The data show that there are morphological and functional adaptations in the lightest placenta within a litter, which increase active transport of amino acids per gram of placenta and maintain normal fetal growth close to term, despite the reduced placental mass. The specific placental adaptations differ with age. At E16, they are primarily morphological with an increase in the volume fraction of the labyrinthine zone responsible for nutrient exchange, whereas at E19 they are more functional with up-regulated placental expression of the glucose transporter gene, Slc2a1/GLUT1 and one isoform the System A family of amino acid transporters, Slc38a2/SNAT2. Thus, this adaptability in placental phenotype provides a functional reserve capacity for maximizing fetal growth during late gestation when placental growth is compromised.
Arm swing is typically reduced in people with Parkinsonism, and also in those with pyramidal dysfunction. We have previously observed that patients with focal arm dystonia can also have reduced arm swing. However, arm swing has not been formally studied in adult-onset primary cervical dystonia (AOPCD). We assessed arm swing in 100 consecutive patients diagnosed with AOPCD and 50 healthy controls. Reduced arm swing was more common in patients with AOPCD compared with healthy controls (55% vs. 6%, P &lt; 0.001) and was more often abnormal on the same side as the direction of head turning (P &lt; 0.05). Women with AOPCD had more often reduced arm swing compared with men (P = 0.002). Reduced arm swing is common in AOPCD. It may indicate segmental spread of subtle motor dysfunction or it may be a feature of dystonia per se.
Benign hereditary chorea (BHC) is a rare autosomal dominant nonprogressive movement disorder. In some cases the phenotype includes, besides choreoathetosis, thyroid dysfunction and pulmonary infections in infancy, as expressed by the name &quot;Brain-Thyroid-Lung syndrome&quot;. Mutations in the thyroid transcription factor-1 (TITF-1) gene have been identified in some BHC families. We present the phenotypic features of a family with chorea, hypothyroidism, and lung dysfunction. All affected individuals suffered from a nonprogressive chorea with infancy onset. All showed short stature and some webbed neck. One patient suffered from psychosis at the age of 27 years another from lung carcinoma. In all affected individuals, a novel mutation consisting of heterozygous C to A substitution at position 650 of the coding sequence of the TITF-1 gene, exon 3 was detected, leading to a premature stop at codon 217 (S217X). We describe the unique phenotypic features and intrafamilial variability expressing this novel mutation.
Cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2) agonists provide the potential for treating chronic pain states without CNS effects associated with CB1 receptor activation. Animal models suggest that they act mainly via non-neuronal cells, possibly inhibition of inflammatory cells in the periphery or CNS, or via release of beta-endorphin; however, the clinical relevance and mechanism of analgesic action is uncertain. Here, we demonstrate colocalisation of CB2 with CB1 and the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 in human dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons and increased levels of CB2 receptors in human peripheral nerves after injury, particularly painful neuromas. In primary cultures of human DRG neurons, selective CB2 agonists blocked activation of inward cation currents and elevation of cytoplasmic Ca2+ in response to capsaicin. These inhibitory effects were reversed by GW818646X a CB2 antagonist, and 8-bromo cAMP, but not by SR141716 a CB1 antagonist, or naloxone. Thus CB2 receptor agonists functionally inhibited nociceptive signalling in human primary sensory neurons via a mechanism shared with opioids, of adenylyl cyclase inhibition, but not via mu-opioid receptors. We conclude that CB2 agonists deserve imminent clinical trials for nociceptive, inflammatory and neuropathic chronic pain, in which capsaicin or heat-activated responses via TRPV1 may provide a clinical marker.
Although many pharmacological agents are used in the therapy of neuropathic pain (NeP) due to polyneuropathy (PN), there are limited comparison studies comparing these agents. We evaluated patients with PN and related NeP in a tertiary care neuromuscular clinic with prospective follow-up after 3 and 6 months for degree of NeP using a Visual Analog Score (VAS). Clinical response to specific open-label pharmacotherapies was measured and compared for those patients not receiving pharmacotherapy. The severity of PN was quantified by the Toronto Clinical Scoring System (TCSS), with patients classified according to etiology of PN. Of a total of 408 patients referred for diagnosis and/or management of PN, NeP was identified in 182 patients (45%). NeP was most prevalent in patients with alcohol-associated PN. Pharmacotherapy management was provided in 91% of cases at first visit, and for 87% of cases after 6 months of follow-up. There were no serious adverse events for patients related to any medications, which included gabapentinoids, tricyclic antidepressants, anticonvulsants, cannabinoids and topical agents. Prevalence of intolerable side effects was similar amongst groups of medications. Approximated numbers needed to treat were similar between different individual oral pharmacotherapies, trending towards greater treatment efficacy with combination therapy. NeP is common in patients with PN and frequently requires pharmacotherapy management, which may be more effective with combination therapy. Future studies assessing longer duration of follow-up and quality of life changes with the use of various pharmacotherapies for management of NeP due to PN will be important.
Recent studies indicate that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are critically involved in persistent pain primarily through spinal mechanisms, thus suggesting ROS involvement in central sensitization. To investigate ROS involvement in central sensitization, the effects of ROS scavengers and donors on pain behaviors were examined in mice. Capsaicin- induced hyperalgesia was used as a pain model since it has 2 distinctive pain components, primary and secondary hyperalgesia representing peripheral and central sensitization, respectively. Capsaicin (25 microg/5 microl) was injected intradermally into the left hind foot. Foot withdrawal frequencies in response to von Frey filament stimuli were measured and used as an indicator of mechanical hyperalgesia. The production of ROS was examined by using a ROS sensitive dye, MitoSox. Mice developed primary and secondary mechanical hyperalgesia after capsaicin injection. A systemic or intrathecal post-treatment with either phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) or 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1 oxyl (TEMPOL), ROS scavengers, significantly reduced secondary hyperalgesia, but not primary hyperalgesia, in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with ROS scavengers also significantly reduced the magnitude and duration of capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia. On the other hand, intrathecal injection of tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BOOH, 5 microl), a ROS donor, produced a transient hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner. The number of MitoSox positive dorsal horn neurons was increased significantly after capsaicin treatment. This study suggests that ROS mediates the development and maintenance of capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia in mice, mainly through central sensitization and that the elevation of spinal ROS is most likely due to increased production of mitochondrial superoxides in the dorsal horn neurons.
The mammalian biological clock, located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), imposes its temporal structure on the organism via neural and endocrine outputs. To further investigate SCN control of the autonomic nervous system we focused in the present study on the daily rhythm in plasma glucose concentrations. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is an important target area of biological clock output and harbors the pre-autonomic neurons that control peripheral sympathetic and parasympathetic activity. Using local administration of GABA and glutamate receptor (ant)agonists in the PVN at different times of the light/dark-cycle we investigated whether daily changes in the activity of autonomic nervous system contribute to the control of plasma glucose and plasma insulin concentrations. Activation of neuronal activity in the PVN of non-feeding animals, either by administering a glutamatergic agonist or a GABAergic antagonist, induced hyperglycemia. The effect of the GABA-antagonist was time dependent, causing increased plasma glucose concentrations only when administered during the light period. The absence of a hyperglycemic effect of the GABA-antagonist in SCN-ablated animals provided further evidence for a daily change in GABAergic input from the SCN to the PVN. On the other hand, feeding-induced plasma glucose and insulin responses were suppressed by inhibition of PVN neuronal activity only during the dark period. These results indicate that the pre-autonomic neurons in the PVN are controlled by an interplay of inhibitory and excitatory inputs. Liver-dedicated sympathetic pre-autonomic neurons (responsible for hepatic glucose production) and pancreas-dedicated pre-autonomic parasympathetic neurons (responsible for insulin release) are controlled by inhibitory GABAergic contacts that are mainly active during the light period. Both sympathetic and parasympathetic pre-autonomic PVN neurons also receive excitatory inputs, either from the biological clock (sympathetic pre-autonomic neurons) or from non-clock areas (para-sympathetic pre-autonomic neurons), but the timing information is mainly provided by the GABAergic outputs of the biological clock.

Evaluation of arterial baroreflex in cardiovascular control is an important topic in cardiology and clinical medicine. In this paper, we present a point process approach to estimate the dynamic baroreflex gain in a closed-loop model of the cardiovascular system. Specifically, the inverse Gaussian probability distribution is used to model the heartbeat interval, whereas the instantaneous mean is modulated by a bivariate autoregressive model that contains the previous R-R intervals and systolic blood pressure (SBP) measures. The instantaneous baroreflex gain is estimated in the feedback loop with a point process filter, while the RRSBP feedforward frequency response gain can be estimated by a Kalman filter. The proposed estimation approach provides a quantitative assessment of interacting heartbeat dynamics and hemodynamics. We validate our approach with real physiological signals and evaluate the proposed model with established goodness-of-fit tests.
Voltage-gated K+ channels are dynamic macromolecular machines that open and close in response to changes in membrane potential. These multisubunit membrane-embedded proteins are responsible for governing neuronal excitability, maintaining cardiac rhythmicity, and regulating epithelial electrolyte homeostasis. High resolution crystal structures have provided snapshots of K+ channels caught in different states with incriminating molecular detail. Nonetheless, the connection between these static images and the specific trajectories of K+ channel movements is still being resolved by biochemical experimentation. Electrophysiological recordings in the presence of chemical modifying reagents have been a staple in ion channel structure/function studies during both the pre- and post-crystal structure eras. Small molecule tethering agents (chemoselective electrophiles linked to ligands) have proven to be particularly useful tools for defining the architecture and motions of K+ channels. This Minireview examines the synthesis and utilization of chemical tethering agents to probe and manipulate the assembly, structure, function, and molecular movements of voltage-gated K+ channel protein complexes.
Stress-mediated loss of synaptogenesis in the hippocampus appears to play a role in depressive and mood disorders. However, little is known about the effect of stress/depression on the plasticity and survival of cortical neurons. In this report, we have examined whether chronic stress increases the vulnerability of neurons in the rat cortex. We have used a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CMS) as a rat model of depression. CMS (5 weeks treatment) produced anedonia and increased corticosterone levels. These effects were accompanied by a detectable increase in caspase-3 positive neurons in the cerebral cortex, suggesting apoptosis. Desipramine (DMI), a well known antidepressant, reversed the pro-apoptotic effect of CMS. These results suggest that antidepressants may reduce the pathological changes seen in stress-induced depressive disorders.
Ankle sprain is a frequent injury in humans that results in pain, swelling and difficulty in walking on the affected side. Currently a suitable animal model resembling human ankle sprain is lacking. Here, we describe an animal ankle sprain model induced by ankle ligament injury (ALI) in rats. Cutting combinations of the lateral ankle ligament complex produced pain, edema and difficulty of weight bearing, thereby mimicking severe (grade III) ankle sprain in humans. Analgesic compounds, morphine and indomethacin, significantly reversed the reduced weight bearing, thus indicating that reduction of weight bearing is partially due to pain. The ALI model is a new ankle sprain model that may be useful for the study of ankle sprain pain mechanisms and treatments, as well as for the screening of new analgesic drugs.


During synaptic vesicle fusion, the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein syntaxin-1 exhibits two conformations that both bind to Munc18-1: a &quot;closed&quot; conformation outside the SNARE complex and an &quot;open&quot; conformation in the SNARE complex. Although SNARE complexes containing open syntaxin-1 and Munc18-1 are essential for exocytosis, the function of closed syntaxin-1 is unknown. We generated knockin/knockout mice that expressed only open syntaxin-1B. Syntaxin-1B(Open) mice were viable but succumbed to generalized seizures at 2 to 3 months of age. Binding of Munc18-1 to syntaxin-1 was impaired in syntaxin-1B(Open) synapses, and the size of the readily releasable vesicle pool was decreased; however, the rate of synaptic vesicle fusion was dramatically enhanced. Thus, the closed conformation of syntaxin-1 gates the initiation of the synaptic vesicle fusion reaction, which is then mediated by SNARE-complex/Munc18-1 assemblies.

Stem cells reside in specialized niches that regulate their self-renewal and differentiation. The vasculature is emerging as an important component of stem cell niches. Here, we show that the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) neural stem cell niche contains an extensive planar vascular plexus that has specialized properties. Dividing stem cells and their transit-amplifying progeny are tightly apposed to SVZ blood vessels both during homeostasis and regeneration. They frequently contact the vasculature at sites that lack astrocyte endfeet and pericyte coverage, a modification of the blood-brain barrier unique to the SVZ. Moreover, regeneration often occurs at these sites. Finally, we find that circulating small molecules in the blood enter the SVZ. Thus, the vasculature is a key component of the adult SVZ neural stem cell niche, with SVZ stem cells and transit-amplifying cells uniquely poised to receive spatial cues and regulatory signals from diverse elements of the vascular system.
We investigated the effect of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB239063 on inflammation and neurogenesis after ischemia in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Our study shows that after oxygen-glucose deprivation, the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) are strongly activated. The p38 MAPK phosphorylation returned to basal levels within 1 h after oxygen-glucose deprivation, whereas the ERK1/2 phosphorylation reached the basal level only after 24 h. Treatment with 20 microM and 100 microM SB239063 strikingly reduced cell death after oxygen-glucose deprivation and significantly diminished microglia activation in the cornu ammonis (CA-region), but not in the area dentata. Levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta were reduced by 84% after treatment with SB239063 whereas the cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha were not affected. After 6 days, neurogenesis was significantly increased in the posterior periventricle. Based on these findings, our study shows that anti-inflammatory treatment with SB239063 reduces cell death, inflammation and microglia activation and, at high concentrations, enhances the oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neurogenesis in the posterior periventricle.
There is a growing body of evidence indicating that stimulation of metabotropic glutamate type II receptors (mGlu2/3) reduces anxiety in laboratory animals and humans. Surprisingly, it was reported that mGlu2/3 receptor antagonists have antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like activities in laboratory animal studies as well. The present study aimed to resolve this controversy by characterizing behavioral effects of a selective mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist, LY-341495, in a variety of animal models sensitive to clinically used anxiolytic and antidepressant agents. In agreement with previous reports, LY-341495 (0.3-3 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced immobility in the mouse forced swim test. LY-341495 was also effective in the marble burying test in mice, although similar effects were observed after administration of various drugs including methamphetamine. Further, LY-341495 had no effects in the elevated plus maze and stress-induced hyperthermia tests in mice, as well as on punished drinking (Geller-Seifter's test) and differential reinforcement of low rates of responding (DRL) in rats. It is concluded that behavioral profile of mGlu2/3 receptor antagonists as represented by LY-341495 is different from that of conventional anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs.
The naturally occurring alkaloid, conessine (6), was discovered to bind to histamine H3 receptors in a radioligand-based high-throughput screen. Conessine displayed high affinity at both rat and human H3 receptors (pKi = 7.61 and 8.27) and generally high selectivity against other sites, including histamine receptors H1, H2, and H4. Conessine was found to efficiently penetrate the CNS and reach very high brain concentrations. Although the very slow CNS clearance and strong binding to adrenergic receptors discouraged focus on conessine itself for further development, its potency and novel steroid-based skeleton motivated further chemical investigation. Modification based on introducing diversity at the 3-nitrogen position generated a new series of H3 antagonists with higher in vitro potency, improved target selectivity, and more favorable drug-like properties. One optimized analogue (13c) was examined in detail and was found to be efficacious in animal behavioral model of cognition.
In this paper and video, we describe the protocols used in our laboratory to study the targeting preferences of regenerating cell processes of adult retinal neurons in vitro. Procedures for preparing retinal cell cultures start with the dissection, digestion and trituration of the retina, and end with the plating of isolated retinal cells on dishes made especially for use with laser tweezers. These dishes are divided into a cell adhesive half and a cell repellant half. The cell adhesive side is coated with a layer of Sal-1 antibodies, which provide a substrate upon which our cells grow. Other adhesive substrates could be used for other cell types. The cell repellant side is coated with a thin layer of poly-HEMA. The cells plated on the poly-HEMA side of the dish are trapped with the laser tweezers, transported and then placed adjacent to a cell on the Sal-1 side to create a pair. Formation of cell groups of any size should be possible with this technique. &quot;Laser-tweezers-controlled micromanipulation&quot; means that the investigator can choose which cells to move, and the desired distance between the cells can be standardized. Because the laser beam goes through transparent surfaces of the culture dish, cell selection and placement are done in an enclosed, sterile environment. Cells can be monitored by video time-lapse and used with any cell biological technique required. This technique may help investigations of cell-cell interactions.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by progressive memory loss. Pathological markers of AD include neurofibrillary tangles, accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques, neuronal loss, and inflammation. The exact events that lead to the neuronal dysfunction and loss are not completely understood. However, pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha, are increased in AD, along with gene expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). MHC class II molecules are found in microglia of the brain, while MIF is found in both microglia and neurons of the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and cortex. MIF is not only a lymphocyte mediator but also a pituitary factor with endocrine properties and can mediate phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 MAP kinases pathway. In this study, we looked at CD74, an integral membrane protein that acts as both a chaperone for MHC class II molecules as well as a receptor binding site for MIF. CD74 was recently found to be increased in microglia in AD cases compared to age-matched controls, but has not been reported in neurons. In our analysis, immunohistochemistry revealed a significant increase in CD74 primarily in neurofibrillary tangles, amyloid-beta plaques, and microglia. This is the first finding to our knowledge that CD74 is increased in neurons of AD cases compared to age-matched control cases.
Although rod and cone photoreceptor cells in the vertebrate retina are anatomically connected or coupled by gap junctions, a type of electrical synapse, rod-cone electrical coupling is thought to be weak. Using tracer labeling and electrical recording in the goldfish retina and tracer labeling in the mouse retina, we show that the retinal circadian clock, and not the retinal response to the visual environment, controls the extent and strength of rod-cone coupling by activating dopamine D(2)-like receptors in the day, so that rod-cone coupling is weak during the day but remarkably robust at night. The results demonstrate that circadian control of rod-cone electrical coupling serves as a synaptic switch that allows cones to receive very dim light signals from rods at night, but not in the day. The increase in the strength and extent of rod-cone coupling at night may facilitate the detection of large dim objects.
Phototransduction in flies is the fastest known G protein-coupled signaling cascade, but how this performance is achieved remains unclear. Here, we investigate the mechanism and role of rhodopsin inactivation. We determined the lifetime of activated rhodopsin (metarhodopsin = M( *)) in whole-cell recordings from Drosophila photoreceptors by measuring the time window within which inactivating M( *) by photoreisomerization to rhodopsin could suppress responses to prior illumination. M( *) was inactivated rapidly (tau approximately 20 ms) under control conditions, but approximately 10-fold more slowly in Ca2+-free solutions. This pronounced Ca2+ dependence of M( *) inactivation was unaffected by mutations affecting phosphorylation of rhodopsin or arrestin but was abolished in mutants of calmodulin (CaM) or the CaM-binding myosin III, NINAC. This suggests a mechanism whereby Ca2+ influx acting via CaM and NINAC accelerates the binding of arrestin to M( *). Our results indicate that this strategy promotes quantum efficiency, temporal resolution, and fidelity of visual signaling.
Previous work has demonstrated that the character of mouse cortical interneuron subtypes can be directly related to their embryonic temporal and spatial origins. The relationship between embryonic origin and the character of mature interneurons is likely reflected by the developmental expression of genes that direct cell fate. However, a thorough understanding of the early genetic events that specify subtype identity has been hampered by the perinatal lethality resulting from the loss of genes implicated in the determination of cortical interneurons. Here, we employ a conditional loss-of-function approach to demonstrate that the transcription factor Nkx2-1 is required for the proper specification of specific interneuron subtypes. Removal of this gene at distinct neurogenic time points results in a switch in the subtypes of neurons observed at more mature ages. Our strategy reveals a causal link between the embryonic genetic specification by Nkx2-1 in progenitors and the functional attributes of their neuronal progeny in the mature nervous system.
We have shown previously that unconditioned stressors inhibit neurons of the lateral/capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEAl/c) and oval division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTov), which form part of the central extended amygdala. The current study investigated whether conditioned fear inhibits c-fos mRNA expression in these regions. Male rats were trained either to associate a visual stimulus (light) with footshock or were exposed to the light alone. After training, animals were replaced in the apparatus, and 2 h later injected remotely, via a catheter, with amphetamine (2 mg/kg i.p.), to induce c-fos mRNA and allow inhibition of expression to be measured. The rats were then presented with 15 visual stimuli over a 30 minute period. As expected, fear conditioned animals that were not injected with amphetamine, had extremely low levels of c-fos mRNA in the central extended amygdala. In contrast, animals that were trained with the light alone (no fear conditioning) and were injected with amphetamine had high levels of c-fos mRNA in the CEAl/c and BSTov. Animals that underwent fear conditioning, and were re-exposed to the conditioned stimulus after amphetamine injection had significantly reduced levels of c-fos mRNA in both the BSTov and CEAl/c, compared to the non-conditioned animals. These data suggest that conditioned fear can inhibit neurons of the central extended amygdala. Because these neurons are GABAergic, and project to the medial CEA (an amygdaloid output region), this may be a novel mechanism whereby conditioned fear potentiates amygdaloid output.
Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a sphingolipid-storage disorder that results from inherited deficiencies of intracellular lipid-trafficking proteins, and is characterised by an accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in late endosomes and lysosomes. Patients with this disorder develop progressive neurological impairment that often begins in childhood, is ultimately fatal and is currently untreatable. How impaired lipid trafficking leads to neurodegeneration is largely unknown. Here we review NPC clinical features and biochemical defects, and discuss model systems used to study this disorder. Recent studies have established that NPC is associated with an induction of autophagy, a regulated and evolutionarily conserved process by which cytoplasmic proteins are sequestered within autophagosomes and targeted for degradation. This pathway enables recycling of limited or damaged macromolecules to promote cell survival. However, in other instances, robust activation of autophagy leads to cell stress and programmed cell death. We summarise evidence showing that autophagy induction and flux are increased in NPC by signalling through a complex of the class III phosphoinositide 3-kinase and beclin-1. We propose that an imbalance between induction and flux through the autophagic pathway contributes to cell stress and neuronal loss in NPC and related sphingolipid-storage disorders, and discuss potential therapeutic strategies for modulating activity of this pathway.
We compared the distribution of the alpha-subunit mRNAs of voltage-gated sodium channels Nav1.1-1.3 and Nav1.6-1.9 and a related channel, Nax, in histochemically identified neuronal subpopulations of the rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In the nave DRG, the expression of Nav1.1 and Nav1.6 was restricted to A-fiber neurons, and they were preferentially expressed by TrkC neurons, suggesting that proprioceptive neurons possess these channels. Nav1.7, -1.8, and -1.9 mRNAs were more abundant in C-fiber neurons compared with A-fiber ones. Nax was evenly expressed in both populations. Although Nav1.8 and -1.9 were preferentially expressed by TrkA neurons, other alpha-subunits were expressed independently of TrkA expression. Actually, all IB4(+) neurons expressed both Nav1.8 and -1.9, and relatively limited subpopulations of IB4(+) neurons (3% and 12%, respectively) expressed Nav1.1 and/or Nav1.6. These findings provide useful information in interpreting the electrophysiological characteristics of some neuronal subpopulations of nave DRG. After L5 spinal nerve ligation, Nav1.3 mRNA was up-regulated mainly in A-fiber neurons in the ipsilateral L5 DRG. Although previous studies demonstrated that nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) reversed this up-regulation, the Nav1.3 induction was independent of either TrkA or GFRalpha1 expression, suggesting that the induction of Nav1.3 may be one of the common responses of axotomized DRG neurons without a direct relationship to NGF/GDNF supply.
Demyelination and oligodendrocyte loss following spinal cord injury (SCI) are well documented. Recently, we showed oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) accumulation and robust oligodendrocyte genesis occurring along SCI lesion borders. We have since begun investigating potential mechanisms for this endogenous repair response. Here, we examined ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) expression, because both factors alter progenitor proliferation and differentiation and are increased in several CNS disorders. We hypothesized that CNTF and FGF-2 would increase after SCI, especially in regions of enhanced oligogenesis. First, CNTF protein was quantified using Western blots, which revealed that CNTF protein continually rose through 28 days post injury (dpi). Next, by using immunohistochemistry, we examined the spatiotemporal expression of CNTF in cross-sections spanning the injury site. CNTF immunoreactivity was observed on astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in nave and contused spinal cords. Significantly increased CNTF was detected in spared white and gray matter between 5 and 28 dpi compared with uninjured controls. By 28 dpi, CNTF expression was significantly higher along lesion borders compared with outlying spared tissue; a similar distribution of phosphorylated STAT3, a transcription factor up-regulated by CNTF and to a lesser extent FGF-2, was also detected. Because CNTF can potentiate FGF-2 expression, we examined the distribution of FGF-2+ cells. Significantly more FGF-2+ cells were noted along lesion borders at 7 and 28 dpi. Thus, both CNTF and FGF-2 are present in regions of elevated OPC proliferation and oligodendrocyte generation after SCI and therefore may play a role in injury-induced gliogenesis.
Na(+) channels are often spliced but little is known about the functional consequences of splicing. We have been studying the regulation of Na(+) current inactivation in an electric fish model in which systematic variation in the rate of inactivation of the electric organ Na(+) current shapes the electric organ discharge (EOD), a sexually dimorphic, androgen-sensitive communication signal. Here, we examine the relationship between an Na(+) channel (Na(v)1.4b), which has two splice forms, and the waveform of the EOD. One splice form (Na(v)1.4bL) possesses a novel first exon that encodes a 51 aa N-terminal extension. This is the first report of an Na(+) channel with alternative splicing in the N terminal. This N terminal is present in zebrafish suggesting its general importance in regulating Na(+) currents in teleosts. The extended N terminal significantly speeds fast inactivation, shifts steady-state inactivation, and dramatically enhances recovery from inactivation, essentially fulfilling the functions of a beta subunit. Both splice forms are equally expressed in muscle in electric fish and zebrafish but Na(v)1.4bL is the dominant form in the electric organ implying electric organ-specific transcriptional regulation. Transcript abundance of Na(v)1.4bL in the electric organ is positively correlated with EOD frequency and lowered by androgens. Thus, shaping of the EOD waveform involves the androgenic regulation of a rapidly inactivating splice form of an Na(+) channel. Our results emphasize the role of splicing in the regulation of a vertebrate Na(+) channel and its contribution to a known behavior.
Both the neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) and alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7*nAChRs) genes have been linked to schizophrenia and associated sensory-motor gating deficits. The prominence of nicotine addiction in schizophrenic patients is reflected in the normalization of gating deficits by nicotine self-administration. To assess the role of presynaptic type III Nrg1 at hippocampal-accumbens synapses, an important relay in sensory-motor gating, we developed a specialized preparation of chimeric circuits in vitro. Synaptic relays from Nrg1(tm1Lwr) heterozygote ventral hippocampal slices to wild-type (WT) nucleus accumbens neurons (1) lack a sustained, alpha7*nAChRs-mediated phase of synaptic potentiation seen in comparable WT/WT circuits and (2) are deficient in targeting alpha7*nAChRs to presynaptic sites. Thus, selective alteration of the level of presynaptic type III Nrg1 dramatically affects the modulation of glutamatergic transmission at ventral hippocampal to nucleus accumbens synapses.
Alpha-synuclein is likely to play a key role in the development of Parkinson's disease as well as other synucleinopathies. In animal models, overexpression of full-length or carboxy-terminally truncated alpha-synuclein has been shown to produce pathology. Although the proteosome and lysosome have been proposed to play a role in the degradation of alpha-synuclein, the enzyme(s) involved in alpha-synuclein clearance and generation of its carboxy-terminally truncated species have not been identified. In this study, the role of cathepsin D and calpain I in these processes was analyzed. In vitro experiments, using either recombinant or endogenous alpha-synuclein as substrates and purified cathepsin D or lysosomes, demonstrated that cathepsin D degraded alpha-synuclein very efficiently, and that limited proteolysis resulted in the generation of carboxy-terminally truncated species. Purified calpain I also cleaved alpha-synuclein, but carboxy-terminally truncated species were not the main cleavage products, and calpain I activity present in cellular lysates was not able to degrade the protein. Knockdown of cathepsin D in cells overexpressing wild-type alpha-synuclein increased total alpha-synuclein levels by 28% and lysosomal alpha-synuclein by 2-fold. In in vitro experiments, pepstatin A completely blocked the degradation of alpha-synuclein in purified lysosomes. Furthermore, lysosomes isolated from cathepsin D knockdown cells showed a marked reduction in alpha-synuclein degrading activity, indicating that cathepsin D is the main lysosomal enzyme involved in alpha-synuclein degradation. Our findings suggest that upregulation of cathepsin D could be an additional therapeutic strategy to lessen alpha-synuclein burden in synucleinopathies.

Collectively the daily, seasonal, lunar and tidal geophysical cycles regulate much of the temporal biology of life on Earth. The increasing isolation of human societies from these geophysical cycles, as a result of improved living conditions, high-quality nutrition and 24/7 working practices, have led many to believe that human biology functions independently of them. Yet recent studies have highlighted the dominant role that our circadian clock plays in the organisation of 24 hour patterns of behaviour and physiology. Preferred wake and sleep times are to a large extent driven by an endogenous temporal program that uses sunlight as an entraining cue. The alarm clock can drive human activity rhythms but has little direct effect on our endogenous 24 hour physiology. In many situations, our biology and our society appear to be in serious opposition, and the damaging consequences to our health under these circumstances are increasingly recognised. The seasons dominate the lives of non-equatorial species, and until recently, they also had a marked influence on much of human biology. Despite human isolation from seasonal changes in temperature, food and photoperiod in the industrialised nations, the seasons still appear to have a small, but significant, impact upon when individuals are born and many aspects of health. The seasonal changes that modulate our biology, and how these factors might interact with the social and metabolic status of the individual to drive seasonal effects, are still poorly understood. Lunar cycles had, and continue to have, an influence upon human culture, though despite a persistent belief that our mental health and other behaviours are modulated by the phase of the moon, there is no solid evidence that human biology is in any way regulated by the lunar cycle.
Molecular approaches in Drosophila that allow the removal of specific classes of neurons are breaking new ground in determining the neural implementation of a computational algorithm for visual motion detection.
For many animals, knowing the time of year and predicting the forthcoming season is crucial for their survival and that of their offspring. Recent research sheds light on hormonal mechanisms that perform this calendar function in birds and mammals.

In order to imitate the in vivo situation with constituents from the blood-brain barrier, astrocytes from newborn rat cerebral cortex were co-cultured with adult rat brain microvascular endothelial cells. These astrocytes exhibited a morphologically differentiated appearance with long processes. 5-HT, synthetic mu-, delta- or kappa-opioid agonists, and the endogenous opioids endomorphin-1, beta-endorphin, and dynorphin induced higher Ca(2+) amplitudes and/or more Ca(2+) transients in these cells than in astrocytes in monoculture, as a sign of more developed signal transduction systems. Furthermore, stimulation of the co-cultured astrocytes with 5-HT generated a pronounced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) release in the presence of the inflammatory or pain mediating activators substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or leptin. These Ca(2+) responses were restored by opioids so that the delta- and kappa-opioid receptor agonists reduced the number of Ca(2+) transients elicited after incubation in substance P+CGRP or leptin, while the mu- and delta-opioid receptor agonists attenuated the Ca(2+) amplitudes elicited in the presence of LPS or leptin. In LPS treated co-cultured astrocytes the mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone attenuated not only the endomorphin-1, but also the 5-HT evoked Ca(2+) transients. These results suggest that opioids, especially mu-opioid agonists, play a role in the control of neuroinflammatory activity in astrocytes and that naloxone, in addition to its interaction with mu-opioid receptors, also may act through some binding site on astrocytes, other than the classical opioid receptor.
Deep cerebellar dentate nuclei are in a key position to control motor planning as a result of an integration of cerebropontine inputs and hemispheric Purkinje neurons signals, and their influence through synaptic outputs onto extracerebellar hubs. GABAergic dentate neurons exhibit broader action potentials and slower afterhyperpolarization than non-GABAergic (presumably glutamatergic) neurons. Specific potassium channels may be involved in these distinct firing profiles, particularly, Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 subunits which rapidly activate at relatively positive potentials to support the generation of fast action potentials. To investigate the subcellular localization of Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 in GAD- and GAD+ dentate neurons of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67-green fluorescent protein (GAD67-GFP) knock-in mice a preembedding immunocytochemical method for electron microscopy was used. Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 were in membranes of cell somata, dendrites, axons and synaptic terminals of both GAD- and GAD+ dentate neurons. The vast majority of GAD- somatodendritic membrane segments domains labeled for Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 (96.1% and 84.7%, respectively) whereas 56.2% and 69.8% of GAD- axonal membrane segments were immunopositive for these subunits. Furthermore, density of Kv3.1b immunoparticles was much higher in GAD- somatodendritic than axonal domains. As to GAD+ neurons, only 70.6% and 50% of somatodendritic membrane segments, and 53.3% and 59.5% of axonal membranes exhibited Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 labeling, respectively. In contrast to GAD- cells, GAD+ cells exhibited a higher density labeling for both Kv3 subunits at their axonal than at their somatodendritic membranes. Taken together, Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 potassium subunits are expressed in both GAD- and GAD+ cells, albeit at different densities and distribution. They likely contribute to the distinct biophysical properties of both GAD- and GAD+ neurons in the dentate nucleus.
S-nitrosylation, as a post-translational protein modification, recently has been paid more and more attention in stroke research. S-nitrosylation regulates protein function by the mechanisms of covalent attachment that control the addition or the removal of nitric oxide (NO) from a cysteine thiol. The derivation of NO is established by the demonstration that, in cerebral neurons, NO mainly generates from neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) during the early stages of reperfusion. In the past researches, we demonstrate that global ischemia-reperfusion facilitates the activation of glutamate receptor 6 (GluR6) -mediated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway. The objective of this study is primarily to determine, during the early stages of reperfusion in rat four-vessel occlusion (4-VO) ischemic model, whether nNOS-derived NO affects the GluR6-mediated JNK signaling route via S-nitrosylation which is performed mainly by the biotin switch assay. Here, we show that administration of 7-nitroindazole, an inhibitor of nNOS, or ketamine, an antagonist of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), diminishes the increased S-nitrosylation of GluR6 induced by cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. In contrast, 2-amion-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine, an inhibitor of inducible NO synthase does not affect S-nitrosylation of GluR6. Moreover, treatment with sodium nitroprusside (SNP), an exogenous NO donor, increases the S-nitrosylation and phosphorylation of nNOS, leading to the attenuation of the increased S-nitrosylation of GluR6 and the assembling of GluR6* postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95)* mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) signaling module induced by cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. The results also show that GluR6 downstream MLK3* mitogen activated protein kinase kinase 4/7* JNK signaling module and nuclear or non-nuclear apoptosis pathways are involved in the above signaling route. However, dithiothreitol (DTT) antagonizes the neuroprotection of SNP. Treatment with DTT alone, as a negative control, prevents S-nitrosylation of proteins, which indicates the existence of endogenously produced S-nitrosylation. These data suggest that GluR6 is S-nitrosylated by endogenous NO in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion, which is possibly correlated with NMDAR* PSD95* nNOS signaling module, and further activates GluR6* PSD95* MLK3 signaling module and JNK signaling pathway. In contrast, exogenous NO donor antagonizes the above action of endogenous NO generated from nNOS. Thus, our results provide the coupling of nNOS with GluR6 by S-nitrosylation during the early stages of ischemia-reperfusion, which can be a new approach for stroke therapy.
Preclinical exploration of pain processing in the brain as well as evaluating pain-relief drugs in small animals embodies the potential biophysical effects in humans. However, it is difficult to measure nociception-related cerebral metabolic changes in vivo, especially in unanesthetized animals. The present study used (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose small-animal positron emission tomography to produce cerebral metabolic maps associated with formalin-induced nociception. Anesthesia was not applied during the uptake period so as to reduce possible confounding effects on pain processing in the brain. The formalin stimulation at the hind paw of rats resulted in significant metabolic increases in the bilateral cingulate cortex, motor cortex, primary somatosensory cortex, secondary somatosensory cortex, insular cortex, visual cortex, caudate putamen, hippocampus, periaqueductal gray, amygdala, thalamus, and hypothalamus. Among the measured areas, clear lateralization was only evident in the primary somatosensory cortex and hypothalamus. In addition, pretreatment with lidocaine (4 mg/kg, i.v.) and morphine (10 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly suppressed formalin-induced cerebral metabolic increases in these areas. The present protocol allowed identification of the brain areas involved in pain processing, and should be useful in further evaluations of the effects of new drugs and preclinical therapies for pain.
Pavlovian conditioning is a useful tool for elucidating the neural mechanisms involved with learning and memory, especially in regard to the stimuli associated with aversive events. The amygdala has been repeatedly implicated as playing a significant role in the acquisition and expression of fear. If the amygdala is critical for the acquisition of fear, then it should contribute to this processes regardless of the parameters used to induce or evaluate conditioned fear. A series of experiments using reversible inactivation techniques evaluated the role of the amygdala in the acquisition of conditioned fear when training was conducted over several days in rats. Fear-potentiated startle was used to evaluate the acquisition of conditioned fear. Pretraining infusions of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) or non-NMDA receptor antagonists alone into the amygdala interfered with the acquisition of fear early in training, but not later. Pretraining infusions of a cocktail consisting of both an NMDA and non-NMDA antagonist interfered with the acquisition of conditioned fear across all days of training. Taken together these results suggest the amygdala may potentially be critical for the acquisition of conditioned fear regardless of the parameters utilized.
The etiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease is thought to involve interplay between environmental factors and predisposing genetic traits, although the identification of genetic risk factors remain elusive. The neurotoxicant, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrimidine (MPTP) produces parkinsonian-like symptoms and pathology in mice and humans. As sensitivity to MPTP is genetically determined in mice this provides an opportunity to identify genes and biological mechanisms that modify the response to an exogenous agent that produces a Parkinson's disease-like condition. MPTP primarily targets dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum and elicits changes in striatal gene expression. Therefore, we used Affymetrix and qRT-PCR technology to characterize temporal mRNA changes in striatum in response to MPTP in genetically MPTP-sensitive, C57BL/6J, and MPTP-resistant Swiss Webster and BCL2-associated X protein (Bax)-/- mice. We identified three phases of mRNA expression changes composed of largely distinct gene sets. An early response (5 h) occurred in all strains of mice and multiple brain regions. In contrast, intermediate (24 h) and late (72 h) phases were striatum specific and much reduced in Swiss Webster, indicating these genes contribute and/or are responsive to MPTP-induced pathology. However, Bax-/- mice have robust intermediate responses. We propose a model in which the acute entry of MPP+ into dopaminergic nerve terminals damages them but is insufficient per se to kill the neurons. Rather, we suggest that the compromised nerve terminals elicit longer lasting transcriptional responses in surrounding cells involving production of molecules that feedback on the terminals to cause additional damage that results in cell death. In Swiss Webster, resistance lies upstream in the cascade of events triggered by MPTP and uncouples the acute events elicited by MPTP from the damaging secondary responses. In contrast, in Bax-/- mice resistance lies downstream in the cascade and suggests enhanced tolerance to the secondary insult rather than its attenuation.
Rats with complete spinal transections are capable of acquiring a simple instrumentally trained response. If rats receive shock to one hind limb when the limb is extended (controllable shock), the spinal cord will learn to hold the leg in a flexed position that minimizes shock exposure. If shock is delivered irrespective of leg position, subjects do not exhibit an increase in flexion duration and subsequently fail to learn when tested with controllable shock (learning deficit). Just 6 min of variable intermittent shock produces a learning deficit that lasts 24 h. Evidence suggests that the neural mechanisms underlying the learning deficit may be related to those involved in other instances of spinal plasticity (e.g. windup, long-term potentiation). The present paper begins to explore these relations by demonstrating that direct stimulation of the sciatic nerve also impairs instrumental learning. Six minutes of electrical stimulation (mono- or biphasic direct current [DC]) of the sciatic nerve in spinally transected rats produced a voltage-dependent learning deficit that persisted for 24 h (experiments 1-2) and was dependent on C-fiber activation (experiment 7). Exposure to continuous stimulation did not produce a deficit, but intermittent burst or single pulse (as short as 0.1 ms) stimulation (delivered at a frequency of 0.5 Hz) did, irrespective of the pattern (fixed or variable) of stimulus delivery (experiments 3-6, 8). When the duration of stimulation was extended from 6 to 30 min, a surprising result emerged; shocks applied in a random (variable) fashion impaired subsequent learning whereas shocks given in a regular pattern (fixed spacing) did not (experiments 9-10). The results imply that spinal neurons are sensitive to temporal relations and that stimulation at regular intervals can have a restorative effect.
Responding to environmental stimuli in a fast manner is a fundamental behavioral capacity. The pace at which one responds is known to be predetermined by cortical areas, but it remains to be shown if subcortical structures also take part in defining motor swiftness. As the thalamus has previously been implicated in behavioral control, we tested if neuronal activity at this level could also predict the reaction time of upcoming movements. To this end we simultaneously recorded electrical brain activity from the scalp and the ventral intermediate nucleus (VIM) of the thalamus in patients undergoing thalamic deep brain stimulation. Based on trial-to-trial analysis of a Go/NoGo task, we demonstrate that both cortical and thalamic neuronal activity prior to the delivery of upcoming Go stimulus correlates with the reaction time. This result goes beyond the demonstration of thalamic activity being associated with but potentially staying invariant to motor performance. In contrast, it indicates that the latencies at which we respond to environmental stimuli are not exclusively related to cortical pre-movement states but are also correlated with anticipatory thalamic activity.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase is an important enzyme in the metabolism of dopamine and an important regulator of aspects of dopamine-dependent working memory in prefrontal cortex that are disturbed in schizophrenia. This study investigated the phenotype of mice with heterozygous deletion vs. homozygous knockout of the catechol-O-methyltransferase gene across paradigms that access processes relevant for psychotic illness. Homozygotes evidenced improved performance in spontaneous alternation, an index of immediate spatial working memory; this effect appeared more substantive in males and was reflected in performance in aspects of the Barnes maze, an index of spatial learning/memory. Heterozygotes evidenced impaired performance in object recognition, an index of recognition memory; this effect was evident for both sexes at a retention interval of 5 min but appeared more enduring in males. There were no material effects for either genotype in relation to sociability or social novelty preference. While homozygous catechol-O-methyltransferase deletion results in improvement in spatial learning/working memory with little effect on social behavior, heterozygous deletion results in impairment of recognition memory. We have reported recently, using similar methods, that mice with deletion of the schizophrenia risk gene neuregulin-1 evidence disruption to social behavior, with little effect on spatial learning/working memory. The data suggest that catechol-O-methyltransferase and neuregulin-1 may influence, respectively, primarily cognitive and social endophenotypes of the overall schizophrenia syndrome.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) remains a major medical problem and currently has no effective treatment. Hemorrhaged blood is highly toxic to the brain, and catabolism of the pro-oxidant heme, mainly released from hemoglobin, is critical for the resolution of hematoma after ICH. The degradation of the pro-oxidant heme is controlled by heme oxygenase (HO). We have previously reported a neuroprotective role for HO2 in early brain injury after ICH; however, in vivo data that specifically address the role of HO2 in brain edema and neuroinflammation after ICH are absent. Here, we tested the hypothesis that HO2 deletion would exacerbate ICH-induced brain edema, neuroinflammation, and oxidative damage. We subjected wild-type (WT) and HO2 knockout ((-/-)) mice to the collagenase-induced ICH model. Interestingly, HO2(-/-) mice had enhanced brain swelling and neuronal death, although HO2 deletion did not increase collagenase-induced bleeding; the exacerbation of brain injury in HO2(-/-) mice was also associated with increases in neutrophil infiltration, microglial/macrophage and astrocyte activation, DNA damage, peroxynitrite production, and cytochrome c immunoreactivity. In addition, we found that hemispheric enlargement was more sensitive than brain water content in the detection of subtle changes in brain edema formation in this model. Combined, these novel findings extend our previous observations and demonstrate that HO2 deficiency increases brain swelling, neuroinflammation, and oxidative damage. The results provide additional evidence that HO2 plays a critical protective role against ICH-induced early brain injury.
The circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) responds to light and regulates peripheral circadian rhythms. Feeding regimens also reset the clock, so that time-restricted feeding (RF) dictates rhythms in peripheral tissues, whereas calorie restriction (CR) affects the SCN clock. To better understand the influence of RF vs. CR on circadian rhythms, we took advantage of the transgenic alphaMUPA mice that exhibit spontaneously reduced eating, and can serve as a model for CR under ad libitum feeding, and a model for temporal CR under RF compared with wild type (WT) mice. Our results show that RF advanced and generally increased the amplitude of clock gene expression in the liver under LD in both mouse types. However, under disruptive light conditions, RF resulted in a different clock gene phase in WT mice compared with alphaMUPA mice, suggesting a role for the reduced calories in resetting the SCN that led to the change of phase in alphaMUPA mice. Comparison of the RF regimen in the two lighting conditions in WT mice revealed that mPer1, mClock, and mBmal1 increased, whereas mPer2 decreased in amplitude under ultradian light in WT mice, suggesting a role for the SCN in determining clock gene expression in the periphery during RF. In summary, herein we reinforce a role for calorie restriction in resetting the SCN clock, and unravel a role for the SCN in determining peripheral rhythms under RF.
The ability to detect errors and adjust behavior accordingly is essential for maneuvering in an uncertain environment. Errors are particularly prone to occur when multiple, conflicting responses are registered in a situation that requires flexible behavioral outputs. Previous studies have provided evidence indicating the importance of the medial cortical brain regions including the cingulate cortex in processing conflicting information. However, conflicting situations can be successfully resolved, or lead to errors, prompting a behavioral change in the observers. In particular, how does the brain use error signals specifically to adjust behavior on the fly? Here we employ a stop signal task (SST) to elicit errors approximately half of the time in high-conflict trials despite constant behavioral adjustment of the observers. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show greater and, sequentially, less activation in the medial cortical regions when observers made an error, compared with when they successfully resolved high-conflict responses. Errors also evoked greater activity in the cuneus, retrosplenial cortex, insula, and subcortical structures including the thalamus and the region of the epithalamus (the habenula). We further showed that the error-related medial cortical activities are not correlated with post-error behavioral adjustment, as indexed by post-error slowing (PES) in go trial reaction time. These results delineate an error-specific pattern of brain activation during the SST. The results also suggest that the relationship between error-related activity and post-error behavioral adjustment may be more complicated than has been conceptualized by the conflict monitoring hypothesis.
Subpopulations of neurons in the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) located within the lamina terminalis contribute to thermoregulatory, cardiovascular and hydromineral homeostasis, and sleep-promotion. MnPO is innervated by lateral hypothalamic neurons that synthesize and secrete the arousal-promoting and excitatory orexin (hypocretin) neuropeptides. To evaluate the hypothesis that orexins modulate the excitability of MnPO neurons, we used patch-clamp recording techniques applied in rat brain slice preparations to assess the effects of exogenously applied orexin A and orexin B peptides on their intrinsic and synaptic properties. Whole cell recordings under current-clamp mode revealed that 11/15 tested MnPO neurons responded similarly to either orexin A or B (500-1000 nM) with a slowly rising, prolonged (10-15 min) and reversible membrane depolarization. Under voltage-clamp mode, orexin applications induced a tetrodotoxin-resistant inward current of -7.2+/-1.6 pA, indicating a direct (postsynaptic) activation, with a time course similar to the observed membrane depolarization. The orexin-induced responses in 4/7 neurons were associated with a significant decrease in membrane conductance and the net orexin-induced current that reversed at -99+/-5 mV, suggesting closure of potassium channels. Orexins did not attenuate the properties of excitatory (n=4) or inhibitory (n=7) postsynaptic currents evoked by subfornical organ stimulation. By contrast, orexins applications induce a significant increase in both frequency and amplitude of spontaneous glutamatergic postsynaptic currents (5/7 cells) but had no influence on spontaneous GABAergic currents (6/6 cells). Thus, in addition to a direct postsynaptic receptor-mediated excitation, orexins can also increase the excitability of MnPO neurons via increasing their excitatory inputs, presumably through an orexin receptor-mediated excitation of local glutamatergic neurons whose axons project to MnPO neurons.
Clinical evidence indicates that motor training facilitates functional recovery after a spinal cord injury (SCI). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a powerful synaptic facilitator and likely plays a key role in motor and sensory functions. Spinal cord hemisection decreases the levels of BDNF below the injury site, and exercise can counteract this decrease [Ying Z, Roy RR, Edgerton VR, Gomez-Pinilla F (2005) Exercise restores levels of neurotrophins and synaptic plasticity following spinal cord injury. Exp Neurol 193:411-419]. It is not clear, however, whether the exercise-induced increases in BDNF play a role in mediating the recovery of locomotion after a SCI. We performed a lateral cervical ( approximately C4) hemisection in adult rats. Seven days after hemisection, the BDNF inhibitor trkB IgG was injected into the cervical spinal cord below the lesion ( approximately C5-C6). Half of the rats were exposed to voluntary running wheels for 14 days. Locomotor ability was assessed by determining the symmetry between the contralateral (unaffected) vs. the ipsilateral (affected) forelimb at the most optimum treadmill speed for each rat. Sedentary and exercised rats with BDNF inhibition showed a higher level of asymmetry during the treadmill locomotion test than rats not treated with the BDNF inhibitor. In hemisected rats, exercise normalized the levels of molecules important for synaptic function, such as cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) and synapsin I, in the ipsilateral cervical enlargement, whereas the BDNF blocker lessened these exercise-associated effects. The results indicate that BDNF levels play an important role in shaping the synaptic plasticity and in defining the level of recovery of locomotor performance after a SCI.
The ability of the mammalian brain to store and recall information is based on synaptic plasticity due to constant remodeling of synaptic contacts. Although various classes of proteins such as neurotransmitter receptors, cytoskeletal components and protein kinases were already identified as modulators of memory formation, their specific interactions and crosstalks are still poorly understood. Genetic variants of the scaffolding protein KIBRA (kidney brain) a substrate of the memory-related protein kinase C zeta and component of the neuronal cytoskeleton, were recently shown to be associated with human memory performance. However, the function of KIBRA on the cellular and physiological level is still unclear. To gain more insights into the temporal and spatial expression of KIBRA, we performed in situ hybridization assays and immunohistological staining of human and rodent (rat) brain. Our data demonstrate that KIBRA is mainly expressed in memory-related regions of the brain (hippocampus, cortex) but is also found in the cerebellum and the hypothalamus. In primary hippocampal neurons, KIBRA displays a somatodendritic distribution and an enrichment at the postsynaptic density. Binding studies further show that KIBRA is able to form head-to-tail homodimers and that dimerization is mediated by the internal C2-like domain. Our data indicate that KIBRA is involved in brain development and memory formation as a postsynaptic scaffold protein connecting cytoskeletal and signaling molecules.
The melatonin receptors MT1 and MT2 take part in the regulation of the activity (i.e. phosphorylation) of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), an enzyme involved in neuroplasticity. Primary cultures of mouse and rat cerebellar granule cells (CGC), which express both MT1 and MT2 receptors, have been widely used as an in vitro model to study neuronal ERK1/2. A novel MT1/MT2 agonist, ramelteon, has recently become clinically available. In this study, we characterized its action on neuronal ERK1/2. We used CGC cultures prepared from the cerebella of wild-type mice (MT1/MT2 CGC) and MT1- and MT2-knockout (KO) mice (MT1 KO CGC and MT2 KO CGC, respectively), and we employed a Western blot assay to evaluate ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Ramelteon increased ERK1/2 phosphorylation not only in MT1/MT2 CGC but also in CGC expressing only one of the two melatonin receptors. In the MT1 KO CGC, the stimulatory effect of ramelteon was blocked by an MT2 antagonist, 4P-PDOT, whereas in the MT2 KO CGC, this effect of ramelteon was blocked by luzindole. Pertussis toxin treatment did not prevent ramelteon from activating ERK1/2 but pretreatment with a tyrosine kinase (Trk) inhibitor, K252a, did, suggesting that an activation of Trk may mediate melatonin-receptor dependent ERK1/2 activation. In conclusion, we showed for the first time that a clinically used MT1/MT2 agonist, ramelteon, is capable of activating neuronal ERK1/2.
The mammalian hippocampus continues to generate new neurons throughout life. Experiences such as exercise, anti-depressants, and stress regulate levels of neurogenesis. Exercise increases adult hippocampal neurogenesis and enhances behavioral performance on rotarod, contextual fear and water maze in rodents. To directly test whether intact neurogenesis is required for gains in behavioral performance from exercise in C57BL/6J mice, neurogenesis was reduced using focal gamma irradiation (3 sessions of 5 Gy). Two months after treatment, mice (total n=42 males and 42 females) (Irradiated or Sham), were placed with or without running wheels (Runner or Sedentary) for 54 days. The first 10 days mice received daily injections of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. The last 14 days mice were tested on water maze (two trials per day for 5 days, then 1 h later probe test), rotarod (four trials per day for 3 days), and contextual fear conditioning (2 days), then measured for neurogenesis using immunohistochemical detection of BrdU and neuronal nuclear protein (NeuN) mature neuronal marker. Consistent with previous studies, in Sham animals, running increased neurogenesis fourfold and gains in performance were observed for the water maze (spatial learning and memory), rotarod (motor performance), and contextual fear (conditioning). These positive results provided the reference to determine whether gains in performance were blocked by irradiation. Irradiation reduced neurogenesis by 50% in both groups, Runner and Sedentary. Irradiation did not affect running or baseline performance on any task. Minimal changes in microglia associated with inflammation (using immunohistochemical detection of cd68) were detected at the time of behavioral testing. Irradiation did not reduce gains in performance on rotarod or contextual fear, however it eliminated gain in performance on the water maze. Results support the hypothesis that intact exercise-induced hippocampal neurogenesis is required for improved spatial memory, but not motor performance or contextual fear in C57BL/6J mice.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) is an active component of propolis obtained from honeybee hives and is found to have the following properties: anti-mitogenic, anti-carcinogenic, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and antioxidant. Recent reports suggest that CAPE also has a neuronal protective property against ischemic injury. Since excitotoxicity may play an important role in ischemia, in this study, we investigated whether CAPE could directly protect neurons against excitotoxic insult. We treated cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) with excitotoxic concentrations of glutamate in the presence or absence of CAPE and found that CAPE markedly protected neurons against glutamate-induced neuronal death in a concentration-dependent fashion. Glutamate-induced CGNs death is associated with time-dependent activation of caspase-3 and phosphorylation of p38, both events of which can be blocked by CAPE. Treating CGNs with specific inhibitors of these two enzymes together exerts a synergistic neuroprotective effect, similar to the neuroprotective effect of CAPE exposure. These results suggest that CAPE is able to block glutamate-induced excitotoxicity by inhibiting phosphorylation of p38 and caspase-3 activation. This finding may further help understanding of the mechanism of glutamate-induced neuronal death and CAPE-induced neuroprotection against excitotoxicity.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is composed of functionally heterogeneous cell groups, possessing distinct electrophysiological properties depending on their functional roles. Previously, T-type Ca(2+) dependent low-threshold spikes (LTS) have been demonstrated in various PVN neuronal types, including preautonomic cells. However, the molecular composition and functional properties of the underlying T-type Ca(2+) channels have not been characterized. In the present study, we combined single cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunohistochemistry and patch-clamp recordings to identify subtypes of T-type Ca(2+) channels expressed in PVN cells displaying LTS (PVN-LTS), including identified preautonomic neurons. LTS appeared at the end of hyperpolarizing pulses either as long-lasting plateaus or as short-lasting depolarizing humps. LTS were mediated by rapidly activating and inactivating T-type Ca(2+) currents and were blocked by Ni(2+). Single cell RT-PCR and immunohistochemical studies revealed Cav3.1 (voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel) as the main channel subunit detected in PVN-LTS neurons. In conclusion, these data indicate that Cav3.1 is the major subtype of T-type Ca(2+) channel subunit that mediates T-type Ca(2+) dependent LTS in PVN neurons.
Reg-2 is a secreted protein that is expressed de novo in motoneurons, sympathetic neurons, and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after nerve injury and which can act as a Schwann cell mitogen. We now show that Reg-2 is also upregulated by DRG neurons in inflammation with a very unusual expression pattern. In a rat model of monoarthritis, Reg-2 immunoreactivity was detected in DRG neurons at 1 day, peaked at 3 days (in 11.6% of DRG neurons), and was still present at 10 days (in 5%). Expression was almost exclusively in the population of DRG neurons that expresses the purinoceptor P2X(3) and binding sites for the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia IB4, and which is known to respond to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Immunoreactivity was present in DRG cell bodies and central terminals in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In contrast, very little expression was seen in the nerve growth factor (NGF) responsive and substance P expressing population. However intrathecal delivery of GDNF did not induce Reg-2 expression, but leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) had a dramatic effect, inducing Reg-2 immunoreactivity in 39% of DRG neurons and 62% of P2X(3) cells. Changes in inflammation have previously been observed predominantly in the neuropeptide expressing, NGF responsive, DRG neurons. Our results show that changes also take place in the IB4 population, possibly driven by members of the LIF family of neuropoietic cytokines. In addition, the presence of Reg-2 in central axon terminals implicates Reg-2 as a possible modulator of second order dorsal horn cells.
By using the patch-clamp technique in the cell-attached configuration, we have investigated the single-channel properties of an inward rectifier potassium channel (Kir) expressed by pigeon vestibular type II hair cells in situ. In high-K(+) external solution with 2 mM Mg(2+), Kir inward current showed openings to at least four amplitude levels. The two most frequent open states (L2 and L3) had a mean slope conductance of 13 and 28 pS, respectively. L1 (7 pS) and L4 (36 pS) together accounted for less than 6% of the conductive state. Closed time distributions were fitted well using four exponential functions, of which the slowest time constant (tau(C4)) was clearly voltage-dependent. Open time distributions were fitted well with two or three exponential functions depending on voltage. The mean open probability (P(O)) decreased with hyperpolarization (0.13 at -50 mV and 0.03 at -120 mV). During pulse-voltage protocols, the Kir current-decay process (inactivation) accelerated and increased in extent with hyperpolarization. This phenomenon was associated with a progressive increase of the relative importance of tau(C4). Kir inactivation almost disappeared when Mg(2+) was omitted from the pipette solution. At the same time, P(O) increased at all membrane voltages and the relative importance of L4 increased to a mean value of 47%. The relative importance of tau(C4) decreased for all open states, while L4 only showed a significantly longer open time constant. The present work provides the first detailed quantitative description of the elementary properties of the Kir inward rectifier in pigeon vestibular type II hair cells and specifically describes the Kir gating properties and the molecule's sensitivity to extracellular Mg(2+) for all subconductance levels. The present results are consistent with the Kir2.1 protein sustaining a strong inwardly rectifying K(+) current in native hair cells, characterized by rapid activation time course and slow partial inactivation. The longest closed state (tau(C4)) appears as the main parameter involved in time- and Mg(2+)-dependent decay. Finally, in contrast to Kir2.1 results described so far for mammalian cells, external Mg(2+) had no effect on channel conductance.
In some neurons, muscarinic M(1)-class receptors control L-type (Ca(V)1) Ca(2+)-channels via protein kinase C (PKC) or calcineurin (phosphatase 2B; PP-2B) signaling pathways. Both PKC and PP-2B pathways start with phospholipase C (PLC) activation. In contrast, P/Q- and N-type (Ca(V)2.1, 2.2, respectively) Ca(2+)-channels are controlled by M(2)-class receptors via G proteins that may act, directly, to modulate these channels. The hypothesis of this work is that this description is not enough to explain muscarinic modulation of Ca(2+) channels in rat neostriatal projection neurons. Thus, we took advantage of the specific muscarinic toxin 3 (MT-3) to block M(4)-type receptors in neostriatal neurons, and leave in isolation the M(1)-type receptors to study them separately. We then asked what Ca(2+) channels are modulated by M(1)-type receptors only. We found that M(1)-receptors do modulate L, N and P/Q-types Ca(2+) channels. This modulation is blocked by the M(1)-class receptor antagonist (muscarinic toxin 7, MT-7) and is voltage-independent. Thereafter, we asked what signaling pathways, activated by M(1)-receptors would control these channels. We found that inactivation of PLC abolishes the modulation of all three channel types. PKC activators (phorbol esters) mimic muscarinic actions, whereas reduction of intracellular calcium virtually abolishes all modulation. As expected, PKC inhibitors prevented the muscarinic reduction of the afterhyperpolarizing potential (AHP), an event known to be dependent on Ca(2+) entry via N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels. However, PKC inhibitors (bisindolylmaleimide I and PKC-1936) only block modulation of currents through N and L types Ca(2+) channels; while the modulation of P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels remains unaffected. These results show that different branches of the same signaling cascade can be used to modulate different Ca(2+) channels. Finally, we found no evidence of calcineurin modulating these Ca(2+) channels during M(1)-receptor activation, although, in the same cells, we demonstrate functional PP-2B by activating dopaminergic D(2)-receptor modulation.
Extracellular ATP acts as a neurotransmitter in the retina, via the activation of ionotropic P2X receptors and metabotropic P2Y receptors. The expression of various P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes has been demonstrated in the retina, but the localization of P2Y receptors and their role in retinal signaling remains ill defined. In this study, we were interested in determining the localization of the P2Y(4) receptor subtype in the rat retina, and using the electroretinogram (ERG) to assess whether activation of these receptors modulated visual transmission. Using light and electron microscopy, we demonstrated that P2Y(4) receptors were expressed pre-synaptically in rod bipolar cells and in processes postsynaptic to cone bipolar cells. Furthermore, we show that the expression of P2Y(4) receptors on rod bipolar cell axon terminals is reduced following dark adaptation, suggesting receptor expression may be dependent on retinal activity. Finally, using the electroretinogram, we show that intravitreal injection of uridine triphosphate, a P2Y receptor agonist, decreases the amplitude of the rod PII, supporting a role for P2Y receptors in altering inner retinal function. Taken together, these results suggest a role for P2Y(4) receptors in the modulation of inner retinal signaling.
Attempts have been made to elevate excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) expression in an effort to compensate for loss of function and expression associated with disease or pathology. Increased EAAT2 expression has been noted following treatment with beta-lactam antibiotics, and during ischemic preconditioning (IPC). However, both of these conditions induce multiple changes in addition to alterations in EAAT2 expression that could potentially contribute to neuroprotection. Therefore, the aim of this study was to selectively overexpress EAAT2 in astrocytes and characterize the cell type specific contribution of this transporter to neuroprotection. To accomplish this we used a recombinant adeno-associated virus vector, AAV1-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-EAAT2, designed to selectively drive the overexpression of EAAT2 within astrocytes. Both viral-mediated gene delivery and beta-lactam antibiotic (penicillin-G) treatment of rat hippocampal slice cultures resulted in a significant increase in both the expression of EAAT2, and dihydrokainate (DHK) sensitive glutamate uptake. Penicillin-G provided significant neuroprotection in rat hippocampal slice cultures under conditions of both moderate and severe oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). In contrast, viral-mediated overexpression of EAAT2 in astrocytes provided enhanced neuroprotection only following a moderate OGD insult. These results indicate that functional EAAT2 can be selectively overexpressed in astrocytes, leading to enhanced neuroprotection. However, this cell type specific increase in EAAT2 expression offers only limited protection compared to treatment with penicillin-G.
Estradiol modulates dendritic spine morphology and synaptic protein expression in the rodent hippocampus, as well as hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. In the rat, these effects may be mediated through nongenomic steroid signaling such as estradiol activation of the Akt and LIM kinase (LIMK) pathways, in addition to genomic signaling involving estradiol upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression (BDNF). Due to the many species differences between mice and rats, including differences in the hippocampal response to estradiol, it is unclear whether estradiol modulates these pathways in the mouse hippocampus. Therefore, we investigated whether endogenous fluctuations of gonadal steroids modulate hippocampal activation of the Akt, LIMK, and the BDNF receptor TrkB in conjunction with spatial memory in female C57BL/6 mice. We found that Akt, LIMK, and TrkB were activated throughout the dorsal hippocampal formation during the high-estradiol phase, proestrus. Cycle phase also modulated expression of the pre- and post-synaptic markers synaptophysin and post-synaptic density 95. However, cycle phase did not influence performance on an object placement test of spatial memory, although this task is known to be sensitive to the complete absence of ovarian hormones. The findings suggest that endogenous estradiol and progesterone produced by the ovaries modulate specific signaling pathways governing actin remodeling, cell excitability, and synapse formation.
Dendritic spines are the main postsynaptic site of excitatory contacts between neurons in the central nervous system. On cortical neurons, spines undergo a continuous turnover regulated by development and sensory activity. However, the functional implications of this synaptic remodeling for network properties remain currently unknown. Using repetitive confocal imaging on hippocampal organotypic cultures, we find that learning-related patterns of activity that induce long-term potentiation act as a selection mechanism for the stabilization and localization of spines. Through a lasting N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and protein synthesis-dependent increase in protrusion growth and turnover, induction of plasticity promotes a pruning and replacement of nonactivated spines by new ones together with a selective stabilization of activated synapses. Furthermore, most newly formed spines preferentially grow in close proximity to activated synapses and become functional within 24 h, leading to a clustering of functional synapses. Our results indicate that synaptic remodeling associated with induction of long-term potentiation favors the selection of inputs showing spatiotemporal interactions on a given neuron.
Global cerebral ischemia/hypoxia, as can occur during human stroke, damages brain neural networks and synaptic functions. The recently demonstrated protein kinase C (PKC) activation-induced synaptogenesis in rat hippocampus suggested the potential of PKC-mediated antiapoptosis and synaptogenesis during conditions of neurodegeneration. Consequently, we examined the effects of chronic bryostatin-1, a PKC activator, on the cerebral ischemia/hypoxia-induced impairment of synapses and neurotrophic activity in the hippocampal CA1 area and on hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory. Postischemic/hypoxic bryostatin-1 treatment effectively rescued ischemia-induced deficits in synaptogenesis, neurotrophic activity, and spatial learning and memory. These results highlight a neuroprotective signaling pathway, as well as a therapeutic strategy with an extended time window for reducing brain damage due to stroke by activating particular PKC isozymes.

Most temperate-zone species use photoperiod to coordinate breeding and ensure that offspring are born during favourable conditions. Although photoperiodic influences on the reproductive axis have been well characterized, the precise mechanisms by which photoperiodic information and other seasonal cues are integrated to regulate reproductive function remain less well specified. Two recently discovered neuropeptides, kisspeptin and gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone, have pronounced opposing influences on reproductive function. This paper will review recent evidence for a role of these peptides in seasonal reproduction and propose a theoretical framework by which these novel regulatory peptides may serve to regulate seasonal breeding. Understanding the mechanisms regulating appropriate changes in reproductive status will serve to advance a wide range of life science disciplines.
Many genetic studies have demonstrated an association between the 7-repeat (7r) allele of a 48-base pair variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) in exon 3 of the DRD4 gene and the phenotype of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Previous studies have shown inconsistent associations between the 7r allele and neurocognitive performance in children with ADHD. We investigated the performance of 128 children with and without ADHD on the Fixed and Random versions of the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART). We employed time-series analyses of reaction-time data to allow a fine-grained analysis of reaction time variability, a candidate endophenotype for ADHD. Children were grouped into either the 7r-present group (possessing at least one copy of the 7r allele) or the 7r-absent group. The ADHD group made significantly more commission errors and was significantly more variable in RT in terms of fast moment-to-moment variability than the control group, but no effect of genotype was found on these measures. Children with ADHD without the 7r allele made significantly more omission errors, were significantly more variable in the slow frequency domain and showed less sensitivity to the signal (d') than those children with ADHD the 7r and control children with or without the 7r. These results highlight the utility of time-series analyses of reaction time data for delineating the neuropsychological deficits associated with ADHD and the DRD4 VNTR. Absence of the 7-repeat allele in children with ADHD is associated with a neurocognitive profile of drifting sustained attention that gives rise to variable and inconsistent performance.
Recent meta-analyses of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) have suggested association between two of its functional single gene polymorphisms (SNPs; C677T and A1298C) and schizophrenia. Studies have also suggested association between MTHFR C677T and A1298C variation and bipolar disorder. In a replication attempt the MTHFR C677T and A1298C SNPs were analyzed in three Scandinavian schizophrenia case-control samples. In addition, Norwegian patients with bipolar disorder were investigated. There were no statistically significant allele or genotype case-control differences. The present Scandinavian results do not verify previous associations between the putative functional MTHFR gene polymorphisms and schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. However, when combined with previous studies in meta-analyses there is still evidence for association between the MTHFR C677T polymorphism and schizophrenia. Additional studies are warranted to shed further light on these relationships.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) share several epidemiological and biochemical features. The present study aimed to assess the possible influence of the AMD-associated complement factor H (CFH) Y402H (1277T &gt; C) polymorphism on the risk of AD. Caucasian subjects (n = 800) meeting the criteria for probable (n = 717) or definite (n = 83) AD and Caucasian non-demented controls (n = 1265) were included in this multi-center case-control study, in which genotype and allele frequencies of the CFH 1277T &gt; C polymorphism were determined and related to diagnosis, APOE genotype, Mini-Mental State Examination score (MMSE) and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers total-tau (T-tau), phospho-tau(181) (P-tau(181)), and beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta(1-42)). The AMD-associated CFH genotypes (1277CC and 1277TC) were overrepresented in subjects with AD as compared to control individuals (P = 0.029). Positive C carrier status was associated with an odds ratio (OR) for AD of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.50). When APOE epsilon4 carrier status was included in the regression model, this association was even stronger (OR 1.34, 95% CI: 1.08-1.65, P = 0.007). Subgroup analysis showed that the association between CFH C allele positivity and AD was only evident for individuals carrying the APOE epsilon4 allele. Positive C carrier status was also associated with lower levels of CSF Abeta(1-42) selectively in the control group in an APOE epsilon4-independent manner (P = 0.003). In conclusion, the CFH 1277T &gt; C polymorphism seems to influence the risk of AD and there appears to be an interaction between CFH 1277C and APOE epsilon4 alleles. The CFH 1277C allele may predispose patients for co-morbidity in AD and AMD.
Genetic studies of clinically defined subgroups of schizophrenia patients may reduce the phenotypic heterogeneity of schizophrenia and thus facilitate the identification of genes that confer risk to this disorder. Several latent class analyses have provided subgroups of psychotic disorders that show considerable consistency over these studies. The presence or absence of mood symptoms was found to contribute most to the delineations of these subgroups. In this study we used six previously published subtypes of psychosis derived from latent class analysis of a large sample of psychosis patients. In 280 schizophrenia patients and 525 healthy controls we investigated the associations of these subgroups with myelin related genes. After bonferroni correction we found an association of the glycoprotein M6A gene (GPM6A) with the subgroup of schizophrenia patients with high levels of depression (P-corrected = 0.006). Borderline association of the microtubulin associated protein tau (MAPT) with a primarily non-affective group of schizophrenia patients (P-corrected = 0.052) was also observed. GPM6A modulates the influence of stress on the hippocampus in animals. Thus our findings could suggest that GMP6A plays a role in the stress-induced hippocampal alterations that are found in psychiatric disorders in general and schizophrenia in particular. Overall, these finding suggests that investigating subgroups of schizophrenia based symptoms profile and particularly mood symptoms can facilitate genetic studies of schizophrenia.

Neurotoxic, cell-specific lesions of the rat caudate-putamen (CPu) have been proposed as a model of human Huntington's disease and as such impair performance on many motor tasks, including skilled forelimbs tasks such as reaching for food. Because the CPu and motor cortex share reciprocal connections, it has been proposed that the motor deficits are due in part to a secondary disruption of motor cortex. The purpose of the present study was to examine the functionality of the motor cortex using intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) following neurotoxic lesions of the CPu. ICMS maps have been shown to be sensitive indicators of motor skill, cortical injury, learning, and experience. Long-evans hooded rats received a sham, a medial, or a lateral CPu lesion using the neurotoxin, quinolinic acid (2,3-pyridinedicarboxylic acid). Two weeks later the motor cortex was stimulated under light ketamine anesthesia. Neither lateral nor medial lesions of the CPu altered the stimulation threshold for eliciting forelimb movements, the type of movements elicited, or the size of the rostral forelimb (RFA) and caudal forelimb areas (CFA) from which movements were elicited. The preservation of ICMS forelimb movement representations (the forelimb map) in rats with cell-specific CPu lesions suggests motor impairments following lesions of the lateral striatum are not due to the disruption of the motor map. Therefore, the impairments that follow striatal cell loss are due either to alterations in circuitry that is independent of motor cortex or to alterations in circuitry afferent to the motor cortex projections.
Systemically administered human recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) may have the potential to reduce the cognitive and behavioural symptoms of mechanical brain injury. In a series of studies we address this possibility. Previously, we studied the effects of EPO given to fimbria-fornix transected rats at the moment of injury. We have found that such treatment improves substantially the posttraumatic acquisition of allocentric place learning tasks administered in a water maze and in an 8-arm radial maze as well as a spatial delayed alternation task administered in a T-maze. It is, however, essential also to evaluate this clinically important ability of EPO after other types of mechanical brain injury. Consequently, we presently studied the effects of similarly administered EPO in rats subjected to bilateral subpial aspiration of the anteromedial prefrontal cortex as well as control operated rats, respectively. We evaluated the posttraumatic behavioural/cognitive abilities of these animals in a spatial delayed alternation task performed in a T-maze. Administration of EPO to the prefrontally ablated rats was associated with a reduction of the lesion-associated behavioural impairment--while such an impairment was clearly seen in the saline injected prefrontally ablated group. In sham operated rats administration of EPO did not influence the task acquisition significantly. The results of the present study confirm our previous demonstrations that EPO is able to reduce the behavioural/cognitive consequences of mechanical brain injury. This ability is emphasized by its relative independence on the type of lesion as well as the neural structure affected.
Two new studies reveal the role of microtubule polarity in the asymmetric localization of mRNAs. In this issue of Cell, Zimyanin et al. (2008) show that the asymmetric localization of oskar mRNA in fruit fly oocytes results from a slight bias in the direction of its transport. Meanwhile, Messitt et al. (2008) reporting in Developmental Cell find a subpopulation of microtubules that is critical for the asymmetric distribution of Vg1 mRNA in frog oocytes.
Accumulation of indigestible lipofuscin and decreased mitochondrial energy production are characteristic age-related changes of post-mitotic retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells in the human eye. To test whether these two forms of age-related impairment have interdependent effects, we quantified the ATP-dependent phagocytic function of RPE cells loaded or not with the lipofuscin component A2E and inhibiting or not mitochondrial ATP synthesis either pharmacologically or genetically. We found that physiological levels of lysosomal A2E reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and inhibited oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) of RPE cells. Furthermore, in media with physiological concentrations of glucose or pyruvate, A2E significantly inhibited phagocytosis. Antioxidants reversed these effects of A2E, suggesting that A2E damage is mediated by oxidative processes. Because mitochondrial mutations accumulate with aging, we generated novel genetic cellular models of RPE carrying mitochondrial DNA point mutations causing either moderate or severe mitochondrial dysfunction. Exploring these mutant RPE cells we found that, by itself, only the severe but not the moderate OXPHOS defect reduces phagocytosis. However, sub-toxic levels of lysosomal A2E are sufficient to reduce phagocytic activity of RPE with moderate OXPHOS defect and cause cell death of RPE with severe OXPHOS defect. Taken together, RPE cells rely on OXPHOS for phagocytosis when the carbon energy source is limited. Our results demonstrate that A2E accumulation exacerbates the effects of moderate mitochondrial dysfunction. They suggest that synergy of sub-toxic lysosomal and mitochondrial changes in RPE cells with age may cause RPE dysfunction that is known to contribute to human retinal diseases like age-related macular degeneration.
Stromal cell-derived factor alpha (SDF1alpha) and its cognate receptor CXCR4 play an important role in neuronal development in the hippocampus, but the genes directly regulated by SDF1alpha/CXCR4 signaling are unknown. To study the role of CXCR4 targeted genes in neuronal development, we used neuronal cultures established from embryonic day 18 rats. Hippocampal neurons express CXCR4 receptor proteins and are stimulated by SDF1alpha resulting in activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and the transcription factor cAMP-response element-binding protein. SDF1alpha rapidly induces the expression of the early growth response gene Egr1, a transcription factor involved in activity-dependent neuronal responses, in a concentration-dependent manner. Gel-shift analysis showed that SDF1alpha enhances DNA binding activity to the Egr1-containing promoter for GAD67. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis using an Egr1 antibody indicated that SDF1alpha stimulation increases binding of Egr1 to a GAD67 promoter DNA sequence. SDF1alpha stimulation increases the expression of GAD67 at both the mRNA and protein levels, and increases the amount and neurite localization of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in neurons already expressing GABA. SDF1alpha-induced Egr1/GAD67 expression is mediated by the G protein-coupled CXCR4 receptor and activation of the ERK pathway. Reduction of Egr1 gene expression using small interfering RNA technology lowers the level of GAD67 transcripts and inhibits SDF1alpha-induced GABA production. Inhibition of CXCR4 activation in the developing mouse brain in utero greatly reduced Egr1 and GAD67 mRNA levels and GAD67 protein levels, suggesting a pivotal role for CXCR4 signaling in the development of GABAergic neurons in vivo. Our data suggest that SDF1alpha/CXCR4/G protein/ERK signaling induces the expression of the GAD67 system via Egr1 activation, a mechanism that may promote the maturation of GABAergic neurons during development.

Polycomb-group (PcG) and Trithorax-group proteins together form a maintenance machinery that is responsible for stable heritable states of gene activity. While the best-studied target genes are the Hox genes of the Antennapedia and Bithorax complexes, a large number of key developmental genes are also Polycomb (Pc) targets, indicating a widespread role for this maintenance machinery in cell fate determination. We have studied the linkage between the binding of PcG proteins and the developmental regulation of gene expression using whole-genome mapping to identify sites bound by the PcG proteins, Pc and Pleiohomeotic (Pho), in the Drosophila embryo and in a more restricted tissue, the imaginal discs of the third thoracic segment. Our data provide support for the idea that Pho is a general component of the maintenance machinery, since the majority of Pc targets are also associated with Pho binding. We find, in general, considerable developmental stability of Pc and Pho binding at target genes and observe that Pc/Pho binding can be associated with both expressed and inactive genes. In particular, at the Hox complexes, both active and inactive genes have significant Pc and Pho binding. However, in comparison to inactive genes, the active Hox genes show reduced and altered binding profiles. During development, Pc target genes are not simply constantly associated with Pc/Pho binding, and we identify sets of genes with clear differential binding between embryo and imaginal disc. Using existing datasets, we show that for specific fate-determining genes of the haemocyte lineage, the active state is characterised by lack of Pc binding. Overall, our analysis suggests a dynamic relationship between Pc/Pho binding and gene transcription. Pc/Pho binding does not preclude transcription, but levels of Pc/Pho binding change during development, and loss of Pc/Pho binding can be associated with both stable gene activity and inactivity.
A long-standing conjecture in neuroscience is that aspects of cognition depend on the brain's ability to self-generate sequential neuronal activity. We found that reliably and continually changing cell assemblies in the rat hippocampus appeared not only during spatial navigation but also in the absence of changing environmental or body-derived inputs. During the delay period of a memory task, each moment in time was characterized by the activity of a particular assembly of neurons. Identical initial conditions triggered a similar assembly sequence, whereas different conditions gave rise to different sequences, thereby predicting behavioral choices, including errors. Such sequences were not formed in control (nonmemory) tasks. We hypothesize that neuronal representations, evolved for encoding distance in spatial navigation, also support episodic recall and the planning of action sequences.

After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the ventrolateral subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarius (vlNTS) and Fluoro-gold (FG) into the rostral ventral respiratory group (rVRG) region or into the phrenic nucleus (PhN) region in the rat, an overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and FG-labeled neurons was found in the Klliker-Fuse (KF) nucleus ipsilateral to the injection sites. Using retrograde tracing combined with immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67), we indicated that as many as 40% of the vlNTS neurons projecting to the KF were immunoreactive for GAD67. Using a combination of anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques, and immunohistochemistry for GAD67, we further demonstrated that the vlNTS axon terminals with GAD67 immunoreactivity established close contact to the rVRG- or PhN-projecting KF neurons. The present results suggest that GABAergic vlNTS fibers may exert inhibitory influences on the rVRG- as well as PhN-projecting KF neurons and these circuits may be involved in the respiratory reflexes such as the Hering-Breuer reflex.
Marijuana smoking dramatically alters responses to various environmental stimuli. To study this phenomenon, we assessed how delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a primary psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, affects locomotor and brain (nucleus accumbens or NAcc), muscle and skin temperature responses to natural arousing stimuli (one-minute tail-pinch and one-minute social interaction with another male rat) and iv cocaine (1 mg/kg) in male rats. THC was administered at three widely varying doses (0.5, 2.0 and 8.0 mg/kg, ip), and the drug-induced changes in basal values and responses to stimuli were compared to those occurring following ip vehicle injections (control). Each stimulus in control conditions caused acute locomotor activation, a prolonged increase in brain and muscle temperature (0.6-1.0 degrees C for 20-50 min) and transient decrease in skin temperature (-0.6 degrees C for 1-3 min). While THC at any dose had a tendency to decrease spontaneous locomotion as well as brain and muscle temperatures, true hypothermia and hypoactivity as well as clearly diminished locomotor and temperature responses to all stimuli were only seen following the largest dose. In this case, temperature decreases in the NAcc were stronger than in the muscle, suggesting metabolic brain inhibition as the primary cause of hypoactivity, hypothermia and hyporesponsiveness. While weaker in strength and without associated vasodilatation, this response pattern is mimicked by general anesthetics, questioning to what extent the hypothermic action of THC is specific (i.e., mediated via endogenous cannabinoid receptors) or non-specific, reflecting drug interaction with membrane lipids or other receptors. In contrast, weaker behavioral and temperature effects of THC at lower doses resemble those of diazepam, whose locomotion- and temperature-decreasing effects are evident only in activated conditions, when rats are moving and basal temperatures are elevated.
When lifting objects of different mass but identical visual appearance, we apply grip forces that match the expected mass of the object. Here we study the role of the primary motor cortex (M1), the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) and the anterior intraparietal area (AIP) for predictive and reactive scaling of grip forces. Participants performed a precision grip between the index finger and thumb of the right hand to lift two different masses of identical visual appearance in random order. Neuronavigated single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over (i) left M1, (ii) left PMv, (iii) left AIP and (iv) the vertex (for control) was applied at two time points of the grasping movement after an unexpected change in mass had occurred: (a) at the time of movement onset and (b) at the time of peak grasp aperture. TMS over the PMv, but not over the vertex, M1 or the AIP, interfered with the predictive scaling of grip forces according to the most recent lift when applied at the time of peak grasp aperture. In contrast, TMS over AIP, but not over the vertex, M1 or PMv, disrupted the reactive adjustment of grip force to the novel mass of the object at hand. The findings highlight the differential involvement of PMv in the predictive scaling of grip force and of AIP in the reactive online adjustment of grip force during object manipulation.
Circadian rhythms are endogenous 24-h rhythms. The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the mammalian hypothalamus serve as the master circadian pacemaker, entraining peripheral organs which also demonstrate circadian rhythms. Entrainment to LD cycles of non-24 h duration (T-cycles) induces aftereffects on period that act to bring the intrinsic period closer to the entraining cycle. Both parametric effects, such as changes in endogenous period, and non-parametric effects of light, such as instantaneous phase shifts, act synergistically to accomplish entrainment of the SCN. It is not yet known if entrainment of peripheral oscillators similarly involves both parametric and non-parametric effects. In this study, mPer2(Luc) knockin mice were entrained to either long or short T-cycles, placed into constant darkness (DD) for 3 days to measure behavioral free-running period (FRP), and then PER2::LUC bioluminescence from SCN, spleen, esophagus, lung and thymus was measured in vitro. The FRP of SCN samples was negatively correlated with the FRP of behavioral rhythms, replicating prior results in mPer1-Luc mice. The FRP of the four peripheral oscillators tested did not correlate with behavioral rhythm FRP. Evidence that the SCN may entrain peripheral tissues by shifting phase relationships was observed, in that the phase of PER2::LUC in the SCN relative to peripheral tissues and also to the onset of behavioral activity varied between groups. Our study suggests that aftereffects on FRP may be an emergent property of the system that cannot be explained by the period changes in the system components. Further, we demonstrate that the phase relationship between the rhythm in PER2 in the SCN and these peripheral tissues is altered following T-cycle entrainment.
The recently cloned histamine H(4) receptor is expressed predominantly in haematopoietic cells and has been found to modulate the function of mast cells, eosinophils, dendritic cells and T lymphocytes. It represents an attractive target for pharmacological interventions against a number of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. In the present work we used two-electrode voltage-clamp to demonstrate histamine H(4) receptor modulation of G protein-coupled inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In accordance with earlier findings in other effector systems, full agonism by histamine and (R)-alpha-methylhistamine, partial agonism by clobenpropit and inverse agonism by thioperamide were observed. Furthermore, in oocytes injected with low amounts of receptor cRNA, clobenpropit apparently acted as a neutral antagonist. We also used the high temporal resolution afforded by this system to study the differential time courses of response deactivation upon ligand washout for clobenpropit and (R)-alpha-methylhistamine. GIRK channels represent a novel effector system for histamine H(4) receptor modulation, which may be of physiological relevance and prove useful in the development of compounds targeting this receptor.
Mammalian cell viability is dependent on the supply of the essential fatty acids (EFAs) linoleic and alpha-linolenic acid. EFAs are converted into omega3- and omega6-polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), which are essential constituents of membrane phospholipids and precursors of eicosanoids, anandamide and docosanoids. Whether EFAs, PUFAs and eicosanoids are essential for cell viability has remained elusive. Here, we show that deletion of delta6-fatty acid desaturase (FADS2) gene expression in the mouse abolishes the initial step in the enzymatic cascade of PUFA synthesis. The lack of PUFAs and eicosanoids does not impair the normal viability and lifespan of male and female fads2 -/- mice, but causes sterility. We further provide the molecular evidence for a pivotal role of PUFA-substituted membrane phospholipids in Sertoli cell polarity and blood-testis barrier, and the gap junction network between granulosa cells of ovarian follicles. The fads2 -/- mouse is an auxotrophic mutant. It is anticipated that FADS2 will become a major focus in membrane, haemostasis, inflammation and atherosclerosis research.
Lesion studies in animals have identified a critical role of the hippocampus in context fear conditioning. To extend these findings to human volunteers, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate neural responses associated with context fear conditioning in humans. Our novel conditioning paradigm consisted of aversive electrical shocks (unconditioned stimulus) that were delivered either cue or context related. Differential evoked responses, related to the conditioned stimulus (CS), were found in the anterior cingulate cortex and the bilateral insular cortices, regions that have been implicated in anticipatory anxiety. In case of context conditioning, a similar pattern was observed during the presentation of the entire context. In line with previous conditioning studies, differential responses in the amygdala showed a time by stimulus interaction, suggesting rapid adaptation of CS-specific responses. More importantly, a similar differential decay of activation was observed during context conditioning in the hippocampus, in agreement with a role of the hippocampus in the acquisition phase of human context fear conditioning.
Microdialysis was used to assess the contribution to cocaine seeking of cholinergic input to the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system in ventral tegmental area (VTA). VTA acetylcholine (ACh) was elevated in animals lever pressing for intravenous cocaine and in cocaine-experienced and cocaine-naive animals passively receiving similar &quot;yoked&quot; injections. In cocaine-trained animals, the elevations comprised an initial (first hour) peak to approximately 160% of baseline and a subsequent plateau of 140% of baseline for the rest of the cocaine intake period. In cocaine-naive animals, yoked cocaine injections raised ACh levels to the 140% plateau but did not cause the initial 160% peak. In cocaine-trained animals that received unexpected saline (extinction conditions) rather than the expected cocaine, the initial peak was seen but the subsequent plateau was absent. VTA ACh levels played a causal role and were not just a correlate of cocaine seeking. Blocking muscarinic input to the VTA increased cocaine intake; the increase in intake offset the decrease in cholinergic input, resulting in the same VTA dopamine levels as were seen in the absence of the ACh antagonists. Increased VTA ACh levels (resulting from 10 microM VTA neostigmine infusion) increased VTA dopamine levels and reinstated cocaine seeking in cocaine-trained animals that had undergone extinction; these effects were strongly attenuated by local infusion of a muscarinic antagonist and weakly attenuated by a nicotinic antagonist. These findings identify two cholinergic responses to cocaine self-administration, an unconditioned response to cocaine itself and a conditioned response triggered by cocaine-predictive cues, and confirm that these cholinergic responses contribute to the control of cocaine seeking.
Neurotrophins and their cognate receptors Trks are important regulators of neuronal survival and differentiation. Recent studies reveal that internalization and trafficking of Trks play a critical role in neurotrophin-mediated signaling. At present, little is known of the molecular events that mediate this process. In the current study, we show that endophilin B1 is a novel regulator of nerve growth factor (NGF) trafficking. We found that endophilin B1 interacts with both TrkA and early endosome marker EEA1. Interestingly, knockdown of endophilin B1 results in enlarged EEA1-positive vesicles in NGF-treated PC12 cells. This is accompanied by increased lysosomal targeting of NGF/TrkA and TrkA degradation, and reduced total TrkA levels. In addition, knockdown of endophilin B1 attenuates Erk1/2 activation in the endosomal fraction after NGF treatment. This is accompanied by a marked inhibition of NGF-induced gene transcription and neurite outgrowth in endophilin B1-knocked down cells. Our observations implicate endophilin B1 as a novel regulator of NGF trafficking, thereby affecting TrkA levels and downstream signaling on endosomes to mediate biological functions of NGF.
Understanding cortical information processing in Huntington's disease (HD), a genetic neurological disorder characterized by prominent motor and cognitive abnormalities, is key to understanding the mechanisms underlying the HD behavioral phenotype. We recorded extracellular spike activity in two symptomatic, freely behaving mouse models: R6/2 transgenics, which are based on a CBA x C57BL/6 background and show robust behavioral symptoms, and HD knock-in (KI) mice, which have a 129sv background and express relatively mild behavioral signs. We focused on prefrontal cortex and assessed firing patterns of individually recorded neurons as well as the amount of synchrony between simultaneously recorded neuronal pairs. At the single-unit level, spike trains in R6/2 transgenics were less variable and had a faster rate than their corresponding wild-type (WT) littermates but showed significantly less bursting. In contrast, KI and WT firing patterns were closely matched. An assessment of both WTs revealed that the R6/2 and KI difference could not be explained by a difference in WT electrophysiology. Thus, the altered pattern of individual spike trains in R6/2 mice appears to parallel their aggressive form of symptom expression. Both WT lines, however, showed a high proportion of synchrony between neuronal pairs (&gt;85%) that was significantly attenuated in both corresponding HD models (decreases of approximately 20% and approximately 30% in R6/2s and knock-ins, respectively). The loss of spike synchrony, regardless of symptom severity, suggests a population-level deficit in cortical information processing that underlies HD progression.
Precise representation of the timing of sensory stimuli is essential for rapid motor coordination, a core function of the cerebellum. Feedforward inhibition has been implicated in precise temporal signaling in several regions of the brain, but little is known about this type of inhibitory circuit within the input layer of the cerebellar cortex. We investigated the synaptic properties of feedforward inhibition at near physiological temperatures (35 degrees C) in rat cerebellar slices. We establish that the previously uncharacterized mossy fiber-Golgi cell-granule cell pathway can act as a functional feedforward inhibitory circuit. The synchronous activation of four mossy fibers, releasing a total of six quanta onto a Golgi cell, can reset spontaneous Golgi cell firing with high temporal precision (200 mus). However, only modest increases in Golgi cell firing rate were observed during trains of high-frequency mossy fiber stimulation. This decoupling of Golgi cell activity from mossy fiber firing rate was attributable to a strong afterhyperpolarization after each action potential, preventing mossy fiber-Golgi cell signaling for approximately 50 ms. Feedforward excitation of Golgi cells induced a temporally precise inhibitory conductance in granule cells that curtailed the excitatory action of the mossy fiber EPSC. The synaptic and cellular properties of this feedforward circuit appear tuned to trigger a fast inhibitory conductance in granule cells at the onset of stimuli that produce intense bursts of activity in multiple mossy fibers, thereby conserving the temporal precision of the initial granule cell response.
Theories of embodied cognition propose that recognizing facial expressions requires visual processing followed by simulation of the somatovisceral responses associated with the perceived expression. To test this proposal, we targeted the right occipital face area (rOFA) and the face region of right somatosensory cortex (rSC) with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) while participants discriminated facial expressions. rTMS selectively impaired discrimination of facial expressions at both sites but had no effect on a matched face identity task. Site specificity within the rSC was demonstrated by targeting rTMS at the face and finger regions while participants performed the expression discrimination task. rTMS targeted at the face region impaired task performance relative to rTMS targeted at the finger region. To establish the temporal course of visual and somatosensory contributions to expression processing, double-pulse TMS was delivered at different times to rOFA and rSC during expression discrimination. Accuracy dropped when pulses were delivered at 60-100 ms at rOFA and at 100-140 and 130-170 ms at rSC. These sequential impairments at rOFA and rSC support embodied accounts of expression recognition as well as hierarchical models of face processing. The results also demonstrate that nonvisual cortical areas contribute during early stages of expression processing.
Axonal regeneration is minimal after CNS injuries in adult mammals and medical treatments to recover neurological deficits caused by axon disconnection are extremely limited. The failure of axonal elongation is principally attributed to the nonpermissive environment and reduced intrinsic growth capacity. In this report, we studied the role of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) inactivation on neurite and axon growth from adult neurons via combined in vitro and in vivo approaches. We found that the major CNS inhibiting substrates including chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans could inactivate protein kinase B (Akt) and activate GSK-3beta signals in neurons. GSK-3 inactivation with pharmacologic inhibitors enhances neurite outgrowth of dorsal root ganglion neurons derived from adult mice or cerebellar granule neurons from postnatal rodents cultured on CNS inhibitors. Application of GSK-3 inhibitors stimulates axon formation and elongation of mature neurons whether in presence or absence of inhibitory substrates. Systemic application of the GSK-3 inhibitor lithium to spinal cord-lesioned rats suppresses the activity of this kinase around lesion. Treatments with GSK-3 inhibitors including a clinical dose of lithium to rats with thoracic spinal cord transection or contusion injuries induce significant descending corticospinal and serotonergic axon sprouting in caudal spinal cord and promote locomotor functional recovery. Our studies suggest that GSK-3 signal is an important therapeutic target for promoting functional recovery of adult CNS injuries and that administration of GSK-3 inhibitors may facilitate the development of an effective treatment to white matter injuries including spinal cord trauma given the wide use of lithium in humans.
PCP2, a member of the GoLoco domain-containing family, is present exclusively in cerebellar Purkinje cells and retinal ON bipolar cells. Its function in these tissues is unknown. Biochemical and expression system studies suggest that PCP2 is a guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor, although a guanine nucleotide exchange factor has also been suggested. Here, we studied the function of PCP2 in ON bipolar cells because their light response depends on Galpha(o1), which is known to interact with PCP2. We identified a new splice variant of PCP2 (Ret-PCP2) and localized it to rod bipolar and ON cone bipolar cells. Electroretinogram recordings from PCP2-null mice showed a normal a-wave but a slower falling phase of the b-wave (generated by the activity of ON bipolar cells) relative to the wild type. Whole-cell recordings from rod bipolar cells showed, both under Ames medium and after blocking GABA(A/C) and glycine receptors, that PCP2-null rod bipolar cells were more depolarized than wild-type cells with greater inward current when clamped to -60 mV. Also under both conditions, the rise time of the response to intense light was slower by 28% (Ames) and 44% (inhibitory blockers) in the null cells. Under Ames medium, we also observed &gt;30% longer decay time in the PCP2-null rod bipolar cells. We conclude that PCP2 facilitates cation channels closure in the dark, shortens the rise time of the light response directly, and accelerates the decay time indirectly via the inhibitory network. These data can most easily be explained if PCP2 serves as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor.

Risperidone has been shown to be clinically effective for the treatment of aggressive behavior in children, yet until recently no information was available regarding whether risperidone exhibits aggression-specific suppression in preclinical studies employing validated developmentally immature animal models of escalated aggression. Recently, using a pharmacologic animal model of escalated offensive aggression, we reported that acute risperidone treatment selectively and dose-dependently reduces the expression of the adult aggressive phenotype, with a significant reduction in aggressive responses observed at 0.1 mg/kg, i.e., a dose within the range administered to children and adolescents in the clinical setting. This study examined whether repeated exposure to risperidone during puberty would prevent the generation of the highly escalated aggressive phenotype in this animal model. To test this hypothesis, the aggression-eliciting stimulus (i.e., cocaine hydrochloride, 0.5 mg/kg/dayx28 days) was co-administered with an aggression-suppressing dose of risperidone (i.e., 0.1 mg/kg/day) during different time frames of puberty and for varied lengths of time (i.e., 1-4 weeks), and then animals were scored for targeted measures of offensive aggression during late puberty. Risperidone administration prevented the generation of the adult aggressive phenotype, with a complete blockade of matured offensive responses (i.e., lateral attacks and flank/rump bites) seen only after prolonged periods of exposure to risperidone (i.e., 3-4 weeks). The selective prevention of these aggressive responses, while leaving other measures of aggression intact (e.g., upright offensive postures), suggest that risperidone is acting in a highly discriminatory anti-aggressive fashion, targeting neurobehavioral elements important for the mature aggressive response pattern.
Environment noise is ubiquitous in our daily life. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of postnatal exposure to moderate-level noise on the auditory object exploration behavior of adult rats by comparing the ability of three groups of rats to locate a sound source in a water maze. Two groups of rats, either in the critical period of hearing development or in adulthood, were exposed to 80 dB SPL interrupted white noise for 8 h per day for two weeks. The control group of rats was not exposed to the noise. The ability of the rats to locate a hidden platform that was situated near a sound source in a water maze was tested starting on postnatal day 77. A continuous improvement in the performance of control rats and rats exposed to noise in adulthood was observed during training, whereas rats exposed to noise at a young age exhibited a significantly worse performance. These findings indicated that long-term exposure of young rats to moderate-level noise caused significant impairment of their auditory object exploration behavior compared to exposure of adult animals to the same moderate-level noise.
Neonatal food restriction (FR) in rats, by means of increased litter size, has been used as a model for developmental programming by several investigators. However, the results reported have been inconsistent and difficult to compare between studies. In the present study, we aim to characterize the effects of this model throughout life in both sexes of one particular strain. On the second day of life, Wistar rat pups were randomly assigned to a litter of 10 (control) or 20 (FR). All litters had an equal number of males and females, and pups were weaned on day 25. Body dimensions and food intake were measured regularly until the age of one year. Serum leptin levels were determined in four subsets of different ages. FR acutely reduced growth in all body dimensions and serum leptin levels. Despite catch-up after weaning, all these parameters remained reduced throughout life. Male and female FR rats had a significantly reduced absolute energy intake throughout life. Male FR rats had significantly higher energy intake adjusted for body weight immediately after weaning. During catch-up growth, both FR males and females showed significantly enhanced feed efficiency. These results suggest that neonatal food restriction programmed both male and female Wistar rats to remain small and lean in adult life, with a lower food intake. Low neonatal leptin levels may play a mechanistic role in this process.
The anti-viral drug interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) is widely-known to induce psychiatric and cognitive effects in patients. Previous work has shown that physical exercise can have a positive effect against brain insult. We investigated the effects of a clinically-comparable treatment regime of IFN-alpha on cognitive function in male Wistar rats and assessed the impact of chronic treadmill running on the deficits generated by IFN-alpha. We found that IFN-alpha induced significant impairments in performance on both spatial novelty and object novelty recognition. Chronic forced exercise did not protect against IFN-alpha-induced learning deficits in reactivity to spatial change, but did restore the capacity for novel object recognition in IFN-alpha-treated animals.
The need to obtain data from individual laboratory animals has forced many researchers to singly-house small animals. This is costly to the researcher and isolation can adversely affect animal physiology and behavior which in turn may threaten the validity and generalization of experiment results to humans. We assessed the practical use of a housing device - dubbed &quot;Buddy Barrier&quot; (BB) - that allows social stimulation in a paired-housing situation while at the same time permitting the collection of individual measures that traditionally require individual-housing. To assess stress responses to the BB, adult male rats were single or pair-housed for several days with and without a BB in the cage. Fecal corticosterone metabolites (fCORT), food intake and body weight were monitored daily. Plasma CORT and adrenal catecholamine levels were assessed at the end of the housing manipulation. Stress hormone measures did not differ in paired vs. singly-housed rats and paired rats quickly habituated to introduction and removal of the BB. Barring a trend for paired rats to eat more in the first 4 h of the dark, there was no difference in 24 h intakes or body weight gain between singly and paired-housed rats. While the BB attenuated 24 h intakes in both groups, intakes normalized to non-BB conditions by the third BB reintroduction. A device such as the BB can enhance the welfare of animals by providing social enrichment without compromising the integrity of experimental protocols traditionally requiring single-housing. In times of lagging research funding it can also substantially reduce housing costs.
Much research has demonstrated that events occurring in early life can have a profound influence on future biobehavioral responses to stressful and emotion provoking situations. The purpose of these studies was to determine the effects of an early environmental manipulation, handling (HAN) on cardiovascular (CV) reactivity, freezing behavior and corticosterone (CORT) responses to contextual fear conditioning in the borderline hypertensive rat (BHR),which is susceptible to environmental stressors. HAN subjects were separated from the nest for 15 min/day on post-natal days 1-14, while non-handled (NON-HAN) controls remained in the home cage. Adult subjects were exposed to the contextual fear conditioning procedure and returned to the chamber 24 h later for a 10 min test period. HAN subjects displayed significantly more freezing behavior compared to NON-HAN(92%+/-2.2 vs 80.7%+/-5.7, p&lt;.05). Although resting MAP did not differ between groups, HAN subjects had increased MAP reactivity when re-exposed to the chamber. In addition, HAN subjects had significantly lower CORT levels at the end of the 10 min test period (174.2+/-9 ng/ml vs 237.2+/-12.9 ng/ml, p&lt;.05). In the second experiment, CORT responses to 60 min of restraint stress and recovery following return to the home cage were assessed in separate groups of HAN and NON-HAN subjects. HAN subjects showed reduced CORT levels in response to acute restraint stress. These results indicate that neonatal handling can modulate biobehavioral responses to contextual fear conditioning in BHR and may suggest a useful model with which to study emotionality and susceptibility to CV disease.
A highly conserved feature across all families of 7TM receptors is a disulfide bridge between a Cys residue located at the extracellular end of transmembrane segment III (TM-III) and one in extracellular loop 2 (ECL-2). The zinc sensor GPR39 contains four Cys residues in the extracellular domains. By using mutagenesis, treatment with the reducing agent TCEP, and a labeling procedure for free sulfhydryl groups, we identify the pairing of these Cys residues in two disulfide bridges: the prototypical bridge between Cys (108) in TM-III and Cys (210) in ECL-2 and a second disulfide bridge connecting Cys (11) in the N-terminal domain with Cys (191) in ECL-2. Disruption of the conserved disulfide bond by mutagenesis greatly reduced the level of cell surface expression and eliminated agonist-induced increases in inositol phosphate production but surprisingly enhanced constitutive signaling. Disruption of the nonconserved disulfide bridge by mutagenesis led to an increase in the Zn (2+) potency. This phenotype, with an approximate 10-fold increase in agonist potency and a slight increase in E max, was mimicked by treatment of the wild-type receptor with TCEP at low concentrations, which had no effect on the receptor already lacking the second disulfide bridge and already displaying a high Zn (2+) potency. We conclude that the second disulfide bridge, which according to the beta2-adrenergic structure will form a covalent link across the entrance to the main ligand binding pocket, serves to dampen GPR39 activation. We suggest that formation of extra disulfide bridges may be an important general mechanism for regulating the activity of 7TM receptors.


Synaptic interactions between neurons of the human cerebral cortex were not directly studied to date. We recorded the first dataset, to our knowledge, on the synaptic effect of identified human pyramidal cells on various types of postsynaptic neurons and reveal complex events triggered by individual action potentials in the human neocortical network. Brain slices were prepared from nonpathological samples of cortex that had to be removed for the surgical treatment of brain areas beneath association cortices of 58 patients aged 18 to 73 y. Simultaneous triple and quadruple whole-cell patch clamp recordings were performed testing mono- and polysynaptic potentials in target neurons following a single action potential fired by layer 2/3 pyramidal cells, and the temporal structure of events and underlying mechanisms were analyzed. In addition to monosynaptic postsynaptic potentials, individual action potentials in presynaptic pyramidal cells initiated long-lasting (37 +/- 17 ms) sequences of events in the network lasting an order of magnitude longer than detected previously in other species. These event series were composed of specifically alternating glutamatergic and GABAergic postsynaptic potentials and required selective spike-to-spike coupling from pyramidal cells to GABAergic interneurons producing concomitant inhibitory as well as excitatory feed-forward action of GABA. Single action potentials of human neurons are sufficient to recruit Hebbian-like neuronal assemblies that are proposed to participate in cognitive processes.
Are thoughts impossible without the words to express them? It has been claimed that this is the case for thoughts about numbers: Children cannot have the concept of exact numbers until they know the words for them, and adults in cultures whose languages lack a counting vocabulary similarly cannot possess these concepts. Here, using classical methods of developmental psychology, we show that children who are monolingual speakers of two Australian languages with very restricted number vocabularies possess the same numerical concepts as a comparable group of English-speaking indigenous Australian children.
Primary cilia are present on mammalian neurons and glia, but their function is largely unknown. We generated conditional homozygous mutant mice for a gene we termed Stumpy. Mutants lack cilia and have conspicuous abnormalities in postnatally developing brain regions, including a hypoplasic hippocampus characterized by a primary deficiency in neural stem cells known as astrocyte-like neural precursors (ALNPs). Previous studies suggested that primary cilia mediate sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Here, we find that loss of ALNP cilia leads to abrogated Shh activity, increased cell cycle exit, and morphological abnormalities in ALNPs. Processing of Gli3, a mediator of Shh signaling, is also altered in the absence of cilia. Further, key mediators of the Shh pathway localize to ALNP cilia. Thus, selective targeting of Shh machinery to primary cilia confers to ALNPs the ability to differentially respond to Shh mitogenic signals compared to neighboring cells. Our data suggest these organelles are cellular &quot;antennae&quot; critically required to modulate ALNP behavior.
We identify a compartmentalized signaling system that identifies a functional role for the GTP exchange factor, exchange protein activated by cAMP (EPAC) coupled to Rap2 in the nucleus. In this system, cAMP regulates the nuclear/cytoplasmic trafficking of DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK), a critical kinase that acts to repair double-stranded breaks (DSBs) in damaged DNA and to phosphorylate the cell survival kinase, PKB/Akt. Intersecting regulatory inputs for cAMP employ EPAC to transduce positive effects, namely the Rap2-dependent nuclear exit and activation of DNA-PK, whereas protein kinase A (PKA) provides the negative input by antagonizing these actions. We identify this as a compartmentalized regulatory system where modulation of cAMP input into the stimulatory, EPAC and inhibitory, PKA intersecting arms is provided by spatially discrete, cAMP degradation systems. The distribution of DNA-PK between nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments can thus potentially be influenced by relative inputs of cAMP signaling through the EPAC and PKA pathways. Through this signaling system EPAC activation can thereby impact on the Ser-473 phosphorylation status of PKB/Akt and the repair of etoposide-induced DSBs.
Although it has been recognized that echolocating bats may experience jamming from the signals of conspecifics, research on this problem has focused exclusively on time-frequency adjustments in the emitted signals to minimize interference. Here, we report a surprising new strategy used by bats to avoid interference, namely silence. In a quantitative study of flight and vocal behavior of the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), we discovered that the bat spends considerable time in silence when flying with conspecifics. Silent behavior, defined here as at least one bat in a pair ceasing vocalization for more than 0.2 s (200 ms), occurred as much as 76% of the time (mean of 40% across 7 pairs) when their separation was shorter than 1 m, but only 0.08% when a single bat flew alone. Spatial separation, heading direction, and similarity in call design of paired bats were related to the prevalence of this silent behavior. Our data suggest that the bat uses silence as a strategy to avoid interference from sonar vocalizations of its neighbor, while listening to conspecific-generated acoustic signals to guide orientation. Based on previous neurophysiological studies of the bat's auditory midbrain, we hypothesize that environmental sounds (including vocalizations produced by other bats) and active echolocation evoke neural activity in different populations of neurons. Our findings offer compelling evidence that the echolocating bat switches between active and passive sensing to cope with a complex acoustic environment, and these results hold broad implications for research on navigation and communication throughout the animal kingdom.
GABAergic synapses are crucial for brain function, but the mechanisms underlying inhibitory synaptogenesis are unclear. Here, we show that postnatal Purkinje cells (PCs) of GABA(A)alpha1 knockout (KO) mice express transiently the alpha3 subunit, leading to the assembly of functional GABA(A) receptors and initial normal formation of inhibitory synapses, that are retained until adulthood. Subsequently, down-regulation of the alpha3 subunit causes a complete loss of GABAergic postsynaptic currents, resulting in a decreased rate of inhibitory synaptogenesis and formation of mismatched synapses between GABAergic axons and PC spines. Notably, the postsynaptic adhesion molecule neuroligin-2 (NL2) is correctly targeted to inhibitory synapses lacking GABA(A) receptors and the scaffold molecule gephyrin, but is absent from mismatched synapses, despite innervation by GABAergic axons. Our data indicate that GABA(A) receptors are dispensable for synapse formation and maintenance and for targeting NL2 to inhibitory synapses. However, GABAergic signaling appears to be crucial for activity-dependent regulation of synapse density during neuronal maturation.
Despite extensive analysis of the motor functions of the basal ganglia and the fact that multisensory information processing appears critical for the execution of their behavioral action, little is known concerning the sensory functions of the caudate nucleus (CN) and the substantia nigra (SN). In the present study, we set out to describe the sensory modality distribution and to determine the proportions of multisensory units within the CN and the SN. The separate single sensory modality tests demonstrated that a majority of the neurons responded to only one modality, so that they seemed to be unimodal. In contrast with these findings, a large proportion of these neurons exhibited significant multisensory cross-modal interactions. Thus, these neurons should also be classified as multisensory. Our results suggest that a surprisingly high proportion of sensory neurons in the basal ganglia are multisensory, and demonstrate that an analysis without a consideration of multisensory cross-modal interactions may strongly underrepresent the number of multisensory units. We conclude that a majority of the sensory neurons in the CN and SN process multisensory information and only a minority of these units are clearly unimodal.

Although it is known that deletions or mutations of the SMN1 gene on chromosome 5 cause decreased levels of the SMN protein in subjects with proximal autosomal recessive spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), the exact sequence of pathological events leading to selective motoneuron cell death is not fully understood yet. In this review, new findings regarding the dual cellular role of the SMN protein (translocation of beta-actin to axonal growth cones and snRNP biogenesis/pre-mRNA splicing) were integrated with recent data obtained by detailed neuropathological examination of SMA and control subjects. A presumptive series of 10 pathogenetic events for SMA is proposed as follows: (1) deletions or mutations of the SMN1 gene, (2) increased SMN mRNA decay and reduction in full-length functional SMN protein, (3) impaired motoneuron axono- and dendrogenesis, (4) failure of motoneurons to form synapses with corticospinal fibers from upper motoneurons, (5) abnormal motoneuron migration towards ventral spinal roots, (6) inappropriate persistence of motoneuron apoptosis due to impaired differentiation and motoneuron displacement, (7) substantial numbers of motoneurons continuing to migrate abnormally (&quot;heterotopic motoneurons&quot;) and entering into the ventral roots, (8) attracted glial cells following these heterotopic motoneurons, which form the glial bundles of ventral roots, (9) impaired axonal transport of actin, causing remaining motoneurons to become chromatolytic, and (10) eventual death of all apoptotic, heterotopic and chromatolytic neurons, with apoptosis being more rapid and predominating in the earlier stages, with death of heterotopic and chromatolytic neurons occurring more slowly by necrosis during the later stages of SMA. According to this model, the motoneuron axonopathy is more important for pathogenesis than the ubiquitous nuclear splicing deficit. It is also supposed that individually variable levels of SMN protein, together with influences of other phenotype modifier genes and their products, cause the clinical SMA spectrum through differential degree of motoneuron functional loss.

The epithelial receptors are represented in the mammalian brain cortex in a genetically defined, strictly regulated manner. Until the 1970s, the cortical maps and the wiring of the central nervous system were thought to be rather static and unchangeable. Subsequently, however, studies of sensory and motor cortical maps in particular genetic strains of animals and in animals with different perinatal or adult histories have revealed that the map organization can be modified at any time between conception and death. Especially studies of the effects of peripheral and central lesions and of perceptual learning on the sensory and motor cortical representations have had a dramatic effect in alerting neuroscientists and therapists to the reorganizational capacity of the adult brain. From a theoretical aspect, these changes in the cortical maps provide useful models for an understanding of the changes that can occur in the integrative functions of complex brain networks throughout life.

Discrepancies between biological assays and self-report of illicit drug use could undermine epidemiological research findings. Two objectives of the present study are to examine the degree of agreement between self-reported illicit drug use and hair analysis in a community sample of middle-aged men, and to identify factors that may predict discrepancies between self-report and hair testing. Male participants followed since 1972 were interviewed about substance use, and hair samples were analyzed for marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP) and methamphetamine using radioimmunoassay and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) techniques. Self-report and hair testing generally met good, but not excellent, agreement. Apparent underreporting of recent cocaine use was associated with inpatient hospitalization for the participant's most recent quit attempt, younger age, identifying as African American or other, and not having a diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder. The overestimate of marijuana use relative to hair test was associated with frequent use since 1972 and providing an inadequate hair sample. Additional research is needed to identify factors that differentially affect the validity of both hair drug testing and self-report.
Ghrelin, preferably via hypothalamic circuits, is known to play a role in the control of energy balance, body weight homeostasis and appetite. In addition, it has recently been found that ghrelin injection into key structures of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system increases food intake in rodents and induces locomotor stimulation as well as accumbal DA overflow in mice. Thus, centrally administered ghrelin activates the mesolimbic DA system. However, ghrelin is mainly produced in and secreted from peripheral tissues. The present series of experiments were therefore undertaken to investigate the effects of peripherally injected ghrelin on mesolimbic DA system activity and, herewith, associated behaviours. It was found that intraperitoneal administration of ghrelin (0.33 mg/kg) induces locomotor stimulation, conditioned place preference and accumbal DA-overflow in mice. In conclusion, peripherally produced ghrelin, e.g. in the stomach, may activate the mesolimbic DA system. This suggests that the pre-prandial rise in plasma ghrelin may, via this system, increase the incentive value for motivated behaviours such as food seeking.
Central nervous system (CNS) hyperexcitability and a resulting state of behavioral undercontrol are thought to underlie the vulnerability to early-onset alcohol dependence (AD). The aim of this study was to explore the differences in the functioning of cortical inhibitory systems, utilizing transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), in subjects at high risk (HR) and low risk (LR) for AD and to examine the relationship between CNS inhibition and behavioral undercontrol. Right-handed HR (n = 15) and LR (n = 15) subjects, matched for age, gender, height, weight and education, were assessed for psychopathology and family history of alcoholism using the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism and the Family Interview for Genetic Studies. Following single-pulse TMS, an electromyogram recorded from the right opponens pollicis muscle was used to measure the silent periods at different stimulus intensities. HR subjects had significantly shorter contralateral and ipsilateral (iSP) silent periods and a relatively higher prevalence of 'absent' iSP. They had significantly higher mean externalizing symptoms scores (ESS) than LR subjects, and there was a significant negative correlation between iSP duration and ESS. These preliminary findings suggest that HR subjects have relative impairments in corticocortical and transcallosal inhibitory mechanisms. The consequent state of CNS hyperexcitability may be etiologically linked to the excess of externalizing behaviors observed in this population, which is thought to be a predisposition to a higher risk of developing early-onset alcoholism.
Exposure to the once highly prevalent over-the-counter (OTC) sympathomimetic phenylpropanolamine (PPA; +/--norephedrine) during pre-adolescence alters the developmental trajectory of catecholamine and amino acid neurotransmitter systems in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) that culminate in a 'pro-addictive' phenotype in adulthood. Thus, the present study sought to extend these earlier data by examining the long-term consequences of repeated PPA treatment during adolescence upon the behavioral and neurochemical responses to cocaine. For this, C57BL/6J mice were pre-treated with PPA (0-40 mg/kg) during postnatal days 35-44, and the capacity of cocaine (4 x 15 mg/kg) to elicit a conditioned place-preference, as well as behavioral and neurochemical sensitization within the NAC, were then assessed in adulthood. While adolescent PPA exposure did not influence spontaneous locomotor activity or the motor responses to either acute or repeated cocaine (4 x 15 mg/kg), PPA pre-exposure dose-dependently reduced the expression of a conditioned place-preference. As observed previously for juvenile PPA treatment, adolescent PPA administration blunted the dopamine and norepinephrine response to acute cocaine, prevented the development of catecholamine sensitization but did not influence cocaine-induced elevations in serotonin. However, unlike juvenile PPA treatment, adolescent PPA also prevented the development of glutamate sensitization within the NAC. These data provide evidence that adolescent exposure to a formerly prevalent OTC sympathomimetic produces protracted effects upon cocaine-induced changes in NAC glutamate transmission that may reduce vulnerability to cocaine addiction in later life and further the hypothesis that early exposure to sympathomimetic drugs may be an environmental factor contributing to the etiology of addiction.
Ultrasound was used to assess the in vivo biodegradability of a sustained release poly(DL)lactide naltrexone implant in 71 persons previously treated for heroin dependence. We assessed 139 implant sites ranging from 2 to 1808 days post implant. Ultrasound assessment showed that implant tablets were initially well demarcated from each other and from the surrounding tissues. Biodegradation resulted in less demarcated tablets followed by clumping into a single mass-like structure. This mass subsequently dispersed by approximately 1201 days post implant with no implant material visualized by ultrasound. The biodegradation was also assessed by visual clinical examination and palpation of the implant site as well as patient self-report. These measures were generally well correlated with ultrasound results. Clinical assessment of the biodegradation process concluded that the implant changed from 'firm' to 'less firm' and from 'initial square edge' to 'rounded edge' tablets. Collectively, these data provide direct evidence of the in vivo absorption of the Go Medical implant over time, and its biodegradability in humans.
With a rising HIV/AIDS epidemic, it has become especially important for health service providers in China to understand and correctly adhere to universal precautions. Using qualitative interview data, perspectives from both health administrators and service providers working at all levels of China's health care system were examined. Service providers admitted selective adherence and non-adherence to universal precautions in their daily medical practice, and gave their explanations for such behaviors. Lack of time to put on protective gear, gear's interference with medical procedures, lack of administrative support, heavy workload in hospitals, inaccurate risk assessment, and beliefs that compliance with universal precautions is unnecessary, time consuming and costly were mentioned as reasons behind noncompliance. Effective universal precaution interventions need to target both administrators and providers, and address both structural barriers and individual attitudinal and behavioral factors.



Opioid receptors (ORs) have been shown to have a significant role in the central nervous system (CNS) effects of chronic ethanol consumption. The OR antagonist, naltrexone, is used clinically to reduce continued intake. We previously observed that chronic ethanol consumption, by adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, induced a reduction in functional coupling of mu- and delta-ORs to G-proteins in rat CNS regions, including the hippocampus. G-protein receptor kinase (GRK) 2 phosphorylates G-protein coupled receptors, including ORs, after agonist binding, as part of normal regulation and desensitization. We tested the hypothesis that chronic ethanol exposure affects the association of the GRK2 with the mu-OR. Co-immunoprecipitation methods were used to determine if mu-OR association with GRK2 is elevated in the hippocampus after chronic ethanol, when compared to controls. Hippocampal homogenates from chronic ethanol and pair-fed control rats were treated with affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibodies (ab) to mu-OR, and immune complexes were probed for GRK2 by immunoblotting techniques. Results demonstrate an association of GRK2 with mu-ORs in chronic ethanol-treated rats, but not in the controls. Possible changes in GRK2 association with ORs after chronic ethanol may be related to levels of phosphorylation and subsequent trafficking of the receptors.
Decreased sensitivity to ethanol is a genetically mediated trait implicated in susceptibility to developing alcoholism. Here, we explore genotype by environment differences in ethanol sensitivity. The relationship between acute- and repeated-restraint stress, corticosterone (CORT) levels, and sensitivity to sedative-hypnotic properties of ethanol was explored using inbred long-sleep (ILS) and inbred short-sleep (ISS) mice. In ILS mice, acute restraint decreased ethanol sensitivity at a 4.1g/kg dose, as measured by a decrease in the duration of loss of the righting reflex (LORE) and an increase in blood ethanol concentration at regain of the righting response (BECRR). Repeated restraint also decreased LORE duration, but had no effect on BECRR. In the ISS mice, there was no effect of acute restraint on either LORE duration or BECRR. However, repeated restraint increased ethanol sensitivity at a 4.1g/kg dose; with an increase in LORE duration, but a decrease in BECRR. Differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responsiveness to restraint stress (as measured by plasma CORT) were also examined between genotypes. ILS mice displayed habituation to repeated restraint, whereas ISS mice did not. Lastly, the effect of enhanced CORT levels independent of psychological stress was examined for its effects on the sedative-hypnotic effects of ethanol. There were no effects of CORT pretreatment on LORE duration or BECRR in ILS mice compared to saline- or noninjected littermates. In contrast, ISS mice injected with CORT showed a decreased duration of LORE, but no effects on BECRR. These findings suggest that in addition to genetic susceptibility, environmental factors (e.g., restraint stress, exogenous CORT administration) also influence sensitivity to the sedative effects of ethanol through alteration of central nervous system sensitivity and pharmacokinetic parameters, and do so in a genotype-dependent manner.



This issue of Alcohol Research &amp; Health examines addiction to multiple substances-that is, combined dependence on alcohol and other drugs (AODs), including marijuana, cocaine, and opioids. It seems fitting, then, to begin the issue with a look at what constitutes &quot;addiction.&quot; The Oxford English Dictionary (pp. 24-25) traces the term addiction to Roman law, under which addiction was a &quot;formal giving over by sentence of court; hence, a dedication of person to a master.&quot; This notion of relinquishment of control by the addicted person is the central feature of many lay and professional definitions of the term. The study of addictive behavior crosses several disciplines, including, among others, behavioral neuroscience, epidemiology, genetics, molecular biology, pharmacology, psychology, psychiatry, and sociology. Articles in this issue examine aspects of AOD use disorders from the perspective of some of these varied disciplines.
Developing pharmacotherapies to treat alcohol dependence and associated health problems traditionally has been based on gaining a better understanding of the neuroscience underlying alcohol-drinking behavior. To date, three medications have been approved for the treatment of alcohol dependence: disulfiram (Antabuse), naltrexone (Revia, Vivitrol, and Naltrel), and acamprosate (Campral). However, these medications have modest efficacy, and there is a great need for newer medications that target different neurochemical systems and which could be used either as adjunctive treatments or to treat subpopulations of drinkers. Furthermore, it also is important to improve current treatment options by understanding and incorporating differences in how people with certain genes respond to medication (i.e., pharmacogenetic differences).
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a safe, noninvasive method to examine the brain's macrostructure, microstructure, and some aspects of how the living brain functions. MRI is capable of detecting abnormalities that can occur with alcoholism as well as changes that can occur with sobriety and relapse. The brain pathology associated with chronic excessive alcohol consumption is well documented with imaging of the living body (i.e., in vivo imaging). Consistent findings include shrinkage of the frontal cortex,1 [1For a definition of this and other technical terms, see the Glossary, pp. 345-347.] underlying white matter, and cerebellum and expansion of the ventricles. Some of these changes are reversible with abstinence, but some appear to be enduring. Research showing correlations between brain structure and quantitative neuropsychological testing demonstrates the functional consequences of the pathology. In addition, functional imaging studies provide evidence that the brain compensates for cognitive deficits. The myriad concomitants of alcoholism, the antecedents, and the consumption patterns each may influence the observed brain changes associated with alcoholism, which tend to be more deleterious with increasing age. The multifaceted nature of alcoholism presents unique challenges and opportunities to understand the mechanisms underlying alcoholism-induced neuropathology and its recovery. Longitudinal MRI studies of animal models of alcoholism, however, can address questions about the development and course of alcohol dependence and the scope and limits of in vivo degeneration and recovery of brain structure and concomitant function that may not be readily addressed in clinical studies.
Continued excessive alcohol consumption can lead to the development of dependence that is associated with a withdrawal syndrome when alcohol consumption is ceased or substantially reduced. This syndrome comprises physical signs as well as psychological symptoms that contribute to distress and psychological discomfort. For some people the fear of withdrawal symptoms may help perpetuate alcohol abuse; moreover, the presence of withdrawal symptoms may contribute to relapse after periods of abstinence. Withdrawal and relapse have been studied in both humans and animal models of alcoholism. Clinical studies demonstrated that alcohol-dependent people are more sensitive to relapse-provoking cues and stimuli than nondependent people, and similar observations have been made in animal models of alcohol dependence, withdrawal, and relapse. One factor contributing to relapse is withdrawal-related anxiety, which likely reflects adaptive changes in the brain in response to continued alcohol exposure. These changes affect, for example, the body's stress response system. The relationship between withdrawal, stress, and relapse also has implications for the treatment of alcoholic patients. Interestingly, animals with a history of alcohol dependence are more sensitive to certain medications that impact relapse-like behavior than animals without such a history, suggesting that it may be possible to develop medications that specifically target excessive, uncontrollable alcohol consumption.
Recent work on the role of overlapping cerebral networks in action selection and habit formation has important implications for alcohol addiction research. As reviewed below, (1) these networks, which all involve a group of deep-brain structures called the basal ganglia, are associated with distinct behavioral control processes, such as reward-guided Pavlovian conditional responses, goal-directed instrumental actions, and stimulus-driven habits; (2) different stages of action learning are associated with different networks, which have the ability to change (i.e., plasticity); and (3) exposure to alcohol and other addictive drugs can have profound effects on these networks by influencing the mechanisms underlying neural plasticity.
Alcohol abuse and dependence are human conditions for which no full equivalent exists in animals. Nevertheless, animal models frequently are used to study various aspects of alcohol dependence that cannot be easily or ethically assessed in humans, including neurobiological mechanisms underlying alcohol dependence. Many of these animal models involve rodents; however, the characteristics (i.e., phenotypes) of chronic heavy drinking may be limited in these species. Nonhuman primates add an important translational aspect to the study of alcohol abuse and alcoholism. Their genetic, anatomical, physiological, and behavioral similarity to humans offers unique opportunities for identifying risk factors that may predispose a person to or accelerate the course of alcohol addiction. Studying alcohol consumption in nonhuman primates, including the distribution of drinking levels in a population, also can be uniquely informative to alcohol research. For example, research on the self-administration procedures in primates can help scientists identify risk factors for excessive alcohol consumption in humans. The phenotype of excessive drinking then can serve as the starting point to test and verify the underlying genetic and environmental influences. The resulting findings, in turn, can help guide prevention and treatment strategies.
Without exaggeration, it could be said that we are entering a golden age of neuroscience. Informed by recent developments in neuroimaging that allow us to peer into the working brain at both a structural and functional level, neuroscientists are beginning to untangle mechanisms of recovery after brain injury and grapple with age-old questions about brain and mind and their correlates neural mechanisms and consciousness. Neuroimaging, coupled with new diagnostic categories and assessment scales are helping us develop a new diagnostic nosology about disorders of consciousness which will likely improve prognostication and suggest therapeutic advances. Historically such diagnostic refinement has yield therapeutic advances in medicine and there is no reason to doubt that this will be the case for disorders of consciousness, perhaps bringing relief to a marginalized population now on the periphery of the therapeutic agenda. In spite of this promise, the translation of research findings into the clinical context will be difficult. As we move from descriptive categories about disorders of consciousness, like the vegetative or minimally conscious states, to ones further specified by integrating behavioral and neuroimaging findings, humility not hubris should be the virtue that guides the ethical conduct of research and practice.


CD31(-) CD45(-) side population (SP) cells are a minor SP subfraction that have mesenchymal stem cell-like properties in uninjured skeletal muscle but that can expand on muscle injury. To clarify the role of these SP cells in muscle regeneration, we injected green fluorescent protein (GFP)-positive myoblasts with or without CD31(-) CD45(-) SP cells into the tibialis anterior muscles of immunodeficient NOD/scid mice or dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. More GFP-positive fibers were formed after co-transplantation than after transplantation of GFP-positive myoblasts alone in both mdx and NOD/scid muscles. Moreover, grafted myoblasts were more widely distributed after co-transplantation than after transplantation of myoblasts alone. Immunohistochemistry with anti-phosphorylated histone H3 antibody revealed that CD31(-) CD45(-) SP cells stimulated cell division of co-grafted myoblasts. Genome-wide gene expression analyses showed that these SP cells specifically express a variety of extracellular matrix proteins, membrane proteins, and cytokines. We also found that they express high levels of matrix metalloproteinase-2 mRNA and gelatinase activity. Furthermore, matrix metalloproteinase-2 derived from CD31(-) CD45(-) SP cells promoted migration of myoblasts in vivo. Our results suggest that CD31(-) CD45(-) SP cells support muscle regeneration by promoting proliferation and migration of myoblasts. Future studies to further define the molecular and cellular mechanisms of muscle regeneration will aid in the development of cell therapies for muscular dystrophy.
Pannexin 1 (Panx1), an ortholog to invertebrate innexin gap junctions, has recently been proposed to be the pore induced by P2X(7) receptor (P2X(7)R) activation. We explored the pharmacological action of compounds known to block gap junctions on Panx1 channels activated by the P2X(7)R and the mechanisms involved in the interaction between these two proteins. Whole cell recordings revealed distinct P2X(7)R and Panx1 currents in response to agonists. Activation of Panx1 currents following P2X(7)R stimulation or by membrane depolarization was blocked by Panx1 small-interfering RNA (siRNA) and with mefloquine &gt; carbenoxolone &gt; flufenamic acid. Incubation of cells with KN-62, a P2X(7)R antagonist, prevented current activation by 2'(3')-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzATP). Membrane permeabilization to dye induced by BzATP was also prevented by Panx1 siRNA and by carbenoxolone and mefloquine. Membrane permeant (TAT-P2X(7)) peptides, provided evidence that the Src homology 3 death domain of the COOH-terminus of the P2X(7)R is involved in the initial steps of the signal transduction events leading to Panx1 activation and that a Src tyrosine kinase is likely involved in this process. Competition assays indicated that 20 microM TAT-P2X(7) peptide caused 50% reduction in Src binding to the P2X(7)R complex. Src tyrosine phosphorylation following BzATP stimulation was reduced by KN-62, TAT-P2X(7) peptide, and by the Src tyrosine inhibitor PP2 and these compounds prevented both large-conductance Panx1 currents and membrane permeabilization. These results together with the lack Panx1 tyrosine phosphorylation in response to P2X(7)R stimulation indicate the involvement of an additional molecule in the tyrosine kinase signal transduction pathway mediating Panx1 activation through the P2X(7)R.
Slow troponin T (TnT) plays an indispensable role in skeletal muscle function. Alternative RNA splicing in the NH(2)-terminal region produces high-molecular-weight (HMW) and low-molecular-weight (LMW) isoforms of slow TnT. Normal adult slow muscle fibers express mainly HMW slow TnT. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a group of inherited peripheral polyneuropathies caused by various neuronal defects. We found in the present study that LMW slow TnT was significantly upregulated in demyelination form type 1 CMT (CMT1) but not axonal form type 2 CMT (CMT2) muscles. Contractility analysis showed an increased specific force in single fibers isolated from CMT1 but not CMT2 muscles compared with control muscles. However, an in vitro motility assay showed normal velocity of the myosin motor isolated from CMT1 and CMT2 muscle biopsies, consistent with their unchanged myosin isoform contents. Supporting a role of slow TnT isoform regulation in contractility change, LMW and HMW slow TnT isoforms showed differences in the molecular conformation in conserved central and COOH-terminal regions with changed binding affinity for troponin I and tropomyosin. In addition to providing a biochemical marker for the differential diagnosis of CMT, the upregulation of LMW slow TnT isoforms under the distinct pathophysiology of CMT1 demonstrates an adaptation of muscle function to neurological disorders by alternative splicing modification of myofilament proteins.
An organotypic slice preparation of the adult mouse parotid salivary gland amenable to a variety of optical assessments of fluid and protein secretion dynamics is described. The semi-intact preparation rendered without the use of enzymatic treatment permitted live-cell imaging and multiphoton analysis of cellular and supracellular signals. Toward this end we demonstrated that the parotid slice is a significant addition to the repertoire of tools available to investigators to probe exocrine structure and function since there is currently no cell culture system that fully recapitulates parotid acinar cell biology. Importantly, we show that a subpopulation of the acinar cells of parotid slices can be maintained in short-term culture and retain their morphology and function for up to 2 days. This in vitro model system is a significant step forward compared with enzymatically dispersed acini that rapidly lose their morphological and functional characteristics over several hours, and it was shown to be long enough for the expression and trafficking of exogenous protein following adenoviral infection. This system is compatible with a variety of genetic and physiological approaches used to study secretory function.
Previous studies suggest that the chorda tympani nerve (CT) is important in transmitting fat taste information to the central nervous system. However, the contribution of the CT in this process may depend upon the presence of other taste stimuli and/or differ in males and females. Accordingly, the present study investigated the role of the CT in free fatty acid taste processing by examining electrophysiological activity of the CT in response to the free fatty acid linoleic acid (LA), as well as by measuring behavioral responses to LA-taste mixtures. We recorded whole nerve responses from the CT in response to lingual application of LA with or without monosodium glutamate (MSG) in anesthetized male and female rats. In addition, we examined preferences for MSG + LA taste mixtures in behavioral tests. Although lingual application of LA alone did not produce CT whole nerve responses, coapplication of LA and MSG elicited greater CT responses than did MSG alone. These findings were paralleled by greater preferences for MSG + LA taste mixtures than for MSG alone. In both cases, the effect was particularly pronounced in male rats. Thus LA enhances CT activity and behavioral responses to LA + MSG taste mixtures, although there are sex differences in the effects. These results suggest that CT input is important in mediating behavioral responses to fat taste, but the effects depend upon other taste stimuli and differ in males and females.
Hypothalamic neurons are regarded as essential for integrating thermal afferent information from skin and core and issuing commands to autonomic and behavioral effectors that maintain core temperature (T(c)) during cold exposure and for the control of energy expenditure more generally. Caudal brain stem neurons are necessary elements of the hypothalamic effector pathway and also are directly driven by skin and brain cooling. To assess whether caudal brain stem processing of thermal afferent signals is sufficient to drive endemic effectors for thermogenesis, heart rate (HR), T(c), and activity responses of chronic decerebrate (CD) and control rats adapted to 23 degrees C were compared during cold exposure (4, 8, or 12 degrees C) for 6 h. Other CDs and controls were exposed to 4 or 23 degrees C for 2 h, and tissues were processed for norepinephrine turnover (NETO), a neurochemical measure of sympathetic drive. Controls maintained T(c) for all temperatures. CDs maintained T(c) for the 8 and 12 degrees C exposures, but T(c) declined 2 degrees C during the 4 degrees C exposure. Cold exposure elevated HR in CDs and controls alike. Tachycardia magnitude correlated with decreases in environmental temperature for controls, but not CDs. Cold increased NETO in brown adipose tissue, heart, and some white adipose tissue pads in CDs and controls compared with their respective room temperature controls. These data demonstrate that, in neural isolation from the hypothalamus, cold exposure drives caudal brain stem neuronal activity and engages local effectors that trigger sympathetic energetic and cardiac responses that are comparable in many, but not in all, respects to those seen in neurologically intact rats.
This study examined critical periods in development to determine when offspring were most susceptible to dietary sodium manipulation leading to amphetamine sensitization. Wistar dams (n = 6-8/group) were fed chow containing low (0.12% NaCl; LN), normal (1% NaCl; NN), or high sodium (4% NaCl; HN) during the prenatal or early postnatal period (birth to 5 wk). Offspring were fed normal chow thereafter until testing at 6 mo. Body weight (BW), blood pressure (BP), fluid intake, salt preference, response to amphetamine, open field behavior, plasma adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), plasma corticosterone (Cort), and adrenal gland weight were measured. BW was similar for all offspring. Offspring from the prenatal and postnatal HN group had increased BP, NaCl intake, and salt preference and decreased water intake relative to NN offspring. Prenatal HN offspring had greater BP than postnatal HN offspring. In response to amphetamine, both prenatal and postnatal LN and HN offspring had increased locomotor behavior compared with NN offspring. In a novel open field environment, locomotion was also increased in prenatal and postnatal LN and HN offspring compared with NN offspring. ACTH and Cort levels 30 min after restraint stress and adrenal gland weight measurement were greater in LN and HN offspring compared with NN offspring. These results indicate that early life experience with low- and high-sodium diets, during the prenatal or early postnatal period, is a stress that produces long-term changes in responsiveness to amphetamines and to subsequent stressors.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), an incretin, which is used to treat diabetes mellitus in humans, inhibited vagal activity and activated nitrergic pathways. In rats, GLP-1 also increased sympathetic activity, heart rate, and blood pressure (BP). However, the effects of GLP-1 on sympathetic activity in humans are unknown. Our aims were to assess the effects of a GLP-1 agonist with or without alpha(2)-adrenergic or -nitrergic blockade on autonomic nervous functions in humans. In this double-blind study, 48 healthy volunteers were randomized to GLP-1-(7-36) amide, the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-l-arginine acetate (l-NMMA), the alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, or placebo (i.e., saline), alone or in combination. Hemodynamic parameters, plasma catecholamines, and cardiac sympathetic and parasympathetic modulation were measured by spectral analysis of heart rate. Thereafter, the effects of GLP-1-(7-36) amide on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were assessed by microneurography in seven subjects. GLP-1 increased (P = 0.02) MSNA but did not affect cardiac sympathetic or parasympathetic indices, as assessed by spectral analysis. Yohimbine increased plasma catecholamines and the low-frequency (LF) component of heart rate power spectrum, suggesting increased cardiac sympathetic activity. l-NMMA increased the BP and reduced the heart rate but did not affect the balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic activity. GLP-1 increases skeletal muscle sympathetic nerve activity but does not appear to affect cardiac sympathetic or parasympathetic activity in humans.
Assessment strategies are an important component in game theoretical models of contests. Strategies can be either based on one's own abilities (self assessment) or on the relative abilities of two opponents (mutual assessment). Using statistical methodology that allows discrimination between assessment types, we examined contests in the jumping spider Phiddipus clarus. In this species, aggressive interactions can be divided into 'pre-contact' and 'contact' phases. Pre-contact phases consist of bouts of visual and vibratory signaling. Contact phases follow where males physically contact each other (leg fencing). Both weight and vibratory signaling differences predicted winners with heavier and more actively signaling males winning more contests. Vibratory behaviour predicted pre-contact phase duration, with higher signaling rates and larger differences between contestants leading to longer pre-contact interaction times. Contact phase duration was predicted most strongly by the weight of losing males relative to that of winning males, suggesting that P. clarus males use self-assessment in determining contest duration. While a self-assessment strategy was supported, our data suggest a secondary role for mutual assessment (&quot;partial mutual assessment&quot;). After initial contest bouts, male competitors changed their behaviour. Pre-contact and contact phase durations were reduced while vibratory signaling behaviour in winners was unchanged. In addition, only vibratory signaling differences predicted winners in subsequent bouts suggesting a role of experience in determining contest outcomes. We suggest that the rules and assessment strategies males use can change depending on experience and that assessment strategies are likely a continuum between self- and mutual assessment.
We report chronic histopathological features in thrombi mechanically retrieved from five acute ischemic stroke patients with a median age of 68 years and a median pretreatment National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of 13. Early endothelialization occurred over and within the thrombus, and calcifications were seen, in addition to the usual acute laminar fibrin, intervening red blood cells, and neutrophils. The effectiveness of tissue plasminogen activator in clot dissolution might be affected by these features, if extensive. Thrombus composition could critically determine the success of chemical thrombolysis. Our results should stimulate the development of imaging modalities to determine thrombus composition.
The oxidation chemistry of thiols and disulfides of biologic relevance is described. The review focuses on the interaction and kinetics of hydrogen peroxide with low-molecular-weight thiols and protein thiols and, in particular, on sulfenic acid groups, which are recognized as key intermediates in several thiol oxidation processes. In particular, sulfenic and selenenic acids are formed during the catalytic cycle of peroxiredoxins and glutathione peroxidases, respectively. In turn, these enzymes are in close redox communication with the thioredoxin and glutathione systems, which are the major controllers of the thiol redox state. Oxidants formed in the cell originate from several different sources, but the major producers are NADPH oxidases and mitochondria. However, a different role of the oxygen species produced by these sources is apparent as oxidants derived from NADPH oxidase are involved mainly in signaling processes, whereas those produced by mitochondria induce cell death in pathways including also the thioredoxin system, presently considered an important target for cancer chemotherapy.
The GnRH receptor is coupled to G proteins of the families G(q) and G(11). G(q) and G(11) coupling leads to intracellular signaling through the phospholipase C pathway. GnRHR coupling to other G proteins is controversial. This study provides evidence that G protein families G(s), G(i), G(q) and G(11) complete for binding with the GnRHR. We quantified interactions of over-expressed G proteins with GnRHR by a competitive binding approach, using measurements of second messengers, IP and cAMP. Transient co-transfection of HEK293 cells with human WT GnRHR and with stimulatory and inhibitory G proteins (G(q), G(11) and G(s), G(i)) led to either production or inhibition of total inositol phosphate (IP) production, depending on the G protein that was over-expressed. Studies were conducted in different human (COS7, HeLa) and rodent-derived (CHO-K1, GH(3)) cell lines in order to confirm that G protein promiscuity observed with the GnRHR was not limited to a particular cell type.
Neuroimaging literature on phonological processing during reading lacks of studies taking into account orthographic differences across languages and behavioural variability across subjects. The present study aimed at investigating brain representation of phonological processing in reading Italian, a language with regular orthography, with particular regard to inter-individual variability and brain-behavioural correlates. Ten Italian adults performed a rhyme generation and a rhyme judgment task during fMRI acquisition and were tested with behavioural measures of phonological processing. Results for both tasks showed activations of the left Inferior Frontal Gyrus and Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex, likely underlying output sublexical strategies, for all or most of the subjects, while a minority of subjects activated the Superior Temporal Sulcus and the Temporo-Parietal-Occipital Junction. These results suggest that phonological processing of written Italian is based on the prevalent use of frontal structures. However, it is of interest that the activation of the Superior Temporal Sulcus, involved in phonological input, was associated to better behavioural performances in tasks of phonological processing. Our findings may contribute to understand neural correlates of phonological processing of languages with regular orthography.


Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is a multidimensional construct, without general agreement on the number of domains and the content of each domain. In children with epilepsy, the HRQOL evaluation includes both nonspecific aspects, such as behavioral, psychological and cognitive difficulties and the impact of a chronic pediatric illness on the child and its family and specific aspects, such as the perception of the severity of the seizures and of the undesirable effects of the antiepileptic treatments, as well as the social impact of a negative attitude toward epilepsy. The present article presents a review of the methods proposed for the assessment of HRQOL in children with epilepsy. Most methods rely on parental reports; however, there is an increasing effort to develop tools taking the child's point of view into account. HRQOL tools have often been used in clinical trials and, especially, to evaluate the surgical treatments of epilepsy. For the clinician, HRQOL tools may be a preliminary approach to the patient's problems to be interpreted in relation to the patient's medical, psychological, cognitive, social and familial context. In France, few large-scale studies on HRQOL in children with epilepsy have been conducted. We present the preliminary results of a French study based on parental reports.
In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of a benzylideneacetophenone derivative, JC3, in a mouse model of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced Parkinson's disease (PD). C57BL/6 mice were treated with MPTP (30 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 consecutive days. JC3 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) treatment was initiated 2 h after the first administration of MPTP and then at 24-h intervals for 3 consecutive days. The mice were sacrificed for analyses 7 days after the last MPTP injection. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot were used to determine the expression levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter (DAT), OX-42 (a marker of microglial activation), and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP, a marker of astrocyte activation) in the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum (ST). The results of these experiments demonstrated that JC3 restored the decreased TH-immunoreactivity (IR) and DAT and JC3 attenuated the increase in OX-42, GFAP, and COX-2 on the SN and ST on day 7 post-MPTP injection. These results suggest that JC3 can be a neuroprotective agent in an MPTP-induced model of PD.
Reduction of excitability of the dominant primary motor cortex (M1) improves ipsilateral hand function in healthy subjects. In analogy, inhibition of non-dominant M1 should also improve ipsilateral performance. In order to investigate this hypothesis, we have used slow repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and the Purdue Pegboard test. Twenty-eight volunteers underwent 10 minutes of either 0.5Hz rTMS over right M1 or sham rTMS (coil perpendicular to scalp). The motor task was performed before, immediately after, and 20 minutes after rTMS. In both groups, motor performance improved significantly throughout the sessions. rTMS inhibition of the non-dominant M1 had no significant influence over ipsilateral or contralateral manual dexterity, even though the results were limited by unequal performance between groups at baseline. This is in contrast to an improvement in left hand function previously described following slow rTMS over left M1, and suggests a less prominent physiological transcallosal inhibition from right to left M1.

Celiac disease, also known as gluten-sensitive enteropathy and nontropical sprue, is a prevalent autoimmune disorder that is triggered by the ingestion of wheat gluten and related proteins of rye and barley in genetically susceptible individuals. The immune response in celiac disease involves the adaptive, as well as the innate, and is characterized by the presence of anti-gluten and anti-transglutaminase 2 antibodies, lymphocytic infiltration in the epithelial membrane and the lamina propria, and expression of multiple cytokines and other signaling proteins. The disease leads to inflammation, villous atrophy, and crypt hyperplasia in the small intestine. In addition to the intestinal symptoms, celiac disease is associated with various extra-intestinal complications, including bone and skin disease, anemia, endocrine disorders, and neurologic deficits. Gluten-free diet is currently the only effective mode of treatment for celiac disease, but better understanding of the mechanism of the disease is likely to add other choices for therapy in the future.
Paillard [Paillard J. Rflexions sur l'usage du concept de plasticit en Neurobiologie. J Psychol Norm Pathol 1976;1:33-47] defined adaptive plasticity as the capacity of the system to change its own structure and expand its behavioural repertoire. We review the literature on brain damage patients, in whom, adaptive plasticity was observed via neuropsychological and functional neuroimaging examinations. Attentional and memory system alterations and some resulting changes considered as compensatory mechanisms are commented. We have selected a single case presenting with developmental amnesia [Vargha-Khadem F, Gadian DG, Watkins KE, Connelly A, Van Paesschen W, Mishkin M. Differential effects of early hippocampal pathology on episodic and semantic memory. Science 1997;277(5324):376-80; Maguire EA, Vargha-Khadem F, Mishkin M. The effects of bilateral hippocampal damage on fMRI regional activations and interactions during memory retrieval. Brain 2001;124(Pt 6):1156-70] and several groups of multiple sclerosis patients studied recently [e.g. Mainero C, Pantano P, Caramia F, Pozzilli C. Brain reorganization during attention and memory tasks in multiple sclerosis: insights from functional MRI studies. J Neurol Sci 2006;245(1/2):93-8; Morgen K, Sammer G, Courtney SM, Wolters T, Melchior H, Blecker CR, et al. Distinct mechanisms of altered brain activation in patients with multiple sclerosis. Neuroimage 2007;37(3):937-46; Nebel K, Wiese H, Seyfarth J, Gizewski ER, Stude P, Diener HC, et al. Activity of attention related structures in multiple sclerosis patients. Brain Res 2007;1151:150-60]. Convergence evidence via the two approaches - neuropsychological and functional fMRI - was shown as functional and structural brain plasticity was demonstrated in the selected works. Some common characteristics of brain plasticity emerge from this review independently of the neurological conditions we reviewed.
The commonly accepted view of a highly rigid, hardwired central nervous system has evolved considerably over the past few decades. The adult central nervous system is now known to be capable of significant functional reorganization, frequently referred to as plasticity, in order to adapt to a changing environment or to a change in the CNS hardware itself, for example after trauma. Focusing on the motor system, I will discuss the cellular responses that occur after spinal cord injury and that illustrate distinct plastic events occurring at the lesion site as well as at other levels of the neuraxis. These plastic responses are not restricted to neuronal cells and to the formation of new circuitries, but can also be illustrated by the change of morphology, fate and biochemical properties of non-neuronal cells (i.e. astrocytes and neural precursor cells). These cellular responses interact with one another and contribute, together, to the tissue remodeling and to the sparing or recovery of some motor functions. Understanding these cellular responses as well as their interrelations is necessary to find appropriate approaches to manipulate one with no detrimental effects to the others. This is a prerequisite for the development of new and effective therapeutic strategies for the treatment of patients with CNS injuries.
The plasticity of the nervous system is illustrated in the many new neuronal connections that are formed during the acquisition of behavioral skills, loss of function after brain injury, and subsequent recovery of function. The present review describes the acquisition of skilled reaching, the act of reaching for food with a forelimb, and the changes that take place in skilled reaching following motor cortex stroke. The review then discusses the difficulty in associating plastic changes with specific aspects of behavioral change. Skilled reaching behavior is complex and consists of a number of oppositions (stimulus response relationships), between the rat and the food target, a number of forelimb gestures (non-weight supporting movements), which are performed to obtain food, and a complex series of segmental movements (of the limb, head, and trunk), all of which influence the success of the act. Measures of these four aspects of skilled reaching behavior following motor cortex stroke reveal that there are a number of learned changes that take place at different times, including learned nonuse, learned bad-use, and forgetting. The widespread dendritic proliferation, axonal growth, and synaptic formation that take place both before and after stroke are difficult to precisely relate to these behavioral changes. Whereas plasticity is usually proposed to be associated with improved performance it is suggested that future work should attempt to better relate plastic changes to the details of behavioral changes.
Although rejected for the most part of the 20th Century, the idea of brain plasticity began to receive wide acceptance from the 1970s. Yet there has been relatively little theoretical comment on the definition and use of &quot;plasticity&quot; in the field of neurobiology. An early exception to this lack of critical reflection on neural plasticity was provided by Jacques Paillard in a seminal paper that he published in 1976 [Paillard J. Rflexions sur l'usage du concept de plasticit en neurobiology. J Psychol 1976;1:33-47]. As this valuable contribution was published in French, the present authors provide an English adaptation to help convey his ideas to an international audience, together with a contemporary commentary on this paper. Paillard's definition of the term &quot;plasticity&quot; is probably as pertinent today as it was 30 years ago, especially in terms of its relevance to multiple levels of analysis of brain function (molecular, cellular, systemic). Sadly, Jacques Paillard died in 2006; our comments therefore also include a brief biographical tribute to this outstanding neuroscientist.
After having underlined the ambiguities of the concept of plasticity and the dangers of its purely metaphoric use in neurobiology, it is suggested that we return to a more precise definition of the structure, the operating principles and the function of the &quot;systemic&quot; unit or &quot;integron&quot; relevant to the particular level of analysis in question. Any change can then be described as a modification of function, a change in the operation principles, or an alteration of the material structure of the system. It is suggested that the term plastic should be restricted to describing, among the possible variations in the operating principles or the function of a given system, any lasting alteration of the connectivity network of the system under the influence of an external force or environmental constraint. Therefore, systematic or random variations of performance, functional flexibility or the vicarious(1) processes or strategies that can be found in a rigidly wired system are not justified examples of plasticity.
Nicotine exerts beneficial effects on various neurological and psychiatric pathologies, yet its effects on cognitive performance remain unclear. Mice lacking the beta2 subunit of the nicotinic receptor (beta2-/-) show characteristic deficits in executive functions and are suggested as reliable animal models for some specific endophenotypes of human pathologies, notably ADHD. We use beta2-/- and their controls to investigate the consequences of chronic nicotine exposure on cognitive behaviour. We show that in control mice, this treatment elicits somewhat slight effects, particularly affecting nocturnal activity and self-grooming. By contrast, in beta2-/- mice, chronic nicotine treatment had restorative effects on exploratory behaviour in the open-field and affected rearing, but did not modify motor functions. We confirmed that beta2-/- mice exhibit impaired exploratory and social behaviour, and further demonstrated their nocturnal hyperactivity. These data support the proposal that beta2-/- mice represent a relevant model for cognitive disorders in humans and that nicotine administered chronically at low dose may relieve some of these.
This study aimed to explore strain and species differences in the involvement of 5-HT1A receptors in the action of antipsychotic drugs, using prepulse inhibition (PPI), a model of sensory processing which is deficient in schizophrenia patients. We used automated startle boxes to compare the effect of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, (+/-)-8-hydroxy-dipropyl-amino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), on PPI in three mouse strains. Balb/c mice were then pretreated with antipsychotics, treated with 8-OH-DPAT or saline, and tested for PPI. 8-OH-DPAT treatment dose dependently increased PPI in Balb/c mice, but had less effect in 129Sv and C57Bl/6 mice. In Balb/c mice, the effect of 8-OH-DPAT was blocked by the typical antipsychotic and dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol and the third generation antipsychotic, aripiprazole, which has activity at both 5-HT1A and dopamine D2 receptors. The atypical antipsychotics, clozapine, olanzapine and risperidone, had lesser effects. Similar to our earlier studies in rats, the present PPI results suggest that 5-HT1A receptors are involved in the action of some antipsychotic drugs in mice. Despite strain and species differences in the magnitude and direction of the effect of 8-OH-DPAT, downstream dopamine D2 receptor activation seems to be an important mediator. These comparative results allow a theoretical framework of receptor interactions, which may guide further studies on the involvement of 5-HT1A receptors in schizophrenia.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder, primarily affecting girls. RTT causes severe cognitive, social, motor and physiological impairments and no cure currently exists. The discovery of a monogenic origin for RTT and the subsequent generation of RTT mouse models provided a major breakthrough for RTT research. Although the characterization of these mutant mice is far from complete, they recapitulate several RTT symptoms. This review provides an overview of the behavioural domains so far investigated in these models, including the very few mouse data concerning the developmental course of RTT. Both clinical and animal studies support the presence of early defects and highlight the importance of probing the presymptomatic phase for both the precocious identification of biomarkers and the early assessment of potential therapies. Preclinical evaluations of pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions so far carried out are also illustrated. In addition, genetic manipulations are reported that demonstrate rescue from the damage caused by the absence of the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) gene even at a mature stage. Given the rare occurrence of RTT cases, transnational collaborative networks are expected to provide a deeper understanding of aetiopathology and the development of new therapeutic approaches.
This is the first study of the effects of mother-infant separation (MS) on adolescent behavior of Holtzman (HO) rats. Different rat strains, such as Harlan Sprague-Dawley and HO, share a common origin. However, MS may lead to hypoactive behavioral effects in HO rats because of their greater susceptibility to show depressive-like responses to stress. Sixty HO pups were divided into three groups at postnatal day 2 (P2). For 10 days, the MS group was separated 6h daily and the early handled (EH) group 15 min daily. A standard facility reared (SFR) group was not separated. Animals were tested for novel open-field activity (P28), defensive withdrawal in a light-dark (LD) apparatus (P29) and familiar open-field (P30). Behavioral measures were classified into general activity (ambulatory and short movement time), orienting (rearing time) and risk-taking (velocity and exposed zone time). MS rats displayed reductions in general activity and risk-taking, and increases in orienting time. In contrast, EH favored risk-taking behavior, which may be consistent with previous findings implicating early handling as beneficial in coping with stress. Sex differences in these behaviors were limited. This study suggests a genetic predisposition in HO rats for predominantly hypoactive/anxiety-like behaviors when exposed to an early life stressor.
Humans are routinely exposed to a vast array of environmental neurotoxicants, including pesticides, endocrine disrupters, and heavy metals. The long-term consequences of exposure have become a major human health concern as research has indicated strong associations between neurotoxicants and a variety of dopamine-related neurological disorders. Developmental exposure to pesticides including paraquat, organochlorines, and rotenone produce alterations in the dopaminergic system and has been linked to neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease. Endocrine disrupters such as Bisphenol A, mimic estrogenic activity and impact various dopaminergic processes to enhance mesolimbic dopamine activity resulting in hyperactivity, attention deficits, and a heightened sensitivity to drugs of abuse. A second class of endocrine disrupters, the polychlorinated biphenyls, may act directly on dopaminergic processes to disrupt the dopamine system and produce Parkinson-like symptoms. Exposure to the heavy metal lead enhances dopaminergic activity and has been associated with attention deficits, Alzheimer's disease, and increased drug sensitivity. Manganese exposure, in contrast, results in dopamine deficiencies and Parkinson-like symptoms. Therefore, this commentary will discuss the effects and consequences that exposure to these three classes of environmental neurotoxicants have on the dopamine system and related behaviors and disorders. Finally, the recent hypothesis that exposure to environmental compounds which have effects on dopaminergic neurotransmission, including 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, Bisphenol A, and multiple heavy metals, may potentiate drug-induced behaviors and increase the brain's vulnerability to drug addiction will be discussed.
Neuroimaging methods offer a powerful way to bridge the gaps between genes, neurobiology and behavior. Such investigations may be further empowered by complementary strategies involving chromosomal abnormalities associated with particular neurobehavioral phenotypes, which can help to localize causative genes and better understand the genetics of complex traits in the general population. Here we review the evidence from studies using these convergent approaches to investigate genetic influences on brain structure: (1) studies of common genetic variations associated with particular neuroanatomic phenotypes, and (2) studies of possible 'genetic subtypes' of neuropsychiatric disorders with very high penetrance, with a focus on neuroimaging studies using novel computational brain mapping algorithms. Finally, we discuss the contribution of behavioral neurogenetics research to our understanding of the genetic basis of neuropsychiatric disorders in the broader population.
Recent advances in neuroimaging technologies have allowed ever more detailed studies of the human brain. The combination of neuroimaging techniques with genetics may provide a more sensitive measure of the influence of genetic variants on cognitive function than behavioural measures alone. Here we present a review of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies of genetic links to executive functions, focusing on sustained attention, working memory and response inhibition. In addition to studies in the normal population, we also address findings from three clinical populations: schizophrenia, ADHD and autism spectrum disorders. While the findings in the populations studied do not always converge, they all point to the usefulness of neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI as potential endophenotypes for parsing the genetic aetiology of executive function.
Recent advances in clinical, pathological and neuroscience studies have identified disease-modifying therapeutic approaches for Alzheimer's disease that are now in clinical trials. This has highlighted the need for reliable and convenient biomarkers for both early disease diagnosis and a rapid signal of drug efficacy. We describe the identification and assessment of a number of candidate biomarkers in patients with Alzheimer's disease and the correlation of those biomarkers with rosiglitazone therapeutic efficacy, as represented by a change in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive (ADAS-Cog). Plasma from 41 patients with Alzheimer's disease were analysed by open platform proteomics at baseline and after receiving 8 mg rosiglitazone for 24 weeks. From a comparison of protein expression following treatment with rosiglitazone, 97 proteins were observed to be differentially expressed with a p-value&lt;0.01. From this analysis and comparison to recently published data from our laboratory, a prioritized list of 10 proteins were analysed by immunoassay and/or functional assay in a wider set of samples from the same clinical study, representing a rosiglitazone dose response, in order to verify the changes observed. A number of these proteins appeared to show a correlation with change in ADAS-Cog at the higher treatment doses compared with the placebo. Alpha-2-macroglobulin, complement C1 inhibitor, complement factor H and apolipoprotein E expression showed a correlation with ADAS-Cog score at the higher doses (4 mg and 8 mg). These results are discussed in light of the pathology and other recently published data.
The K(v)7.2 subunits are the main molecular determinants of the M-current, a widespread K(+) current regulating neuronal excitability. Mutations in the K(v)7.2 gene cause benign familial neonatal seizures, an autosomally inherited human epilepsy. The benign familial neonatal seizure-causing mutations include those at arginine residues at positions 207 and 214 in the S(4) segment of K(v)7.2. In this study, each of the six S(4) arginines was individually replaced with neutral glutamines, and the functional properties of mutant channels were studied by whole-cell and single-channel voltage-clamp measurements. The results obtained suggest that each S(4) arginine residue plays a relevant role in the voltage-dependent gating of K(v)7.2 channels. In particular, a decreased positive charge at the N-terminal end of S(4) stabilized the activated state of the voltage-sensor, whereas positive-charge neutralization at the C-terminal end of S(4) favored the resting conformation. Strikingly, neutralization of a single arginine at position 201 was sufficient to cause a significant loss of voltage dependence in channel activation. Moreover, by comparing the functional properties of glutamine versus tryptophan substitution, we found steric bulk to play a relevant role at position 207, but not at position 214, in which the main functional effect of this disease-causing mutation seems to be a consequence of the loss of the positive charge.



Echinoderm early developmental stages might supply a good tool for toxicity testing in different fields, ranging from environment to food contamination, and in full respect of the 3Rs objectives (reduction, refinement, and replacement of animal experiments) that will eventually lead to the replacement of high vertebrate animal testing in toxicology. Sea urchin is one of the few organismic models considered by the European Agency for Alternative models. Actually, sea urchin embryonic development has been studied for over a century, and the complex nets of intercellular communications leading to the different events are well known, as well the possibility for environmental molecules and their residuals to interfere with such communications, causing developmental anomalies. In particular, the main goal of toxicologists since several years has been to establish a correlation between the cell-to-cell communications occurring during different developmental events and the signals occurring during neurogenesis, with the aim to pursue a mechanistic understanding of these processes and their deviations caused by stressors from different sources.



Long before the onset of clinical Alzheimer's disease non-fibrillar, soluble assembly states of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides are believed to cause cognitive problems by disrupting synaptic function in the absence of significant neurodegeneration. Since many of the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease are vascular, impairment of cerebral blood flow by soluble Abeta has been proposed to be critical in triggering these early changes. However, it is not known if soluble Abeta can affect cerebrovascular function at the concentrations required to cause inhibition of synaptic plasticity mechanisms believed to underlie the early cognitive deficits of Alzheimer's disease. Here we developed a new method to simultaneously assess the ability of soluble Abeta to impair plasticity at synapses and to affect resting and activity-dependent local blood flow in the rat hippocampus in vivo. Intracerebroventricular injection of soluble synthetic Abeta(40) dimers rapidly inhibited plasticity of excitatory synaptic transmission at doses (10-42 pmol) comparable to natural Abeta, but failed to affect vascular function measured using laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF). Like wild-type Abeta(40), the more vasculotropic Abeta produced by people with familial hemorrhagic stroke of the Dutch type (Abeta(40)E22Q), impaired hippocampal plasticity without causing a significant change in local blood flow. Furthermore, neither resting nor activation-evoked hippocampal perfusion was affected by soluble Abeta(42), even at a concentration that markedly (25%) reduced baseline synaptic transmission. These findings demonstrate that the putative synaptotoxic soluble Abeta species of early Alzheimer's disease cause synaptic dysfunction in the absence of detectible changes in local blood flow. This strongly indicates that early cognitive deficits can be caused by soluble Abeta independently of deleterious effects on cerebrovascular dynamics.
Alzheimer's disease research has largely concentrated on the study of cognitive decline, but the associated behavioural and neuropsychiatric symptoms are of equal importance in the clinical profile of the disease. There is emerging evidence that regional differences in brain atrophy may align with variant disease presentations. The objective of this study was to identify the regions of decreased grey matter (GM) volume which were associated with specific neuropsychiatric behaviours in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. Voxel-based morphometry was used to correlate GM derived from T(1)-weighted MRI images of 31 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and specific neuropsychiatric symptoms and behaviours measured by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Delusions were associated with decreased GM density in the left frontal lobe, in the right frontoparietal cortex and in the left claustrum. Apathy was associated with GM density loss in the anterior cingulate and frontal cortex bilaterally, the head of the left caudate nucleus and in bilateral putamen. Agitation was associated with decreased GM values in the left insula, and in anterior cingulate cortex bilaterally. Neuropsychiatric symptoms of Alzheimer's disease seem to associate with neurodegeneration of specific neural networks supporting personal memory, reality monitoring, processing of reward, interoceptive sensations and subjective emotional experience. The study of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease using voxel-based morphometry and other imaging modalities may further the understanding of the neural structures that mediate the genesis of abnormal behaviours.
Subcortical white matter in the adult human brain contains a population of interneurons that helps regulate cerebral blood flow. We investigated the fate of these neurons following subcortical white matter demyelination. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine neurons in normal-appearing subcortical white matter and seven acute and 59 chronic demyelinated lesions in brains from nine patients with multiple sclerosis and four controls. Seven acute and 44 of 59 chronic multiple sclerosis lesions had marked neuronal loss. Compared to surrounding normal-appearing white matter, the remaining 15 chronic multiple sclerosis lesions contained a 72% increase in mature interneuron density, increased synaptic densities and cells with phenotypic characteristics of immature neurons. Lesion areas with increased neuron densities contained a morphologically distinct population of activated microglia. Subventricular zones contiguous with demyelinated lesions also contained an increase in cells with phenotypes of neuronal precursors. These results support neurogenesis in a subpopulation of demyelinated subcortical white matter lesions in multiple sclerosis brains.
John Ruskin (1819-1900) is chiefly remembered for his works on painting and architecture, and for his powerful and original prose style. In middle age, he suffered recurring episodes of delirium with visual hallucinations and delusions. At about the same time, his writing developed a disjointed polemical character, with cryptic and intemperate elements that disorientated some readers. The nature of Ruskin's 'madness' is a key to understanding his later writing career but the psychiatric explanations given by many of his literary biographers seem unsatisfactory. Ruskin left numerous clues about the illness in his diaries, correspondence and publications. It is likely that he had a relapsing-progressive neurological disorder with neuropsychiatric manifestations. It could have been a fluctuating metabolic or immunological encephalopathy, but the diagnosis that best fits the time course of his illness and the prior history of mood disorder and of migraine with aura is Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). Whatever the pathology, its first effects on frontal lobe function may have actually enhanced Ruskin's creative energy for a long time before stepwise cognitive impairment degraded his ability to write.
Speech-related fMRI activation was examined in six hemispherectomy patients (three left LX, three right RX, four with congenital and two with late-acquired hemiplegia) operated in childhood for the relief of drug-resistant epilepsy. Although the temporal and sensorimotor pattern of activation was similar to that found in neurologically intact control participants, activation in Broca's area and its right homolog varied greatly. Involvement of pars triangularis and orbitalis was found in the three cases with best outcome (two RX, one LX), whereas pars opercularis alone was activated in the two remaining LX patients. The results suggest that distinct subregions of Broca's area and their right homologs can subserve speech and language, and that this variability may determine functional outcome.
In the present paper, we address brain-behaviour relationships in children with acquired aphasia, by reviewing some recent studies on the effects of focal brain lesions on language development. Timing of the lesion, in terms of its occurrence, before or after the onset of speech and language acquisition, may be a major factor determining language outcome. However, it is still unclear which are the effects of aphasia occurring between 2 and 5 years of age, a time window which is crucial for acquiring and automatizing the basic rules of native language. A comprehensive review of the literature on acquired childhood aphasia precedes the description of long-term follow-up (20 years) of two identical twins, one of whom became aphasic at 3 years and 4 months after infarction of the left sylvian artery. Psycholinguistic analysis and fMRI data show a slow and incomplete recovery from non-fluent aphasia associated to an intra-hemispheric organization of language. These data, which support the potential but also the limits of neural plasticity during language development, are discussed in the light of the literature on the time-course and neural bases of acquired childhood aphasia.
Decision-making plays an important role in the transformation of incoming sensory information to purposeful actions. Many decisions have important biological and social consequences, while others may have a more limited impact on our everyday life. The neural mechanisms of decision-making currently constitute an important subject under intense investigation in the field of cognitive and behavioral neuroscience. Among the investigations, on this topic, those involving sensory discrimination tasks using visual motion have provided a wealth of information about the nature of the neural circuitry required to perform perceptual decision-making. For example, by using a motion discrimination task, Shadlen and Newsome have shown an essential role of area LIP in perceptual decision-making. On the other hand, the importance of reward and reward expectations as determinants of decision-making is increasingly appreciated. In particular, reinforcement learning and economic theories, such as game theory, have provided valuable insights into the brain functions related to decision-making. By using a competitive game analogous to matching pennies against a computer, Lee's group showed that in monkeys, previous selections modulated prefrontal neural activity and that this modulation affected the current choice behavior. The prefrontal cortex has been shown to participate in decision-making in free-choice conditions. By using a task involving the free choice of 1 target from multiple saccade targets, Funahashi's group examined the prefrontal participation in decision-making in a free-choice condition. They compared the activities of prefrontal neurons during an oculomotor delay task with forced-choice conditions and free-choice conditions and identified the neural components reflecting the underlying decision-making processes. Although several attempts have been made to understand the neural mechanisms of decision-making, further investigations are required to fully understand these mechanisms. Future studies should evaluate the effects of emotions on decision-making and attempt to integrate the neurophysiological, psychological, and computational approaches to decision-making.

The circuit-related consequences of activating the ventral pallidum (VP) are not well known, and lacking in particular is how these effects are altered in various neuropathological states. To help to address these paucities, this study investigated the brain regions affected by VP activation by quantifying neurons that stain for Fos-like immunoreactivity (ir). Fos-ir was assessed after intra-pallidal injections of the excitatory amino acid agonist, NMDA, or the GABA(A) antagonist, bicuculline in normal rats and in those rendered Parkinsonian-like by lesioning dopaminergic neurons with the neurotoxin, 6-OHDA. We hypothesized that activation of the VP will alter the activity state of brain regions associated with both the basal ganglia and limbic system, and that this influence would be modified in the Parkinsonian state. Blocking tonically activated GABA(A) receptors with bicuculline (50 ng/0.5 microl) elevated Fos-ir in the VP to 423% above the contralateral, vehicle-injected side. Likewise, intra-VP NMDA (0.23 microg or 0.45 microg/0.5 microl), dose-dependently increased the number of pallidal neurons expressing Fos-ir by 224 and 526%, respectively. At higher NMDA doses, the density of Fos-ir neurons was not elevated above control levels. This inverted U-shaped profile was mirrored by a VP output structure, the medial subthalamic nucleus (mSTN). The mSTN showed a 289% increase in Fos-ir neurons with intra-VP injections of 0.45 microg NMDA, and this response was halved following intra-VP injections of 0.9 microg NMDA. Of the 12 other brain regions measured, three showed VP NMDA-induced enhancements in Fos-ir: the frontal cortex, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, all regions associated with the basal ganglia. In a second study, we evaluated the NMDA activation profile in a rat model of Parkinson's Disease (PD) which was created by a unilateral injection of 6-OHDA into the rostral substantia nigra pars compacta. Comparisons of responses to intra-VP NMDA between the hemispheres ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion revealed that Fos-ir cells in the pedunculopontine nucleus was reduced by 62%, whereas Fos-ir for the basolateral amygdala and STN was reduced by 32 and 42%, respectively. These findings support the concept that the VP can influence both the basal ganglia and the limbic system, and that that the nature of this influence is modified in an animal model of PD. As the VP regulates motivation and cognition, adaptations in this system may contribute to the mood and mnemonic disorders that can accompany PD.
Studies reviewed here implicate the extended amygdala in the negative affective states and increased drug-seeking that occur during protracted abstinence from chronic drug exposure. Norepinephrine (NE) and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) signaling in the extended amygdala, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, shell of the nucleus accumbens, and central nucleus of the amygdala, are generally involved in behavioral responses to environmental and internal stressors. Hyperactivity of stress response systems during addiction drives many negative components of drug abstinence. In particular, NE signaling from the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) to the extended amygdala, along with increased CRF transmission within the extended amygdala, are critical for the aversiveness of acute opiate withdrawal as well as stress-induced relapse of drug-seeking for opiates, cocaine, ethanol, and nicotine. NE and CRF transmission in the extended amygdala are also implicated in the increased anxiety that occurs during prolonged abstinence from chronic opiates, cocaine, ethanol, and cannabinoids. Many of these stress-associated behaviors are reversed by NE or CRF antagonists given systemically or locally within the extended amygdala. Finally, increased Fos activation in the extended amygdala and NTS is associated with the enhanced preference for drugs and decreased preference for natural rewards observed during protracted abstinence from opiates and cocaine, indicating that these areas are involved in the altered reward processing associated with addiction. Together, these findings suggest that involvement of the extended amygdala and its noradrenergic afferents in anxiety, stress-induced relapse, and altered reward processing reflects a common function for these circuits in stress modulation of drug-seeking.

Dendritic spines are postsynaptic specializations thought to regulate the strength of synaptic transmission and play a critical role in neuronal plasticity. While changes in dendritic spine density can be pharmacologically- or environmentally-induced, the widespread utility of this important measure of synaptic plasticity in vivo has been hampered by the labor-intensive nature, and potential for bias and inconsistency inherent in manual spine counting. Here we report a method for obtaining high-resolution, three-dimensional confocal images of accumbens spiny neurons labeled with a diolistically delivered lipophilic fluorescence dye (DiI) that permits automated analysis of spine density and spine head diameter. The automated quantification was verified by manual counts of spine density and electron microscopic measures of spine head diameter. The density of spines was relatively constant over 2nd to 4th order dendrites within a neuron, and spine density was normally distributed. The mean spine density (2.68 spines/microm; N = 45 neurons) was higher than previous reports, due in part to analysis in three rather than two dimensions and the capacity of lipophilic dyes to fill very thin spines. The distribution of spine head diameters was continuous and skewed to the right (mean = 0.43 microm; N = 8,891), and approximately 25% of all spines were thin and filopodia-like (&lt; or = 0.20 microm diameter). The density of spines was not correlated with average spine head diameter or with the number of filopodia-like spines. The capacity to rapidly assess spine density and spine head diameter will facilitate quantifying spine plasticity induced by pharmacological and environmental manipulations.
The concept of the &quot;extended amygdala&quot;, developed and explored by Lennart Heimer, Jose de Olmos, George Alheid, and their collaborators, has had an enormous impact on the field of neuroscience and on our own work. Measuring fear-potentiated startle test using conditioned stimuli that vary in length we suggest that the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST(L)) are involved in short-term versus long-term fear responses we call phasic versus sustained fear, respectively. Outputs from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) activate the medial division of the CeA (CeA(M)) to very rapidly elicit phasic fear responses via CeA(M) projections to the hypothalamus and brainstem. The BLA also projects to the BNST(L), which together with other BNST(L) inputs from the lateral CeA (CeA(L)) initiate a slower developing, but sustained fear response, akin to anxiety. We hypothesize this occurs because the CeA(L) releases the peptide corticotropin releasing hormone (CRF) into the BNST(L) which facilitates the release of glutamate from BLA terminals. This activates the BNST(L) which projects to hypothalamic and brainstem areas similar to those innervated by the CeA(M) that mediate the specific signs of fear and anxiety. The generality of this idea is illustrated by selective studies looking at context conditioning, social defeat, drug withdrawal and stress induced reinstatement.
One of the most insidious features of cocaine addiction is a high rate of relapse even after extended periods of abstinence. A wide variety of drug-associated stimuli, including the context in which a drug is taken, can gain incentive motivational properties that trigger drug desire and relapse to drug-seeking. Both animal and clinical studies suggest that extensive cocaine exposure may induce a transition from cortical to striatal control over decision-making as compulsive drug-seeking emerges. Using an animal model of relapse to cocaine-seeking, the present study investigated the expression patterns of three different activity-related genes (c-fos, zif/268, and arc) in cortical and striatal brain regions implicated in compulsive drug-seeking in order to determine the neuroadaptations that occur during context-induced relapse following brief or prolonged abstinence from cocaine self-administration. Re-exposure to the environment previously associated with cocaine self-administration following 22 h or 15 days of abstinence produced a significant increase in zif/268 and arc, but not c-fos mRNA, in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens. With the exception of arc mRNA levels following 15 days of abstinence, all three genes were increased in the anterior cingulate cortex of animals with a cocaine history when they were re-exposed to the operant chamber. Additionally, c-fos, zif/268, and arc expression was differentially affected in the motor and sensory cortices at both timepoints. Together, these results support convergent evidence that drug-seeking induced by a cocaine-paired context changes the activity of corticostriatal circuits.
Projections from the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to the amygdala (AMG) regulate affective behaviors in a manner that is modulated by dopamine (DA). Although PFC and DA inputs overlap within the basolateral nucleus (BLA) and intercalated cell masses (ICMs), the spatial relationship between these afferents has not been investigated, nor is it known how DA D1 (D1R) and D2 (D2R) receptors are localized in relationship to PFC terminals. We therefore combined tract-tracing from the rat PFC to the AMG with immunocytochemical labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to identify presumed DA axons or D1R and D2R. In both the ICMs and BLA, PFC terminals formed asymmetric synapses onto spines that typically did not receive secondary synaptic inputs. TH-immunoreactive (-ir) fibers in the adjacent neuropil typically contacted different structures. Although PFC and TH-ir axons were sometimes apposed to the same dendrites or to each other, PFC terminals only rarely synapsed onto dendrites that also received synapses from TH-ir axons. D1R-ir spines and dendrites were observed commonly within the ICMs but less frequently within the BLA, and PFC axons in the ICMs occasionally synapsed onto D1R-ir spines. Within both regions, D2R-ir spines, dendrites, and axons were observed. PFC terminals occasionally contained presynaptic labeling for D2R but were not observed to synapse onto D2R-ir targets. The infrequent observation of synaptic convergence between PFC and presumed DA terminals within the AMG suggests that DA modulates PFC inputs primarily via extrasynaptic mechanisms, a conclusion supported by the localization of D2R within and D1R postsynaptic to PFC terminals.
Medium-sized spiny projection neurons (MSN) in the head of the primate caudate nucleus are thought to have preferred dendritic orientations that tend to parallel the orientations of the striosomes. Moreover, recurrent axon collaterals of MSN in the rat dorsal striatum have been categorized into two types, i.e., restricted and widespread. The nucleus accumbens (Acb) has a highly complex compartmental organization, and the spatial organization of dendritic and axonal arbors of MSN has not yet been systematically studied. In this study, using single-cell juxtacellular labeling with neurobiotin as well as anterograde neuroanatomical tracing with biotinylated dextran amine, we investigated the three-dimensional (3D) organization of dendrites and axons of MSN of the rat Acb in relation to subregional (shell-core) and compartmental (patch-matrix) boundaries. Our results show that dendritic arbors of MSN in both the Acb shell and core subregions are preferentially oriented, i.e., they are flattened in at least one of the 3D-planes. The preferred orientations are influenced by shell-core and patch-matrix boundaries, suggesting parallel and independent processing of information. Dendritic orientations of MSN of the Acb core are more heterogeneous than those of the shell and the dorsal striatum, suggesting a more complex distribution of striatal inputs within the core. Although dendrites respect the shell-core and patch-matrix boundaries, recurrent axon collaterals may cross these boundaries. Finally, different degrees of overlap between dendritic and axonal arborizations of individual MSN were identified, suggesting various possibilities of lateral inhibitory interactions within and between, functionally distinct territories of the Acb.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), a tool that allows noninvasive modulation of cortical neural activity, has become an important tool in cognitive neuroscience and is being increasingly explored in neurotherapeutics. Amongst the factors that are likely to influence its efficacy, the importance of the baseline cortical activation state on the impact of TMS has not received much attention. However, this state-dependency is important as the neural impact of any external stimulus represents an interaction with the ongoing brain activity at the time of stimulation. The effects of any external stimulus are therefore not only determined by the properties of that stimulus but also by the activation state of the brain. Here we review the existing evidence on the state-dependency of TMS and propose how its systematic study can provide unique insights into brain function and significantly enhance the effectiveness of TMS in investigations on the neural basis of perception and cognition. We also describe novel approaches based on this state-dependency which can be used to investigate the properties of distinct neural subpopulations within the stimulated region. Furthermore, we discuss how state-dependency can explain the functional mechanisms through which TMS impairs perception and behavior.
The C1 component of the VEP is considered to index initial afference of retinotopic regions of human visual cortex (V1 and V2). C1 onsets over central parieto-occipital scalp between 45 and 60 ms, peaks between 70 and 100 ms, and then resolves into the following P1 component. By exploiting isoluminant and low-contrast luminance stimuli, we assessed the relative contributions of the Magnocellular (M) and Parvocellular (P) pathways to generation of C1. C1 was maximal at 88 ms in a 100% luminance contrast condition (which stimulates both P and M pathways) and at 115 ms in an isoluminant chromatic condition (which isolates contributions of the P pathway). However, in a 4% luminance contrast condition (which isolates the M pathway), where the stimuli were still clearly perceived, C1 was completely absent. Absence of C1 in this low contrast condition is unlikely to be attributable to lack of stimulus energy since a robust P1-N1 complex was evoked. These data therefore imply that C1 may be primarily parvocellular in origin. The data do not, however, rule out some contribution from the M system at higher contrast levels. Nonetheless, that the amplitude of C1 to P-isolating isoluminant chromatic stimuli is equivalent to that evoked by 100% contrast stimuli suggests that even at high contrast levels, the P system is the largest contributor. These data are related to intracranial recordings in macaque monkeys that have also suggested that the initial current sink in layer IV may not propagate effectively to the scalp surface when M-biased stimuli are used. We also discuss how this finding has implications for a long tradition of attention research that has used C1 as a metric of initial V1 afference in humans. C1 has been repeatedly interrogated for potential selective attentional modulations, particularly in spatial attentional designs, under the premise that modulation of this component, or lack thereof, would be evidence for or against selection at the initial inputs to visual cortex. Given the findings here, we would urge that in interpreting C1 effects, a consideration of the dominant cellular contributions will be necessary. For example, it is plausible that spatial attention mechanisms could operate primarily through the M system and that as such C1 may not always represent an adequate dependent measure in such studies.

Electroencephalography (EEG) has been used to study and characterize epilepsy for decades, but has a limited ability to localize epileptiform activity to a specific brain region. With recent technological advances, high-quality EEG can now be recorded during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which characterizes brain activity through local changes in blood oxygenation. By combining these techniques, the specific timing of interictal events can be identified on the EEG at millisecond resolution and spatially localized with fMRI at millimeter resolution. As a result, simultaneous EEG-fMRI provides the opportunity to better investigate the spatiotemporal mechanisms of the generation of epileptiform activity in the brain. This article discusses the technical considerations and their solutions for recording simultaneous EEG-fMRI and the results of studies to date. It also addresses the application of EEG-fMRI to epilepsy in humans, including clinical applications and ongoing challenges.

Tumors grow more readily in the brain than in the periphery, in part due to immune privilege. Differences in both afferent and efferent components of the immune response contribute to this lower level of responsiveness. On the afferent side, despite the lack of lymphatic vessels in the brain, antigens from brain arrive in lymph nodes and spleen by several routes, and the route taken may influence the type of response generated. Work with viruses and soluble antigens in mice has shown that the intracerebral location and the volume of the inoculation influence the strength of the cytotoxic T cell response. We examined whether these factors influence the T cell response against experimental brain tumors in mice. Placement of tumor cells in the cerebral ventricles instead of the parenchyma generated an immune response sufficient to increase survival time. A large volume of an intraparenchymal infusion of tumor cells caused spread of cells to the ventricles, and resulted in longer survival time relative to a small volume infusion. Infusion of the same dose of radiolabeled tumor cells in either a small volume or a large volume allowed tracking of potential tumor antigens to the periphery. Both modes of infusion resulted in similar levels of radioactivity in blood, spleen and kidney. Unexpectedly, cells infused intraparenchymally in a small volume, compared to a large volume, resulted in (1) more radioactivity in cervical lymph nodes (parotid and deep cervical lymph nodes), (2) a greater number of CD11b+/Gr1+ myeloid suppressor cells in the tumors, and (3) fewer CD8+ cells within the tumor mass. Consistent with these observations, providing a stronger afferent stimulus by giving a concurrent subcutaneous injection of the same tumor cells infused into the brain increased CD8+ T cell infiltration of the tumor in the brain. These results suggest that the immune response elicited by antigens that drain predominantly to the cervical lymph nodes may be less effective than responses elicited at other lymph nodes, perhaps due to immunosuppressive cells. Directing therapies to the optimal peripheral sites may improve immune responses against brain tumors.
Asparagine deamidation in peptides or in fibronectin fragments containing the asparagine-glycine-arginine sequence generates isoaspartate-glycine-arginine (isoDGR), a new alphavbeta3 integrin-binding motif. Because alphavbeta3 is expressed in angiogenic vessels, we hypothesized that isoDGR-containing peptides could be exploited as ligands for targeted delivery of drugs to tumor neovasculature. We found that a cyclic CisoDGRC peptide coupled to fluorescent nanoparticles (quantum dots) could bind alphavbeta3 integrin and colocalize with anti-CD31, anti-alphavbeta3, and anti-alpha5beta1 antibodies in human renal cell carcinoma tissue sections, indicating that this peptide could efficiently recognize endothelial cells of angiogenic vessels. Using CisoDGRC fused to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) we observed that ultralow doses (1-10 pg) of this product (called isoDGR-TNF), but not of TNF or CDGRC-TNF fusion protein, were sufficient to induce antitumor effects when administered alone or in combination with chemotherapy to tumor-bearing mice. The antitumor activity of isoDGR-TNF was efficiently inhibited by coadministration with an excess of free CisoDGRC, as expected for ligand-directed targeting mechanisms. These results suggest that isoDGR is a novel tumor vasculature-targeting motif. Peptides containing isoDGR could be exploited as ligands for targeted delivery of drugs, imaging agents, or other compounds to tumor vasculature.
Prostate Zn(2+) concentrations are among the highest in the body, and a marked decrease in the level of this ion is observed in prostate cancer. Extracellular Zn(2+) is known to regulate cell survival and proliferation in numerous tissues. In spite of this, a signaling role for extracellular Zn(2+) in prostate cancer has not been established. In the present study, we demonstrate that prostate metastatic cells are impermeable to Zn(2+), but extracellular Zn(2+) triggers a metabotropic Ca(2+) rise that is also apparent in the presence of citrate. Employing fluorescent imaging, we measured this activity in androgen-insensitive metastatic human cell lines, PC-3 and DU-145, and in mouse prostate tumor TRAMP-1 cells but not in androgen-sensitive LNCaP cells. The Ca(2+) response was inhibited by Galphaq and phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitors as well as by intracellular Ca(2+) store depletion, indicating that it is mediated by a Gq-coupled receptor that activates the inositol phosphate (IP(3)) pathway consistent with the previously identified zinc-sensing receptor (ZnR). Zn(2+)-dependent extracellular signal-regulated kinase and AKT activation, as well as enhanced Zn(2+)-dependent cell growth and survival, were observed in PC-3 cells that exhibit ZnR activity, but not in a ZnR activity-deficient PC-3 subline. Interestingly, application of Zn(2+)-citrate (Zn(2+)Cit), at physiological concentrations, was followed by a profound functional desensitization of extracellular Zn(2+)-dependent signaling and attenuation of Zn(2+)-dependent cell growth. Our results indicate that extracellular Zn(2+) and Zn(2+)Cit, by triggering or desensitizing ZnR activity, distinctly regulate prostate cancer cell growth. Thus, therapeutic strategies based either on Zn(2+) chelation or administration of Zn(2+)Cit may be effective in attenuating prostate tumor growth.

HIV-associated dementia (HAD) is the most common AIDS-associated neurological disorder and is characterized by the development of synaptodendritic injury to neurons. To advance HAD therapy, it is crucial to identify the mechanisms and factors involved. The viral protein HIV-1 Tat is among those factors and is released by HIV-1-infected cells and can be taken up by adjacent neuronal cells leading to neurotoxic effects. Multiple cellular host proteins have been identified as Tat cofactors in causing neuronal injury. Interestingly, most of these factors function through activation of the p53 pathway. We have now examined the ability of Tat to activate the p53 pathway leading to the induction of endogenous p53 and p73 in neuronal cells. We found that Tat induced p53 and p73 levels in SH-SY5Y cells and that this induction caused retraction of neurites. In the absence of either p53 or p73, Tat failed to induce dendritic retraction or to activate the proapoptotic proteins, such as Bax. Further, we found that p53-accumulation in Tat-treated cells depends on the presence of p73. Therefore, we conclude that Tat contributes to neuronal degeneration through activation of a pathway involving p53 and p73. This information will be valuable for the development of therapeutic agents that affect these pathways to protect CNS neurons and prevent HAD.
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signalling controls a number of cerebral functions and dysfunctions including synaptogenesis, amyloid-beta accumulation, apoptosis and excitotoxicity. Using cultured cortical neurons prepared from either wild type or transgenic mice overexpressing a TGF-beta-responsive luciferase reporter gene (SBE-Luc), we demonstrated a progressive loss of TGF-beta signalling during neuronal maturation and survival. Moreover, we showed that neurons exhibit increasing amounts of the serine protease HtrA1 (high temperature responsive antigen 1) and corresponding cleavage products during both in vitro neuronal maturation and brain development. In parallel of its ability to promote degradation of TGF-beta1, we demonstrated that blockage of the proteolytic activity of HtrA1 leads to a restoration of TGF-beta signalling, subsequent overexpression of the serpin type -1 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and neuronal death. Altogether, we propose that the balance between HtrA1 and TGF-beta could be one of the critical events controlling both neuronal maturation and developmental survival.
Secretion is a fundamental biological activity of all eukaryotic cells by which they release certain substances in the extracellular space. It is considered a specialized mode of membrane trafficking that is achieved by docking and fusion of secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane (i.e., exocytosis). Secretory vesicle traffic is thought to be regulated by a family of Rab small GTPases, which are regulators of membrane traffic that are common to all eukaryotic cells. Classically, mammalian Rab3 subfamily members were thought to be critical regulators of secretory vesicle exocytosis in neurons and endocrine cells, but recent genetic and proteomic studies indicate that Rab3 is not the sole Rab isoform that regulates secretory vesicle traffic. Rather, additional Rab isoforms, especially Rab27 subfamily members, are required for this process. In this article I review the current literature on the function of Rab isoforms and their effectors in regulated secretory vesicle traffic.
Glutamate, by activation of metabotropic receptors (mGluRs), can lead to a reduction of synaptic efficacy at many synapses. These forms of synaptic plasticity are referred to as long-term depression (mGluR-LTD). We will distinguish between mGluR-LTD induced by pre- or postsynaptic receptors and mGluR-LTD induced by the locus of the expression mechanism of the synaptic depression. We will also review recent evidence that mGluR-mediated responses themselves are subject to depression, which may constitute a form of metaplasticity.
Since its discovery in the early 1990's, cortactin has emerged as a key signaling protein in many cellular processes, including cell adhesion, migration, endocytosis, and tumor invasion. While the list of cellular functions influenced by cortactin grows, the ability of cortactin to interact with and alter the cortical actin network is central to its role in regulating these processes. Recently, several advances have been made in our understanding of the interaction between actin and cortactin, providing insight into how these two proteins work together to provide a framework for normal and altered cellular function. This review examines how regulation of cortactin through post-translational modifications and interactions with multiple binding partners elicits changes in cortical actin cytoskeletal organization, impacting the regulation and formation of actin-rich motility structures.
The use of human biological specimens in scientific research is the focus of current international public and professional concern and a major issue in bioethics in general. Brain/Tissue/Bio banks (BTB-banks) are a rapid developing sector; each of these banks acts locally as a steering unit for the establishment of the local Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and the legal regulations and ethical guidelines to be followed in the procurement and dissemination of research specimens. An appropriat Code of Conduct is crucial to a successful operation of the banks and the research application they handle. What are we still missing ? (1) Adequate funding for research BTB-banks. (2) Standard evaluation protocls for audit of BTB-bank performance. (3) Internationally accepted SOP's which will facilitate exchange and sharing of specimens and data with the scientific community. (4) Internationally accepted Code of Conduct. In the present paper we review the most pressing organizational, methodological, medico-legal and ethical issues involved in BTB-banking; funding, auditing, procurement, management/handling, dissemination and sharing of specimens, confidentiality and data protection, genetic testing, &quot;financial gain&quot; and safety measures. Taking into consideration the huge variety of the specimens stored in different repositories and the enormous differences in medico-legal systems and ethics regulations in different countries it is strongly recommend that the health-care systems and institutions who host BTB-Banks will put more efforts in getting adequate funding for the infrastructure and daily activities. The BTB-banks should define evaluation protocols, SOPs and their Code of Conduct. This in turn will enable the banks to share the collected specimens and data with the largest possible number of researchers and aim at a maximal scientific spin-off and advance in public health research.
Research into neuropsychiatric disorders, including alcohol-related problems, is limited in part by the lack of appropriate animal models. However, the development of new technologies in pathology and molecular biology means that many more questions can be addressed using appropriately stored human brain tissues. The New South Wales Tissue Resource Centre (TRC) in the University of Sydney (Australia) is a human brain bank that can provide tissues to the neuroscience research community studying alcohol-related brain disorders, schizophrenia, depression and bipolar disorders. Carefully standardised operational protocols and integrated information systems means that the TRC can provide high quality, accurately characterised, tissues for research. A recent initiative, the pre-mortem donor program called &quot;Using our Brains&quot;, encourages individuals without neuropsychiatric illness to register as control donors, a critical group for all research. Community support for this program is strong with over 2,000 people registering their interest. Discussed herein are the protocols pertaining to this multifaceted facility and the benefits of investment, both scientific and financial, to neuroscience researchers and the community at large.
To further understand the neuroanatomy, neurochemistry and neuropathology of the normal and diseased human brain, it is essential to have access to human brain tissue where the biological and chemical nature of the tissue is optimally preserved. We have established a human brain bank where brain tissue is optimally processed and stored in order to provide a resource to facilitate neuroscience research of the human brain in health and disease. A donor programme has been established in consultation with the community to provide for the post-mortem donation of brain tissue to the brain bank. We are using this resource of human brain tissue to further investigate the basis of normal neuronal functioning in the human brain as well as the mechanisms of neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in neurodegenerative diseases. We have established a protocol for the preservation of post-mortem adult human brain tissue firstly by snap-freezing unfixed brain tissue and secondly by chemical fixation and then storage of this tissue at -80 degrees C in a human brain bank. Several research techniques such as receptor autoradiography, DNA and RNA analysis, are carried out on the unfixed tissue and immunohistochemical and histological analysis is carried out on the fixed human tissue. Comparison of tissue from normal control cases and from cases with neurodegenerative disorders is carried out in order to document the changes that occur in the brain in these disorders and to further investigate the underlying pathogenesis of these devastating neurological diseases.
The diversity of neurons in sympathetic ganglia and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) provides intriguing systems for the analysis of neuronal differentiation. Cell surface receptors for the GDNF family ligands (GFLs) glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin and artemin, are expressed in subpopulations of these neurons prompting the question regarding their involvement in neuronal subtype specification. Mutational analysis in mice has demonstrated the requirement for GFL signalling during embryonic development of cholinergic sympathetic neurons as shown by the loss of expression from the cholinergic gene locus in ganglia from mice deficient for ret, the signal transducing subunit of the GFL receptor complex. Analysis in mutant animals and transgenic mice overexpressing GFLs demonstrates an effect on sensitivity to thermal and mechanical stimuli in DRG neurons correlating at least partially with the altered expression of transient receptor potential ion channels and acid-sensitive cation channels. Persistence of targeted cells in mutant ganglia suggests that the alterations are caused by differentiation effects and not by cell loss. Because of the massive effect of GFLs on neurite outgrowth, it remains to be determined whether GFL signalling acts directly on neuronal specification or indirectly via altered target innervation and access to other growth factors. The data show that GFL signalling is required for the specification of subpopulations of sensory and autonomic neurons. In order to comprehend this process fully, the role of individual GFLs, the transduction of the GFL signals, and the interplay of GFL signalling with other regulatory pathways need to be deciphered.
General practitioners (GPs) play a pivotal role in managing migraine and ensuring that patients have a positive first experience when seeking treatment. A large proportion of migraineurs do not consult a GP, preferring to rely on over-the-counter remedies to reduce pain and disability. For those who do consult, receiving a satisfactory outcome at their first consultation is important for ensuring subsequent effective management of their migraine. If patient expectations are not met at their first visit (prescribed treatment is ineffective or GP does not empathize with their suffering), patients may not return for further consultation. There remains a need to improve migraine diagnosis and treatment, and GPs require continuing medical education and neurologist support to ensure that they are providing the best migraine treatments and outcomes. More widespread use of diagnostic tools, standardized management guidelines and individualized treatment regimens will help GPs successfully manage both migraine symptoms and patient expectations.
The aim was to estimate ictal, pre- and postictal brain function changes in migraine in a blinded paired quantitative EEG (QEEG) study. EEG recordings (n = 119) from 40 migraineurs were retrospectively classified as ictal, interictal, preictal or postictal. delta, theta, alpha and beta power, and hemispheric asymmetry in frontocentral, temporal and occipitoparietal regions were calculated from artefact-free EEG. Power and power asymmetry were calculated for two time-windows, 36 and 72 h before/after the attack, and compared with the interictal values. Frontocentral delta power increased (P = 0.03), whereas frontocentral theta and alpha power tended to increase (P &lt; 0.09) within 36 h before the next attack compared with the interictal period. Occipitoparietal (alpha and theta) and temporal (alpha) power were more asymmetric before the attack compared with the interictal baseline (P &lt; 0.04). Ictal posterior alpha power increased slightly (P = 0.01). Postictal power and power asymmetry were not significantly different from interictal baseline. EEG activity seems to change shortly before the attack. This suggests that migraineurs are most susceptible to attack when anterior QEEG delta power and posterior alpha and theta asymmetry values are high. Changed activity patterns in cholinergic brainstem or basal forebrain nuclei and thalamo-cortical connections before the migraine attack are hypothesized.
Fluid intelligence (g(f)) influences performance across many cognitive domains. It is affected by both genetic and environmental factors. Tasks tapping g(f) activate a network of brain regions including the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC), the presupplementary motor area/anterior cingulate cortex (pre-SMA/ACC), and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). In line with the &quot;intermediate phenotype&quot; approach, we assessed effects of a polymorphism (val(158)met) in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene on activity within this network and on actual task performance during spatial and verbal g(f) tasks. COMT regulates catecholaminergic signaling in prefrontal cortex. The val(158) allele is associated with higher COMT activity than the met(158) allele. Twenty-two volunteers genotyped for the COMT val(158)met polymorphism completed high and low g(f) versions of spatial and verbal problem-solving tasks. Our results showed a positive effect of COMT val allele load upon the blood oxygen level-dependent response in LPFC, pre-SMA/ACC, and IPS during high g(f) versus low g(f) task performance in both spatial and verbal domains. These results indicate an influence of the COMT val(158)met polymorphism upon the neural circuitry supporting g(f). The behavioral effects of val allele load differed inside and outside the scanner, consistent with contextual modulation of the relation between COMT val(158)met genotype and g(f) task performance.
Novel mapping stimuli composed of biological motion figures were used to study the extent and layout of multiple retinotopic regions in the entire human brain and to examine the independent manipulation of retinotopic responses by visual stimuli and by attention. A number of areas exhibited retinotopic activations, including full or partial visual field representations in occipital cortex, the precuneus, motion-sensitive temporal cortex (extending into the superior temporal sulcus), the intraparietal sulcus, and the vicinity of the frontal eye fields in frontal cortex. Early visual areas showed mainly stimulus-driven retinotopy; parietal and frontal areas were driven primarily by attention; and lateral temporal regions could be driven by both. We found clear spatial specificity of attentional modulation not just in early visual areas but also in classical attentional control areas in parietal and frontal cortex. Indeed, strong spatiotopic activity in these areas could be evoked by directed attention alone. Conversely, motion-sensitive temporal regions, while exhibiting attentional modulation, also responded significantly when attention was directed away from the retinotopic stimuli.
Studying social behavior often requires the simultaneous interaction of many subjects. As yet, however, no painless, noninvasive brain stimulation tool existed that allowed the simultaneous affection of brain processes in many interacting subjects. Here we show that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can overcome these limits. We apply right prefrontal cathodal tDCS and show that subjects' propensity to punish unfair behavior is reduced significantly.
Transporters represent attractive targets for drug discovery and are implicated in the pathophysiology of disorders across several therapeutic areas including asthma, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and neuroscience. However, the intrinsic mechanistic properties of transporters present significant challenges to the development of high-throughput screening methodologies. This review provides an update on potential transporter targets and evaluates the impact of available technologies to enable transporter screening, lead optimization and assessment of pharmacokinetics.
We study the emergence of polyrhythmic dynamics of motifs which are the building block for small inhibitory-excitatory networks, such as central pattern generators controlling various locomotive behaviors of animals. We discover that the pacemaker determining the specific rhythm of such a network composed of realistic Hodgkin-Huxley-type neurons is identified through the order parameter, which is the ratio of the neurons' burst durations or of duty cycles. We analyze different configurations of the motifs and describe the universal mechanisms for synergetics of the bursting patterns. We discuss also the multistability of inhibitory networks that results in polyrhythmicity of its emergent synchronous behaviors.
Synchronization in neuronal systems is a new and intriguing application of dynamical systems theory. Why are neuronal systems different as a subject for synchronization? (1) Neurons in themselves are multidimensional nonlinear systems that are able to exhibit a wide variety of different activity patterns. Their &quot;dynamical repertoire&quot; includes regular or chaotic spiking, regular or chaotic bursting, multistability, and complex transient regimes. (2) Usually, neuronal oscillations are the result of the cooperative activity of many synaptically connected neurons (a neuronal circuit). Thus, it is necessary to consider synchronization between different neuronal circuits as well. (3) The synapses that implement the coupling between neurons are also dynamical elements and their intrinsic dynamics influences the process of synchronization or entrainment significantly. In this review we will focus on four new problems: (i) the synchronization in minimal neuronal networks with plastic synapses (synchronization with activity dependent coupling), (ii) synchronization of bursts that are generated by a group of nonsymmetrically coupled inhibitory neurons (heteroclinic synchronization), (iii) the coordination of activities of two coupled neuronal networks (partial synchronization of small composite structures), and (iv) coarse grained synchronization in larger systems (synchronization on a mesoscopic scale).
Agonist activation of central 5-HT(2A) receptors results in diverse effects, such as hallucinations and changes of consciousness. Recent findings indicate that activation of the 5-HT(2A) receptor also leads to interesting physiological responses, possibly holding therapeutic value. Selective agonists are needed to study the full therapeutic potential of this receptor. 5-HT(2A) ligands with agonist profiles are primarily derived from phenylalkylamines, indolealkylamines, and certain piperazines. Of these, phenylalkylamines, most notably substituted phenylisopropylamines, are considered the most selective agonists for 5-HT(2) receptors. This review summarizes the structure-activity relationships (SAR) of phenylalkylamines as agonist ligands for 5-HT(2A) receptors. Selectivity is a central theme, as is selectivity for the 5-HT(2A) receptor and for its specific signaling pathways. SAR data from receptor affinity studies, functional assays, behavioral drug discrimination as well as human studies are discussed.


The eye represents an ideal and frequent site for the allergic reactions. The term 'allergic conjunctivitis' refers to a collection of disorders that affect the lid, conjunctiva and/or cornea. Even though the diagnosis is essentially clinical, local tests such as cytology, conjunctival provocation and tear mediator analysis can be performed. The immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated mechanism does not explain completely the severity and the clinical course of chronic allergic ocular diseases such as vernal (VKC) and atopic keratoconjunctivitis (AKC), which are probably also related to T cell-mediated responses, massive eosinophil attraction and activation and non-specific hypersensitivity. An altered balance between T helper type 1 (Th1) and Th2 cells and between Th1- and Th2-types of cytokines is thought to be responsible of the development of ocular allergic disorders. New findings suggest that a wide range of cytokines, chemokines, proteases and growth factors are involved by complex interwoven interactions rather than distinct and parallel pathways. In addition, several non-specific enzymatic systems may be activated during acute and chronic allergic inflammation, thus contributing to the complex pathogenesis of the disease. Current drug treatment for ocular allergy targets the key mechanisms involved in the development of clinical disease: mast cells with mast cell stabilizers, histamine with histamine receptor antagonists and inflammation with corticosteroids, severe inflammation with immunomodulators. None of these agents lacks side effects and none abolishes signs and symptoms completely. New therapeutic strategies are still needed to respond to the complex pathogenesis of severe forms of ocular allergy such as VKC and AKC.
It has been documented that dopamine, an important regulator of gastric function in the brain-gut axis, has an inhibitory effect on the gastric acid secretion. It has also been suggested that dopamine D1, D2 and D5 receptor proteins are present in the gastrointestinal tract from the stomach through to the distal colon. Therefore, we hypothesized that peripheral D2 receptors may be involved in the control of stimulated gastric acid secretion. To address this question, we examined the effect of quinpirole, a selective D2 receptor-like agonist, and domperidone, a peripheral D2 receptor antagonist, on rat gastric acid secretion. Quinpirole (0.0001-0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered simultaneously with intravenous infusions of histamine, pentagastrin, and carbachol. In some experiments, domperidone (3 and 7 mg/kg) was administered 30 min before quinpirole injection. We found that intraperitoneal injection of quinpirole (0.0001-0.5 mg/kg) suppressed stimulated gastric acid secretion induced by histamine (0.08 mg/100 g per h), pentagastrin (1 microg/100 g per h) and carbachol (4 microg/100 g per h) in a dose-dependent manner. This inhibitory effect of quinpirole persisted until the end of the experiments (90-120 min) and was completely suppressed by domperidone (7 mg/kg). In conclusion, the results of the present study suggest that peripheral D2-like receptors have an inhibitory effect on histaminergic-, pentagastrin- and cholinergic-stimulated gastric acid secretion. This inhibitory effect may be mediated by enteric dopaminergic neurons and/or non-neuronal membranes.
The burden of neurological diseases in western societies has accentuated the need to develop effective therapies to stop the progression of chronic neurological diseases. Recent discoveries regarding the role of the immune system in brain damage coupled with the development of new technologies to manipulate the immune response make immunotherapies an attractive possibility to treat neurological diseases. The wide repertoire of immune responses and the possibility to engineer such responses, as well as their capacity to promote tissue repair, indicates that immunotherapy might offer benefits in the treatment of neurological diseases, similar to the benefits that are being associated with the treatment of cancer and autoimmune diseases. However, before applying such strategies to patients it is necessary to better understand the pathologies to be targeted, as well as how individual subjects may respond to immunotherapies, either in isolation or in combination. Due to the powerful effects of the immune system, one priority is to avoid tissue damage due to the activity of the immune system, particularly considering that the nervous system does not tolerate even the smallest amount of tissue damage.







Objective: To explore and describe the consequences of an acute hip fracture as experienced by home-dwelling elderly people shortly after discharge from hospital. Design: Semi-structured interviews using the phenomenographic method.Subjects and setting: Eighteen subjects were interviewed in their own homes one month after discharge. Results: The interviewees described experiences of changes in their relation to the body, themselves, to others and to their whole life situation. These experiences were described as being limited in movement, having lost confidence in the body, becoming humble and grateful, respecting oneself and one's own needs, becoming more dependent on others, gaining more human contact and being treated in a friendly way by others, being secluded and trapped at home, feeling old, closer to death and having lost their zest for life, and taking one day at a time and being uncertain about the future. Conclusion: Experienced consequences of a hip fracture were multidimensional and involved dramatic changes in the interviewees' life situation, including existential thoughts and reappraisal of the years of life that remained. The results indicate that the fracture seemed not only to break the bone but also to cause social and existential cracks, as experienced in the early phase after the injury.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) characteristically consists of fibrotic changes in various organs, and immunological abnormality is the main cause of the disease. Although high-dose immunosuppressive therapies with autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell support can reverse the disease course, they have a high treatment-related mortality. We report the successful use of nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for SSc. A 40-year-old woman with diffuse scleroderma and interstitial pneumonia underwent allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation from an HLA-identical sibling after conditioning with low-dose total-body irradiation and fludarabine. Prophylaxis for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) consisted of cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil. No infection or acute GVHD developed. One year after transplantation, the patient developed membranous glomerulopathy caused by chronic GVHD that was successfully treated with prednisolone. The patient's skin score decreased dramatically, and her pulmonary function is stable 4 years after transplantation. Nonmyeloablative allogeneic HSCT may be more effective than conventional therapies for SSc.


Antidepressants constitute a central cornerstone in the treatment of depressive syndromes. In bipolar patients, however, there is an ongoing controversy about their usefulness for at least 3 decades. Early reports, mainly concerning tricyclic antidepressants, have repeatedly pointed toward unfavorable side effects on the course of the disorder, namely switching into (hypo)mania, induction of rapid cycling, and increased risk of suicide. Most evidence for both unfavorable and favorable effects has been deducted, thus far, from small studies with methodological flaws. More substantiated evidence only recently became available. From this it appears that, at least, the switch risk, and perhaps also the risk for rapid cycling and new-onset suicidality have been overinterpreted. At the same time, these new data raise doubt about the efficacy of antidepressants as a primary-treatment choice in bipolar depression.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, intuition is &quot;the ability to understand or know something immediately, without conscious reasoning.&quot; In other words, people continuously, without conscious attention, recognize patterns in the stream of sensations that impinge upon them. The result is a vague perception of coherence, which subsequently biases thought and behavior accordingly. Within the visual domain, research using paradigms with difficult recognition has suggested that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) serves as a fast detector and predictor of potential content that utilizes coarse facets of the input. To investigate whether the OFC is crucial in biasing task-specific processing, and hence subserves intuitive judgments in various modalities, we used a difficult-recognition paradigm in the auditory domain. Participants were presented with short sequences of distorted, nonverbal, environmental sounds and had to perform a sound categorization task. Imaging results revealed rostral medial OFC activation for such auditory intuitive coherence judgments. By means of a conjunction analysis between the present results and those from a previous study on visual intuitive coherence judgments, the rostral medial OFC was shown to be activated via both modalities. We conclude that rostral OFC activation during intuitive coherence judgments subserves the detection of potential content on the basis of only coarse facets of the input.
Associative learning is a central building block of human cognition and in large part depends on mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, memory capacity and fronto-hippocampal interactions. A disorder like schizophrenia is thought to be characterized by altered plasticity, and impaired frontal and hippocampal function. Understanding the expression of this dysfunction through appropriate experimental studies, and understanding the processes that may give rise to impaired behavior through biologically plausible computational models will help clarify the nature of these deficits. We present a preliminary computational model designed to capture learning dynamics in healthy control and schizophrenia subjects. Experimental data was collected on a spatial-object paired-associate learning task. The task evinces classic patterns of negatively accelerated learning in both healthy control subjects and patients, with patients demonstrating lower rates of learning than controls. Our rudimentary computational model of the task was based on biologically plausible assumptions, including the separation of dorsal/spatial and ventral/object visual streams, implementation of rules of learning, the explicit parameterization of learning rates (a plausible surrogate for synaptic plasticity), and learning capacity (a plausible surrogate for memory capacity). Reductions in learning dynamics in schizophrenia were well-modeled by reductions in learning rate and learning capacity. The synergy between experimental research and a detailed computational model of performance provides a framework within which to infer plausible biological bases of impaired learning dynamics in schizophrenia.
Suprasegmental acoustic patterns in speech can convey meaningful information and affect listeners' interpretation in various ways, including through systematic analog mapping of message-relevant information onto prosody. We examined whether the effect of analog acoustic variation is governed by the acoustic properties themselves. For example, fast speech may always prime the concept of speed or a faster response. Alternatively, the effect may be modulated by the context-dependent interpretation of those properties; the effect of rate may depend on how listeners construe its meaning in the immediate linguistic or communicative context. In two experiments, participants read short scenarios that implied, or did not imply, urgency. Scenarios were followed by recorded instructions, spoken at varying rates. The results show that speech rate had an effect on listeners' response speed; however, this effect was modulated by discourse context. Speech rate affected response speed following contexts that emphasized speed, but not without such contextual information.
An important topic in the evolution of language is the kinds of grammars that can be computed by humans and other animals. Fitch and Hauser (F&amp;H; 2004) approached this question by assessing the ability of different species to learn 2 grammars, (AB)(n) and A(n) B(n) . A(n) B(n) was taken to indicate a phrase structure grammar, eliciting a center-embedded pattern. (AB)(n) indicates a grammar whose strings entail only local relations between the categories of constituents. F&amp;H's data suggest that humans, but not tamarin monkeys, learn an A(n) B(n) grammar, whereas both learn a simpler (AB)(n) grammar (Fitch &amp; Hauser, 2004). In their experiments, the A constituents were syllables pronounced by a female voice, whereas the B constituents were syllables pronounced by a male voice. This study proposes that what characterizes the A(n) B(n) exemplars is the distributional regularities of the syllables pronounced by either a male or a female rather than the underlying, more abstract patterns. This article replicates F&amp;H's data and reports new controls using either categories similar to those in F&amp;H or less salient ones. This article shows that distributional regularities explain the data better than grammar learning. Indeed, when familiarized with A(n) B(n) exemplars, participants failed to discriminate A(3) B(2) and A(2) B(3) from A(n) B(n) items, missing the crucial feature that the number of As must equal the number of Bs. Therefore, contrary to F&amp;H, this study concludes that no syntactic rules implementing embedded nonadjacent dependencies were learned in these experiments. The difference between human linguistic abilities and the putative precursors in monkeys deserves further exploration.
We examined how verb factivity influences the ability of readers to detect and resolve the mismatch of receiving false referents in relation to true referents in discourse contexts. Factive verbs (e.g., know), but not nonfactive verbs (believe), entail the truth of their complements. Recent research by Singer [Singer, M. (2006). Verification of text ideas during reading. Journal of Memory and Language, 54, 574-591] suggests that there are pragmatic costs associated with knowing something that is clearly false and only believing something that is clearly true. However, because Singer measured reading times for full sentences, it could not be determined whether these costs were initiated upon the appearance of the critical target word (i.e., the word that validated or invalidated previous text ideas) or at a later point in the sentences. In the present research we recorded event-related brain potentials while people read the same passages for comprehension and analyzed potentials evoked to the critical target words. Our results demonstrate that the brain distinguishes between true and false target words by at least 200ms after their onset, and that the pragmatic costs identified by Singer lead to interactions between verb factivity and truth in both early (P2) and later occurring brain components (late phase of N400 and late frontal positivity). In general, the results suggest readers had greater difficulty integrating false nouns than true nouns following factive than nonfactive verbs, and that detection of this mismatch also occurred earlier following factive verbs. Our results provide insight into the time-course of the processes that underlie the verification of text ideas, and extend neurocognitive research on anaphoric resolution.
The &quot;inner world&quot; of the mind was, in the past, the traditional preserve of psychoanalysis and related disciplines, and it was therefore placed at the margins of neural science. During 1990-ies numerous investigations in the field of neuroscience have led to significant findings, which explain biological correlates ofpsychological functions. There are much scientific evidence that support association between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. Psychoanalysis offers a unique in-depth perspective on the psychology of human motivation, and furthermore has contributions both to make and to receive in the gathering scientific integration.
Previously published single case reports of patients with a unilateral lesion were assembled. After the lesion, each of the 244 cases presented at least one of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) symptoms of a manic episode, namely, elated or irritable mood, grandiosity, talkativeness, flight of ideas, hyperhedonism, reduced need for sleep, agitation, or distractibility (all optional in DSM-IV). As expected, the subgroup of 59 manic patients had a right hemisphere lesion far more often than a left one. However, this was also true of various sets of the nonmanic cases. Furthermore, elation was not the symptom most strongly associated with lesion side. Elation without mania was not significantly predicted by lesion side. However, talkativeness was strongly predicted by right lesion side whether in manic or nonmanic patients or even when the symptom was the only symptom observed. Agitation was consistently and robustly associated with right lesion side, but not completely distinctly so (it fell short of significance when not accompanied by elation or other symptoms). It is proposed that prevalence of right hemisphere lesions causing mania is primarily related to mental and behavioral disinhibition rather than a shift of mood and that it consists of release of left hemisphere influence.
Deciphering the electrical activity of individual neurons from multi-unit noisy recordings is critical for understanding complex neural systems. A widely used spike sorting algorithm is being evaluated for single-electrode nerve trunk recordings. The algorithm is based on principal component analysis (PCA) for spike feature extraction. In the neuroscience literature it is generally assumed that the use of the first two or most commonly three principal components is sufficient. We estimate the optimum PCA-based feature space by evaluating the algorithm's performance on simulated series of action potentials. A number of modifications are made to the open source nev2lkit software to enable systematic investigation of the parameter space. We introduce a new metric to define clustering error considering over-clustering more favorable than under-clustering as proposed by experimentalists for our data. Both the program patch and the metric are available online. Correlated and white Gaussian noise processes are superimposed to account for biological and artificial jitter in the recordings. We report that the employment of more than three principal components is in general beneficial for all noise cases considered. Finally, we apply our results to experimental data and verify that the sorting process with four principal components is in agreement with a panel of electrophysiology experts.
Humans, unlike other animals, are equipped with a powerful brain that permits conscious awareness and reflection. A growing trend in psychological science has questioned the benefits of consciousness, however. Testing a hypothesis advanced by [Lieberman, M. D., Gaunt, R., Gilbert, D. T., &amp; Trope, Y. (2002). Reflection and reflexion: A social cognitive neuroscience approach to attributional inference. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 34, 199-249], four studies suggested that the conscious, reflective processing system is vital for logical reasoning. Substantial decrements in logical reasoning were found when a cognitive load manipulation preoccupied conscious processing, while hampering the nonconscious system with consciously suppressed thoughts failed to impair reasoning (Experiment 1). Nonconscious activation (priming) of the idea of logical reasoning increased the activation of logic-relevant concepts, but failed to improve logical reasoning performance (Experiments 2a-2c) unless the logical conclusions were largely intuitive and thus not reliant on logical reasoning (Experiment 3). Meanwhile, stimulating the conscious goal of reasoning well led to improvements in reasoning performance (Experiment 4). These findings offer evidence that logical reasoning is aided by the conscious, reflective processing system.
The field of neuroaesthetics attempts to identify the brain processes underlying aesthetic experience, including but not limited to beauty. Previous neuroaesthetic studies have focussed largely on paintings and music, while performing arts such as dance have been less studied. Nevertheless, increasing knowledge of the neural mechanisms that represent the bodies and actions of others, and which contribute to empathy, make a neuroaesthetics of dance timely. Here, we present the first neuroscientific study of aesthetic perception in the context of the performing arts. We investigated brain areas whose activity during passive viewing of dance stimuli was related to later, independent aesthetic evaluation of the same stimuli. Brain activity of six nave male subjects was measured using fMRI, while they watched 24 dance movements, and performed an irrelevant task. In a later session, participants rated each movement along a set of established aesthetic dimensions. The ratings were used to identify brain regions that were more active when viewing moves that received high average ratings than moves that received low average ratings. This contrast revealed bilateral activity in the occipital cortices and in right premotor cortex. Our results suggest a possible role of visual and sensorimotor brain areas in an automatic aesthetic response to dance. This sensorimotor response may explain why dance is widely appreciated in so many human cultures.
There is growing interest in the effect of sound on visual motion perception. One model involves the illusion created when two identical objects moving towards each other on a two-dimensional visual display can be seen to either bounce off or stream through each other. Previous studies show that the large bias normally seen toward the streaming percept can be modulated by the presentation of an auditory event at the moment of coincidence. However, no reports to date provide sufficient evidence to indicate whether the sound bounce-inducing effect is due to a perceptual binding process or merely to an explicit inference resulting from the transient auditory stimulus resembling a physical collision of two objects. In the present study, we used a novel experimental design in which a subliminal sound was presented either 150 ms before, at, or 150 ms after the moment of coincidence of two disks moving towards each other. The results showed that there was an increased perception of bouncing (rather than streaming) when the subliminal sound was presented at or 150 ms after the moment of coincidence compared to when no sound was presented. These findings provide the first empirical demonstration that activation of the human auditory system without reaching consciousness affects the perception of an ambiguous visual motion display.
A recent report by Persaud et al. [Persaud, N., McLeod, P. &amp; Cowey, A. (2007). Post-decision wagering objectively measures awareness. Nature Neuroscience 10, 257-261] addresses a fundamental issue in consciousness science: the experimental measurement of conscious content. The authors propose a novel technique, 'post-decision wagering', in which subjects place bets on the correctness of decisions or discriminations. In this note, I critique the authors' claim that their method &quot;measures awareness directly&quot;.
This paper is a review of the work that has been carried out on machine consciousness. A clear overview of this diverse field is achieved by breaking machine consciousness down into four different areas, which are used to understand its aims, discuss its relationship with other subjects and outline the work that has been carried out so far. The criticisms that have been made against machine consciousness are also covered, along with its potential benefits, and the work that has been done on analysing systems for signs of consciousness. Some of the social and ethical issues raised by machine consciousness are examined at the end of the paper.

The corpus callosum is one of the most prominent fiber systems of the mammalian brain. Early reports of animals in which the callosum was cut, often confused the effects attributable to callosum damage with those caused by lesions of other brain structures. Early clinical reports also failed to establish the role of the callosum in humans. Two sorts of evidence began to reveal the functions of the corpus callosum. People with callosal damage cannot read text presented in the left visual field, and animals in which the callosum is divided, and sensory input restricted to one hemisphere, fail to show interhemispheric transfer of learning. These functional findings are consistent with anatomical and physiological studies of the role of the corpus callosum in communication between the hemispheres.
The locus coeruleus (LC), the major noradrenergic nucleus of the brain, gives rise to fibres innervating most structures of the neuraxis. Recent advances in neuroscience have helped to unravel the neuronal circuitry controlling a number of physiological functions in which the LC plays a central role. Two such functions are the regulation of arousal and autonomic activity, which are inseparably linked largely via the involvement of the LC. Alterations in LC activity due to physiological or pharmacological manipulations or pathological processes can lead to distinct patterns of change in arousal and autonomic function. Physiological manipulations considered here include the presentation of noxious or anxiety-provoking stimuli and extremes in ambient temperature. The modification of LC-controlled functions by drug administration is discussed in detail, including drugs which directly modify the activity of LC neurones (e.g., via autoreceptors, storage, reuptake) or have an indirect effect through modulating excitatory or inhibitory inputs. The early vulnerability of the LC to the ageing process and to neurodegenerative disease (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases) is of considerable clinical significance. In general, physiological manipulations and the administration of stimulant drugs, alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists and noradrenaline uptake inhibitors increase LC activity and thus cause heightened arousal and activation of the sympathetic nervous system. In contrast, the administration of sedative drugs, including alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists, and pathological changes in LC function in neurodegenerative disorders and ageing reduce LC activity and result in sedation and activation of the parasympathetic nervous system.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is the major noradrenergic nucleus of the brain, giving rise to fibres innervating extensive areas throughout the neuraxis. Recent advances in neuroscience have resulted in the unravelling of the neuronal circuits controlling a number of physiological functions in which the LC plays a central role. Two such functions are the regulation of arousal and autonomic activity, which are inseparably linked largely via the involvement of the LC. The LC is a major wakefulness-promoting nucleus, resulting from dense excitatory projections to the majority of the cerebral cortex, cholinergic neurones of the basal forebrain, cortically-projecting neurones of the thalamus, serotoninergic neurones of the dorsal raphe and cholinergic neurones of the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and substantial inhibitory projections to sleep-promoting GABAergic neurones of the basal forebrain and ventrolateral preoptic area. Activation of the LC thus results in the enhancement of alertness through the innervation of these varied nuclei. The importance of the LC in controlling autonomic function results from both direct projections to the spinal cord and projections to autonomic nuclei including the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, the nucleus ambiguus, the rostroventrolateral medulla, the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, the caudal raphe, the salivatory nuclei, the paraventricular nucleus, and the amygdala. LC activation produces an increase in sympathetic activity and a decrease in parasympathetic activity via these projections. Alterations in LC activity therefore result in complex patterns of neuronal activity throughout the brain, observed as changes in measures of arousal and autonomic function.
Depression remains a challenge in the field of affective neuroscience, despite a steady research progress. Six out of nine basic antidepressant mechanisms rely on serotonin neurotransmitter system. Preclinical studies have demonstrated the significance of serotonin receptors (5-HT(1-3,6,7)), its signal transduction pathways and classical down stream targets (including neurotrophins, neurokinins, other peptides and their receptors) in antidepressant drug action. Serotonergic control of depression embraces the recent molecular requirements such as influence on proliferation, neurogenesis, plasticity, synaptic (re)modeling and transmission in the central nervous system. The present progress report analyses the credibility of each protein as therapeutically relevant target of depression. In vivo interaction studies and knockout models which identified these targets are foreseen to unearth new ligands and help them transform to drug candidates. The importance of the antidepressant assay selection at the preclinical level using salient animal models/assay systems is discussed. Such test batteries would definitely provide antidepressants with faster onset, efficacy in resistant (and co-morbid) types and with least adverse effects. Apart from the selective ligands, only those molecules which bring an overall harmony, by virtue of their affinities to various receptor subtypes, could qualify as effective antidepressants. Synchronised modulation of various serotonergic sub-pathways is the basis for a unique and balanced antidepressant profile, as that of fluoxetine (most exploited antidepressant) and such a profile may be considered as a template for the upcoming antidepressants. In conclusion, 5-HT based multi-targeted antidepressant drug discovery supported by in vivo interaction studies and knockout models is advocated as a strategy to provide classic molecules for clinical trials.
Disturbances of glutamate-mediated neurotransmission have been implicated in a broad range of nervous system disorders. Numerous attempts to correct nervous system dysfunction by pharmacological intervention at glutamate receptors have been made, and some of the approaches have achieved a high level of preclinical validation. However, in a number of cases involving agents acting as blockers of the ionotropic glutamate receptors, clinical success could not be achieved, mostly because of the lack of a therapeutic window. The identification of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) family and their modulatory role in the control of neurotransmission provided a new means to alter glutamatergic transmission. Furthermore, selective agents acting as allosteric antagonists at the mGluR5 subtype have demonstrated therapeutic potential. The identification and characterization of mGluR5 antagonists and recent progress in clinical development are summarized.
Several serious neurological and psychiatric disorders are associated with cognitive impairment. Thus, drugs targeting the cognitive symptoms of these diseases would be expected to provide significant benefits to these patient populations. A growing body of preclinical evidence has supported the use of serotonin 5-HT6 receptor antagonism as a promising mechanism for treating cognitive dysfunction. Following the discovery of a new generation of 5-HT6 receptor ligands with improved physicochemical properties, leading to superior brain penetration, additional support for the 5-HT6 hypothesis has been provided by clinical trial data for three molecules in drug development.
Major depressive disorder is highly prevalent and remains inadequately treated. Numerous studies have demonstrated that modulation of ion channel activity can reduce depression-like behavior in animal models or depressive symptoms in humans. N-Methyl-D-aspartate and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor blockers have demonstrated promise as potential antidepressant agents in humans. Moreover, behavioral and physiological findings have provided evidence that the more recently characterized ion channel TWIK-related K+ channel-1 is a potential antidepressant target; however, drugs directed at this channel have yet to undergo clinical testing. Animal studies and genetic association findings also suggest that a number of other channel types, including voltage-gated calcium (N-type), potassium (Kv7), serotonin 5-HT3 and purinergic P2X7 channels, may influence depression-like behavior. The therapeutic utility of some ion channels will be limited by their role in multiple physiological or pathophysiological processes. Nevertheless, a number of strategies are being employed to provide improved specificity of action.
The discovery of neural stem cells (NSC) which ensure continuous neurogenesis in the adult mammalian brain, has led to a conceptual revolution in basic neuroscience and to high hopes for clinical nervous tissue repair. However, several research issues remain to address before neural stem cells can be harnessed for regenerative therapies. The presence of NSC in a nervous structure is demonstrated in vitro by primary culture of dissociated adult nervous tissue in the presence of the specific mitogens EGF and bFGF. This leads to spherical masses of proliferating cells endowed with capacities for self-renewal and, after growth factor removal, differentiation into the three characteristic cell types of nervous tissue (neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes). In vivo, neurogenesis per se, i.e. production of new neurons, occurs only in a small subset of NSC-endowed structures. The production of oligodendrocytes, i.e. myelinating glial cells, is similarly restricted. Such in vivo restrictions were formally demonstrated to arise from the tissular microenvironnement, which led to the emerging concept of &quot;neurogenic niche&quot;. In this context, major challenges now consist in identifying the nature of tissue-specific extracellular signals that determine lineage commitment of NSC progeny, understanding why NSCs display weak in vivo reactivity to lesions compared to other stem cell types in adults, and identifying the factors behind the very high resistance to tumorigenesis displayed by NSCs. Altogether, the current data offer hope for the future use of adult NSCs in regenerative therapies, provided that tissue-specific signals are identified in view of counteracting the intrinsic repression of new cell genesis and/or stimulating endogenous NSC recruitment to lesion sites.
The pcdhalpha/CNR gene comprises a diverse array of neuronal cell-surface proteins of the cadherin superfamily, although very little is known about their role in neural development. Here we provide the first in-depth characterization of pcdh1alpha in zebrafish. Whole-mount immunocytochemistry demonstrates that a large proportion of endogenous cytoplasmic domain immunoreactivity is present in the nucleus, suggesting that endoproteolytic cleavage and nuclear translocation of the intracellular domain are important aspects of pcdh1alpha activity in vivo. Using whole-mount immunocytochemistry and BAC-based expression of Pcdh1alpha-GFP fusion proteins, we find that Pcdh1alpha does not appear to form stable, synaptic puncta at early stages of synaptogenesis. We also demonstrate that the presence of the Pcdh1alpha cytoplasmic domain is essential for normal function. Truncation of Pcdh1alpha proteins, using splice-blocking antisense morpholinos to prevent the addition of the common intracellular domain to the entire pcdh1alpha cluster, results in neuronal apoptosis throughout the developing brain and spinal cord, demonstrating an essential role for pcdh1alpha in early neural development. This cell death phenotype can be attenuated by the expression of a soluble Pcdh1alpha cytoplasmic domain.
Zebrafish scn8aa sodium channels mediate the majority of sodium conductance, which is essential for the embryonic locomotor activities. Here, we investigated the transcriptional regulation of scn8aa in developing zebrafish embryos by constructing a GFP reporter driven by a 15-kb fragment of scn8aa gene designed as scn8aa:GFP. GFP expression patterns of scn8aa:GFP temporally and spatially recapitulated the expression of endogenous scn8aa mRNA during zebrafish embryonic development, with one exception in the inner nuclear layer of the retina. Three novel elements, along with an evolutionarily conserved element shared with mouse SCN8A, modulated neuronal-specific expression of scn8aa. The deletion of each positive element reduced the expression levels in neurons without inducing ectopic GFP expression in non-neuronal cells. Our results demonstrate that these four regulatory elements function cooperatively to enhance scn8aa expression in the zebrafish nervous system.
We have studied the structure and function of a promoter region of the Halocynthia synaptotagmin (Hr-Syt) gene, which is abundantly expressed in neuronal cells. Our previous analysis suggested that the expression of Hr-Syt is regulated by at least one epidermal and two neuronal regulatory regions. In this study, the regulatory regions of Hr-Syt promoter were further characterized by using two species of ascidians, Halocynthia roretzi and Ciona intestinalis embryos. A putative GATA transcription factor binding site in the epidermal regulatory region has ectodermal enhancer activity in the Halocynthia embryo. Neuronal expression of Hr-Syt was regulated by multiple redundant enhancer regions. Among these enhancer regions, a 200-bp (-2900/-2700) region drove the reporter expression in neurons in both species of ascidian. Although the synaptotagmin promoter sequences did not show overall similarity between Hr-Syt and Ciona synaptotagmin (Ci-Syt), 5'-upsteream two short sequences of Ci-Syt have similarity to the -2766/-2732 region of the Hr-Syt promoter. The homeodomain binding sites in this region are required for the neuronal enhancer activity. These results suggest that GATA and homeodomain transcription factors regulate the expression of synaptotagmin.
Animal models of prenatal ethanol exposure are necessary to more fully understand the effects of ethanol on the developing embryo/fetus. However, most models employ procedures that may produce additional maternal stress beyond that produced by ethanol alone. We employed a daily limited-access ethanol intake model called Drinking in the Dark (DID) to assess the effects of voluntary maternal binge-like ethanol intake on the developing mouse. Evidence suggests that binge exposure may be particularly harmful to the embryo/fetus, perhaps due to the relatively higher blood ethanol concentrations achieved. Pregnant females had mean daily ethanol intakes ranging from 4.2 to 6.4 g/kg ethanol over gestation, producing blood ethanol concentrations ranging from 115 to 182 mg/dL. This level of ethanol intake produced behavioral alterations among adolescent offspring that disappeared by adulthood, including altered sensitivity to ethanol's hypnotic actions. The DID model may provide a useful tool for studying the effects of prenatal ethanol exposure in mice.
The effects of environmental stimulation and parental nurturance on brain development have been studied extensively in animals. Much less is known about the relations between childhood experience and cognitive development in humans. Using a longitudinally collected data set with ecologically valid in-home measures of childhood experience and later in-laboratory behavioral measures of cognitive ability, we were able to test hypotheses concerning the effects of environmental stimulation and parental nurturance. A double dissociation was found: On the one hand, there was a selective relation between parental nurturance and memory development, consistent with the animal literature on maternal buffering of stress hormone effects on hippocampal development. On the other hand, there was a selective relation between environmental stimulation and language development. The relevance of these findings to socioeconomic gradients in cognitive ability is discussed.
There are two different conceptions of the innate basis for numerical abilities. On the one hand, it is claimed that infants possess a 'number module' that enables them to construct concepts of the exact numerosities of sets upon which arithmetic develops (e.g. Butterworth, 1999; Gelman &amp; Gallistel, 1978). On the other hand, it has been proposed that infants are equipped only with a sense of approximate numerosities (e.g. Feigenson, Dehaene &amp; Spelke, 2004), upon which the concepts of exact numerosities are constructed with the aid of language (Carey, 2004) and which forms the basis of arithmetic (Lemer, Dehaene, Spelke &amp; Cohen, 2003). These competing proposals were tested by assessing whether performance on approximate numerosity tasks is related to performance on exact numerosity tasks. Moreover, performance on an analogue magnitude task was tested, since it has been claimed that approximate numerosities are represented as analogue magnitudes. In 8-9-year-olds, no relationship was found between exact tasks and either approximate or analogue tasks in normally achieving children, in children with low numeracy or in children with developmental dyscalculia. Low numeracy was related not to a poor grasp of exact numerosities, but to a poor understanding of symbolic numerals.
We report that hnRNP K, an RNA-binding protein implicated in multiple aspects of post-transcriptional gene control, is essential for axon outgrowth in Xenopus. Its intracellular localization was found to be consistent with one of its known roles as an mRNA shuttling protein. In early embryos, it was primarily nuclear, whereas later it occupied both the nucleus and cytoplasm to varying degrees in different neuronal subtypes. Antisense hnRNP K morpholino oligonucleotides (MOs) microinjected into blastomeres suppressed hnRNP K expression from neural plate stages through to at least stage 40. Differentiating neural cells in these embryos expressed several markers for terminally differentiated neurons but failed to make axons. Rescue experiments and the use of two separate hnRNP K MOs were carried out to confirm that these effects were specifically caused by knockdown of hnRNP K expression. For insights into the involvement of hnRNP K in neuronal post-transcriptional gene control at the molecular level, we compared effects on expression of the medium neurofilament protein (NF-M), the RNA for which binds hnRNP K, with that of peripherin, another intermediate filament protein, the RNA for which does not bind hnRNP K. hnRNP K knockdown compromised NF-M mRNA nucleocytoplasmic export and translation, but had no effect on peripherin. Because eliminating NF-M from Xenopus axons attenuates, but does not abolish, their outgrowth, hnRNP K must target additional RNAs needed for axon development. Our study supports the idea that translation of at least a subset of RNAs involved in axon development is controlled by post-transcriptional regulatory modules that have hnRNP K as an essential element.
Navigating axons respond to environmental guidance signals, but can also follow axons that have gone before--pioneer axons. Pioneers have been studied extensively in simple systems, but the role of axon-axon interactions remains largely unexplored in large vertebrate axon tracts, where cohorts of identical axons could potentially use isotypic interactions to guide each other through multiple choice points. Furthermore, the relative importance of axon-axon interactions compared with axon-autonomous receptor function has not been assessed. Here, we test the role of axon-axon interactions in retinotectal development, by devising a technique to selectively remove or replace early-born retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). We find that early RGCs are both necessary and sufficient for later axons to exit the eye. Furthermore, introducing misrouted axons by transplantation reveals that guidance from eye to tectum relies heavily on interactions between axons, including both pioneer-follower and community effects. We conclude that axon-axon interactions and ligand-receptor signaling have co-equal roles, cooperating to ensure the fidelity of axon guidance in developing vertebrate tracts.
High metabolic activity and low levels of antioxidant enzymes make neurons particularly prone to damage by reactive oxygen species. Thus, repair of oxidative DNA damage is essential for normal brain function. Base excision repair is the major pathway for repair of oxidative DNA damage, and is initiated by DNA glycosylases recognizing and removing the damaged base. In mammalian cells at least five different DNA glycosylases with overlapping substrate specificity, NEIL1, NEIL2, NEIL3, OGG1 and NTH1, remove oxidative DNA base lesions. Here we report mRNA expression and distribution of these five DNA glycosylases in human and rodent brains using in situ hybridization and Northern blotting supported by glycosylase activity assays. NEIL1, NEIL2, OGG1 and NTH1 showed widespread expression at all ages. In situ hybridization studies in mouse brain showed that expression of mNeil1 increased with age. In newborn mouse brain, mNeil3 revealed a discrete expression pattern in brain regions known to harbour stem cell populations, i.e., the subventricular zone, the rostral migratory stream, and the hilar region of the hippocampal formation. Expression of mNeil3 decreased with age, and in old mice brains could be detected only in layer V of neocortex. MNth1 was constitutively expressed during lifespan. In Northern blots, mOgg1 expression showed a transient decrease followed by an increase after 8 weeks of age. Assays for faPy DNA glycosylase activity revealed increased activity level with age in all brain regions analyzed. The widespread but differential expression of the DNA glycosylases recognizing oxidative base lesions suggests distinct and age dependent roles of these enzymes in genome maintenance in brain. The distribution of mNeil3 is particularly intriguing and points to a specific role of this enzyme in stem cell differentiation.

The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) is a positive modulator of GABA(A) receptors that exhibits a psychopharmacological profile similar to ethanol (i.e., anxiolytic, sedative-hypnotic). Based on research suggesting that manipulation of ALLO levels altered ethanol self-administration in male rodents, the current studies determined whether exogenous ALLO administration or the inhibition of its synthesis in vivo modulated ethanol intake patterns in female C57BL/6J mice. Lickometer circuits collected temporal lick records of ethanol (10%, v/v) and water consumption during daily 2h limited access sessions. Following the establishment of stable ethanol intake, studies examined the effect of an acute ALLO challenge (3.2-24.0 mg/kg) or a 7-day blockade of ALLO production with finasteride (FIN; 50 or 100 mg/kg) on ethanol intake in a within-subjects design. In contrast to results in male mice, ethanol dose (g/kg), ethanol preference and most of the bout parameters were unaltered by ALLO pretreatment in female mice. Ethanol intake in females also was recalcitrant to 7-day treatment with 50 mg/kg FIN, whereas 100 mg/kg FIN significantly reduced the ethanol dose consumed by 35%. The FIN-attenuated ethanol intake was attributable to a significant decrease in bout frequency (up to 45%), with lick patterns indicating reduced maintenance of consumption throughout the 2-h session. FIN also produced a dose-dependent decrease in brain ALLO levels. In conjunction with data in male mice, the present findings indicate that there are sex differences in the physiological regulation of ethanol intake patterns by GABAergic neurosteroids.
This study described the characteristics of mental health research from the Islamic Republic of Iran published from 1973-2002. Research articles in psychiatry, psychology and neuroscience published in local or international journals were drawn from IranPsych, a national database of research in mental health and related disciplines. Of 3113 articles, 21.8% appeared in international journals, but there was international collaboration among the authors in only 2.3%. There was a marked increase in the number of publications over time, especially in the last 5 years. Analysis of research areas showed a proportionate rise in neuroscience research and a decline in mental health service research. Our study provides an empirical basis for policy-making and strategy planning in the nation's mental health research.
The aim of the study was to assess the effects of chronic olanzapine (Ola) administration on feeding behavior. Although atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) have greatly improved the management of schizophrenia and extrapyramidal symptoms, substantial bodies of literature point out that most of these agents are highly related to a major risk of metabolic drawbacks, leading to dyslipidemia and obesity. Among these compounds, Ola is one of the more weight gain-inducing AAPs. In the present study, we analyzed the Behavioral Satiety Sequence (BSS) in female mice given a palatable diet (wet mash) and chronically administered Ola (0.75, 1.5, 3 mg/kg per os) for 36 days. The results showed that administration of the highest dose of Ola postponed the onset of satiation, as suggested by the rightward shift of the BSS. This effect was confirmed by an increase in the actual food intake by the Ola (3 mg/kg) mice. These results suggest that one of the possible mechanisms involved in AAPinduced weight gain is alteration of the hunger-satiety regulation in female mice. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that enhanced food intake and diminished central sensitivity to satiation signaling may cooperate in promoting weight gain and metabolic dysregulation in rodents and patients taking antipsychotic medications.

The mechanisms by which estradiol exerts specific actions on neural function are unclear. In brain the actions of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha are well documented, whereas the functions of ERbeta are not yet fully elucidated. Here, we report that ERbeta inhibits the activity of ERalpha in an anatomically specific manner within the neonatal (postnatal d 7) brain. Using selective agonists we demonstrate that the selective activation of ERalpha in the relative absence of ERbeta activation induces progesterone receptor expression to a greater extent than estradiol alone in the ventromedial nucleus, but not the medial preoptic nucleus, despite high ERalpha expression. Selective activation of ERbeta attenuates the ERalpha-mediated increase in progesterone receptor expression in the ventromedial nucleus but has no effect in medial preoptic nucleus. These results suggest that ERalpha/ERbeta interactions may regulate the effects of estrogens on neural development and reveal the neonatal brain as a unique model in which to study the specificity of steroid-induced gene expression.
Neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying complementary behaviors like male-typical mounting and female-typical receptivity are most often studied independently in males and females, respectively. Cnemidophorus uniparens is a unisexual lizard species consisting only of females that alternately express male- and female-like pseudosexual behavior across the ovarian cycle. Intact, postovulatory (PostOv), and ovariectomized (OVX), androgen-implanted animals [OVX plus testosterone (T)] exhibit male-like mounting, but not receptivity, whereas intact, preovulatory (PreOv), and OVX lizards injected with estradiol [OVX plus estrogen (E)] express receptivity, but not mounting. We tested whether the serotonergic system in the preoptic area (POA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) gates the reciprocal inhibition characterizing this alternating expression of mounting and receptivity. Serotonergic signaling at the POA appears to be key to gating male-like behavior. Postovulatory and OVX plus T animals have lower intracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels, and greater abundance of inhibitory 5-HT1A receptor mRNA in the POA compared with both PreOv and OVX plus E lizards. Moreover, injecting 5-HT into the POA of OVX plus T animals suppresses mounting, whereas injection into VMN of OVX plus E lizards suppresses receptivity. Although 5-HT levels in the VMN do not differ across the ovarian cycle or between hormonally manipulated animals, PreOv and OVX plus E lizards have a lower abundance of 5-HT2A mRNA in the VMN. Stimulating 5-HT1A receptors using systemic drug administration inhibits mounting, whereas activating 5-HT2A receptors facilitates receptivity. This study illuminates how male- and female-typical sexual behaviors share common neural circuits, and that 5-HT regulates these naturally complementary, and mutually exclusive, behaviors.


High-frequency activity has been described as having a role in the initiation of epileptic seizures. The case of a patient with refractory bitemporal epilepsy is presented. Extraoperative monitoring with depth and subdural electrodes revealed an ictal pattern with a build-up of high-frequency (&gt; 80 Hz) activity originating in the cortex, with spread to both hippocampi. This observation was only revealed with the use of high-pass filtering, and represented crucial information that significantly influenced the decision about the side, localization and extent of resection. Removal of the cortex generating high-frequency activity, led to cessation of seizures in this patient. Current knowledge about the role of high-frequency activity and the case presented here support the importance of recording with equipment capable of detecting fast activity during the presurgical invasive monitoring. An active search for a high-frequency seizure onset zone in patients with structurally-unaffected hippocampi may improve the outcome beyond that possible with conventional bandwidth, invasive EEG recordings.
The present study evaluated whether different patterns of temperament may predict a different threshold of acceptability of obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms in adolescents. OC symptomatology was detected with the Leyton Obsessional Inventory-Child Version (LOI-CV) and temperament was assessed using the tridimensional personality questionnaire in 2,775 high-school students. According to the LOI-CV scores, the adolescents were classified as high interference (interfering, ego-dystonic symptoms) (HI), supernormal (noninterfering, ego-syntonic symptoms) (Sn) and controls (C) HI were 119 (4.3%), Sn 85 (3.1%) and C 2,571 (92.6%). The best predictor of belonging to HI or Sn groups was the temperament configuration of high Harm Avoidance (HA) and high Persistence (P). The feature that mainly distinguishes the two symptomatic groups were Novelty Seeking (NS) levels. Our data suggest that people characterized by pessimistic worry in anticipation of future problems, passive avoidant behaviour, rapid fatigability (high HA) and irresoluteness, ambitiousness, perseverance, perfectionism, enduring feelings of frustration (high P) might develop OC symptoms. Whether OC symptoms become ego-syntonic or ego-dystonic seems to mainly depend on NS levels: low NS might protect people (with the prevention of &quot;exploratory and active behaviours&quot; that may elicit loss of control on symptoms) from the development of interfering OC symptoms.

Behet's disease (BD) is still considered as a mysterious multisystemic disorder characterized by recurrent involvement of muco-cutaneous, ocular, intestinal, vascular and/or nervous system organs. In this review, we would like to highlight and discuss several important advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis of BD based on the intrinsic genetic factors including HLA-B51 and MICA expression and extrinsic triggering factors. As one of the extrinsic triggering factors, we focused on the hypersensitivity against oral streptococci which might be acquired through the innate immune mechanism. It was found that HLA-B51 restricted CD8 T cell response was clearly correlated with the target tissues expressing MICA*009 by stress in active BD patients with HLA-B51 as the intrinsic factors. Bes-1 gene and HSP-65 derived from oral S. sanguinis, which is the uncommon serotype (KTH-1, strain BD113-20), are supposed to play important roles as an extrinsic factor in BD pathogenesis. The peptides of the Bes-1 gene are highly homologous with the retinal protein Brn3b and moreover, the Bes-1 peptides were homologous with HSP-65 derived from microorganisms in association with the counterpart human HSP-60, which appeared reactively in the patients. HSP-65/60 also has high homologies with the respective T cell epitope of BD patients. Although HSP-65/60 and the peptides of Bes-1 gene were found to stimulate PBMCs from BD patients in the production of pro-inflammatory Th1 type cytokines, some homologous peptides of HSP-65 with T cell epitopes were found to reduce IL-8, IL-12 and TNF-alpha produced from PBMCs of active BD patients. The findings might be correlated with the clinically therapeutic effects for BD patients with severe uveitis, who were led to immunotolerance by the peptide of human HSP-60 (336-351), as previously reported. Then, the pathogenesis of BD was discussed referring to intrinsic genetic factors and extrinsic triggering factors in aspects of streptococcal hypersensitivity, which might be acquired through the innate immune mechanisms. The BD symptoms were thought to be due to vascular reactions as immune responses in correlation with monocyte expressed streptococcal agents.



In a number of neuronal models of learning signalling by endogenous nitric oxide (NO), produced by the enzyme NO synthase (NOS), is essential for the formation of long-term memory (LTM). For example, in the molluscan model system Lymnaea, NO is required for LTM formation in the first few hours after one-trial reward conditioning. Furthermore, conditioning leads to transient up-regulation of the NOS gene in identified modulatory neurons, the cerebral giant cells (CGCs), which are known to be involved in LTM formation. In Lymnaea nothing is known however about the structure and localization of the major receptor for NO, the soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC). Here we report on the cloning and characterization of both alpha and beta subunits of NO-sensitive sGC and show that they are coexpressed in the CGCs. Furthermore, our electrophysiological experiments on isolated CGCs show that these neurons respond to NO by generating a prolonged depolarization of the membrane potential. Moreover, we demonstrate that this depolarization is blocked by ODQ, supporting our hypothesis that it is mediated by sGC.
It is known that activity modulates neuronal differentiation in the adult brain but the signalling mechanisms underlying this process remain to be identified. We show here that activity requires soluble amyloid precursor protein (sAPP) to enhance neurite outgrowth of young neurons differentiating from neural stem cells. Inhibition of sAPP secretion and anti-APP antibodies both abolished the effect of depolarization on neurite outgrowth, whereas exogenous sAPPalpha, similar to depolarization, induced neurite elongation. Depolarization and sAPPalpha both required active N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) recruitment to induce neurite outgrowth. However, depolarization and sAPPalpha played different roles in modulating this signalling cascade. Depolarization induced ERK phosphorylation with fast kinetics via activation of NMDAR. By contrast, acute application of sAPPalpha did not lead to ERK activation. However, continuous generation of sAPPalpha was necessary for depolarization-induced ERK phosphorylation, indicating that sAPPalpha promotes MAPK/ERK recruitment by an indirect mechanism. In addition, we found that blockade of NMDAR down-regulated APP expression, whereas depolarization increased sAPPalpha, suggesting that activity may also act upstream of sAPP signalling by regulating the amount of cellular APP and extracellular sAPPalpha. Finally, we show that soluble amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (sAPLP2), but not sAPLP1, is functionally redundant to sAPP in promoting neurite outgrowth and that soluble members of the APP family require membrane-bound APP to enhance neurite outgrowth. In summary, these experiments indicate a novel role of APP family members in activity-dependent neuronal differentiation.
Infarcts from proximal middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke can produce impairments in motor function, particularly finger movements in humans and digit flexion in rats. In rats, the extent of neural damage may be limited to basal ganglia structures or may also include portions of the frontal and parietal cortex in severe cases. Although the primary motor cortex (M1) is anatomically spared in proximal MCA occlusion, its functional integrity is suspect because even a small subcortical infarct can damage neural circuits linking M1 with basal ganglia, brainstem, and spinal cord. This motivated the present study to investigate the neurophysiological integrity of M1 after transient proximal MCA occlusion. Rats, preoperatively trained and non-preoperatively trained to reach for food, received extensive reach training/testing with the contralateral-to-lesion paw for several weeks after MCA occlusion. The forelimb movement representations were assayed from the ipsilateral-to-lesion M1 with intracortical microstimulation approximately 10 weeks after MCA occlusion. Digit flexion was impaired during food grasping in rats with relatively small subcortical infarcts and was completely abolished in rats that sustained at least moderate subcortical damage. Corresponding forelimb movement representations ranged from abnormally small to absent. The results suggest that ischemia in subcortical territories of the MCA does not spare the neurophysiological properties of M1 despite its apparent anatomical intactness, probably because of damage sustained to its descending fibers. Thus, M1 dysfunction contributes to the impairments that ensue from proximal MCA occlusion, even when the infarct is limited to subcortical regions.
Pudendal motoneurons are located in the ventral horn of the caudal lumbar spinal cord and innervate striated pelvic muscles implicated in sexual and eliminative functions. In rats they are distributed in the dorsomedial (DM) and dorsolateral (DL) nucleus. In male rats, dorsomedial motoneurons innervate the bulbocavernosus, the levator ani and the external anal sphincter, whereas dorsolateral motoneurons control the ischiocavernosus and external urethral sphincter. Using spinal cord slices of young male rats and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we investigated the sensitivity of pudendal motoneurons to nicotinic cholinergic agonists. Motoneurons were identified following 1,1'-dilinoleyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine, 4-chlorobenzenesulphonate retrograde labelling. In the presence of atropine, both dorsomedial and dorsolateral motoneurons responded to acetylcholine (ACh) by generating a rapidly activating inward current. By using selective nicotinic antagonists and a nicotinic positive allosteric modulator, we found that nicotinic ACh receptors present in dorsomedial and dorsolateral motoneurons display distinct pharmacological profiles. Whereas the former are of the heteromeric type, the latter are predominantly of the alpha7-containing type. These data were confirmed by light microscopic autoradiography. In young rats, a ligand for heteromeric nicotinic receptors labelled all laminae of the central grey matter, whereas in the ventral part of the central grey, a ligand selective for alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors labelled the DL but not the DM. Dorsolateral and dorsomedial motoneurons innervate two distinct groups of pelvic muscles. A difference in their nicotinic pharmacology may be clinically relevant, as it might allow a selective pharmacological intervention in view of influencing the activity of one or the other set of muscles.
According to the 'redundancy reduction' hypothesis, a visual neuron removes correlations from an image to reduce redundancy in the spike train, thus increasing the efficiency of information coding. However, all elaborations of this general hypothesis have treated spatial and temporal correlations separately. To investigate how a retinal ganglion cell responds to combined spatial and temporal correlations, we selected those cells with center-surround receptive field and presented a stimulus with strong spatiotemporal correlations: we presented a random sequence of intensities (of white noise) to the receptive field center and then activated the surround with the same sequence. We found that, for most cells, activating the surround reduced temporal redundancy in the spike train. Although the surround often reduced the information rate of the spike train it always increased the amount of information per spike. However, when the surround was modulated by a different white-noise sequence than the center, eliminating spatial-temporal correlations, the surround no longer reduced redundancy or increased information per spike. The proposed mechanism for redundancy reduction is based on the temporal properties of the center and surround: the surround signal is delayed behind the center signal and subtracted from it; this implements a differentiator which removes low frequencies from the stimulus, thus reducing redundancy in the spike train. These results extend the redundancy reduction hypothesis by indicating that the spatial organization of the receptive field into center and surround can reduce temporal redundancy within the spike train of a ganglion cell.
Fyn-tyrosine-kinase-deficient mice exhibit defects in the Morris water maze test and long-term potentiation (LTP) induction in the hippocampus, and given that LTP has been postulated as the neural basis for memory formation, Fyn may be required for hippocampus-dependent memory formation. However, how Fyn is involved in the process of memory formation is unclear. To investigate the role of Fyn in hippocampal memory formation, we first tested the behavior of Fyn-deficient mice by contextual fear conditioning. A mouse was placed in a context and a foot shock was delivered, so that the mouse associated the context with the shock. We found that the freezing response of Fyn-deficient mice to the context was impaired at 24 h after conditioning. We then measured freezing at 1 h after conditioning, and found that their short-term contextual fear memory was also impaired. We used Western blotting to examine the mode of Fyn activation in dorsal hippocampal tissue following contextual fear conditioning. Fyn activation peaked as early as 5-10 min after contextual fear conditioning and persisted for at least 40 min. Concomitant increases in tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins, including NR2B, were also observed, but no increases in tyrosine phosphorylation were observed in Fyn-deficient mice. Thus, both short-term and long-term (24-h) contextual fear memory were impaired in Fyn-deficient mice, and Fyn activation in the dorsal hippocampus transiently increased after contextual fear conditioning. These findings strongly suggest that activation of the Fyn signaling pathway is involved in hippocampus-dependent formation of contextual fear memory.
In 1984, Jean Aicardi and Franoise Goutires described 8 children showing both severe brain atrophy and chronic cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis, with basal ganglia calcification in at least one member of each affected family. The course was rapid to death or a vegetative outcome. Aicardi and Goutires correctly predicted that the disorder would be genetic, but emphasised that &quot;some features, especially the pleocytosis, may erroneously suggest an inflammatory condition&quot;. The increased interferon-alpha in affected children (Pierre Lebon, Paris) mimicked congenital viral infection, but the associated chilblains (pernio) pointed to lupus erythematosus and an autoimmune mechanism. Genetic research led by Yanick Crow has clarified these puzzling relationships in Aicardi-Goutires syndrome, a syndrome that now includes conditions previously known as microcephaly-intracranial calcification syndrome, pseudo-TORCH and Cree encephalitis. At the time of writing, Crow's team has discovered that over 80% of families with Aicardi-Goutires syndrome have mutations in one of four nuclease genes, the exonuclease TREX1 and the genes for all three subunits of the ribonuclease H2 enzyme complex. Aicardi-Goutires syndrome is both genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous, with a range of severity from life-threatening perinatal illness to mild late infancy onset. All infants of whatever genotype have increased interferon-alpha in the first year of life and this appears to be the final common pathway that links Aicardi-Goutires syndrome, congenital virus infection and systemic lupus erythematosus.


It is well known that most patients with obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS) suffer sleepiness, although the underlying mechanisms of this relationship remain unclear. The present study examined the relationship between nocturnal variables and the subsequent waking electroencephalogram (EEG), in order to determine if sleepiness was related to OSAHS severity and due to sleep fragmentation or to nocturnal hypoxaemia. In total, 12 moderate-to-severe OSAHS patients underwent a total sleep night followed by a 24-h period of sustained wakefulness where the waking EEG was measured every hour. The results showed that alpha (7.9-12.6 Hz) and beta (12.7-29.2 Hz) activities were strongly related to OSAHS severity, mainly reflected by the apnoea index. Moreover, spectral power in most of the waking EEG components was significantly correlated with nocturnal hypoxaemia indices, namely alpha and beta activity when hypoxaemia becomes severe. However, no correlation was found between the waking EEG and sleep fragmentation parameters. In conclusion, the present results suggest that the difficulty in maintaining an optimal level of alertness, reflected by a higher activity in awake alpha and beta bands (7.9-29.2 Hz) in obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome, was better explained by: 1) the apnoea as opposed to the hypopnoea index; and 2) nocturnal hypoxaemia as opposed to sleep fragmentation.
We present the occurrence and management of mediastinal migration of the distal aspect of a posterior occipito-thoracic screw-rod construct. No similar occurrence was found in the literature. This event occurred following an emergency tracheotomy (requiring neck hyperextension) in a patient with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who had previously undergone decompression and an Occiput-T2 instrumented fusion for cranio-cervical and sub-axial cervical spine instability. Imaging showed fracture-subluxation of T1/2 and T2/3 with the bilateral C7, T1 and T2 screws in the mediastinum causing tracheal and esophageal compression. Removal of the instrumentation, decompression (T2 corpectomy) and construct revision down to T10 was safely performed from a posterior approach. Severe osteoporosis, some pre-existing screw loosening and hyperextension of the neck were the predisposing factors of this near catastrophic event. By staying directly posterior to the rod and following the fibrous tract already created, the instrumentation was safely removed from the mediastinum.
Intraoperative monitoring (IOM) of the motor pathways is a routine procedure for ensuring integrity of corticospinal tracts during scoliosis surgery. We have previously demonstrated presence of ipsilateral motor evoked potentials (MEPs) during IOM for scoliosis surgery, but its significance was uncertain. In this case series, we show concurrent ipsilateral and contralateral MEP amplitude changes obtained with cortical stimulation are of value in reducing false positive observations during IOM. The use of this easily recordable MEP is thus advocated as a diagnostic adjunct to contralateral MEPs for scoliosis and spinal surgery.
Our understanding of selection in nature stems mainly from whole-season and cross-sectional estimates of selection gradients. These estimates suggest that selection is relatively constant within, but fluctuates between seasons. However, the strength of selection depends on demographics, and because demographics can vary within seasons, there is a gap in our understanding regarding the extent to which seasonal fluctuations in demographics may cause variation in selection. Here we use two populations of the golden orb-web spider (Nephila plumipes) that differ in density to examine how demographics change within a season and whether there are correlated shifts in selection. We demonstrate that there is within-season variation in sex ratio and density at multiple spatial and temporal scales. This variation led to changes in the competitive challenges that males encountered at different times of the season and was correlated with significant variation in selection gradients on male size and weight between sampling periods. We highlight the importance of understanding the biology of the organism under study to correctly determine the relevant scale in which to examine selection. We also argue that studies may underestimate the true variation in selection by averaging values, leading to misinterpretation of the effect of selection on phenotypic evolution.
To successfully move our hand to a target, we must consider how to get there without hitting surrounding objects. In a dynamic environment this involves being able to respond quickly when our relationship with surrounding objects changes. People adjust their hand movements with a latency of about 120 ms when the visually perceived position of their hand or of the target suddenly changes. It is not known whether people can react as quickly when the position of an obstacle changes. Here we show that quick responses of the hand to changes in obstacle position are possible, but that these responses are direct reactions to the motion in the surrounding. True adjustments to the changed position of the obstacle appeared at much longer latencies (about 200 ms). This is even so when the possible change is predictable. Apparently, our brain uses certain information exceptionally quickly for guiding our movements, at the expense of not always responding adequately. For reaching a target that changes position, one must at some time move in the same direction as the target did. For avoiding obstacles that change position, moving in the same direction as the obstacle is not always an adequate response, not only because it may be easier to avoid the obstacle by moving the other way, but also because one wants to hit the target after passing the obstacle. Perhaps subjects nevertheless quickly respond in the direction of motion because this helps avoid collisions when pressed for time.
Little is known about the basic processes underlying the behavior of singing. This experiment was designed to examine differences in the representation of the mapping between fundamental frequency (F0) feedback and the vocal production system in singers and nonsingers. Auditory feedback regarding F0 was shifted down in frequency while participants sang the consonant-vowel /ta/. During the initial frequency-altered trials, singers compensated to a lesser degree than nonsingers, but this difference was reduced with continued exposure to frequency-altered feedback. After brief exposure to frequency altered auditory feedback, both singers and nonsingers suddenly heard their F0 unaltered. When participants received this unaltered feedback, only singers' F0 values were found to be significantly higher than their F0 values produced during baseline and control trials. These aftereffects in singers were replicated when participants sang a different note than the note they produced while hearing altered feedback. Together, these results suggest that singers rely more on internal models than nonsingers to regulate vocal productions rather than real time auditory feedback.
Studies of sound localization in humans have used various behavioral measures to quantify the observers' perceptions; a non-comprehensive list includes verbal reports, head pointing, gun pointing, stylus pointing, and laser aiming. Comparison of localization performance reveals that in humans, just as in animals, different results are obtained with different experimental tasks. Accordingly, to circumvent problems associated with task selection and training, this study used gaze, an ethologically valid behavior for spatial pointing in species with a specialized area of the fovea, to measure sound localization perception of human subjects. Orienting using gaze as a pointer does not require training, preserves the natural link between perception and action, and allows for direct behavioral comparisons across species. The results revealed, unexpectedly, a large degree of variability across subjects in both accuracy and precision. The magnitude of the average angular localization errors for the most eccentric horizontal targets, however, were very similar to those documented in studies that used head pointing, whereas the magnitude of the localization errors for the frontal targets were considerably larger. In addition, an overall improvement in sound localization in the context of the memory-saccade task, as well as a lack of effect of initial eye and head position on perceived sound location were documented.
Direction discrimination of a moving tactile stimulus requires intact dorsal columns and provides a sensitive clinical test of somatosensory dysfunction. Cortical mechanisms are poorly understood. We have applied tangential skin pulls to the right lower leg during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Healthy subjects judged the direction of the skin pulls (task experiment, n = 7) or received skin pulls passively (no task experiment, n = 8). Second somatosensory cortex (S2) was activated in the task as well as no task experiment, and there was no significant difference in cortical activation between the two experiments. Within S2 nearly all subjects had prominent activations in the caudal and superficial part, i.e., in the opercular parietal (OP) area 1. S1 was activated in only one of the subjects. Thus, S2 and especially OP 1 seems to be important for processing of lateral skin stretch stimulation. The finding suggests that a lesion of this area might cause a disturbance in tactile direction discrimination which should be relevant for clinical testing.
Studies in monkeys and humans suggest a dissociation between the visual fields near and far from the hand. In this study, we investigated visual detection and spatial discrimination in near- and far-hand fields using the stimulus of a flashing light emitting diode placed near (1 cm) and/or far (40 cm) from the hand. We found that there was greater accuracy (i.e., fewer errors) in the near-hand field. Control experiments indicated that (a) the superior near-hand detection performance was not due to response strategies, (b) the hand did not serve as a spatial reference, (c) the greater accuracy in the near-hand field did not reflect within-hemisphere or within-hemispace facilitation and (d) the effect appeared to be essentially due to viewing of the hand but not proprioceptive information. The results suggest there is an interconnected system for integrated (visual-tactile) coding of peripersonal space centered on body parts and comprising bimodal visuo-tactile cells.
Following surgery, elderly patients often suffer from postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) which can persist long after physical recovery. It is known that surgery-induced tissue damage activates the peripheral innate immune system resulting in the release of inflammatory mediators. Compared to adults, aged animals demonstrate increased neuroinflammation and microglial priming that leads to an exaggerated proinflammatory cytokine response following activation of the peripheral immune system. Therefore, we sought to determine if the immune response to surgical trauma results in increased neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment in aged mice. Adult and aged mice underwent minor abdominal surgery and 24h later hippocampal cytokines were measured and working memory was assessed in a reversal learning version of the Morris water maze. While adult mice showed no signs of neuroinflammation following surgery, aged mice had significantly increased levels of IL-1beta mRNA in the hippocampus. Minor surgery did not result in severe cognitive impairment although aged mice that underwent surgery did tend to perseverate in the old target during reversal testing suggesting reduced cognitive flexibility. Overall these results suggest that minor surgery leads to an exaggerated neuroinflammatory response in aged mice but does not result in significantly impaired performance in the Morris water maze.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus has been used extensively in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, the efficacy of such treatments on bradykinesia/akinesia remains low. DBS of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) elicits spontaneous, non-stereotypical motor behaviours. We tested the hypothesis that PH stimulation could restore movement in animals made cataleptic by the D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol. We further hypothesized that hippocampal-striatal neural synchrony may be important in the organization of motor behaviours. Animals chronically implanted with hippocampal and striatal recording electrodes and PH stimulating electrode were tested in open field, catalepsy and active avoidance paradigms. The degree of hippocampal-striatal theta (5-10 Hz) field coherence was assessed during baseline avoidance testing and following the administration of haloperidol. Haloperidol abolished movement in open field and active avoidance tasks and increased the latency to respond in the catalepsy test. Stimulation of the PH under haloperidol reversed catalepsy. Hippocampal-striatal theta coherence was high throughout the active avoidance task in control experiments but was greatly reduced under haloperidol. PH stimulation was able to reinstate the hippocampal-striatal theta coherence while restoring task-related behaviours. These results support the hypothesis that DBS of the PH could restore motor behaviours in rats made cataleptic with haloperidol, thus providing strong support for the PH as a promising candidate for DBS in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, the results support the view that hippocampal-striatal theta coherence may be important for the planning and execution of goal-oriented behaviors.
Synaptic accumulation of glutamate causes neuronal death in many neurodegenerative pathologies including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Drugs capable of increasing glutamate uptake could therefore be therapeutically effective. We screened in a cell-based assay a library of 1040 FDA-approved drugs and nutrients for compounds that could enhance glutamate uptake. Nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), an anti-inflammatory drug that inhibits lipoxygensases, potently enhanced glutamate uptake in MN-1 cells. Given subcutaneously at 1 mg/day for 30 days in mice, NDGA increased glutamate uptake in spinal cord synaptosomes persistently throughout the treatment. However, when administered following the same regimen to the SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS at disease onset, NDGA did not extend survival of these mice. We found that NDGA failed to sustain increased glutamate uptake in the SOD1-G93A mice despite an initial upregulation measured during the first 10 days of treatment. SOD1-G93A mice displayed a progressive increase in spinal cord expression levels of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein beginning at disease onset. This increase was not mediated by the NDGA treatment because it was measured in untreated SOD1-G93A mice. Since P-glycoproteins control the extrusion of a broad range of toxins and xenobiotics and are responsible for drug resistance in many diseases including cancer and brain diseases such as epilepsy, we propose that the failure of NDGA in maintaining glutamate uptake upregulated in SOD1-G93A mice and its therapeutic inefficacy are due to acquired pharmacoresistance mediated by the increased expression of P-glycoprotein.
Preclinical behavioral pharmacological and neuropharmacological evidence indicates that the NMDA receptor plays an important role in opioid dependence, however, the neural substrates subserving these actions are poorly understood. The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is a critical coordinator of autonomic, behavioral, and emotional systems impacted by opioids, however there is no evidence that the essential NMDA-NR1 (NR1) subunit gene in the amygdala plays a role in opioid dependence. To determine the role of the NR1 subunit gene in the amygdala with respect to physical and psychological opioid withdrawal, a spatial-temporal deletion of this gene was produced by microinjecting a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) expressing the GFP reporter and Cre recombinase (rAAV-GFP-Cre) into the CeA of adult &quot;floxed&quot; NR1 mice (fNR1). Amygdala microinjection of rAAV-GFP-Cre produced a decrease in NR1 gene expression and protein immunolabeling in postsynaptic sites of neurons without signs of compromised ultrastructural neuronal morphology. Amygdala NR1 gene deletion also did not affect locomotor, somatosensory, or sensory-motor behaviors. In addition, bilateral local NR1 gene deletion did not impact somatic or visceral withdrawal symptoms precipitated by naloxone in morphine-dependent mice. However, there was a significant deficit in the expression of an opioid withdrawal-induced conditioned place aversion in mice with amygdala NR1 deletion. These results indicate that functional amygdala NMDA receptors are involved in aversive psychological processes associated with opioid withdrawal. More generally, spatial-temporal deletion of the NR1 subunit by Cre-loxP technology is an effective means to elucidate the neurogenetic substrates of complex phenotypes associated with drug abuse.
Motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) can be effectively alleviated through intra-striatal transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue. The success of this approach is dependent on the survival, axonal outgrowth and synaptic integration of newly grafted dopamine neurons with the host striatum. The functional outcome of transplantation therapy has, however, been highly variable, particularly in PD patients, but also in animal models of PD, and thus there is a need for a deeper understanding of possible mechanisms underlying this variability such as graft composition and the resulting graft-host connectivity. Here we describe a series of transplantation experiments whereby mouse VM tissue has been grafted into the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats. Six weeks after grafting immunohistochemical analysis using the mouse specific 'M2M6' antibodies revealed both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic components of graft-derived fibre outgrowth into the host brain. We report here that while dopaminergic outgrowth was predominately confined to the striatum, there was also a significant degree of non-dopaminergic outgrowth to extra-striatal structures including the thalamus, cortex and midbrain. Retrograde tracing experiments showed that grafted neurons of GABAergic identity contribute to this non-dopaminergic outgrowth. In line with our recent findings on the function of serotonergic neurons in fetal VM grafts, these results further underscore the potential impact that non-dopaminergic neurons may have on the functional outcome of intrastriatal fetal VM grafts.
Recent studies have demonstrated increased resting-state cortico-cortical functional connectivity in untreated Parkinson's disease (PD). We set out to determine whether this connectivity can be modulated by dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) and explore the relationship of therapy-induced changes in connectivity with motor improvement in the relatively early stages of DRT in PD. Whole-head magnetoencephalography was performed in an eyes-closed resting-state condition in 37 patients with levodopa-treated PD (Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-3) both in a practically defined &quot;OFF&quot; and in the &quot;ON&quot; medication state. Data analysis involved calculation of three synchronisation likelihood (SL; a general measure of linear and non-linear temporal correlations between time series) measures which reflect functional coupling within and between ten major cortical areas in five frequency bands. The transition from the &quot;OFF&quot; to the &quot;ON&quot; state led to increases of SL in the 4-30 Hz range, most conspicuously with regard to local SL, in tandem with motor improvement. We found a negative correlation between the change in local beta SL and the reduction of parkinsonism after DRT. Patients presenting with relatively large motor responses (41% or better) actually showed decreases in local beta SL. The present study shows that the already elevated levels of resting-state cortico-cortical functional connectivity in the 4-30 Hz range in mild to moderate PD are on average increased even further by DRT. However, a strong motor response appears to be associated with decreases in local beta-band coupling, which may constitute a risk factor for the development of motor response fluctuations or dyskinesias.
The innate immune system senses the invasion of pathogenic microorganisms and tissue injury through Toll-like receptors (TLR), a mechanism thought to be limited to immune cells. We recently found that neurons express several TLRs, and that the levels of TLR2 and TLR4 are increased in neurons in response to energy deprivation. Here we report that TLR4 expression increases in neurons when exposed to amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta1-42) or the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE). Neuronal apoptosis triggered by Abeta and HNE was mediated by jun N-terminal kinase (JNK); neurons from TLR4 mutant mice exhibited reduced JNK and caspase-3 activation and were protected against apoptosis induced by Abeta and HNE. Levels of TLR4 were decreased in inferior parietal cortex tissue specimens from end-stage AD patients compared to aged-matched control subjects, possibly as the result of loss of neurons expressing TLR4. Our findings suggest that TLR4 signaling increases the vulnerability of neurons to Abeta and oxidative stress in AD, and identify TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target for AD.
Stem cell therapy is a promising approach for remyelination strategies in demyelinating and traumatic disorders of the spinal cord. Self-renewing neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) reside in the adult mammalian brain and spinal cord. We transplanted NSPCs derived from the adult spinal cord of transgenic rats into two models of focal demyelination and congenital dysmyelination. Focal demyelination was induced by X-irradiation and ethidium bromide injection (X-EB); and dysmyelination was in adult shiverer mutant mice, which lack compact CNS myelin. We examined the differentiation potential and myelinogenic capacity of NSPCs transplanted into the spinal cord. In X-EB lesions, the transplanted cells primarily differentiated along an oligodendrocyte lineage but only some of the oligodendrocytic progeny remyelinated host axons. In this glial-free lesion, NSPCs also differentiated into cells with Schwann-like features based on ultrastructure, expression of Schwann cell markers, and generation of peripheral myelin. In contrast, after transplantation into the spinal cord of adult shiverer mice, the majority of the NSPCs expressed an oligodendrocytic phenotype which myelinated the dysmyelinated CNS axons forming compact myelin, and none had Schwann cell-like features. This is the first study to examine the differentiation and myelinogenic capacity of adult spinal cord stem/progenitors in focal demyelination and dysmyelination of the adult rodent spinal cord. Our findings demonstrate that these NSPCs have the inherent plasticity to differentiate into oligodendrocytes or Schwann-like cells depending on the host environment, and that both cell types are capable of myelinating axons in the demyelinated and dysmyelinated adult spinal cord.
Background: There is a great need to develop memory-enhancing drugs for the treatment of memory dysfunctions. Although many targets have been identified in preclinical studies, the number of clinically effective drugs is limited. Objective: In this overview, the relation between drug effects on hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and memory-enhancing effects is explored for drugs that modulate cholinergic or glutamatergic neurotransmission or inhibit cyclic nucleotide metabolism. Methods: We limited our analysis to drug targets that are in clinical use or in development for the treatment of cognitive deficits and that have been tested in LTP. Results/conclusion: Although these drugs have been shown to improve in vitro or in vivo LTP and memory performance in many different models, no clear correlation between positive effects in LTP and behavioural assays is possible. The effectiveness in behavioural models is based on various models assessing different aspects of cognition. More uniformity in the use of behavioural tests is encouraged to better understand drug effects on different memory processes (i.e., acquisition, consolidation and retrieval). The systematic use of in vitro models such as LTP improves our understanding of the molecular mechanism of drug efficacy. This may lead to a better selection of models relevant to the specific cognitive processes disrupted in different pathological conditions and a more differentiated development of memory-enhancing drugs.
Background: Nicotine has a variety of effects in humans and in experimental animals that are suggestive of therapeutic potential. However, nicotine has a variety of adverse effects that preclude its development as a therapeutic agent, with the exception of its short-term use as a smoking cessation aide. Objective: In this paper, we describe the clinical evidence supporting the potential of new nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists for the treatment of CNS conditions and review discovery strategies for targeting neuronal nAChRs as well as some of the opportunities and challenges still ahead. Method: The scientific literature and company websites are used for this literature review. Conclusion: Advances in the understanding of nAChRs during the past two decades have revealed evidence of considerable subtype diversity and hence the possibility of targeted nAChR ligands as improved therapeutics. Several new nAChR agonists have advanced to Phase II clinical trials and have produced signals of efficacy in Alzheimer's disease, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cognitive deficits of schizophrenia and pain. In addition, the neuronal nAChR partial agonist varenicline recently received regulatory approval for use in smoking cessation.


There is increased awareness and interest in the neurodegenerative component of multiple sclerosis. Available disease-modifying agents, primarily developed to suppress inflammation and modulate the immune system, have not been effective at halting neurodegeneration. Although understanding of the inter-relationship between the autoimmune and neurodegenerative processes continues to evolve, at a minimum, both elements are present in the disease. Accordingly, a more balanced treatment strategy should be directed at both processes, and it is necessary to introduce agents with prominent neuroprotective properties to augment immunomodulatory therapies. Potential agents reviewed include sodium channel-blocking drugs, glutamate antagonists, hormones, tetracyclines, polyphenolic compounds, cannabinoids and serotonin reuptake inhibitors. As putative neuroprotective agents are being investigated, it is being recognized that most agents are not exclusively neuroprotective or immunomodulatory, and mechanisms of action can inhibit toxic pathways or activate trophic pathways. Critical to establishing new agents is the concomitant development of outcomes specific to neuroprotective change. Human studies have been initiated to test the most promising agents for feasibility, safety and efficacy.
The accumulation of filamentous alpha-synuclein (alpha-S) is associated with Parkinson's disease. It remains controversial as to the mode (antiparallel or parallel) of alpha-S self-assembly and whether an exact alignment of the central hydrophobic region is essential. In the present study, we performed in vitro assembly using alpha-S with or without the attachment of artificial leucine zippers (Zips) capable of forming either parallel or antiparallel coiled coils and included a spacer in one derivative. Results showed that Zips accelerate filament assembly in both the parallel and antiparallel fashions, that a precise alignment of the central hydrophobic region is not essential, and that the antiparallel pairs displayed the highest thioflavin T signals. More importantly, cells expressing Zip-fused alpha-S, but not alpha-S alone, formed alpha-S immunopositive and thioflavin S-positive inclusions in 7 days. The results suggest that alpha-S can assemble in both parallel and antiparallel modes but have a higher tendency to assemble in the latter mode and that cells overexpressing Zip-fused alpha-S may be used to screen alpha-S assembly inhibitors due to enhanced ability to form inclusions.
In the past decade, RNA oxidation has caught the attention of many researchers, working to uncover its role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. It has been well documented that RNA oxidation is involved in a wide variety of neurological diseases and is an early event in the process of neurodegeneration. The analysis of oxidized RNA species revealed that at least messenger RNA (mRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) are damaged in several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The magnitude of the RNA oxidation, at least in mRNA, is significantly high at the early stage of the disease. Oxidative damage to mRNA is not random but selective and many oxidized mRNAs are related to the pathogenesis of the disease. Several studies have suggested that oxidative modification of RNA affects the translational process and consequently produces less protein and/or defective protein. Furthermore, several proteins have been identified to be involved in handling of damaged RNA. Although a growing body of studies suggests that oxidative damage to RNA may be associated with neuron deterioration, further investigation and solid evidence are needed. In addition, further uncovering of the consequences and cellular handling of the oxidatively damaged RNA should be important focuses in this area and may provide significant insights into the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
New neurons are incorporated into the adult brains of a variety of organisms, from humans and higher vertebrates, to non-vertebrates such as crustaceans. In virtually all of these systems serotonergic pathways appear to provide important regulatory influences over the machinery producing the new neurons. We have developed an in vitro preparation where adult neurogenesis can be maintained under highly controlled conditions, and are using this to test the influence of hormones on the production of neurons in the crustacean (Homarus americanus) brain. Serotonin levels have been manipulated in this in vitro preparation, and the resulting effects on the rate of neurogenesis have been documented. In addition we have compared in vitro influences of serotonin with results acquired from in vivo exposure of whole animals to serotonin. These experiments suggest that there are multiple mechanisms and pathways by which serotonin may regulate neurogenesis in the crustacean brain: (1) serotonin is effective in regulating neurogenesis at levels as low as 10(-10)M, suggesting that circulating serotonin may have hormonal influences on neuronal precursor cells residing in a vascular niche or the proliferation zones; (2) contrasting effects of serotonin on neurogenesis (up- vs. down-regulation) at high concentrations (10(-4)M), dependent upon whether eyestalk tissue is present or absent, indicate that serotonin elicits the release of substances from the sinus glands that are capable of suppressing neurogenesis; (3) previously demonstrated (Beltz, B.S., Benton, J.L., Sullivan, J.M., 2001. Transient uptake of serotonin by newborn olfactory projection neurons. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 12730-12735) serotonergic fibers from the dorsal giant neuron project directly into the proliferation zone in Cluster 10, suggest synaptic or local influences on neurogenesis in the proliferation zones where the final cell divisions and neuronal differentiation occur. Serotonin therefore regulates neurogenesis by multiple pathways, and the specific mode of influence is concentration-dependent.


Olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) are a specialized type of glia that support the growth of primary olfactory axons from the neuroepithelium in the nasal cavity to the brain. Transplantation of OEG in the injured spinal cord promotes sprouting of injured axons and results in reduced cavity formation, enhanced axonal and tissue sparing, remyelination, and angiogenesis. Gene expression analysis may help to identify the molecular mechanisms underlying the ability of OEG to recreate an environment that supports regeneration in the central nervous system. Here, we compared the transcriptome of cultured OEG (cOEG) with the transcriptomes of cultured Schwann cells (cSCs) and of OEG directly obtained from their natural environment (nOEG), the olfactory nerve layer of adult rats. Functional data mining by Gene Ontology (GO)-analysis revealed a number of overrepresented GO-classes associated with tissue repair. These classes include &quot;response to wounding,&quot; &quot;blood vessel development,&quot; &quot;cell adhesion,&quot; and GO-classes related to the extracellular matrix and were overrepresented in the set of differentially expressed genes between both comparisons. The current screening approach combined with GO-analysis has identified distinct molecular properties of OEG that may underlie their efficacy and interaction with host tissue after implantation in the injured spinal cord. These observations can form the basis for studies on the function of novel target molecules for therapeutic intervention after neurotrauma.
Much current knowledge of oligodendrocyte biology, the myelin-forming cells in the central nervous system, comes from cell culture studies mainly from postnatal rat tissue but mouse cells have been much more difficult to produce in large quantities. We have developed a high yield protocol for production of oligodendrocyte precursor cells from mouse embryonic neural progenitors grown as neurospheres. Neurospheres can be maintained and expanded for long periods in culture in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF). When floating neurospheres were plated on substrate-coated dishes in media supplemented with platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), the spheres attached and generated migrating cells that were predominantly oligodendrocyte-lineage cells. Furthermore, cells in spheres could be shifted to the oligodendrocyte phenotype prior to plating on substrate, by incubation in suspension with PDGF/bFGF. Single cell suspensions plated after dissociation of either EGF-treated neurospheres or PDGF/bFGF-treated oligospheres had the bipolar, elongated morphology characteristic of oligodendrocyte precursor cells. mRNA and protein expression analysis of the cells generated by this method confirmed their oligodendrocyte lineage. Oligodendrocyte precursors generated by this method matured in response to ciliary neurotrophic factor treatment, producing cells with multiple processes and myelin-like membranes. The most important aspect of this protocol is the ability to generate very high numbers of relatively pure mouse oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, which can be easily transfected. These studies open up many kinds of investigations on transgenic and mutant mouse oligodendrocytes, thereby providing a valuable tool to study oligodendrocyte biology and development.


Sex differences in behavior can be attributed to differences in steroid hormones. Sex chromosome complement can also influence behavior, independent of gonadal differentiation. The mice used for this work combined a spontaneous mutation of the Sry gene with a transgene for Sry that is incorporated into an autosome thus disassociating gonad differentiation from sex chromosome complement. The resulting genotypes are XX and XY(-) females (ovary-bearing) along with XXSry and XY(-)Sry males (testes-bearing). Here we report results of basic behavioral phenotyping conducted with these mice. Motor coordination, use of olfactory cues to find a food item, general activity, foot shock threshold, and behavior in an elevated plus maze were not affected by gonadal sex or sex chromosome complement. In a one-way active avoidance learning task females were faster to escape an electric shock than males. In addition, sex chromosome complement differences were noted during social interactions with submissive intruders. Female XY(-) mice were faster to follow an intruder than XX female mice. All XY(-) mice spent more time sniffing and grooming the intruder than the XX mice, with XY(-) females spending the most amount of time in this activity. Finally, XX females were faster to display an asocial behavior, digging, and engaged in more digging than XXSry male mice. All of these behaviors were tested in gonadectomized adults, thus, differences in circulating levels of gonadal steroids cannot account for these effects. Taken together, these data show that sex chromosome complement affects social interaction style in mice.
The neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is involved in the control of male and female sexual behavior and its distribution in several regions of the limbic-hypothalamic system, as well as its coexistence with gonadal hormones' receptors, suggests that these hormones may play a significant role in controlling its expression. However, data illustrating the role of gonadal hormones in controlling the nNOS expression are, at present, contradictory, even if they strongly suggest an involvement of testosterone (T) in the regulation of nNOS. The action of T may be mediated through androgen (AR) or, after aromatization to estradiol (E(2)), through estrogen receptors. To elucidate the role of AR on nNOS expression, we compared male and female rats with a non-functional mutation of AR (Tfm, testicular feminization mutation) to their control littermates. We investigated some hypothalamic and limbic nuclei involved in the control of sexual behavior [medial preoptic area (MPA), paraventricular (PVN), arcuate (ARC), ventromedial (VMH) and stria terminalis (BST) nuclei]. In BST (posterior subdivision), VMH (ventral subdivision), and MPA we detected a significant sexual dimorphism in control animals and a decrease of nNOS positive elements in Tfm males compared to their littermate. In addition, we observed a significant increase of nNOS positive elements in BST (posterior) of Tfm females. No significant changes were observed in the other nuclei. These data indicate that, contrary to current opinions, androgens, through the action of AR may have a relevant role in the organization and modulation of the nNOS hypothalamic system.
Mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, play a critical role in several metabolic processes and apoptotic pathways. Many lines of evidence suggest that mitochondria have a central role in ageing-related neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, there is a long history of investigations on mitochondria aimed at identifying genetic markers relating to ageing and neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, some of the major neurodegenerative disorders are highlighted and the role of mitochondrial haplogroups in the pathogenetic cascade leading to these diseases is discussed.
In genetic association studies, deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWD) can be due to recent admixture or selection at a locus, but is most commonly due to genotyping errors. In addition to its utility for identifying potential genotyping errors in individual studies, here we report that HWD can be useful in detecting the presence, magnitude and direction of genotyping error across multiple studies. If there is a consistent genotyping error at a given locus, larger studies, in general, will show more evidence for HWD than small studies. As a result, for loci prone to genotyping errors, there will be a correlation between HWD and the study sample size. By contrast, in the absence of consistent genotyping errors, there will be a chance distribution of p- values among studies without correlation with sample size. We calculated the evidence for HWD at 17 separate polymorphic loci investigated in 325 published genetic association studies. In the full set of studies, there was a significant correlation between HWD and locus-standardised sample size ( p = 0.001). For 14/17 of the individual loci, there was a positive correlation between extent of HWD and sample size, with the evidence for two loci ( 5-HTTLPR and CTSD ) rising to the level of statistical significance. Among single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 15/23 studies that deviated significantly from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) did so because of a deficit of heterozygotes. The inbreeding coefficient (F(is)) is a measure of the degree and direction of deviation from HWE. Among studies investigating SNPs, there was a significant correlation between F(is) and HWD ( R = 0.191; p = 0.002), indicating that the greater the deviation from HWE, the greater the deficit of heterozygotes. By contrast, for repeat variants, only one in five studies that deviated significantly from HWE showed a deficit of heterozygotes and there was no significant correlation between F(is) and HWD. These results indicate the presence of HWD across multiple loci, with the magnitude of the deviation varying substantially from locus to locus. For SNPs, HWD tends to be due to a deficit of heterozygotes, indicating that allelic dropout may be the most prevalent genotyping error.

This paper presents work on ultra-low-power circuits for brain-machine interfaces with applications for paralysis prosthetics, stroke, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, prosthetics for the blind, and experimental neuroscience systems. The circuits include a micropower neural amplifier with adaptive power biasing for use in multi-electrode arrays; an analog linear decoding and learning architecture for data compression; low-power radio-frequency (RF) impedance-modulation circuits for data telemetry that minimize power consumption of implanted systems in the body; a wireless link for efficient power transfer; mixed-signal system integration for efficiency, robustness, and programmability; and circuits for wireless stimulation of neurons with power-conserving sleep modes and awake modes. Experimental results from chips that have stimulated and recorded from neurons in the zebra finch brain and results from RF power-link, RF data-link, electrode-recording and electrode-stimulating systems are presented. Simulations of analog learning circuits that have successfully decoded prerecorded neural signals from a monkey brain are also presented.
A significant decrease in alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity and mucosal thickness and increase in ulcer index (UI) was observed in aspirin treated stomach and duodenum of albino rats. However, pretreatment with C. pepo fruit pulp extract for 14 consecutive days showed increase in AP activity and mucosal thickness along with decrease in UI, suggesting gastroduodenal protective and anti-ulcerogenic properties of C. pepo.
The vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) is activated by capsaicin, several endogenous lipids, acidic pH and elevated temperatures. Inflammatory mediators (BK, substance P) also modulate TRPV1 activity. In this study we investigated the effect of TRPV1 agonists and elevated temperatures on neuronal membrane excitability by electrophysiological techniques using freshly isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRGs). Focal application of heated solutions demonstrated that the normal threshold (approximately 42 degrees C) of TRPV1 activation was reduced in the presence of capsaicin (1 microM) to approximately 30 degrees C. In current-clamp recordings, increasing the temperature of the solution resulted in larger membrane depolarizations and significantly altered the pattern and onset of the action potential train evoked by 1 microM capsaicin. These effects were blocked by the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine (10 microM). In contrast to capsaicin, anandamide (10 microM) alone did not evoke action potentials, but it did alter the excitability of neurons to subsequent applications of heat (50 degrees C). Together these results provide evidence that a synergistic interaction of TRPV1 ligands and elevated temperature activates TRPV1 receptors and results in profound effects on membrane excitability.
Investigating the seasonal asymmetry of violent behaviour has a long history. Despite this, there still remains considerable debate about the nature and aetiology of this phenomenon. Reports on homicide, for example, are mixed: some have found homicide seasonality but most have not. In contrast, all published studies on assault report that this behaviour is seasonal. Moreover, only two studies, both using US data, have examined the seasonal variation of assault and homicide in the same population over the same period of time. One group found assault was seasonal but homicide was not, whilst the other found, overall, that both homicide and assault were seasonal. This first of these findings seems paradoxical, in that there is no seasonal variation in injury related deaths (i.e. homicides), despite the antecedent behaviour (i.e. assaults) having a seasonal pattern of occurrence. We examined the seasonal variation in homicide and assault in UK and found a similar result. Furthermore, our findings are not easily understandable using conventional social models of seasonal behaviour and we suggest biologically mediated seasonal variation in the capacity of equally injured individuals to survive trauma may also play a role, which should be investigated further.
Recent studies suggest a potential role of lipid lowering drugs, fibrates and statins, in anticancer treatment. One candidate for tumor chemoprevention is fenofibrate, which is a potent agonist of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha). Our results demonstrate elevated expression of PPARalpha in the nuclei of neoplatic cells in 12 out of 13 cases of medulloblastoma, and of PPARgamma in six out of 13 cases. Further analysis demonstrated that aggressive mouse medulloblastoma cells, BsB8, express PPARalpha in the absence PPARgamma, and human medulloblastoma cells, D384 and Daoy, express both PPARalpha and PPARgamma. Mouse and human cells responded to fenofibrate by a significant increase of PPAR-mediated transcriptional activity, and by a gradual accumulation of cells in G1 and G2/M phase of the cell cycle, leading to the inhibition of cell proliferation and elevated apoptosis. Preincubation of BsB8 cells with fenofibrate attenuated IGF-I-induced IRS-1, Akt, ERKs and GSK3beta phosphorylation, and inhibited clonogenic growth. In Daoy and D384 cells, fenofibrate also inhibited IGF-I-mediated growth responses, and simultaneous delivery of fenofibrate with low dose of the IGF-IR inhibitor, NVP-AEW541, completely abolished their clonogenic growth and survival. These results indicate a strong supportive role of fenofibrate in chemoprevention against IGF-I-induced growth responses in medulloblastoma.
Some atypical antipsychotics clinically used to treat schizophrenia induce weight gain by unknown mechanisms. The dorsal vagal complex (DVC) of the brainstem and the endogenous cannabinoid system are implicated in the regulation of appetite signalling and food intake. We investigated whether antipsychotic drugs alter cannabinoid receptor-binding density in the DVC. Female Spraguewk (short-term) or 120.83, p=0.01). In addition, only chronic olanzapine treatment increased food intake. These results show that olanzapine, an antipsychotic with a high risk of weight gain as a side-effect, significantly decreased cannabinoid receptor binding in the DVC, whilst aripiprazole and haloperidol, antipsychotics with a low risk of weight gain had little or no effect on binding. These results suggest that a mechanism for antipsychotic-induced weight gain may be through the modulation of cannabinoid receptors in the DVC.
Scores on the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test, a measure of the functional integrity of the orbitofrontal cortex, were used to predict the vulnerability to cognitive declines during 77 hr of sleep deprivation. Twenty-one healthy volunteers completed the Smell Identification Test at rested baseline followed by repeated psychomotor vigilance testing throughout each night. Participants with better smell identification abilities sustained faster speeds and fewer lapses on the second and third nights of sleep deprivation than participants with lower scores. Individual differences in trait-like functioning of the orbitofrontal cortex are predictive of the ability to sustain alertness and vigilance during continuous wakefulness.
Since its discovery as an important regulator of fuel utilization in the periphery, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has become a contender for many important cell-intrinsic and organismal roles regarding energy balance in the central nervous system. The challenge will be to delineate the mechanisms by which neuronal AMPK can respond to cellular energy requirements as well as whole body energy demands. Thus, under physiological conditions in the brain, hypothalamic AMPK responds to changes in energy balance/food intake, whereas under pathological conditions, AMPK responds globally in the brain to energy challenge. Modulation of fatty acid metabolism affects energy balance in a context-specific manner and may provide an insight into other mechanisms for selective activation or inhibition of AMPK activity for therapeutic applications.
Microorganisms respond to osmotic stress mostly by accumulating compatible solutes, either by uptake from the medium or by de novo synthesis. These osmotically active molecules preserve the positive turgor pressure required for cell division. The diversity of compatible solutes is large but falls into a few major chemical categories; they are usually small organic molecules such as amino acids or their derivatives, and carbohydrates or their derivatives. Some are widely distributed in nature while others seem to be exclusively present in specific groups of organisms. This review discusses the diversity and distribution of known classes of compatible solutes found in prokaryotes as well as the increasing knowledge of the genes and pathways involved in their synthesis. The alternative roles of some archetypal compatible solutes not subject to osmoregulatory constraints are also discussed.



This paper elaborates on a computational model for speech recognition that is inspired by several interrelated strands of research in phonology, acoustic phonetics, speech perception, and neuroscience. The goals are twofold: (i) to explore frameworks for recognition that may provide a viable alternative to the current hidden Markov model (HMM) based speech recognition systems and (ii) to provide a computational platform that will facilitate engaging, quantifying, and testing various theories in the scientific traditions in phonetics, psychology, and neuroscience. This motivation leads to an approach that constructs a hierarchically structured point process representation based on distinctive feature landmark detectors and probabilistically integrates the firing patterns of these detectors to decode a phonological sequence. The accuracy of a broad class recognizer based on this framework is competitive with equivalent HMM-based systems. Various avenues for future development of the presented methodology are outlined.



We investigated how synaptic plasticity is related to the neurodegeneration process in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Pre- and postsynaptic proteins of Brodmann's area 9 from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched controls were quantified by immunohistochemical methods and Western blots. The main finding was a significant increase in the expression of postsynaptic density protein PSD-95 in AD brains, revealed on both sections and immunoblots, while the expression of spinophilin, associated to spines, remained quantitatively unchanged despite qualitative changes with age and disease. Presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein indicated an increased immunohistochemical level, while synaptophysin remained unchanged. MAP2, a somatodendritic microtubule protein, as well as AD markers such as amyloid-beta protein and phosphorylated protein tau showed an increased expression on immunosections in AD. Altogether these changes suggest neuritic and synaptic reorganization in the process of AD. In particular, the significant increase in PSD-95 expression suggests a change in NMDA receptors trafficking and may represent a novel marker of functional significance for the disease.
The nucleic acid binding protein, Pur-alpha, is best characterized as a transcription factor with affinity to single stranded G/C rich regions. Pur-alpha exhibits developmental and tissue-specific regulation and plays a critical role in neuronal development and differentiation. Similar to Pur-alpha, the amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) is a developmentally regulated protein which promotes neuronal survival. Both the human and mouse AbetaPP promoters contain multiple G/C rich sequences which regulate AbetaPP at the transcriptional and translational levels. Using an in vitro reporter assay, we confirmed that Pur-alpha consensus binding sites within the human AbetaPP promoter down-regulate AbetaPP transcription. Electrophoretic mobility shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays (ChIP) showed direct binding of Pur-alpha to the AbetaPP promoter. Down regulation of AbetaPP went beyond the transcriptional level as overexpression of Pur-alpha in glial and fibroblast cell lines decreased basal levels of AbetaPP while siRNA targeting Pur-alpha increased basal levels of AbetaPP. Similar findings were observed in brain tissue and fibroblasts from mice with targeted deletion of Pur-alpha. These data point to a novel mechanism of controlling AbetaPP levels by the transcriptional regulatory protein, Pur-alpha, and suggest that Pur-alpha may be involved in the dysregulation of AbetaPP in Alzheimer's disease.


The present study was undertaken to assess cardiac function and characterize beta-adrenoceptor subtypes in hearts of diabetic rats that underwent exercise training (ExT) after the onset of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats using streptozotocin. Four weeks after induction, rats were randomly divided into two groups. One group was exercised trained for 3 wk while the other group remained sedentary. At the end of the protocol, cardiac parameters were assessed using M-mode echocardiography. A Millar catheter was also used to assess left ventricular hemodynamics with and without isoproterenol stimulation. beta-Adrenoceptors were assessed using Western blots and [(3)H]dihydroalprenolol binding. After 7 wk of diabetes, heart rate decreased by 21%, fractional shortening by 20%, ejection fraction by 9%, and basal and isoproterenol-induced dP/dt by 35%. beta(1)- and beta(2)-adrenoceptor proteins were reduced by 60% and 40%, respectively, while beta(3)-adrenoceptor protein increased by 125%. Ventricular homogenates from diabetic rats bound 52% less [(3)H]dihydroalprenolol, consistent with reductions in beta(1)- and beta(2)-adrenoceptors. Three weeks of ExT initiated 4 wk after the onset of diabetes minimized cardiac function loss. ExT also blunted loss of beta(1)-adrenoceptor expression. Interestingly, ExT did not prevent diabetes-induced reduction in beta(2)-adrenoceptor or the increase of beta(3)-adrenoceptor expression. ExT also increased [(3)H]dihydroalprenolol binding, consistent with increased beta(1)-adrenoceptor expression. These findings demonstrate for the first time that ExT initiated after the onset of diabetes blunts primarily beta(1)-adrenoceptor expression loss, providing mechanistic insights for exercise-induced improvements in cardiac function.
A 59-year-old lady presented with hypertensive hemorrhage involving the pons. Since she presented within 3 hours of onset of the stroke, recombinant factor VIIa was administered. From a state of altered sensorium there was a rapid recovery of consciousness followed by gradual improvement in limb weakness. Serial CT scans of the brain revealed no further expansion of the hematoma. The hematoma progressively resolved. Recombinant factor VIIa could be an attractive therapeutic option in treating hemorrhages at critical sites like brainstem where expansion of hematoma could be fatal.
Dopamine D(2) receptors are involved in ethanol self- administration behavior and also suggested to mediate the onset and offset of ethanol drinking. In the present study, we investigated dopamine (DA) content and Dopamine D(2) (DA D(2)) receptors in the hypothalamus and corpus striatum of ethanol treated rats and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity in the liver and plasma of ethanol treated rats and in vitro hepatocyte cultures. Hypothalamic and corpus striatal DA content decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.05, P &lt; 0.001 respectively) and homovanillic acid/dopamine (HVA/DA) ratio increased significantly (P &lt; 0.001) in ethanol treated rats when compared to control. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H] YM-09151-2 binding to DA D(2) receptors in hypothalamus showed a significant increase (P &lt; 0.001) in B(max) without any change in K(d) in ethanol treated rats compared to control. The K(d) of DA D(2) receptors significantly decreased (P &lt; 0.05) in the corpus striatum of ethanol treated rats when compared to control. DA D(2) receptor affinity in the hypothalamus and corpus striatum of control and ethanol treated rats fitted to a single site model with unity as Hill slope value. The in vitro studies on hepatocyte cultures showed that 10(-5) M and 10(-7) M DA can reverse the increased ALDH activity in 10% ethanol treated cells to near control level. Sulpiride, an antagonist of DA D(2), reversed the effect of dopamine on 10% ethanol induced ALDH activity in hepatocytes. Our results showed a decreased dopamine concentration with enhanced DA D(2) receptors in the hypothalamus and corpus striatum of ethanol treated rats. Also, increased ALDH was observed in the plasma and liver of ethanol treated rats and in vitro hepatocyte cultures with 10% ethanol as a compensatory mechanism for increased aldehyde production due to increased dopamine metabolism. A decrease in dopamine concentration in major brain regions is coupled with an increase in ALDH activity in liver and plasma, which contributes to the tendency for alcoholism. Since the administration of 10(-5) M and 10(-7) M DA can reverse the increased ALDH activity in ethanol treated cells to near control level, this has therapeutic application to correct ethanol addicts from addiction due to allergic reaction observed in aldehyde accumulation.
Until recently, the neuroscience community held the belief that glial cells such as astrocytes and oligodendrocytes functioned solely as &quot;support&quot; cells of the brain. In this role, glial cells simply provide physical support and housekeeping functions for the more important cells of the brain, the neurons. However, this view has changed radically in recent years with the discovery of previously unrecognized and surprising functions for this underappreciated cell type. In the past decade or so, emerging evidence has provided new insights into novel glial cell activities such as control of synapse formation and function, communication,cerebrovascular tone regulation, immune regulation and adult neurogenesis. Such advances in knowledge have effectively elevated the role of the astrocyte to one that is more important than previously realized. This review summarizes the past and present knowledge of glial cell functions that has evolved over the years, and has resulted in a new appreciation of astrocytes and their value in studying the neurobiology of human brain cells and their functions. In this review, we highlight recent advances in the role of glial cells in physiology, pathophysiology and, most importantly, in adult neurogenesis and &quot;stemness&quot;, with special emphasis on astrocytes.
In developmentally regulated D1:S3 splicing of Nav1.5, there are 31 nucleotide differences between the 5'-exon ('neonatal') and the 3'-exon ('adult') forms, resulting in 7 amino acid differences in D1:S3-S3/S4 linker. In particular, splicing replaces a conserved negative aspartate residue in the 'adult' with a positive lysine. Here, 'neonatal' and 'adult' Nav1.5 alpha-subunit splice variants were stably transfected into EBNA-293 cells and their electrophysiological properties investigated by whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Compared with the 'adult' isoform, the 'neonatal' channel exhibited (1) a depolarized threshold of activation and voltage at which the current peaked; (2) much slower kinetics of activation and inactivation; (3) 50% greater transient charge (Na(+)) influx; (4) a stronger voltage dependence of time to peak; and (5) a slower recovery from inactivation. Tetrodotoxin sensitivity and VGSCbeta1-4 mRNA expression levels did not change. The significance of the charge-reversing aspartate to lysine substitution was investigated by mutating the lysine in the 'neonatal' channel back to aspartate. In this 'neonatal K211D' mutant, the electrophysiological parameters studied strongly shifted back towards the 'adult', that is the lysine residue was primarily responsible for the electrophysiological effects of Nav1.5 D1:S3 splicing. Taken together, these data suggest that the charge reversal in 'neonatal' Nav1.5 would (1) modify the channel kinetics and (2) prolong the resultant current, allowing greater intracellular Na(+) influx. Developmental and pathophysiological consequences of such differences are discussed.
MicroRNAs (miRs) are short endogenous RNAs that regulate gene expression by incomplete pairing with messenger RNAs. An increasing number of studies show that mammalian microRNAs play fundamental roles in various aspects of cellular function including differentiation, proliferation, and cell death. Recent findings demonstrating the presence of microRNAs in mature neuronal dendrites suggest their possible involvement in controlling local protein translation and synaptic function. HIV-1 Encephalopathy (HIVE) is a manifestation of HIV-1 infection that often results in neuronal damage and dysfunction. While neurons are rarely, if ever, infected by HIV-1, they are exposed to cytotoxic viral and cellular factors including the HIV-1 transactivating factor Tat. In this study, we show that Tat deregulates expression levels of selected microRNAs, including the neuronal mir-128, in primary cortical neurons. We further show that mir-128a inhibits expression of the pre-synaptic protein SNAP25, whereas the anti-mir-128a partially restores Tat/mir-128a-induced downregulation of SNAP25 expression. Altogether, our data provide a novel mechanism by which HIV-Tat perturbs neuronal activity.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells capable of developing along the chondrogenic, osteogenic and adipogenic lineages. As such, they have received interest as a potential cell source for tissue engineering strategies. Cartilage is an avascular tissue and thus resides in a microenvironment with reduced oxygen tension. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of a low oxygen environment on MSC differentiation along the chondrogenic route. In MSCs exposed to chondrogenic growth factors, transforming growth factor-beta and dexamethasone, in a hypoxic environment (2% oxygen), the induction of collagen II expression and proteoglygan deposition was significantly greater than that observed when cells were exposed to the chondrogenic growth factors under normoxic (20% oxygen) conditions. The transcription factor, hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), is a crucial mediator of the cellular response to hypoxia. Following exposure of MSCs to hypoxia (2% oxygen), HIF-1alpha translocated from the cytosol to the nucleus and bound to its target DNA consensus sequence. Similarly, hypoxia evoked an increase in phosphorylation of both AKT and p38 mitogen activated protein kinase, upstream of HIF-1alpha activation. Furthermore, the PI3 kinase/AKT inhibitor, LY294002, and p38 inhibitor, SB 203580, prevented the hypoxia-mediated stabilisation of HIF-1alpha. To assess the role of HIF-1alpha in the hypoxia-induced increase in chondrogenesis, we employed an siRNA knockdown approach. In cells exposed to HIF-1alpha siRNA, the hypoxia-induced enhancement of chondrogenesis, as evidenced by upregulation of collagen II, sox-9 and proteoglycan deposition, was absent. This provides evidence for HIF-1alpha being a key mediator of the beneficial effect of a low oxygen environment on chondrogenesis.
Necroptosis is a newly identified type of programmed necrosis initiated by the activation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha)/Fas. Necrostatin-1 is a specific inhibitor of necroptosis that reduces ischemic tissue damage in experimental stroke models. We previously reported decreased tissue damage and improved functional outcome after controlled cortical impact (CCI) in mice deficient in TNFalpha and Fas. Hence, we hypothesized that necrostatin-1 would reduce histopathology and improve functional outcome after CCI in mice. Compared with vehicle-/inactive analog-treated controls, mice administered necrostatin-1 before CCI had decreased propidium iodide-positive cells in the injured cortex and dentate gyrus (6 h), decreased brain tissue damage (days 14, 35), improved motor (days 1 to 7), and Morris water maze performance (days 8 to 14) after CCI. Improved spatial memory was observed even when drug was administered 15 mins after CCI. Necrostatin-1 treatment did not reduce caspase-3-positive cells in the dentate gyrus or cortex, consistent with a known caspase-independent mechanism of necrostatin-1. However, necrostatin-1 reduced brain neutrophil influx and microglial activation at 48 h, suggesting a novel anti-inflammatory effect in traumatic brain injury (TBI). The data suggest that necroptosis plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of cell death and functional outcome after TBI and that necrostatin-1 may have therapeutic potential for patients with TBI.
Stroke induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion leads to transiently increased progenitor proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and long-lasting striatal neurogenesis in adult rodents. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is upregulated in stroke-damaged brain. Whether TNF-alpha and its receptors influence SVZ progenitor proliferation after stroke is unclear. Here we show that the increased proliferation 1 week after stroke occurred concomitantly with elevated microglia numbers and TNF-alpha and TNF receptor-1 (TNF-R1) gene expression in the SVZ of wild-type mice. TNF receptor-1 was expressed on sorted SVZ progenitor cells from nestin-green fluorescent protein reporter mice. In animals lacking TNF-R1, stroke-induced SVZ cell proliferation and neuroblast formation were enhanced. In contrast, deletion of TNF-R1 did not alter basal or status epilepticus-stimulated cell proliferation in SVZ. Addition of TNF-alpha reduced the size and numbers of SVZ neurospheres through a TNF-R1-dependent mechanism without affecting cell survival. Our results provide the first evidence that TNF-R1 is a negative regulator of stroke-induced SVZ progenitor proliferation. Blockade of TNF-R1 signaling might be a novel strategy to promote the proliferative response in SVZ after stroke.
Vascular cells provide a neural stem/progenitor cell (NSPC) niche that regulates expansion and differentiation of NSPCs within the germinal zones of the embryonic and adult brain under both physiologic and pathologic conditions. Here, we examined the NSPC-endothelial cell (NSPC/EC) interaction under conditions of ischemia, both in vitro and after intracerebral transplantation. In culture, embryonic mouse NSPCs supported capillary morphogenesis and protected ECs from cell death induced by serum starvation or by transient oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Neural stem/progenitor cells constitutively expressed hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) transcription factor and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), both of which were increased approximately twofold after the exposure of NSPCs to OGD. The protective effects of NSPCs on ECs under conditions of serum starvation and hypoxia were blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of VEGF signaling, SU1498 and Flt-1-Fc. After intracerebral transplantation, NSPCs continued to express HIF-1alpha and VEGF, and promoted microvascular density after focal ischemia. These studies support a role for NSPCs in stabilization of vasculature during ischemia, mediated via HIF-1alpha-VEGF signaling pathways, and suggest therapeutic application of NSPCs to promote revascularization and repair after brain injury.
Many studies showed beneficial effects of either erythropoietin (EPO) or mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) treatment in cerebral ischemia. In addition to a neuroprotective role, not only EPO but also MSC favors neurogenesis and functional recovery. In an attempt to further improve postischemic tissue repair, we investigated the effect of a systemic administration of MSC, in the presence or not of EPO, on neurogenesis and functional recovery in a transient focal cerebral ischemia model in the adult rat. Twenty-four hours after ischemia, the rats were divided into four groups, namely vehicle, MSC, EPO, and MSC+EPO, and received a single intravenous injection of MSC (2 x 10(6) cells) and/or a repeated intraperitoneal administration of EPO (1,000 UI/kg) for 3 days. The lesion volume, the MSC outcome, neurogenesis, and functional recovery were assessed 51 days after ischemia. The results showed that cellular proliferation and neurogenesis were increased along the lateral ventricle wall in the MSC+EPO group, whereas no significant effect was observed in groups receiving MSC or EPO alone. This effect was accompanied by an improvement of mnesic performances. Mesenchymal stem cells expressing neuronal or glial markers were detected in the ischemic hemisphere. These results suggest that EPO could act in a synergistic way with MSC to potentiate the postischemic neurogenesis.
This study examined the effect of vagus nerve stimulation on quality of life in children with epilepsy using a validated quality-of-life scale and an empirical technique that accounts for measurement error in assessing individual change (the reliable change index). Participants were 34 children with severe intractable epilepsy who underwent vagus nerve stimulation and 19 children with intractable epilepsy who received medical management. Parent-completed epilepsy-specific and global ratings at baseline and after 1 year indicated that most children had no changes in quality of life following vagus nerve stimulation (52%-77%), similar to the comparison group. There was a trend for decreases to be less common in the vagus nerve stimulation group (14% vs 37%, P &lt; .07), but there was no relation between improved quality of life and seizure control. The results raise questions about the mechanisms that underlie changes in quality of life after vagus nerve stimulation in this group of children.

The human gastrointestinal tract is colonized throughout its length by complex luminal and mucosal microbiotas. Owing to sampling restrictions, most of the studies done to date have concentrated on luminal material. Recently, however, there has been an upsurge in interest in the role of microbial communities that occur in biofilms on surfaces in the gut. In the human biota, biofilms have been shown to exist on artificial surfaces and devices implanted in the host, on particulate materials in the gut lumen, and on the colonic mucosa. Owing to their proximity to host tissues, mucosal bacteria interact more readily with the gut epithelium and immune system than their luminal counterparts, and recent research indicates that they play an important role in health and disease processes. Because bacteria growing in biofilms are more resistant to antibiotics than their luminal counterparts, there is increased interest in the use of alternative therapeutic strategies to target potential pathogens on the mucosal surface, especially with respect to applications involving probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics.

Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by dopaminergic neurodegeneration and intracellular inclusions of alpha-synuclein amyloid fibers, which are stable and difficult to dissolve. Whether inclusions are neuroprotective or pathological remains controversial, because prefibrillar oligomers may be more toxic than amyloid inclusions. Thus, whether therapies should target inclusions, preamyloid oligomers, or both is a critically important issue. In yeast, the protein-remodeling factor Hsp104 cooperates with Hsp70 and Hsp40 to dissolve and reactivate aggregated proteins. Metazoans, however, have no Hsp104 ortholog. Here we introduced Hsp104 into a rat PD model. Remarkably, Hsp104 reduced formation of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein inclusions and prevented nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration induced by PD-linked alpha-synuclein (A30P). An in vitro assay employing pure proteins revealed that Hsp104 prevented fibrillization of alpha-synuclein and PD-linked variants (A30P, A53T, E46K). Hsp104 coupled ATP hydrolysis to the disassembly of preamyloid oligomers and amyloid fibers composed of alpha-synuclein. Furthermore, the mammalian Hsp70 and Hsp40 chaperones, Hsc70 and Hdj2, enhanced alpha-synuclein fiber disassembly by Hsp104. Hsp104 likely protects dopaminergic neurons by antagonizing toxic alpha-synuclein assemblies and might have therapeutic potential for PD and other neurodegenerative amyloidoses.

One of the most important experiments in neurophysiology in the twentieth century took place in the physiology laboratories at the University of Otago, New Zealand, in August 1951. The group of researchers led by John Eccles convincingly established that synaptic transmission in the central nervous system was a chemical process. This work was the culmination of a long debate between advocates of electrical and chemical transmission. The conclusions overturned Eccles's previous theories of an electrical &quot;Golgi-cell&quot; mechanism and represent a pivotal moment in the history of neuroscience.
The incidence of cerebral phaeohyphomycosis, an infection caused by a dark-pigmented fungus, is increasing. The infection may mimic a high-grade glioma clinically and radiographically. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy may be helpful in differentiating the two. We report two cases to increase the awareness of cerebral phaeohyphomycosis in the clinical neurosciences. Early biopsy establishing the diagnosis, followed by aggressive combined surgical and medical management is necessary for a good outcome.
Synthesis of the monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine is regulated by L-methylfolate, a derivate of the vitamin folate.
Theory of mind (ToM) reasoning may involve a multiplicity of processes, including an initial stage, where cues relevant for social processes are detected and decoded, and a mentalizing stage, where the decoded information is used to reason about mental states. Here we report that the processing of lower-order facial cues relevant to social judgments can be relatively spared in patients with impaired ToM reasoning. We discuss the implications for understanding the mechanisms underlying social judgments in brain-lesioned patients.

To understand complex sensory-motor behavior related to object perception by echolocating bats, precise measurements are needed for echoes that bats actually listen to during flight. Recordings of echolocation broadcasts were made from flying bats with a miniature light-weight microphone and radio transmitter (Telemike) set at the position of the bat's ears and carried during flights to a landing point on a wall. Telemike recordings confirm that flying horseshoe bats (Rhinolophus ferrumequinum nippon) adjust the frequency of their sonar broadcasts to compensate for echo Doppler shifts. Returning constant frequency echoes were maintained at the bat's reference frequency +/-83 Hz during flight, indicating that the bats compensated for frequency changes with an accuracy equivalent to that at rest. The flying bats simultaneously compensate for increases in echo amplitude as target range becomes shorter. Flying bats thus receive echoes with both stabilized frequencies and stabilized amplitudes. Although it is widely understood that Doppler-shift frequency compensation facilitates detection of fluttering insects, approaches to a landing do not involve fluttering objects. Combined frequency and amplitude compensation may instead be for optimization of successive frequency modulated echoes for target range estimation to control approach and landing.
The hydrodynamic theory suggests that pain associated with stimulation of a sensitive tooth ultimately involves mechanotransduction as a consequence of fluid movement within exposed dentinal tubules. To determine whether putative mechanotransducers could underlie mechanotransduction in pulpal afferents, we used a single-cell PCR approach to screen retrogradely labeled pulpal afferents. The presence of mRNA encoding BNC-1, ASIC3, TRPV4, TRPA1, the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits of ENaC, and the two pore K+ channels (TREK1, TREK2) and TRAAK were screened in pulpal neurons from rats with and without pulpal inflammation. ASIC3, TRPA1, TREK1, and TREK2 were present in approximately 67%, 64%, 14%, and 10% of pulpal neurons, respectively. There was no detectable influence of inflammation on the proportion of neurons expressing these mechanotransducers. Given that the majority of pulpal afferents express ASIC3 and TRPA1, our results raise the possibility that these channels may be novel targets for the treatment of dentin sensitivity.
To study in vivo the dynamics of the biosynthetic and secretory processes in a neuroendocrine cell, we use the proopiomelanocortin-producing intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis. The activity of these cells can be simply manipulated by adapting the animal to a white or a black background, resulting in inactive and hyperactive cells respectively. Here, we applied differential display proteomics and field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) to examine the changes in architecture accompanying the gradual transition of the inactive to the hyperactive melanotrope cells. The proteomic analysis showed differential expression of neuroendocrine secretory proteins, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident chaperones, and housekeeping and metabolic proteins. The FESEM study revealed changes in the ultrastructure of the ER and Golgi and the number of secretory granules. We conclude that activation of neuroendocrine cells tunes their molecular machineries and organelles to become professional secretors.
We investigated the mechanism of synaptic suppression by P2Y receptors in mixed hippocampal cultures wherein networked neurons exhibit synchronized Ca(2+) oscillations (SCO) due to spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic transmission. Pharmacological studies suggested that SCO suppression was mediated by P2Y2/P2Y4 receptors. Immunostaining studies and characterization of ATP/UTP-stimulated Ca(2+) responses in solitary neurons and astrocytes revealed that the SCO attenuation was effectuated by astrocytes. We demonstrate that nitric oxide released from activated astrocytes causes synaptic suppression by inhibiting neurotransmitter release. Physiological concentrations of ATP and UTP evoked NO production in astrocytes. SCO suppression was considerably diminished by removal of extracellular NO by membrane-impermeable scavenger c-PTIO or by pretreatment of cells with nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME. The nitric oxide donor DETA/NO effectively suppressed the SCO. ATP/UTP inhibited KCl-induced exocytosis at presynaptic terminals in an NO-dependent manner. In the absence of exogenously added ATP/UTP, both the NO scavenger and NOS inhibitor enhanced the frequency of SCO, implying that astrocytes release NO during spontaneous synaptic activity and exert a suppressive effect. We report for the first time that under physiological conditions astrocytes use NO as a messenger molecule to modulate the synaptic strength in the networked neurons.

The knowledge gained from studying diverse populations should help to address inequities and prepare us to deal with the needs of the increasing number of older minorities in this country. At the same time, research that is not properly conducted threatens to lead us astray and misconstrue relationships and outcomes related to behavioral aspects of aging. In this article, we propose that simple comparisons between groups are neither necessary nor sufficient to advance our understanding of ethnic minorities. We discuss common pitfalls conducted in group-differences research, including a specific treatment on the issue of statistical power issues. Our goal is to encourage the use of multiple methodological designs in the study of issues related to racial and ethnic minorities by demonstrating some of the advantages of lesser employed approaches.
The mRNA encoding CD154, a critical protein involved in both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, is regulated at the posttranscriptional level by the binding of complex I, a polypyrimidine tract-binding (PTB) protein-containing complex, which acts to increase message stability at late times of activation. Our current work focuses on analyzing a similar complex in B cells, designated B-cpx I, which is increased in B cells activated by CpG engagement of the TLR9 receptor but not by activation through CD40. Expression profiling of transcripts from primary B cells identified 31 mRNA transcripts with elevated PTB binding upon activation. Two of these transcripts, Rab8A and cyclin D(2), contained binding sites for B-cpx I in their 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). Analysis of turnover of endogenous Rab8A transcript in B cells revealed that like CD154, the mRNA half-life increased following activation and insertion of the Rab8A B-cpx I binding site into a heterologous transcript led to a 3-fold increase in stability. Also, short hairpin RNA down-regulation of PTB resulted in a corresponding decrease in Rab8A mRNA half-life. Overall these data strongly support a novel pathway of mRNA turnover that is expressed both in T cells and B cells and depends on the formation of a PTB-containing stability complex in response to cellular activation.
Cannabinoids affect diverse biological processes, including functions of the immune system. With respect to the immune system, anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects of cannabinoids have been reported. Cannabinoids stimulate G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2. These receptors are found primarily on neurons. However, they are also found on dendritic cells (DC), which are recognized for their critical role in initiating and maintaining immune responses. Therefore, DC are potential targets for cannabinoids. We report in this study that cannabinoids reduced the DC surface expression of MHC class II molecules as well as their capacity to stimulate T cells. In the nervous system, CB1 receptor signaling modulates K(+) and Ca(2+) channels. Interestingly, cannabinoid-treated DC also showed altered voltage-gated potassium (K(V)) channel function. We speculate that attenuation of K(V) channel function via CB1 receptor signaling in DC may represent one mechanism by which cannabinoids alter DC function.
Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy, survival rates for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection have markedly improved, but less of an effect has been found for HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. On the basis of our previous findings, we hypothesized that increased production of osteopontin might contribute to the persistence of central nervous system (CNS) dysfunctions. We found increased levels of osteopontin in the brains of humans with HIV encephalitis and monkeys with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) encephalitis. In cerebrospinal fluid, osteopontin levels were found to be elevated in HIV-infected individuals, regardless of their neuropsychological status. However, plasma osteopontin levels were significantly increased in individuals with HIV-associated dementia. In addition, a longitudinal study of monkeys revealed that plasma levels of osteopontin increased before the development of SIV-induced neurological and clinical abnormalities. Thus, plasma levels of osteopontin are significantly correlated with HIV-induced CNS dysfunction in the current era of efficacious antiviral treatment, and this finding suggests that the development of interventions to modulate osteopontin production or signaling might be beneficial in the prevention or treatment of HIV-induced CNS disorders.
In the present study, we examined the relationships among cognitive function, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) brain metabolite indices measured in the basal ganglia, and quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the caudate nucleus and the putamen in the earliest stages of HIV-related cognitive involvement. Participants included 22 HIV-positive individuals and 20 HIV-negative individuals. HIV-positive individuals performed significantly more poorly than the HIV-negative individuals on several cognitive measures. In addition, the choline/creatine ratio was significantly higher and the N-acetyl aspartate/choline ratio was significantly lower among HIV patients. The caudate and putamen sizes were smaller among HIV-positive patients compared with controls; however, the differences did not reach statistical significance. Correlation analyses revealed associations between cognitive function and select MRS indices. In addition, caudate size was significantly correlated with performances on higher-order thinking tests whereas putamen size was significantly correlated with performances on motor tests. The results suggest that MRS differences are more pronounced than area size differences between seropositive and seronegative individuals in mild stages of HIV-related cognitive impairment. However, basal ganglia size remains an important contributor to cognitive status in this population. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine the evolution of these imaging correlates of HIV-cognitive impairment in HIV.
This review proposes a new taxonomy of automatic and controlled attention. The taxonomy distinguishes among the role of the attendee (puppet and robot, critic and actor), the attention process (stimulus orienting vs. response control), and the attention operation (activation vs. inhibition vs. adjustment), and identifies cognitive phenotypes by which attention is overtly expressed. We apply the taxonomy to four childhood attention disorders: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, spina bifida meningomyelocele, traumatic brain injury, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Variations in attention are related to specific brain regions that support normal attention processes when intact, and produce disordered attention when impaired. The taxonomy explains group differences in behavioral inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsiveness, as well as medication response. We also discuss issues relevant to theories of the cognitive and neural architecture of attention: functional dissociations within and between automatic and controlled attention; the relative importance of type of brain damage and developmental timing to attention profile; cognitive-energetic models of attention and white matter damage; temporal processing deficits, attention deficits and cerebellar damage; and the issue of cognitive phenotypes as candidate endophenotypes.

The aim of the paper is to describe a standardized &quot;Integrative Neuroscience&quot; Platform that can be applied to elucidate brain-body mechanisms. This infrastructure includes a theoretical integration (the INTEGRATE Model). To demonstrate this infrastructure, hypotheses from the INTEGRATE Model are applied in an example investigation of the cognitive, brain and body markers of individual differences in the trait characteristic of Negativity Bias (the tendency to see oneself and one's world as negative). A sample of 270 healthy participants (18-65 years old) were grouped into equal sized matched subsets of high &quot;Negativity Bias&quot; and high &quot;Positivity Bias&quot; (n = 135 in each group). Participants were assessed using a standardized battery of psychological traits, cognition and brain and body (autonomic) activity. Greater &quot;Negativity Bias&quot; relative to &quot;Positivity Bias&quot; was characterized by greater autonomic reactivity and early neural excitation to signals of potential danger, at the timescale of Emotion (&lt; 200 ms). Concomitantly, there was a relatively lower level of &quot;Thinking&quot;, reflected in cognitive dimensions and associated electrical brain measures of working memory and EEG Theta power. By contrast, Negativity and Positivity Bias did not differ in levels of emotional resilience and social skills at the longer time scale of Self Regulation. This paper provides a demonstration of how an Integrative Neuroscience infrastructure can be used to elucidate the brain-body basis of trait characteristics, such as Negativity Bias, that are key indicators of risk for poor well-being and psychopathology.
Actions of chemokines and the interaction with specific receptors go beyond their original, defined role of recruiting leukocytes to inflamed tissues. Chemokine receptor expression in peripheral elements and resident cells of the central nervous system (CNS) represents a relevant communication system during neuroinflammatory conditions. The following examples are described in this review: Chemokine receptors play important homeostatic properties by regulating levels of specific ligands in blood and tissues during healthy and pathological conditions; chemokines and their receptors are clearly involved in leukocyte extravasation and recruitment to the CNS, and current studies are directed toward understanding the interaction between chemokine receptors and matrix metalloproteinases in the process of blood brain barrier breakdown. We also propose novel functions of chemokine receptors during demyelination/remyelination, and developmental processes.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a crucial nervous system n-3 PUFA, may be obtained in the diet or synthesized in vivo from dietary alpha-linolenic acid (LNA). We addressed whether DHA synthesis is regulated by the availability of dietary DHA in artificially reared rat pups, during p8 to p28 development. Over 20 days, one group of rat pups was continuously fed deuterium-labeled LNA (d5-LNA) and no other n-3 PUFA (d5-LNA diet), and a second group of rat pups was fed a d5-LNA diet with unlabeled DHA (d5-LNA + DHA diet). The rat pups were then euthanized, and the total amount of deuterium-labeled docosahexaenoic acid (d5-DHA) (synthesized DHA) as well as other n-3 fatty acids present in various body tissues, was quantified. In the d5-LNA + DHA group, the presence of dietary DHA led to a marked decrease (3- to 5-fold) in the total amount of d5-DHA that accumulated in all tissues that we examined, except in adipose. Overall, DHA accretion from d5-DHA was generally diminished by availability of dietary preformed DHA, inasmuch as this was found to be the predominant source of tissue DHA. When preformed DHA was unavailable, d5-DHA and unlabeled DHA were preferentially accreted in some tissues along with a net loss of unlabeled DHA from other organs.
The apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) obtained from NMR measurements is modelled for diffusion in a compartment restricted by an impermeable boundary. For a given pulse sequence, the ADC can be determined from the connected velocity autocorrelation function (the second-order velocity cumulant), which we show can be expressed as a double surface integral over the boundary, involving the probability for molecules to diffuse from one boundary point to another. There is no restriction on the geometry of the boundary. This result allows a fast calculation of the ADC for an arbitrary time course of the diffusion-sensitizing gradient. Explicit examples are given for diffusion within three basic geometries for different pulse sequences. The ADCs measured with the Stejskal-Tanner pulse sequence and a more realistic pulse sequence with slice selection gradient and eddy current compensation are found to yield almost identical results. The application of the results are discussed in relation to determination of the microscopic structure of brain white matter.
Almost 60 years ago, Foulds carefully described for the first time a particular type of mouse mammary tumor that appeared in the glands of pregnant females and disappeared shortly after delivery. Since then, the attention that researchers paid to the Mouse Mammary Tumor Virus (MMTV)-induced pregnancy-dependent tumors has not vanished through the years. This was because the information obtained from mice carrying MMTV variants that were able to induce pregnancy-dependent tumors was meaningful for studying different aspects of mammary tumor biology. In addition, mice infected with these viral variants provided some of the few chances to use fully hormone-dependent estrogen receptor positive breast cancer models in the mouse. In the analysis of the association between tumor morphology and behavior, the mechanisms underlying progression towards autonomy, the impact of different genes during cancer initiation and development, and the relevance of host genetic background for tumor incidence and hormone-dependence, mouse strains carrying these MMTV variants have been very important tools that could not have been replaced with any other available model. The goal of this article is to provide a succinct chronicle of the experiments and observations made in the MMTV-induced pregnancy-dependent models that most significantly contributed to the mouse mammary tumor biology field. In addition, the possibility to use these MMTV variants as alternative models for analyzing mammary tumor stem cells and pregnancy-associated breast cancer in women is discussed.
Physicians frequently face ethical dilemmas when caring for patients. To help them to cope with these, biomedical ethics aims to implement moral norms for particular problems and contexts. As a means of studying the cognitive and neurobiological features underlying the respect for these norms, moral cognitive neuroscience could help us to understand and improve ethical questioning. The article reviews recent developments in the field and presents neurobiological arguments to highlight why some moral rules are universally shared and why some ethical responses are very dependent on context.
Brain imaging is a persuasive visual rhetoric by which neuroscience is articulated as relevant to the construction and maintenance of desirable selves. In this essay, I describe how &quot;brain-based self-help&quot; literature disseminates neuroscientific vocabularies to public audiences. In this genre, brain images are an authoritative visual resource for translating neuroscience into a comprehensive program for living. I use Foucault's discussion of biopower to describe the ways in which brain-based self-help literature enables self-constitution in a biosocial age where health is a central means of communicating personal worth, social value and political order. The implications of this continuous self-fashioning are not limited to the personal realm but have important political consequences.
