
Cholinergic neurons originating from the basal forebrain innervate the entire cortical mantle. Choline-sensitive microelectrodes were used to measure the synaptic release of cortical acetylcholine (ACh) at a subsecond resolution in rats performing a task involving the detection of cues. Cues that were detected, defined behaviorally, evoked transient increases in cholinergic activity (at the scale of seconds) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but not in a nonassociational control region (motor cortex). In trials involving missed cues, cholinergic transients were not observed. Cholinergic deafferentation of the mPFC, but not motor cortex, impaired cue detection. Furthermore, decreases and increases in precue cholinergic activity predicted subsequent cue detection or misses, respectively. Finally, cue-evoked cholinergic transients were superimposed over slower (at the timescale of minutes) changes in cholinergic activity. Cortical cholinergic neurotransmission is regulated on multiple timescales to mediate the detection of behaviorally significant cues and to support cognitive performance.
Inhibition of postsynaptic glutamate receptors at the Drosophila NMJ initiates a compensatory increase in presynaptic release termed synaptic homeostasis. BMP signaling is necessary for normal synaptic growth and stability. It remains unknown whether BMPs have a specific role during synaptic homeostasis and, if so, whether BMP signaling functions as an instructive retrograde signal that directly modulates presynaptic transmitter release. Here, we demonstrate that the BMP receptor (Wit) and ligand (Gbb) are necessary for the rapid induction of synaptic homeostasis. We also provide evidence that both Wit and Gbb have functions during synaptic homeostasis that are separable from NMJ growth. However, further genetic experiments demonstrate that Gbb does not function as an instructive retrograde signal during synaptic homeostasis. Rather, our data indicate that Wit and Gbb function via the downstream transcription factor Mad and that Mad-mediated signaling is continuously required during development to confer competence of motoneurons to express synaptic homeostasis.
Centrosome- and microtubule-associated proteins have been shown to be important for maintaining the neural progenitor pool during neocortical development by regulating the mitotic spindle. It remains unclear whether these proteins may control neurogenesis by regulating other microtubule-dependent processes such as nuclear migration. Here, we identify Cep120, a centrosomal protein preferentially expressed in neural progenitors during neocortical development. We demonstrate that silencing Cep120 in the developing neocortex impairs both interkinetic nuclear migration (INM), a characteristic pattern of nuclear movement in neural progenitors, and neural progenitor self-renewal. Furthermore, we show that Cep120 interacts with transforming acidic coiled-coil proteins (TACCs) and that silencing TACCs also causes defects in INM and neural progenitor self-renewal. Our data suggest a critical role for Cep120 and TACCs in both INM and neurogenesis. We propose that sustaining INM may be a mechanism by which microtubule-regulating proteins maintain the neural progenitor pool during neocortical development.
MeCP2 is a transcriptional repressor critical for normal neurological function. Prior studies demonstrated that either loss or doubling of MeCP2 results in postnatal neurodevelopmental disorders. To understand the impact of MeCP2 expression on neuronal function, we studied the synaptic properties of individual neurons from mice that either lack or express twice the normal levels of MeCP2. Hippocampal glutamatergic neurons that lack MeCP2 display a 46% reduction in synaptic response, whereas neurons with doubling of MeCP2 exhibit a 2-fold enhancement in synaptic response. Further analysis shows that these changes were primarily due to the number of synapses formed. These results reveal that MeCP2 is a key rate-limiting factor in regulating glutamatergic synapse formation in early postnatal development and that changes in excitatory synaptic strength may underlie global network alterations in neurological disorders due to altered MeCP2 levels.
Exposure to traumatic stress is a requirement for the development of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, because the majority of trauma-exposed persons do not develop PTSD, examination of the typical effects of a stressor will not identify the critical components of PTSD risk or pathogenesis. Rather, PTSD represents a specific phenotype associated with a failure to recover from the normal effects of trauma. Thus, research must focus on identifying pre- and posttraumatic risk factors that explain the development of the disorder and the failure to reinstate physiological homeostasis. In this review, we summarize what is known about the clinical and biological characteristics of PTSD and articulate some of the gaps in knowledge that can be addressed by basic neuroscience research. We emphasize how knowledge about individual differences related to genetic and epigenetic factors in behavioral and brain responses to stress offers the hope of a deeper understanding of PTSD.
Compliance with social norms requires neural signals related both to the norm and to deviations from it. Recent work using economic games between two interacting subjects has uncovered brain responses related to norm compliance and to an individual's strategic outlook during the exchange. These brain responses possess a provocative relationship to those associated with negative emotional outcomes, and hint at computational depictions of emotion processing.
In this issue of Neuron, Parikh et al. utilize biosensors to probe the cholinergic system in freely moving rats performing cue-detection/reward delivery tasks. They show that cue-evoked cholinergic activity in the medial prefrontal cortex is associated with cue detection and not reward delivery. We discuss the implications of their research in behavioral neuroscience.
The nuclei of dividing neural progenitors undergo a cell-cycle-dependent change in position along the apico-basal axis known as interkinetic nuclear migration (INM). The functional relationship between INM and the mode of division of neural progenitors remains elusive, in part because its regulation at the molecular level is poorly understood. In this issue of Neuron, Xie et al. identify two centrosomal proteins (Cep120 and TACCs) regulating the INM of cortical neural progenitors.
The issue of how and where arithmetic operations are represented in the brain has been addressed in numerous studies. Lesion studies suggest that a network of different brain areas are involved in mental calculation. Neuroimaging studies have reported inferior parietal and lateral frontal activations during mental arithmetic using tasks of different complexities and using different operators (addition, subtraction, etc.). Indeed, it has been difficult to compare brain activation across studies because of the variety of different operators and different presentation modalities used. The present experiment examined fMRI-BOLD activity in participants during calculation tasks entailing different arithmetic operations -- addition, subtraction, multiplication and division -- of different complexities. Functional imaging data revealed a common activation pattern comprising right precuneus, left and right middle and superior frontal regions during all arithmetic operations. All other regional activations were operation specific and distributed in prominently frontal, parietal and central regions when contrasting complex and simple calculation tasks. The present results largely confirm former studies suggesting that activation patterns due to mental arithmetic appear to reflect a basic anatomical substrate of working memory, numerical knowledge and processing based on finger counting, and derived from a network originally related to finger movement. We emphasize that in mental arithmetic research different arithmetic operations should always be examined and discussed independently of each other in order to avoid invalid generalizations on arithmetics and involved brain areas.
Our previous analyses indicated that both estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes, ERalpha and ERbeta, contribute to estrogen neuroprotection [Zhao, L., Wu, T.-W., Brinton, R.D., 2004. Estrogen receptor subtypes alpha and beta contribute to neuroprotection and increased Bcl-2 expression in primary hippocampal neurons. Brain Res. 1010, 22-34]. In the present study, we sought to determine the underlying mechanisms by which ERalpha and ERbeta promote neuronal function, with a focus on neuroprotection, and whether these mechanisms are consistent with a classical nuclear or membrane ER-mediated response. Results of these analyses demonstrated that both the ERalpha-selective agonist, PPT (100 pM), and the ERbeta-selective agonist, DPN (100 pM), were effective in dynamically but differentially regulating intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) signaling in hippocampal neurons. Consistent with the direct measurement of neuroprotective outcomes [Zhao, L., Wu, T.-W., Brinton, R.D., 2004. Estrogen receptor subtypes alpha and beta contribute to neuroprotection and increased Bcl-2 expression in primary hippocampal neurons. Brain Res. 1010, 22-34], PPT and DPN exerted comparable efficacy in attenuating excitotoxic glutamate (200 microM)-induced intracellular Ca(2+) rise. In contrast, DPN was more efficacious than PPT in potentiating a physiological concentration of glutamate (25 microM)-induced intracellular Ca(2+) rise in these neurons. Further analyses revealed that both PPT and DPN increased ERK phosphorylation, however, the temporal profile and magnitude of response were unique to each molecule. The presence of the L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitor, nifedipine (10 microM), partially inhibited 17beta-estradiol- and PPT-induced increase in phosphorylated ERK expression, whereas it induced a complete inhibition of DPN-induced increase in ERK phosphorylation. Additional neuroprotective experiments demonstrated that the MAPK inhibitor, PD 98059 (5 microM), partially blocked 17beta-estradiol-induced promotion of neuronal survival against excitotoxic glutamate (200 microM)-induced neurotoxicity, whereas it completely blocked both PPT- and DPN-induced neuroprotection. The presence of the nuclear ER antagonist, ICI 182,780 (1 microM), not only failed to block all 3 molecule-induced neuroprotection, but coadministration of ICI 182,780 and each single molecule exerted a comparable or even greater neuroprotection. Taken together, as an expansion of our previous analyses, these data indicate that both ERalpha and ERbeta contribute to neuronal mechanisms leading to estrogen promotion of neuronal function but with unique signaling profiles. Activation of ERbeta and induction of intracellular Ca(2+) influx via the L-type channels appears to be more closely associated with estrogen promotion of memory mechanisms. However, ERalpha and ERbeta play an equivalently important role in mediating estrogen neuroprotection, and, which is dependent upon the activation of the MAPK signaling. Further, the present analyses suggest that separate from a classical nuclear ER-mediated response, estrogen promotes neuronal survival likely through a non-nuclear cytoplasm or membrane-associated ER-mediated rapid signaling cascade.
Saccadic adaptation is the progressive correction of systematic saccade targeting errors. When a saccade to a particular target is adapted, saccades within a spatial window around the target, the adaptation field, are affected as a function of their distance from the adapted target. Furthermore, previous studies suggest that saccadic adaptation might modify the perceptual localization of objects in space. We investigated the localization of visual probes before and after saccadic adaptation, and examined whether the spatial layout of the observed mislocalizations was structurally similar to the saccadic adaptation field. We adapted a horizontal saccade directed towards a target 12 degrees to the right. Thirty-eight saccades towards the right visual hemifield were then used to measure the adaptation field. The adaptation field was asymmetric: transfer of adaptation to saccades larger than the adapted saccade was greater than transfer to smaller saccades. Subjects judged the localization of 39 visual probes both within and outside the adaptation field. The perceived localization of a probe at a given position was proportional to the amount of transfer from the adapted saccade to the saccade towards that position. This similar effect of saccadic adaptation on both the action and perception representations of space suggests that the system providing saccade metrics also contributes to the metric used for the perception of space.
The neural correlates of motor execution in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) are challenging to investigate due to muscle weakness. Alternatives to traditional motor execution paradigms are therefore of great interest. This study tested the hypothesis that patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) would show increased cortical activation during motor imagery compared to healthy controls, as seen in studies of motor execution. Functional MRI was used to measure activation during a block design paradigm contrasting imagery of right hand movements against rest in 16 patients with ALS and 17 age-matched healthy controls. Patients with ALS showed reduced activation during motor imagery in the left inferior parietal lobule, and in the anterior cingulate gyrus and medial pre-frontal cortex. This reduction in cortical activation during motor imagery contrasts with the pattern seen during motor execution. This may represent the disruption of normal motor imagery networks by ALS pathology outside the primary motor cortex.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Although MeCP2 is thought to act as a transcriptional repressor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), Mecp2 null mice, which develop an RTT-like phenotype, exhibit progressive deficits in BDNF expression. These deficits are particularly significant in the brainstem and nodose cranial sensory ganglia (NGs), structures critical for cardiorespiratory homeostasis, and may be linked to the severe respiratory abnormalities characteristic of RTT. Therefore, the present study used Mecp2 null mice to further define the role of MeCP2 in regulation of BDNF expression and neural function, focusing on NG neurons and respiratory control. We find that mutant neurons express significantly lower levels of BDNF than wild-type cells in vitro, as in vivo, under both depolarizing and nondepolarizing conditions. However, BDNF levels in mutant NG cells can be increased by chronic depolarization in vitro or by treatment of Mecp2 null mice with CX546, an ampakine drug that facilitates activation of glutamatergic AMPA receptors. Ampakine-treated Mecp2 null mice also exhibit marked functional improvement, characterized by restoration of normal breathing frequency and minute volume. These data demonstrate that BDNF expression remains plastic in Mecp2 null mice and raise the possibility that ampakine compounds could be of therapeutic value in the treatment of RTT.
Cellular cholesterol levels alter the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce Abeta. Activation of liver X receptors (LXRs), one cellular mechanism to regulate cholesterol homeostasis, has been found to alter Abeta levels in vitro and in vivo. To identify genes regulated by LXR, we treated human neuroblastoma cells with an LXR agonist (TO-901317) and examined gene expression by microarray. As expected, TO-901317 upregulated several cholesterol metabolism genes, but it also decreased expression of a metalloprotease inhibitor, TIMP-3. We confirmed this finding using real-time PCR and by measuring TIMP-3 protein in glia, SY5Y cells, and COS7 cells. TIMP-3 is a member of a family of metalloproteinase inhibitors and blocks A disintegrin and metalloproteinase-10 (ADAM-10) and ADAM-17, two APP alpha-secretases. We found that TIMP-3 inhibited alpha-secretase cleavage of APP and an apolipoprotein E (apoE) receptor, ApoER2. TIMP-3 decreased surface levels of ADAM-10, APP, and ApoER2. These changes were accompanied by increased APP beta-C-terminal fragment and Abeta production. These data suggest that TIMP-3 preferentially routes APP and ApoER2 away from the cell surface and alpha-secretase cleavage and encourages endocytosis and beta-secretase cleavage. In vivo, TO-901317 decreased brain TIMP-3 levels. TIMP-3 protein levels were increased in human Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and in APP transgenic mice, suggesting that increased levels of TIMP-3 in AD may contribute to higher levels of Abeta.
Nicotine is known to enhance learning and memory in hippocampus-dependent tasks such as contextual fear conditioning. The present study was designed to directly examine whether the hippocampus plays a role in mediating this enhancement and which nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes localized to the hippocampus are critical for enhanced learning. Contextual fear conditioning consisted of two white noise conditioned stimuli presentations, each coterminating with a 2 s, 0.57 mA footshock separated by a 120 s intertrial interval. Nicotine (0.09, 0.18, and 0.35 microg per side) was bilaterally infused into the dorsal hippocampus before training and testing. Infusions of nicotine into the dorsal hippocampus produced a dose-dependent enhancement of contextual fear conditioning. To determine which nAChRs are critical to the enhancing effect of nicotine, the preferential alpha4beta2 nAChR antagonist, dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) (6.00 and 18.00 microg per side), or the preferential alpha7 nAChR antagonist, methyllycaconitine (MLA) (13.50 and 27.00 microg per side), was bilaterally infused into the dorsal hippocampus before systemic injections of nicotine (0.09 mg/kg). DHbetaE infusions dose-dependently blocked the enhancement of contextual fear conditioning by nicotine, whereas MLA infusions yielded an intermediate effect. In addition, neither DHbetaE nor MLA had an effect on contextual fear conditioning in the absence of systemic nicotine. The present results suggest a critical role for alpha4beta2 nAChRs in the dorsal hippocampus for mediating the enhancing effect of nicotine on contextual fear conditioning.
Learning motor skills is critical for motor abilities such as driving a car or playing piano. The speed at which we learn those skills is subject to many factors. Yet, it is not known to what extent gonadal hormones can affect the achievement of accurate movements in time and space. Here we demonstrate via different lines of evidence that estradiol promotes plasticity in the cerebellar cortex underlying motor learning. First, we show that estradiol enhances induction of long-term potentiation at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse, whereas it does not affect long-term depression; second, we show that estradiol activation of estrogen receptor beta receptors in Purkinje cells significantly improves gain-decrease adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, whereas it does not affect general eye movement performance; and third, we show that estradiol increases the density of parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapses, whereas it does not affect the density of climbing fiber synapses. We conclude that estradiol can improve motor skills by potentiating cerebellar plasticity and synapse formation. These processes may be advantageous during periods of high estradiol levels of the estrous cycle or pregnancy.
When sustained firing of a neuron is similar in different types of motor programs, its role in the generation of these programs is often similar. We investigated whether this is also the case for neurons involved in phase transition. In the Aplysia feeding central pattern generator (CPG), identified interneuron B64 starts firing at the transition between the protraction and the retraction phases of all types of motor programs, and its firing is sustained during the retraction phase. It was thought that B64 functions as a protraction terminator as it provides strong inhibitory input to protraction interneurons and motoneurons. Furthermore, premature activation of B64 can lead to premature termination of the protraction phase. Indeed, as we show here, B64 can terminate the protraction phase regardless of the type of motor program. However, B64 actually only functions as a protraction terminator in ingestive-like but not in egestive-like programs. This differential role of B64 results from a differential timing of the initiation of B64 spiking in the two types of programs. In turn, this differential timing of the initiation of B64 firing is determined by the internal state of the CPG. Thus, this study indicates the importance of the timing of initiation of firing in determining the functional role of a neuron and demonstrates that this role depends on the activity-dependent state of the network.
Most animals rely on circadian clocks to synchronize their physiology and behavior with the day/night cycle. Light and temperature are the major physical variables that can synchronize circadian rhythms. Although the effects of light on circadian behavior have been studied in detail in Drosophila, the neuronal mechanisms underlying temperature synchronization of circadian behavior have received less attention. Here, we show that temperature cycles synchronize and durably affect circadian behavior in Drosophila in the absence of light input. This synchronization depends on the well characterized and functionally coupled circadian neurons controlling the morning and evening activity under light/dark cycles: the M cells and E cells. However, circadian neurons distinct from the M and E cells are implicated in the control of rhythmic behavior specifically under temperature cycles. These additional neurons play a dual role: they promote evening activity and negatively regulate E cell function in the middle of the day. We also demonstrate that, although temperature synchronizes circadian behavior more slowly than light, this synchronization is considerably accelerated when the M cell oscillator is absent or genetically altered. Thus, whereas the E cells show great responsiveness to temperature input, the M cells and their robust self-sustained pacemaker act as a resistance to behavioral synchronization by temperature cycles. In conclusion, the behavioral responses to temperature input are determined by both the individual properties of specific groups of circadian neurons and their organization in a neural network.
Status epilepticus (SE), an unremitting seizure, is known to cause a variety of traumatic responses including delayed neuronal death and later cognitive decline. Although excitotoxicity has been implicated in this delayed process, the cellular mechanisms are unclear. Because our previous brain slice studies have shown that chemically induced epileptiform activity can lead to elevated astrocytic Ca2+ signaling and because these signals are able to induce the release of the excitotoxic transmitter glutamate from these glia, we asked whether astrocytes are activated during status epilepticus and whether they contribute to delayed neuronal death in vivo. Using two-photon microscopy in vivo, we show that status epilepticus enhances astrocytic Ca2+ signals for 3 d and that the period of elevated glial Ca2+ signaling is correlated with the period of delayed neuronal death. To ask whether astrocytes contribute to delayed neuronal death, we first administered antagonists which inhibit gliotransmission: MPEP [2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine], a metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist that blocks astrocytic Ca2+ signals in vivo, and ifenprodil, an NMDA receptor antagonist that reduces the actions of glial-derived glutamate. Administration of these antagonists after SE provided significant neuronal protection raising the potential for a glial contribution to neuronal death. To test this glial hypothesis directly, we loaded Ca2+ chelators selectively into astrocytes after status epilepticus. We demonstrate that the selective attenuation of glial Ca2+ signals leads to neuronal protection. These observations support neurotoxic roles for astrocytic gliotransmission in pathological conditions and identify this process as a novel therapeutic target.
The Drosophila planar cell polarity (PCP) gene prickle has been previously indicated as one of the regulators of gastrulation in the early embryonic stage. However, the functional role of prickle in the brain in particular is not known. We first indicated that mouse Prickle1 and Prickle2 are continually expressed in the brain throughout the embryonic stages and are observed to be specifically expressed in the postmitotic neurons. Furthermore, Prickle1 or Prickle2 depletion effectively decreases the neurite outgrowth levels of mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells. These results indicate that mouse Prickle1 and Prickle2 possibly regulate positive neurite formation during brain development.
Musical training is known to modify cortical organization. Here, we show that such modifications extend to subcortical sensory structures and generalize to processing of speech. Musicians had earlier and larger brainstem responses than nonmusician controls to both speech and music stimuli presented in auditory and audiovisual conditions, evident as early as 10 ms after acoustic onset. Phase-locking to stimulus periodicity, which likely underlies perception of pitch, was enhanced in musicians and strongly correlated with length of musical practice. In addition, viewing videos of speech (lip-reading) and music (instrument being played) enhanced temporal and frequency encoding in the auditory brainstem, particularly in musicians. These findings demonstrate practice-related changes in the early sensory encoding of auditory and audiovisual information.
Circadian rhythms can be regulated by many environmental and endogenous factors. We show here a sensitivity of circadian clock function to oxidative stress that is revealed in flies lacking the foxo gene product. When exposed to oxidative stress, wild-type flies showed attenuated clock gene cycling in peripheral tissues, whereas foxo mutants also lost behavioral rhythms driven by the central clock. FOXO is expressed predominantly in the fat body, and transgenic expression in this tissue rescued the mutant behavioral phenotype, suggesting that foxo has non-cell-autonomous effects on central circadian clock function. Overexpression of signaling molecules that affect FOXO activity, such as the insulin receptor or Akt, in the fat body also increased susceptibility of the central clock to oxidative stress. Finally, foxo mutants showed a rapid decline in rest:activity rhythms with age, supporting the idea that the increase of oxidative stress contributes to age-associated degeneration of behavioral rhythms and indicating the importance of FOXO in mitigating this deterioration. Together these data demonstrate that metabolism affects central clock function and provide a link among insulin signaling, oxidative stress, aging, and circadian rhythms.
In vitro whole-cell recordings of the inferior olive have demonstrated that its neurons are electrotonically coupled and have a tendency to oscillate. However, it remains to be shown to what extent subthreshold oscillations do indeed occur in the inferior olive in vivo and whether its spatiotemporal firing pattern may be dynamically generated by including or excluding different types of oscillatory neurons. Here, we did whole-cell recordings of olivary neurons in vivo to investigate the relation between their subthreshold activities and their spiking behavior in an intact brain. The vast majority of neurons (85%) showed subthreshold oscillatory activities. The frequencies of these subthreshold oscillations were used to distinguish four main olivary subtypes by statistical means. Type I showed both sinusoidal subthreshold oscillations (SSTOs) and low-threshold Ca(2+) oscillations (LTOs) (16%); type II showed only sinusoidal subthreshold oscillations (13%); type III showed only low-threshold Ca(2+) oscillations (56%); and type IV did not reveal any subthreshold oscillations (15%). These subthreshold oscillation frequencies were strongly correlated with the frequencies of preferred spiking. The frequency characteristics of the subthreshold oscillations and spiking behavior of virtually all olivary neurons were stable throughout the recordings. However, the occurrence of spontaneous or evoked action potentials modified the subthreshold oscillation by resetting the phase of its peak toward 90 degrees . Together, these findings indicate that the inferior olive in intact mammals offers a rich repertoire of different neurons with relatively stable frequency settings, which can be used to generate and reset temporal firing patterns in a dynamically coupled ensemble.
The spectral, temporal, and intensive selectivity of neurons in the adult primary auditory cortex (A1) is easily degraded in early postnatal life by raising rat pups in the presence of pulsed noise. The nonselective frequency tuning recorded in these rats substantially endures into adulthood. Here we demonstrate that perceptual training applied in these developmentally degraded postcritical-period rats results in the recovery of normal representational fidelity. By using a modified go/no-go training strategy, structured noise-reared rats were trained to identify target auditory stimuli of specific frequency from a set of distractors varying in frequency. Target stimuli changed daily on a random schedule. Consistent with earlier findings, structured noise exposure within the critical period resulted in disrupted tonotopicity within A1 and in degraded frequency-response selectivity for A1 neurons. Tonotopicity and frequency-response selectivity were normalized by perceptual training. Changes induced by training endured without loss for at least 2 months after training cessation. The results further demonstrate the potential utility of perceptual learning as a strategy for normalizing deteriorated auditory representations in older (postcritical-period) children and adults.
Phosphofructokinase deficiency (Tarui disease) was the first disorder recognized to directly affect glycolysis. Since the discovery of the disease, in 1965, a wide range of biochemical, physiological and molecular studies have greatly contributed to our knowledge concerning not only phosphofructokinase function in normal muscle but also on the general control of glycolysis and glycogen metabolism. Studies on phosphofructokinase deficiency vastly enriched the field of glycogen storage diseases, making a relevant improvement also in the molecular genetic area. So far, more than one hundred patients have been described with prominent clinical symptoms characterized by muscle cramps, exercise intolerance, rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria, often associated with haemolytic anaemia and hyperuricaemia. The muscle phosphofructokinase gene is located on chromosome 12 and about 20 mutations have been described. Other glycogenoses have been recognised in the distal part of the glycolytic pathway: these are infrequent but some may induce muscle cramps, exercise intolerance and rhabdomyolysis. Phosphoglycerate Kinase, Phosphoglycerate Mutase, Lactate Dehydrogenase, beta-Enolase and Aldolase A deficiencies have been described as distal glycogenoses. From the molecular point of view, the majority of these enzyme deficiencies are sustained by &quot;private&quot; mutations.
We report bradycardia (50 beats/min) in a patient, following application of negative pressure (50 mmHg) suction to the subgaleal drain, after an uneventful clipping of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. This episode recurred even with application of a lesser negative pressure of 23 mmHg. It was noted that the time lag between application of suction pressure and the occurrence of bradycardia increased, from 10 sec in the former to 50 sec in the later instance. None of these episodes were associated with changes of blood pressure. Moreover, there was a temporal association between the intensity of negative pressure applied and the time of occurrence of bradycardia. This phenomenon is possibly due to intracranial hypotension causing reverse brain herniation that bears a relationship with the intensity of negative pressure applied. We recommend that negative pressure suction is avoided during skin suture and applied gradually, after the closure.

Paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction is a nosographic entity that remains to be fully elucidated as far as concerns criteria required for diagnosis and underlying aetiopathogenesis. The disorder manifests with repeated episodes of acute dyspnoea associated with a series of symptoms that may include hoarseness, globus, chest pain and &quot;shortness of breath&quot;. A retrospective analysis of cases with acute dyspnoea referred to our Department between June 2004 and June 2005 revealed 3 patients with paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction. In 2 of these 3 cases, concomitant psychiatric morbidity was observed and the third also presented gastro-oesophageal reflux. In one patient, the episodes of dyspnoea were triggered by inspiration of irritating substances. Diagnosis of the condition requires a high level of suspicion, which is confirmed by a laryngoscopic investigation that demonstrates hyperadduction of the true vocal cords and a reduction of at least 50% in the breathing space. From a therapeutic point of view, patients with paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction require, in our opinion, a multidisciplinary approach; in fact, only a team comprising otorhinolaryngologists, phoniatricians, pulmonologists, neurologists, allergologists, psychotherapists and speech therapists is capable of defining the appropriate treatment according to the clinical and psychological characteristics of each individual patient. Our results with speech therapy, focused on respiratory and speech retraining, are reported.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions occur sporadically in zygotic and somatic tissues and reach their highest concentration in substantia nigra. Previously, we noted the increase of the adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) transcript by microarray in multiple cells and tissues bearing deletions. In this work, we demonstrate that the induction of AMPK transcript is dependent on deletions by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and also demonstrate a deficiency in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis in the same cells. Consistent with AMPK induction, its known targets SREBF1 (sterol regulatory element binding protein-1) and ATG12 were inhibited and induced, respectively. AMPK induction is known to decrease secretory processes in some cells, and the secretion of both osteoprotegerin (OPG) and fibronectin (FN) proteins to the extracellular space was significantly deficient. Deletions caused a defect in the adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation factor-like 2 (ARL2) transcript, which is known to be important in secretion and interacts with protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) and thus AMPK. The deletion-dependent dysfunctions occurred even in cells bearing less than 30% deletions, suggesting that the concept of a high biological 'threshold' for deletions should be further revised downward. The defects in ATP synthesis, induction of the AMPK and SREBF1 transcripts, and decreased expression of ARL2 and secretion of OPG and FN were recapitulated by low doses of rotenone, demonstrating that they were a specific consequence of electron transport chain inhibition. Thus, mtDNA deletions result in cellular energy depletion, which causes the induction of AMPK and its regulated targets, and inhibit secretion of some proteins. We integrate these observations into a pathophysiological model for how mitochondrial deletions cause disease.
Several clinically-defined cognitive impairment syndromes, with differing diagnostic criteria and nomenclature, have been proposed to describe nondisabling symptomatic cognitive deficits. Incidence and prevalence rates vary as a result of different diagnostic criteria and sampling procedures across studies. The incidence rates of cognitive impairment increase with age; but no consistent data have been reported on the association with family history, age, sex, education, Apo E4 genotype, depression, and other traditional risk factors for dementia. Several studies have suggested that most patients with cognitive impairment clinically defined will progress to Alzheimer Disease (AD), but rates of conversion vary widely among studies. This review summarizes existing definitions and related epidemiological data.
Human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) have been associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis. Several related HERV-W sequences have been implicated in disease occurrence and progression; the MS retrovirus (MSRV) is one such element whose envelope protein has been recently demonstrated to be involved in innate immune pathogenesis. To distinguish MSRV from other HERV-W sequences we analyzed the relative abundance of individual HERV-W env sequences by employing a real-time PCR approach using specific oligonucleotide primers and tissue samples from MS and non-MS patients. Our analyses reveal that ERVWE1 env-encoding DNA and RNA exhibited increased detection (p &lt; 0.05) and expression (p &lt; 0.01) in the brains of MS patients. Similarly, ERVWE1 env transcripts were inducible in glial cells (p &lt; 0.05), while comparable changes in MSRV abundance were not observed. These results indicate that individual HERVs might have distinct roles in MS pathogenesis.
To evaluate the safety and tolerability and pharmacokinetic properties of R-flurbiprofen (Tarenflurbil) in normal elderly individuals and to determine the effect of the drug on amyloid beta 42 (Abeta42) levels, we conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 48 healthy subjects aged 55 to 80. Three successive cohorts were randomized to doses of 400, 800, or 1600 mg/d, or placebo, given as 2 divided doses for 21 days. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid were collected for pharmacokinetic studies and measurement of Abeta levels at baseline and on day 21. R-flurbiprofen was well-tolerated at all 3 doses. The compound penetrated the blood-brain barrier in a dose-dependent manner. From baseline to 21 days, comparisons between study groups revealed no significant differences in changes of cerebrospinal fluid Abeta42 levels and no significant differences in changes of plasma Abeta42 levels at the time of trough drug level at 21 days of treatment. Further analysis of drug concentration-response for plasma samples showed that at the time of peak plasma concentration, higher plasma drug concentration was related to lower Abeta42 plasma levels (P=0.016). R-flurbiprofen had an excellent safety profile and showed dose-dependent central nervous system penetration. Exploratory analyses of plasma Abeta and peak drug levels suggested a short-term effect in plasma that warrants independent verification. The safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic profile of R-flurbiprofen in these older individuals support the ongoing studies of this compound in patients with Alzheimer disease.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is defined by progressive impairments in memory and cognition and by the presence of extracellular neuritic plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. However, oxidative stress and impaired mitochondrial function always accompany AD. Mitochondria are a major site of production of free radicals [ie, reactive oxygen species (ROS)] and primary targets of ROS. ROS are cytotoxic, and evidence of ROS-induced damage to cell membranes, proteins, and DNA in AD is overwhelming. Nevertheless, therapies based on antioxidants have been disappointing. Thus, alternative strategies are necessary. ROS also act as signaling molecules including for transcription. Thus, chronic exposure to ROS in AD could activate cascades of genes. Although initially protective, prolonged activation may be damaging. Thus, therapeutic approaches based on modulation of these gene cascades may lead to effective therapies. Genes involved in several pathways including antioxidant defense, detoxification, inflammation, etc, are induced in response to oxidative stress and in AD. However, genes that are associated with energy metabolism, which is necessary for normal brain function, are mostly down-regulated. Redox-sensitive transcription factors such as activator protein-1, nuclear factor-kappaB, specificity protein-1, and hypoxia-inducible factor are important in redox-dependent gene regulation. Peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor-gamma coactivator (PGC-1alpha) is a coactivator of several transcription factors and is a potent stimulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and respiration. Down-regulated expression of PGC-1alpha has been implicated in Huntington disease and in several Huntington disease animal models. PGC-1alpha role in regulation of ROS metabolism makes it a potential candidate player between ROS, mitochondria, and neurodegenerative diseases. This review summarizes the current progress on how oxidative stress regulates the expression of genes that might contribute to AD pathophysiology and the implications of the transcriptional modifications for AD. Finally, potential therapeutic strategies based on the updated understandings of redox state-dependent gene regulation in AD are proposed to overcome the lack of efficacy of antioxidant therapies.
In Japan, a syndrome in which the semantic memory for words is impaired, in the presence of preserved phonological and syntactic aspects of language, is called Gogi (for the Japanese term meaning &quot;word meaning&quot;) aphasia. In this brief historical report, Gogi aphasia is described and compared with the corresponding disorder called semantic dementia.
The authors were charged with making a series of evidence-based recommendations that would provide concrete advice on all aspects of the management of mild to moderate stages of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The recommendations were primarily targeted to primary care physicians practicing in Canada. The assigned topic area did not include either the assessment of a patient with suspected dementia or the prevention of AD and other dementias. An extensive examination of the available literature was conducted. Explicit criteria for grading the strength of recommendations and the level of evidence supporting them were used. The 28 evidence-based recommendations agreed on are presented in this article.

Modern medicine thrives on the ideal of specific diseases, and specificity has revolutionized thinking in clinical practice (e.g., psychiatry) as well as biomedical research (e.g., neuroscience). Different notions of specificity exist (e.g., clinical, biological, and behavioral). Behavioral specificity takes on new meaning in light of recent neuroimaging and genetic findings. Drawing on the metaphor of pharmacological specificity, we provide converging data suggesting that, at least for certain individuals, specific behavioral interventions can influence focal brain activations. Interpretation of these data paves the road to a more scientific strategy for studying the neural basis of suggestion and placebo response, and holds promise for the optimal matching of patient and treatment.
Attention, suggestion, context and expectation can all exert top-down influence on bottom-up processes (e.g., stimulus-driven mechanisms). Identifying the functional neuroanatomy that subserves top-down influences on sensory information processing can unlock the neural substrates of how suggestion can modulate behavior. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we scanned 10 healthy participants (five men) viewing five bistable figures. Participants received a directional cue to perceive a particular spatial orientation a few seconds before the bistable figure appeared. After presentation, participants pressed a button to indicate their locking into the one desired orientation of the two possible interpretations. Participants additionally performed tests of impulse control and sustained attention. Our findings reveal the role of specific frontostriatal structures in selecting a particular orientation for bistable figures, including dorsolateral prefrontal regions and the putamen. Additional contrasts further bolstered the role of the frontostriatal system in the top-down processing of competing visual perceptions. Separate correlations of behavioral variables with fMRI activations support the idea that the frontostriatal system may mediate attentional control when selecting among competing visual perceptions. These results may generalize to other psychological functions. With special relevance to clinical neuroscience and applications involving attention, expectation and suggestion (e.g., hypnosis), our results address the importance of frontostriatal circuitry in behavioral modulation.


Malperfusion of the placenta has been implicated as a cause of oxidative stress in complications of human pregnancy, leading to release of proinflammatory cytokines and anti-angiogenic factors into the maternal circulation. Uterine contractions during labor are known to be associated with intermittent utero-placental perfusion. We therefore tested whether oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokines, and angiogenic regulators were increased in placentas subjected to short (&lt;5 hours) and long (&gt;15 hours) labor compared with nonlabored controls delivered by cesarean section. In addition, broader changes in gene transcripts were assessed by microarray analysis. Oxidative stress, activation of the nuclear factor-kappaB pathway, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin 1beta all increased in placental tissues after labor. Stabilization of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha and increased vascular endothelial growth factor soluble receptor-1 were also observed. By contrast, tissue levels of placenta growth factor decreased. Apoptosis was also activated in labored placentas. The magnitude of these changes related to the duration of labor. After labor, 55 gene transcripts were up-regulated and 35 down-regulated, and many of these changes were reflected at the protein level. In conclusion, labor is a powerful inducer of placental oxidative stress, inflammatory cytokines, and angiogenic regulators. Our findings are consistent with intermittent perfusion being the initiating cause. Placentas subjected to labor do not reflect the normal in vivo state at the molecular level.
Impairment of insulin secretion from the beta-cells of the pancreatic islets of Langerhans is central to the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and has therefore been the subject of much investigation. Great advances have been made in this area, but the mechanisms underlying the pulsatility of insulin secretion remain controversial. The period of these pulses is 4-6 min and reflects oscillations in islet membrane potential and intracellular free Ca(2+). Pulsatile blood insulin levels appear to play an important physiological role in insulin action and are lost in patients with type 2 diabetes and their near relatives. We present evidence for a recently developed beta-cell model, the &quot;dual oscillator model,&quot; in which oscillations in activity are due to both electrical and metabolic mechanisms. This model is capable of explaining much of the available data on islet activity and offers possible resolutions of a number of longstanding issues. The model, however, still lacks direct confirmation and raises new issues. In this article, we highlight both the successes of the model and the challenges that it poses for the field.
We previously reported that noradrenergic (NA) neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) are necessary for exogenous CCK octapeptide to inhibit food intake in rats. To determine whether NST NA neurons also are necessary for lithium chloride (LiCl) to inhibit food intake and/or to support conditioned avoidance behavior, saporin toxin conjugated to an antibody against dopamine beta hydroxylase (DSAP) was microinjected bilaterally into the NST to ablate resident NA neurons. DSAP and sham control rats subsequently were tested for the ability of LiCl (0.15M, 2% body wt) to inhibit food intake and to support conditioned flavor avoidance (CFA). LiCl-induced hypophagia was significantly blunted in DSAP rats, and those with the most extensive loss of NST NA neurons demonstrated the most attenuated LiCl-induced hypophagia. Conversely, LiCl supported a robust CFA that was of similar magnitude in sham control and DSAP rats, including rats with the most extensive NA lesions. A terminal c-Fos study revealed intact LiCl-induced c-Fos expression in the lateral parabrachial nucleus and central amygdala in DSAP rats, despite significant loss of NST NA neurons and attenuated c-Fos activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone-positive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Thus, NST NA neurons contribute significantly to LiCl-induced hypophagia and recruitment of stress-responsive PVN neurons but appear to be unnecessary for CFA learning and expression. These findings support the view that distinct central nervous system circuits underlie LiCl-induced inhibition of food intake and conditioned avoidance behavior in rats.
Leptin reduces body fat selectively, sparing body protein. Accordingly, during chronic leptin administration, food intake is suppressed, and body weight is reduced until body fat is depleted. Body weight then stabilizes at this fat-depleted nadir, while food intake returns to normal caloric levels, presumably in defense of energy and nutritional homeostasis. This model of leptin treatment offers the opportunity to examine controls of food intake that are independent of leptin's actions, and provides a window for examining the nature of feeding controls in a &quot;fatless&quot; animal. Here we evaluate macronutrient selection during this fat-depleted phase of leptin treatment. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on standard pelleted rodent chow and given daily lateral ventricular injections of leptin or vehicle solution until body weight reached the nadir point and food intake returned to normal levels. Injections were then continued for 8 days, during which rats self-selected their daily diet from separate sources of carbohydrate, protein, and fat. Macronutrient choice differed profoundly in leptin and control rats. Leptin rats exhibited a dramatic increase in protein intake, whereas controls exhibited a strong carbohydrate preference. Fat intake did not differ between groups at any time during the 8-day test. Despite these dramatic differences in macronutrient selection, total daily caloric intake did not differ between groups except on day 2. Thus controls of food intake related to ongoing metabolic and nutritional requirements may supersede the negative feedback signals related to body fat stores.

Five recurring errors in history of psychology textbooks are discussed. One involves an identical misquotation. The remaining examples involve factual and interpretational errors that more than one and usually several textbook authors made. In at least 2 cases some facts were fabricated, namely, so-called facts associated with Pavlov's mugging and Descartes's reasons for choosing the pineal gland as the locus for mind-body interaction. A fourth example involves Broca's so-called discovery of the speech center, and the fifth example involves misinterpretations of Lloyd Morgan's intentions regarding his famous canon. When an error involves misinterpretation and thus misrepresentation, I will show why the misinterpretation is untenable.
A. Machado and F. J. Silva have spotted an important conceptual problem in scalar expectancy theory's account of the 2-standard-interval time-left experiment. C. R. Gallistel and J. Gibbon (2000) were aware of it but did not discuss it for historical and sociological reasons, owned up to in this article. A problem of broader significance for psychology, cognitive science, neuroscience, and the philosophy of mind concerns the closely related concepts of a trial and of temporal pairing, which are foundational in associative theories of learning and memory. Association formation is assumed to depend on the temporal pairing of the to-be-associated events. In modeling it, theorists have assumed continuous time to be decomposable into trials. But life is not composed of trials, and attempts to specify the conditions under which two events may be regarded as temporally paired have never succeeded. Thus, associative theories of learning and memory are built on conceptual sand. Undeterred, neuroscientists have defined the neurobiology-of-memory problem as the problem of determining the cellular and molecular mechanism of association formation, and connectionist modelers have made it a cornerstone of their efforts. More conceptual analysis is indeed needed.
Riluzole is the only FDA approved drug for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Riluzole is assumed to be mainly metabolized by the liver cytochrome CYP1A2 and by the extra-hepatic cytochrome CYP1A1. CYP1A2 and CYP1A1 genetic polymorphisms are known, but their relationship to riluzole metabolism in ALS patients has not been investigated. The aim of this study was to determine whether the polymorphisms of the CYP1A2 and the CYP1A1 genes in ALS patients are associated with riluzole metabolic profiles. Thirty-two patients with a diagnosis of probable or definite ALS and who were on riluzole, participated in the study. Trough and peak plasma riluzole levels were measured using analytical chromatography-mass spectrometry methods. Association of the genotypes of the SNPs spanning the CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes (including one SNP in the intergenic region) with mean riluzole peak and trough levels was studied using ANOVA and Tukey's HSD. The mean peak riluzole level was 202+/-111 ng/ml and mean trough level 54.3+/-37.5 ng/ml. Our data do not support any association of the four CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 polymorphisms with the riluzole metabolic profile. In conclusion, genetic variations in CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes do not seem to influence riluzole levels. Further work is needed to better understand the genetic regulation of CYP1A enzymes and their role in riluzole metabolism.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) remains one of the most devastating conditions in medicine, particularly due to the loss of productive life years and the high economic burden it places on our society. There are limited therapeutic options available to reduce the morbidity and mortality related to SCI. However, recent work with stem cells in repairing SCI appears to be promising, making this one of the most exciting frontiers in medicine. A brief review of the mechanisms of SCI is presented. Stem cells from a variety of sources have shown effectiveness in improving motor function after SCI in animals. The pre-clinical use of stem cells in SCI and methods of delivery are discussed. The potential use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) to increase the number of stem cells engrafting at the site of injury in order to improve neurological and motor function recovery following SCI is introduced. G-CSF, through stimulation of lymphohemopoietic stem cells in peripheral blood, can potentially cause repopulation of the SCI region with neural progenitor cells. This allows for improved functional outcomes. More pre-clinical and translational research exploring this possibility is required.
Proteins of the interleukin-1 (IL-1) system include the secreted agonist IL-1beta, and the receptor antagonist IL-1ra, both competing for binding to the IL-1 receptor (IL-1R). IL-1beta and IL-1ra are highly inducible under different forms of stress, such as excitatory neurotransmitter excess occurring during seizures, in infection and inflammation, and during neurotrauma. In each of these conditions induction of IL-1beta precedes that of IL-1ra, resulting in up to 10-20-fold elevation of IL-1beta concentrations. Consequently, IL-1beta induces the elevation of other proinflammatory molecules, including IL-6, IL-1R1, COX2, and iNOS, as well as of IL-1ra. Elevation of IL-1ra is of key importance for quenching the inflammatory response at the IL-1R1 as part of an autoregulatory loop. In seizures, IL-1ra is a strong anticonvulsant and in IL-1beta-dependent fever, a powerful antipyretic. In traumatic brain injury (TBI), the ability of patients to mount an IL-1ra response, as measured in the CSF, strongly correlated with the neurological outcome. Selective induction or pharmacological application of IL-1ra may be sparing neurons in seizures and neurotrauma.
It is now well documented that both increased and decreased stress responses can profoundly affect cognition and behavior. This mini review presents possible neural mechanisms subserving stress effects on memory and aggression, particularly focusing on glucocorticoid (GC) hyper- and hypofunction. First, uncontrollable stress impedes hippocampal memory and long-term potentiation (LTP). Because the hippocampus is important for the stability of long-term memory and because LTP has qualities desirable of an information storage mechanism, it has been hypothesized that stress-induced alterations in LTP contribute to memory impairments. Recent evidence suggests a neural-endocrine network comprising amygdala, prefrontal cortex (PFC), and glucocorticoids may be involved in regulating stress effects on hippocampal mnemonic functioning. Second, antisocial aggressiveness correlates with chronically decreased glucocorticoid production, and this condition leads in rats to behavioral-autonomic deficits reminiscent of the human disorder. Glucocorticoid deficiency-induced antisocial aggressiveness results from functional changes in the PFC, medial and central amygdala, and altered serotonin and substance P neurotransmissions. Accordingly, a neurobiological understanding of how stress and glucocorticoid deficiency alter brain, cognition, and behavior is an important challenge facing modern neuroscience with broad implications for individual and social well-being.


Mitochondria are recognized to play a pivotal role in neuronal cell survival or death because they are regulators of both energy metabolism and apoptotic pathways. Morphologic, biochemical, and molecular genetic studies suggest that mitochondria might be a convergence point for neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The functions and properties of mitochondria might render subsets of selectively vulnerable neurons intrinsically susceptible to cellular aging and stress. However, the question, &quot;Is mitochondrial dysfunction a necessary step in neurodegeneration?&quot; is still unanswered. This review presents the ways in which malfunctioning mitochondria and oxidative stress might contribute to neuronal death in AD.
Reductions in brain glucose metabolism and increased oxidative stress invariably occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency. Both conditions cause irreversible cognitive impairment; their behavioral consequences overlap but are not identical. Thiamine-dependent processes are critical in glucose metabolism, and recent studies implicate thiamine in oxidative stress, protein processing, peroxisomal function, and gene expression. The activities of thiamine-dependent enzymes are characteristically diminished in AD, and the reductions in autopsy AD brain correlate highly with the extent of dementia in the preagonal state. Abnormalities in thiamine-dependent processes can be plausibly linked to the pathology of AD. Seemingly paradoxical properties of thiamine-dependent processes may underlie their relation to the pathophysiology of AD: Reduction of thiamine-dependent processes increase oxidative stress. Thiamine can act as a free radical scavenger. Thiamine-dependent mitochondrial dehydrogenase complexes produce oxygen free radicals and are sensitive to oxidative stress. Genetic disorders of thiamine metabolism that lead to neurological disease can be treated with large doses of thiamine. Although thiamine itself has not shown dramatic benefits in AD patients, the available data is scanty. Adding thiamine or more absorbable forms of thiamine to tested treatments for the abnormality in glucose metabolism in AD may increase their efficacy.
Extensive literature exists supporting a role for mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Mitochondria are a major source of intracellular reactive oxygen species and are particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress. This review discusses evidence supporting the notion that mitochondrial dysfunction is intimately associated with Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, the potential connection between mitochondrial dysfunction/oxidative stress and autophagy in Alzheimer's disease is also discussed. As a result of insufficient digestion of oxidatively damaged macromolecules and organelles by autophagy, neurons progressively accumulate lipofuscin (biological garbage) that could exacerbate neuronal dysfunction. The knowledge that mitochondrial dysfunction has a preponderant role in several pathological conditions instigated the development of mitochondrial antioxidant therapies. Mitochondria-targeted antioxidant treatments are briefly discussed in this review.





The purpose of this study was to compare the occurrences of coercive interventions and violence-related staff injuries before and after a 2-year violence prevention intervention on a psychiatric intensive care unit. The intervention aimed to improve nursing care by addressing patient violence from multiple perspectives. During the study, the unit was reorganized toward a higher concentration of severely disturbed patients. The results showed an increased proportion of coercive interventions without a corresponding increase in staff injuries. Use of coercive interventions is discussed in relation to a safe environment for both patients and staff.
Studies in evolutionary psychology and sexual selection theory show that heterosexual men prefer younger mating partners than heterosexual women in order to ensure reproductive success. However, previous research has generally not examined differences in mating preferences as a function of sexual orientation or the type of relationship sought in naturalistic settings. Given that homosexual men seek partners for reasons other than procreation, they may exhibit different mating preferences than their heterosexual counterparts. Moreover, mating preferences may show important differences depending on whether an individual is seeking a long-term versus a short-term relationship. The purpose of the present study was to examine these issues by comparing partner preferences in terms of age and relationship type between homosexual and heterosexual men placing internet personal advertisements. Participants included 439 homosexual and 365 heterosexual men who placed internet ads in the U.S. or Canada. Ads were coded for the participant's age, relationship type (longer-term or short-term sexual encounter) sought, and partner age preferences. Significantly more homosexual than heterosexual men sought sexual encounters, although men (regardless of sexual orientation) seeking sexual encounters preferred a significantly wider age range of partners than men seeking longer-term relationships. These findings suggest that partner preferences are independent of evolutionary drives to procreate, since both types of men preferred similar ages in their partners. In addition, they highlight the importance of examining relationship type in evolutionary studies of mating preferences, as men's partner preferences show important differences depending upon the type of relationship sought.
Early and non-invasive evaluation of hydatid infestation of brain and spine is of paramount importance, especially in endemic areas. We present a spectrum of imaging findings in neurohydatidosis with a brief review of literature.

Gonadal steroid effects during puberty are often hypothesized to account for the male advantage seen in certain spatial tasks. One spatial task where males consistently show better performance than females is the Morris Water Task in which subjects must navigate to a goal location in a pool. We examined whether sex differences exist in pre-pubertal children completing a Virtual Morris Water Task, which has previously shown strong sex differences in adults. Pre-pubertal boys show superior performance to similar-aged girls, as evidenced by shorter latencies to find the platform and stronger preferences for the platform location during a probe trial. These results suggest that sex differences in spatial learning and memory exist prior to puberty and do not appear to require the effects of sex hormones at puberty. Rather, these differences may reflect early-life hormonal effects on hippocampal-dependent processes and may suggest different preferential learning strategies by boys and girls.
The present study investigated the effects of intracebroventricular injections of 192 IgG-saporin in 7-day-old rats on (i) ultrasound vocalizations (USVs) on postnatal day (pnd) 13 following isolation and reunion with the mother and (ii) fear conditioning on pnd 18-19 recording both freezing and other behavioural responses as well as USVs. On pnd 13 lesioned and control pups showed comparable USV baseline values; a brief reunion with the mother induced a significant increase in USVs in all rats (maternal potentiation). On pnd 18, during the fear conditioning training, 192 IgG-saporin rats emitted a lower number of USVs. On pnd 19 all rats showed a stronger conditioned response (with full inhibition of locomotion) to auditory than to contextual cues. Surprisingly, lesioned rats showed a stronger fear-conditioned response to contextual cues than controls. These results suggest that early selective removal of the cholinergic basal forebrain paradoxically enhances hippocampally dependent fear-conditioned responses on pnd 19.
We exposed mouse pups to an early social enrichment, the communal nest (CN), to study the effects of the early social experiences on adult brain function and behavior. CN, which consists of a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior from birth to weaning (postnatal day 25), mimics the natural ecological niche of the mouse species. In order to better characterize the previously reported effect of CN on social behavior and to evaluate the extent to which the effects of the CN tend to be pervasive across different behavioral competences, we carried out both a detailed analysis of home-cage social behavior, taking into account the time of the day and absence/presence of an established social hierarchy, and of learning and memory abilities in the water maze. Home-cage observations revealed that, when the hierarchy is established, CN mice display higher levels of social investigation behavior, namely allogrooming and allosniffing, compared to mice reared in standard laboratory conditions (SN). However, when exposed to cage cleaning, a stimulus challenging social hierarchy, CN mice display higher levels of offensive behavior. In the water maze test, CN mice showed a performance similar to that of SN mice. Overall, the present findings confirm that CN mice have elaborate social competencies displaying high levels of aggressive behavior when needed to set up or defend their own territory. Furthermore, present data suggest that the early social enrichment specifically affect adult social behavior but not learning and memory abilities.
Several studies have suggested a positive relationship between circulating corticosterone levels and contextual conditioning. However, a positive relationship between circulating corticosterone levels and cued conditioning has also been reported. This study further investigates the relationship between corticosterone and fear conditioning by modulating the predictive value of contextual and discrete tone cues in separate groups of rats. In a first experiment in which training parameters were chosen to induce strong conditioning (five foot-shocks), we used a correlational approach and investigated whether post-training corticosterone levels were related to subsequent expression of contextual and/or tone fear. In a second experiment, in which training parameters were chosen to induce lower conditioning (one and two foot-shocks), we investigated whether a post-training corticosterone injection enhanced the consolidation of contextual and/or tone conditioning. In the first experiment, the highest post-training corticosterone levels were obtained in rats trained with paired tones and shocks. Post-training corticosterone levels tended to be positively correlated with freezing scores during the tone-fear test and were negatively correlated with freezing scores during training although not during the context-fear test. In the second experiment, a post-training injection of corticosterone (3mg/kg) had no effect on subsequent freezing to contextual cues and to a tone that did not predict shock, whereas it was efficient in increasing fear conditioned to a predictive tone. Globally, these results suggest that the predictive value of the conditioned stimulus may be the main determinant of the facilitatory action of acutely enhanced corticosterone in fear conditioning.
There is much evidence suggesting early life events, such has handling or repeated separations from the nest, can have a long-term effect on the biological and behavioral development of rats. The current study examined the effect of repeated maternal separation (MS) on the behavioral, cardiovascular, and neurobiological responses to stress in subjects vulnerable to environmental stressors as adults. Borderline hypertensive rats (BHR), which are the first generation offspring of spontaneously hyperternsive and Wistar-Kyoto rats, were separated from the dams for 3h per day from postnatal day 1 through 14. Non-separated controls remained in the home cage. When allowed to explore the open field chamber for 60 min as adults, MS subjects had significantly greater locomotor activity compared to controls. All subjects were exposed to 30 min of restraint stress during which time mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) were measured. Although both groups had comparable increases in MAP, MS animals displayed significantly higher HR throughout the stress period. Finally, MS subjects had significantly more stress-induced Fos positive cells, an estimate of neuronal activation, in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), each of which plays an important role in organizing the biobehavioral response to stress. These results suggest that maternal separation can further enhance stress reactivity in this model and may represent a useful approach for studying the relationship between early life events and future vulnerability to stressful situations.
Temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) involve a heterogeneous group of clinical conditions affecting the stomatognathic system and its related structures. Because the etiology of these disorders is still unclear, a wide range of therapeutic solutions has been proposed in the literature, including occlusal appliances, physical therapies, drugs, and biobehavioral modalities. Biobehavioral therapy could have a beneficial effect in the treatment of TMDs because of the reportedly high prevalence of psychological dysfunction in TMD patients. The authors reviewed the biobehavioral modalities used to achieve pain relief in patients affected by such disorders, with the aim of synthesizing data on the effectiveness these therapeutic approaches. Literature data suggest that the inclusion of biobehavioral interventions in the management of TMDs may be reasonable, even if no conclusions can be drawn about their long-term effectiveness.
The idea that learning proceeds as a function of the discrepancy (or error) between expected and obtained outcomes is central to many theories of associative learning. However, remarkably little is known about the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie this learning of predictive errors in fear conditioning, a widely used preparation in studies of cellular and molecular mechanisms of memory. In this issue of Behavioral Neuroscience, S. Cole and G. P. McNally demonstrate an important dissociation between the establishment and regulation of predictive error at the cellular level. Their findings have added a level of complexity to currently established views of the function of NMDA and opioid receptors in learning and memory. This commentary discusses some of the implications of these findings for theoretical and neurobiological approaches to memory, as well as current thinking about the cellular circuitry involved in reward learning and drug abuse.
Several recent studies have shown that chromatin, the DNA-protein complex that packages genomic DNA, has an important function in learning and memory. Dynamic chromatin modification via histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors and histone acetyltransferases may enhance hippocampal synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent memory. Little is known about the effects of HDAC inhibitors on extinction, a learning process through which the ability of a previously conditioned stimulus, such as a conditioning context, to evoke a conditioned response is diminished. The authors demonstrate that administration of the HDAC inhibitors sodium butyrate (NaB) systemically or trichostatin A (TSA) intrahippocampally prior to a brief (3-min) contextual extinction session causes context-evoked fear to decrease to levels observed with a long (24-min) extinction session. These results suggest that HDAC inhibitors may enhance learning during extinction and are consistent with other studies demonstrating a role for the hippocampus in contextual extinction. Molecular and behavioral mechanisms through which this enhanced extinction effect may occur are discussed.
Novelty-seeking behavior in rats is deemed to model sensation seeking in humans, a personality trait related to some psychiatric conditions, including substance abuse. Animals characterized based on their locomotor response to novelty, namely high and low responders (HRs and LRs, respectively), show differences in anxiety and drug-taking behaviors. This study evaluates the effect of anxiety-provoking situations on subsequent behaviors in these endophenotypes. Selectively bred HR and LR rats were submitted to blocks of tests consisting of two-trial light- dark (LD) and two-trial elevated plus maze (EPM) tests arranged in counterbalanced, alternating order. No differences in anxiety-like behaviors were found in HR-bred and LR-bred rats in either LD trial, regardless of the test order. Repeated exposure to the EPM test, however, resulted in enhanced behavioral response under different test orders as a function of endophenotype. Compared with HR-bred animals, LR-bred animals exhibited increased anxiety on reexposure to EPM but only if both trials were preceded by an LD test session. The emotional responses in HR-bred and LR-bred rats reported here may reflect different degrees of adaptive processing regulated by both genetic and environmental factors.
Synthetic 2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT)--a component of red fox (Vulpes vulpes) feces--is frequently used to induce unconditioned fear in rodents. Surprisingly, direct comparison between TMT and natural fox feces odor is almost nonexistent. In this study, Experiment 1 compared the avoidance in relation to TMT concentration, natural fox feces, and gender of fox and mice. Results show that the avoidance is (a) higher with either pure or 50% TMT as compared to natural fox feces, whereas the difference is slight with 10% TMT, and (b) significantly higher for the female mouse group compared to the male mouse group with TMT as well as natural fox feces. In addition, no clear difference in effect was observed between male and female fox feces. Experiment 2 compared behavioral parameters recorded as an index of fear and anxiety, general activity, and avoidance in elevated plus-maze and open-field chamber between 10% TMT and natural fox feces in relation to the estrus cycle of the mice. Results show no cycle period effect--except for the avoidance parameter &quot;distance to odorant&quot;--and no different effects between 10% TMT and natural fox feces except for freezing.
Exogenous opioids influence male rat sexual behavior, suggesting that endogenous opioid peptides are released during mating. Supporting this hypothesis, the authors recently showed that mating induced activation of mu opioid receptors. However, it is unknown which ligand(s) is acting on these receptors during mating. The current set of experiments tested the hypothesis that beta-endorphin-producing neurons, that is, proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons, are activated during sexual behavior. Mating-induced activation of POMC neurons was investigated during either the dark phase or the light phase, following different components of male rat sexual behavior or following control manipulations that resulted in general arousal. Results show activation of POMC neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus following general arousal but not specifically related to sexual behavior per se. In addition, mating did not activate the subpopulation of POMC neurons that project to the medial preoptic nucleus. These results suggest that it is unlikely that POMC neurons contribute to the action of endogenous opioids in the brain area during sexual behavior but instead may contribute to the change in arousal state essential for the expression of sexual behavior.
Repeated injections of the D2/D3 dopamine agonist, quinpirole, induce locomotor sensitization and compulsive checking behavior in rats, a phenomenon that may constitute an animal model of obsessive- compulsive disorder (OCD). Considering that the co-joint treatment with quinpirole and the kappa opioid receptor agonist U69593 potentiates locomotor sensitization to quinpirole, the present study examined whether such co-stimulation of kappa and dopamine receptors also enhances compulsive checking and whether dopamine receptor supersensitivity mediates the augmentation effects. Results showed that co-treatment of quinpirole and U69593 had a robust accelerating effect on the acquisition of sensitized locomotion and compulsive checking but that the effects on the expression of quinpirole sensitization were behavior dependent, with increased magnitude of locomotion but not of compulsive checking. Quinpirole and even U69593, which by itself did not induce sensitization, increased the proportion of dopamine D2 receptors in the high-affinity state (D2(High)) in the nucleus accumbens and striatum, indicating that elevation of D2(High) is not sufficient to account for sensitization or compulsive checking. The animal model findings point to a potential role of kappa opioid systems in hastening the pathogenesis of OCD and to the possibility that distinct brain regions may mediate the development and the expression of compulsive checking.
It has previously been reported that general learning ability (GLA) correlates positively with exploratory tendencies in individual outbred mice. This finding suggests the possibility that variations in stress reactivity modulate GLA and thus its relationship to exploratory tendencies. Here, the authors investigated the potential role of stress reactivity in regulating this relationship by assessing the effects of the anxiolytic chlorodiazepoxide (CDP; 10 mg/kg) on subjects' performance in a battery of diverse learning tasks as well as exploratory behaviors and stress reactivity. CDP-treated mice exhibited reductions in stress-induced corticosterone levels and behavioral reactivity to mild stressors and a corresponding increase in exploration. However, CDP-treated mice did not exhibit facilitated acquisition of any of the learning tasks and expressed GLA comparable to controls. Results indicate that although reduced stress reactivity promotes exploration, this does not translate into an up-regulation of GLA, suggesting that the relationship between GLA and exploration is not mediated by stress reactivity. The authors propose that variations in GLA reflect individuals' propensity for novelty seeking, whereas exploration reflects both stress reactivity and novelty seeking, the latter of which may underlie the relationship between exploration and GLA.
In hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure during adolescence facilitates offensive aggression that is correlated with the enhanced development of the arginine vasopressin (AVP) neural system and reduced development of the serotonin (5-HT) neural system in the anterior hypothalamus (AH). This study examined the temporal onset of these effects by measuring aggression and AH AVP and 5-HT during progressively shorter periods of AAS exposure during adolescent development. The authors tested adolescent hamsters that received AAS for 3, 7, 14, or 28 days for offensive aggression and then examined the hamsters for AVP/5-HT afferent innervation to the AH using immunohistochemistry. While reductions in AH 5-HT afferent innervation were detectable by 7 days of AAS exposure, no concomitant increases in offensive aggression were observed compared to oil-treated littermates. In contrast, by Day 14 of AAS treatment, AH AVP and offensive aggression were significantly higher than oil-treated controls. These data indicate that relatively short-term adolescent AAS exposure alters aggression and AH 5-HT and AVP development, yet only alterations in AH AVP development correlate with temporal onset of the aggressive behavioral phenotype during adolescent AAS exposure.
A wide variety of behaviors in several species has been statistically associated with the natural variations in geomagnetism. To examine whether changes in geomagnetic activity are associated with pain thresholds, adult mice were exposed to a hotplate paradigm once weekly for 52 weeks during the dark cycle. Planetary A index values from the previous 6 days of a given hotplate session were correlated with the mean response latency for subjects to the thermal stimulus. We found that hotplate latency was significantly (P &lt; 0.05) and inversely correlated (rho = -0.25) with the daily geomagnetic intensity 3 days prior to testing. Therefore, if the geomagnetic activity was greater 3 days before a given hotplate trial, subjects tended to exhibit shorter response latencies, suggesting lower pain thresholds or less analgesia. These results are supported by related experimental findings and suggest that natural variations in geomagnetic intensity may influence nociceptive behaviors in mice.
The influence of cortical feedback on thalamic visual responses has been a source of much discussion in recent years. In this study we examine the possible role of cortical feedback in shaping the spatiotemporal receptive field (STRF) responses of thalamocortical (TC) cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus. A population-based computational model of the thalamocortical network is used to generate a representation of the STRF response of LGN TC cells within the corticothalamic feedback circuit. The cortical feedback is shown to have little influence on the spatial response properties of the STRF organization. However, the model suggests that cortical feedback may play a key role in modifying the experimentally observed biphasic temporal response property of the STRF, that is, the reversal over time of the polarity of ON and OFF responses of the centre and surround of the receptive field, in particular accounting for the experimentally observed mismatch between retinal cells and TC cells in respect of the magnitude of the second (rebound) phase of the temporal response. The model results also show that this mismatch may result from an anti-phase corticothalamic feedback mechanism.



Children with ADHD make more errors than control children in response-conflict tasks. To explore whether this is mediated by enhanced sensitivity to conflict or reduced error-processing, task-related brain activity (N2, Ne/ERN, Pe) was compared between 8- to 12-year-old children with ADHD and healthy controls during performance of a flanker task. Furthermore, effects of methylphenidate were investigated in ADHD children in a second study. ADHD children made more errors, especially in high-response-conflict conditions, without showing post-error slowing. N2 amplitudes were enhanced on trials resulting in an error response, Ne/ERN amplitude was unaffected and Pe amplitude was reduced in the ADHD group. Methylphenidate reduced errors in both low- and high-conflict conditions and normalized Pe amplitudes in children with ADHD. It was concluded that the inaccurate behaviour of ADHD children in conflict tasks might be related to reduced error-awareness and higher sensitivity to response conflict. Methylphenidate's ameliorating effects might be established through its influence on brain networks including posterior (parietal) cortex, enabling children with ADHD to allocate more attention to significant events.
Neuroscience research indicates that individual differences in anxiety may be attributable to a neural system for threat-processing, involving the amygdala, which modulates attentional vigilance, and which is more sensitive to fearful than angry faces. Complementary cognitive studies indicate that high-anxious individuals show enhanced visuospatial orienting towards angry faces, but it is unclear whether fearful faces elicit a similar attentional bias. This study compared biases in initial orienting of gaze to fearful and angry faces, which varied in emotional intensity, in high- and low-anxious individuals. Gaze was monitored whilst participants viewed a series of face-pairs. Results showed that fearful and angry faces elicited similar attentional biases. High-anxious individuals were more likely to direct gaze at intense negative facial expressions, than low-anxious individuals, whereas the groups did not differ in orienting to mild negative expressions. Implications of the findings for research into the neural and cognitive bases of emotion processing are discussed.
Evaluation of Sagare A, Deane R, Bell RD et al.: Clearance of amyloid-beta by circulating lipoprotein receptors. Nat. Med. (2007) (Epub ahead of print) [1] . Sagare and coworkers have identified a major amyloid-beta (Abeta)-binding protein in plasma low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1). This protein may bind 70-90% of the Abeta that circulates in peripheral blood and seems to function as a peripheral sink for Alzheimer's disease (AD) causing brain Abeta. Using a mouse model of AD, the authors demonstrate that boosting the capacity of the sink by administering a recombinant form of soluble LRP1 (sLRP1) reduces brain amyloid plaque load and improves learning and memory. They extend these results by demonstrating that patients with AD have depressed plasma sLRP1 levels. Their data suggest that exogenously administered, recombinant sLRP1 may provide a novel approach to reduce or reverse the AD-related build up of Abeta in the brain. Furthermore, it would be interesting to explore the possibility that reduced sLRP1 levels in plasma may be a specific biochemical sign of incipient AD.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a powerful tool in the study of the course of nerve fiber bundles in the human brain. Using DTI, the local fiber orientation in each image voxel can be described by a diffusion tensor which is constructed from local measurements of diffusion coefficients along several directions. The measured diffusion coefficients and thereby the diffusion tensors are subject to noise, leading to possibly flawed representations of the 3-dimensional (3D) fiber bundles. In this paper, we develop a Bayesian procedure for regularizing the diffusion tensor field, fully utilizing the available 3D information of fiber orientation. The use of the procedure is exemplified on synthetic and in vivo data.


Based upon animal experiments and early clinical trials, neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists showed promise as novel antidepressants. Subsequently, however, more extensive clinical trials did not reveal evidence of efficacy in depression. The development of novel antidepressants will require a better understanding of the neural basis of antidepressant action in humans.
To determine the frequency of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in patients presenting with progressive focal cortical syndromes, notably posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), corticobasal syndrome (CBS), behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) (or a mixed aphasia) and semantic dementia (SD); and to compare the age of onset, evolution and prognosis in patients with focal cortical presentations of AD versus more typical AD and those with non AD pathology. From a total of 200 patients with comprehensive prospective clinical and pathological data we selected 120 : 100 consecutive cases with focal cortical syndromes and 20 with clinically typical AD. Clinical files were reviewed blind to pathological diagnosis. Of the 100 patients with focal syndromes, 34 had AD as the primary pathological diagnosis with the following distribution across clinical subtypes: all 7 of the PCA (100%); 6 of 12 with CBS (50%); 2 of 28 with bvFTD (7.1%); 12 of 26 with PNFA (44.1%); 5 of 7 with mixed aphasia (71.4%) and 2 of 20 with SD (10%). Of 20 with clinically typical AD, 19 had pathological AD. Age at both onset and death was greater in the atypical AD cases than those with non-AD pathology, although survival was equivalent. AD is a much commoner cause of focal cortical syndromes than previously recognised, particularly in PCA, PNFA and CBS, but rarely causes SD or bvFTD. The focal syndrome may remain pure for many years. Patients with atypical AD tend to be older than those with non-AD pathology.
Neuronal and axonal degeneration results in irreversible neurological disability in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. A number of adaptive or neuroprotective mechanisms are thought to repress neurodegeneration and neurological disability in MS patients. To investigate possible neuroprotective pathways in the cerebral cortex of MS patients, we compared gene transcripts in cortices of six control and six MS patients. Out of 67 transcripts increased in MS cortex nine were related to the signalling mediated by the neurotrophin ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). Therefore, we quantified and localized transcriptional (RT-PCR, in situ hybridization) and translational (western, immunohistochemistry) products of CNTF-related genes. CNTF-receptor complex members, CNTFRalpha, LIFRbeta and GP130, were increased in MS cortical neurons. CNTF was increased and also expressed by neurons. Phosphorylated STAT3 and the anti-apoptotic molecule, Bcl2, known down stream products of CNTF signalling were also increased in MS cortical neurons. We hypothesize that in response to the chronic insults or stress of the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, cortical neurons up regulate a CNTF-mediated neuroprotective signalling pathway. Induction of CNTF signalling and the anti-apoptotic molecule, Bcl2, thus represents a compensatory response to disease pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target in MS patients.

The neurodegenerative aspects of chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) have received increasing attention in recent years, since anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive treatment strategies have largely failed. However, successful neuroprotection and/or neuroregeneration in MS have not been demonstrated yet. Encouraged by the multifaceted neuroprotective effects of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) in experimental models, we performed an investigator-driven, exploratory open label study (phase I/IIa) in patients with chronic progressive MS. Main study objectives were (i) evaluating safety of long-term high-dose intravenous rhEPO treatment in MS, and (ii) collecting first evidence of potential efficacy on clinical outcome parameters. Eight MS patients, five randomly assigned to high-dose (48,000 IU), three to low-dose (8000 IU) rhEPO treatment, and, as disease controls, two drug-nave Parkinson patients (receiving 48,000 IU) were followed over up to 48 weeks: A 6-week lead-in phase, a 12-week treatment phase with weekly EPO, another 12-week treatment phase with bi-weekly EPO, and a 24-week post-treatment phase. Clinical and electrophysiological improvement of motor function, reflected by a reduction in expanded disability status scale (EDSS), and of cognitive performance was found upon high-dose EPO treatment in MS patients, persisting for three to six months after cessation of EPO application. In contrast, low-dose EPO MS patients and drug-nave Parkinson patients did not improve in any of the parameters tested. There were no adverse events, no safety concerns and a surprisingly low need of blood-lettings. This first pilot study demonstrates the necessity and feasibility of controlled trials using high-dose rhEPO in chronic progressive MS.
Administration of the bacterial cell wall component, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), stimulates the immune and endocrine systems inducing an acute phase of sickness and stress responses in adult and neonatal rats. Neonatal LPS exposure has been shown to alter a variety of behavioural and physiological processes in the adult animal. Early developmental stress, such as maternal separation, causes similar acute as well as long-term behavioural changes in adults, including altered sensitivity to drugs of abuse. Moreover, results of studies have shown evidence of a direct link between immune activation and sensitivity to dopamine-based drugs of abuse. The current study examined the effects of neonatal LPS treatment on subsequent locomotor sensitization to the dopamine (D(2)/D(3)) agonist, quinpirole, in adult rats as an index of drug sensitivity. Male and female Long-Evans rats were treated systemically with either LPS (50microg/kg) or saline (0.9%) on postnatal days 3 and 5. Locomotor sensitization was then examined in the adult rats (postnatal day 70). Animals were injected with quinpirole (0.5mg/kg, s.c.) or saline every other day for a total of 10 injections and locomotor activity was assessed for 60min immediately following injections 1, 2, 4, 6, and 10. Animals also received a 'challenge' injection of 0.5mg/kg quinpirole 28 days after injection 10, to assess persistence of behavioural sensitization. Locomotor activity progressively increased with repeated administration of quinpirole, indicating locomotor sensitization in all of the drug-treated groups. There was an overall sex difference, with females showing significantly greater sensitization than males. Moreover, neonatal LPS treatment potentiated both the level and the rate of development of locomotor sensitization to quinpirole administration in females, but not in males. Thus, the current study revealed that neonatal exposure to bacterial infection increases dopamine (D(2)/D(3)) agonist sensitivity in a sex-specific manner. These findings have important implications for the sexually dimorphic development of addictions to both natural and artificial rewards.
Individuals with autism demonstrate impairments on measures of executive function (EF) relative to typically developing comparison participants. EF is comprised of several processes including inhibition, working memory and set shifting that develop throughout the lifespan. Impairments in EF may appear early in development and persist, or may represent a more transient delay which resolves with time. Given the unevenness of the cognitive profile of persons with autism, understanding the development of EF poses methodological challenges. These issues include those related to matching measures and the choice of comparison participants to which the performance of persons with autism will be compared. In the current review, we attempt to break down the processes of inhibition, working memory and set shifting among persons with autism. We propose to do this within a developmental perspective that highlights how matching measures and comparison participants can affect the interpretation of research findings.
Children become oriented to the world, in part, by coming to understand something of the experiences of others. The facial expressions that people make are an avenue for understanding something about them, as are the diverse forms of bodily responses emitted and interpreted by individuals. People with autism often find bodily communications to be aversive, thereby limiting what they can learn from others during social interactions. The amygdala is an important area of the brain, amongst others, for integrating the internal milieu with the social ambiance. Individuals with autism consistently demonstrate dysregulation of amygdala function. Diverse regions of the amygdala, which contain neuropeptides, figure in the appraisal systems that underlie behavioral approach and avoidance responses. One neuropeptide linked to social recognition and approach behaviors is oxytocin (which is known to be decreased in autistic individuals) and another neuropeptide corticotropin releasing hormone is tied to avoidance behaviors. A neuroendocrine hypothesis is suggested to account for some of the features associated with autism.
Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is currently recognized as the most common known cause of mental retardation, affecting from 1 to 7 per 1000 live-born infants. Individuals with FAS suffer from changes in brain structure, cognitive impairments, and behavior problems. Researchers investigating neuropsychological functioning have identified deficits in learning, memory, executive functioning, hyperactivity, impulsivity, and poor communication and social skills in individuals with FAS and fetal alcohol effects (FAE). Investigators using autopsy and brain imaging methods have identified microcephaly and structural abnormalities in various regions of the brain (including the basal ganglia, corpus callosum, cerebellum, and hippocampus) that may account for the neuropsychological deficits. Results of studies using newer brain imaging and analytic techniques have indicated specific alterations (i.e., displacements in the corpus callosum, increased gray matter density in the perisylvian regions, altered gray matter asymmetry, and disproportionate reductions in the frontal lobes) in the brains of individuals prenatally exposed to alcohol, and their relations with brain function. Future research, including using animal models, could help inform our knowledge of brain-behavior relations in the context of prenatal alcohol exposure, and assist with early identification and intervention.
Many studies have shown that infants prefer infant-directed (ID) speech to adult-directed (AD) speech. ID speech functions to aid language learning, obtain and/or maintain an infant's attention, and create emotional communication between the infant and caregiver. We examined psychophysiological responses to ID speech that varied in affective content (i.e., love/comfort, surprise, fear) in a group of typically developing 9-month-old infants. Regional EEG and heart rate were collected continuously during stimulus presentation. We found the pattern of overall frontal EEG power was linearly related to affective intensity of the ID speech, such that EEG power was greatest in response to fear, than surprise than love/comfort; this linear pattern was specific to the frontal region. We also noted that heart rate decelerated to ID speech independent of affective content. As well, infants who were reported by their mothers as temperamentally distressed tended to exhibit greater relative right frontal EEG activity during baseline and in response to affective ID speech, consistent with previous work with visual stimuli and extending it to the auditory modality. Findings are discussed in terms of how increases in frontal EEG power in response to different affective intensity may reflect the cognitive aspects of emotional processing across sensory domains in infancy.
Recent data suggest that subthreshold presentation of emotional information is relayed to the amygdala along subcortical pathways. We examined the effect of backward masked neutral and anxious faces on the social decisions of a group of high functioning children with autism ages 7-13 years and matched controls. Participants were asked to select the friendliest of two faces, one of which was associated with the subthreshold (33 ms) presentation of an anxious face (A/N) and the other a subthreshold neutral face (N/N). Neutral paired faces were selected more often than A/N paired faces by both groups. However, children with autism selected significantly fewer N/N stimuli and more A/N stimuli than controls. These results suggest that the social choices of children with autism were influenced less by emotional information presented subconsciously and suggest a subcortical contribution to the social/emotional processing deficits observed in autism.
The looking behavior of children with pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) and age- and IQ-matched normal control children was studied using infrared oculography. Stimuli varying in complexity and topic were presented to test whether children with PDD have specific abnormalities in looking behavior to complex stimuli and/or to faces. All children showed more and longer fixations on the complex objects than on the simple objects, especially the complex nonsense figure, but group differences were not found. The results show no evidence for specific abnormalities in looking behavior to either faces or to complex stimuli in high functioning children with PDD.
The social neuroscience of child and adolescent depression is inherently multidisciplinary. Depressive disorders beginning early in life can have serious developmental and functional consequences. Psychopathology research has described depression's defining clinical and contextual features, and intervention research has characterized its response to treatment and prevention programs. Neuroendocrine, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging studies have identified core neurobiological aspects of early-onset mood disorders. These areas are reviewed using a developmental social neuroscience perspective for integrating disparate observations. The paper introduces a dynamic adaptive systems framework, and it discusses hedonic capacity, stress sensitivity, ruminative self-focus, and attentional impairments as fundamental components of mood disorders.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are manifest as impairments in social interaction, language and speech development, and the appearance of repetitive behaviors with restricted interests. Motor impairments in individuals with ASD have been categorized as &quot;associated symptoms&quot;. The objective of this study was to describe the prevalence of motor deficits in ASD. Specifically, using retrospective clinical record review, we report the prevalence of hypotonia, motor apraxia, reduced ankle mobility, history of gross motor delay, and toe-walking, as well as the improvement of these symptoms with age, in a cohort of 154 children with ASD. The possible association of motor deficits with epilepsy or developmental regression was also assessed. To address whether the motor deficits in children with ASD were properly identified and treated, we evaluated whether the children with the motor deficits were more likely to receive physical and/or occupational therapies as compared to the children with ASD who did not show motor deficits. Hypotonia was the most common motor symptom in our ASD cohort (51%) and this appeared to improve over time, as suggested by the significant reduction in prevalence in older children (p=0.002). Likewise, motor apraxia (34%) showed a tendency to be more prevalent among younger children as compared with older children (p=0.06). Historical intermittent toe-walking was found in 19% of children while reduced ankle mobility was a rare occurrence. Gross motor delay was reported in 9% of children, all of whom gained motor independence by the time of examination. Except for gross motor delay, ASD children with fine motor deficits were not more likely to receive interventional services, as compared with ASD children without the motor deficits. The results suggest that fine motor control and programming deficits are common co-occurrence of children with ASD in this cohort. The reduced prevalence of these motor deficits in older children suggests improvement over time, whether through natural progression, results of interventional therapy, or the combination of the two. However, ASD children with the motor deficits were not more likely to receive service than those without the motor deficits.

Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience methods reveal the potential of neuroimaging as be a useful tool in clinical and educational practice. In this review, we review the literature and provide evidence that functional and structural neuroimaging can detect changes with treatment. Further, we show promising initial results showing that the addition of neuroimaging measures can enhance conventional methods to predict outcome and prognosis. Examples are drawn from disorders such as attention-deficit / hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), depression, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), temporal lobe epilepsy, Alzheimer disease and developmental dyslexia. This evidence raises the intriguing possibility of utilizing neuroimaging data as a critical component in assessing and predicting cognitive abilities and
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by selective loss of motoneurons leading to progressive paralysis and death by respiratory failure. Since the discovery of the mutation of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene in patients with familial ALS, transgenic mice and rats expressing human mutant SOD1 have been the most widely used experimental models to elucidate the pathomechanism of and the therapeutic approach against familial ALS as well as sporadic ALS. Most cases of ALS, however, are considered to be sporadic and of unknown etiology. In another animal model of adult motoneuron degeneration, proximal axonal injury (avulsion) of peripheral nerves exhibits extensive loss of motoneurons in adult rats. The mechanism of motoneuron degeneration after avulsion also remains unclear, but peroxinitrite-mediated oxidative damage and perikaryal accumulation of phosphorylated neurofilaments have been demonstrated in injured motoneurons after avulsion. Both of these pathological features have also been shown in spinal motoneurons in mutant SOD1-tg animals as well as in patients with familial and sporadic ALS. In this review, we presented experimental studies on peripheral nerve avulsion models in adult rats to investigate pathomechanisms of motoneuron degeneration and to explore therapeutic strategies against motoneuron injury and motoneuron diseases such as ALS.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder affecting both upper and lower motor neurons. Weakness may begin in the legs, hands, proximal arms, or pharynx. The course is relentless and progressive without remissions, relapses, or even stable plateaus. There is no effective drug therapy for ALS, although riluzole has been shown to prolong life in sufferers, without tracheostomy. A vitamin B12 analog, methylcobalamin, has a protective effect on cultured cortical neurons against glutamate-induced cytotoxicity. We have shown the ultra-high-dose methylcobalamin (25 mg/day i.m.) slows down the progressive reduction of the CMAP (compound muscle action potential) amplitudes in ALS in the short term (4 weeks). The latencies of SSR (sympathetic skin response) were shorter after treatment (50 mg/day i.v., 2 weeks). In the long-term effect of methylcobalamin (50 mg/day i.m., twice a week), the survival time (or the period to become respirator-bound) was significantly longer in the treated group than in the untreated. Larger-scale randomized double blind trial was started in Japan in order to evaluate the long-term efficacy and the safety of ultra-high-dose methylcobalamin for sporadic or familial cases of ALS.
The amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) were the fatal neurological diseases, showing very high incidence during 1945-1965 and dramatic decrease after 1970 on Guam. Based on the findings obtained, it is proposed that (a) NFTs in ALS of Guam are merely a background feature widely distributed in this population, (b) Guam ALS occurs initially as classic ALS, (c) ALS-PDC mixed patient is a case combined with classic ALS and neurofibrillary degeneration, (d) thus a subtype of &quot;Guam ALS&quot; is not present, (e) PDC and ALS of Guam are basically different diseases, and (f) PDC is a discrete disease entity.
While the cause of autism remains unknown, the high concordance between monozygotic twins supports a strong genetic component. The importance of genetic factors in autism encourages the development of mutant mouse models, to advance our understanding of biological mechanisms underlying autistic behaviors. Mouse models of human neuropsychiatric diseases are designed to optimize (i) face validity (resemblance to the human symptoms) (ii) construct validity (similarity to the underlying causes of the disease) and (iii) predictive validity (expected responses to treatments that are effective in the human disease). There is a growing need for mouse behavioral tasks with all three types of validity, to define robust phenotypes in mouse models of autism. Ideal mouse models will incorporate analogies to the three diagnostic symptoms of autism: abnormal social interactions, deficits in communication and high levels of repetitive behaviors. Social approach is tested in an automated three chambered apparatus that offers the subject a choice between spending time with another mouse, with a novel object, or remaining in an empty familiar environment. Reciprocal social interaction is scored from videotapes of interactions between pairs of unfamiliar mice. Communication is evaluated by measuring emission and responses to vocalizations and olfactory cues. Repetitive behaviors are scored for measures of grooming, jumping, or stereotyped sniffing of one location or object. Insistence on sameness is modeled by scoring a change in habit, for example, reversal of the spatial location of a reinforcer in the Morris water maze or T-maze. Associated features of autism, for example, mouse phenotypes relevant to anxiety, seizures, sleep disturbances and sensory hypersensitivity, may be useful to include in a mouse model that meets some of the core diagnostic criteria. Applications of these assays include (i) behavioral phenotyping of transgenic and knockout mice with mutations in genes relevant to autism; (ii) characterization of inbred strains of mice; (iii) evaluation of environmental toxins; (iv) comparison of behavioral phenotypes with genetic factors, such as unusual expression patterns of genes or unusual single nucleotide polymorphisms; and (v) evaluation of proposed therapeutics for the treatment of autism.
One avenue of progress toward understanding the neurobiological basis of autism is through the detailed study of the post-mortem brain from affected individuals. The primary purpose of autism brain tissue banking is to make well-characterized and optimally preserved post-mortem brain tissue available to the neuroscience research community. In this paper we discuss our current understanding of the criteria for optimal characterization and preservation of post-mortem brain tissue; the pitfalls associated with inadequate clinical and neuropathological characterization and the advantages and disadvantages of post-mortem studies of the brain. We then describe the current status of the brain tissue bank supported by the Autism Tissue Program, including the demographic characteristics of the tissue donors, post-mortem interval, sex, age and the method of preservation. Finally, we provide information on the policies and procedures that govern the distribution of brain specimens by this bank and the nature of the studies that are currently being supported directly by this program.
Until recently, autism, along with the other developmental disabilities, was largely ignored by the medical and research community. At this early point in our understanding of the syndrome, neurobiologists and especially those who work with human brain tissue have a great deal to offer. A thorough understanding of the clinically defined syndrome is essential. Along with the other psychiatric diseases listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), autism is defined by gross behavioral macros that, in all probability, are only indirectly related to basic biological systems. The diagnostic schema is not etiologically based. The diagnostic triad of symptoms that defines autism--impaired communication, impaired social interaction, and restricted and repetitive interests and activities--has been found to be present in the general population with no clear demarcation between pathological severity and being a common trait. In addition, the three basic symptoms of autism appear not to associate highly, thus leaving undetermined the validity of studying autism in its currently defined triad of symptoms. It is proposed that a close working relationship between neurobiologists and clinicians is necessary in order to identify etiologically based diagnostic schemas that would complement, rather than replace, the clinical diagnosis.
The main legacies of Cajal are his drawings of brain structure and their connections, and his ideas of brain plasticity, not only in the mature brain but also during development and after brain injury. As the 21st century begins, many scientists are asking an old question: &quot;how does the brain express the mind?&quot; Although most models of mind incorporate the brain connections produced by Cajal, his ideas of plasticity are largely ignored. The purpose of this chapter is to review how some of Cajal's ideas can be useful in understanding the expression of the mind. I have also introduced several concepts and facts not available during Cajal's life. I cover the concept of homeostasis, the global projections of the monoamine neurons, and the actions of &quot;mind-expanding&quot; drugs. The global projecting neurons, because their monoamine transmitters have such a long history, are considered 1st order systems. The point-to-point connections are considered 2nd order systems. Their importance in theories of functional localization studies is briefly reviewed. Finally, a new model is presented called &quot;Plastic Homeostasis,&quot; which incorporates the plastic interactions between 1st and 2nd order neurons. It is hoped that this review will encourage others to study the ideas presented by Cajal when considering functions of the brain. The emerging models of the mind would be well served by a review of the theoretical writing of Cajal.

At the time of Golgi and Cajal's reception of the Nobel Prize in 1906 most scientists had accepted the notion that neurons are independent units. Although neuroscientists today still believe that neurons are independent anatomical units, functionally, it is thought that some sort of population coding occurs. Throughout this essay, we provide evidence that suggests that populations of neurons can code information through the synchronization of their responses. This synchronization occurs at several levels in the brain. Whereas spike synchrony refers to the correlation between spikes of different neurons' spike trains, oscillatory synchrony refers to the synchronization of oscillatory responses, generally among large groups of neurons. In the first section of this essay we describe the dependence of the brain's developmental processes on synchronous firing and how these processes form a brain that supports and is sensitive to synchronous spikes. Data are then presented that suggest that spike and oscillatory synchrony may serve as useful neural codes. Examples from sensory (auditory, olfactory and somatosensory), motor and higher cognitive (attention, memory) systems are then presented to illustrate potential roles for these synchronous codes in normal brain function. Results from these studies collectively suggest that spike synchrony in sensory and motor systems may provide detail information not available from changes in firing rate. Oscillatory synchrony, on the other hand, may be globally involved in the coordination of long-distance neuronal communication during higher cognitive processes. These concepts represent a dramatic shift in direction since the times of Golgi and Cajal.
This essay explores the contributions to the organization of neuronal microcircuits in the cerebral cortex by Rafael Lorente de N, a renowned disciple of Santiago Ramn y Cajal. Lorente de N was impressed by the advances in functional parcellation of the cerebral cortex, and wished to find an anatomical correlate, not in cytoarchitectonic charts but in the fine details of neurons and (soon) of neuronal circuits within a cortical locale. His early analysis culminated in two major papers in 1933 and 1934: he introduced a hypothetical frame in which to integrate circuit anatomical complexity with the ideas on the physiology of the neuron prevalent at the time. In an interlude (1934-1938), Lorente embarked in studies of neuron physiology that inclined him to a reductionist interpretation of the axon as the main functionally relevant entity of neurons. This essay describes my attempts at tracing the links between the master's tradition, the minutiae in the early Golgi studies by Lorente and his concepts of neurophysiology. These are the bases to approach his final synthesis: The cerebral cortex: architecture, intracortical connections and motor projections, published as an invited chapter in J.F. Fulton's &quot;Physiology of the Nervous System&quot; in 1938.
This essay commences with a consideration of the relative contributions of Cajal and Golgi to the study of the anatomy of the nervous system. It demonstrates the extent to which Cajal depended upon Golgi's work and how his modifications of the Golgi technique permitted a remarkable series of investigations in which the foundations of the neuron doctrine were laid and in which the intrinsic connectivity of virtually every part of the central nervous system was charted. Cajal's readiness to seize on and develop new techniques was one of the many keys to his success. After him, neuroanatomical studies tended to be focused more on long tract connectivity, using techniques such as those of Nissl and Marchi that had been in place before Cajal commenced his studies. Development of degeneration-based techniques of tracing connections in the late 1950s spearheaded a revolution in neuroanatomy while introduction of mixed aldehyde fixation made possible similarly intensive studies of the fine structure of the nervous system. At this time, the Golgi technique experienced a brief resurgence as neuroanatomists made efforts to bridge the gap between light and electron microscopy. Later developments in techniques for tracing connections included anterograde tracing by autoradiography and retrograde tracing by horseradish peroxidase. These were soon superseded by tracing techniques of increasing sensitivity and specificity that rely upon the cellular and molecular biology of neurons. Although neuroanatomy in its traditional form is perhaps no longer fashionable as a discipline, the techniques of neuroanatomy remain preeminent in many, perhaps all areas of neuroscience.
Santiago Ramn y Cajal described a number of somatosensory structures, including several associated with pain, in his major work on the Histology of the Nervous System of Man and Vertebrates. Our knowledge of such structures has been considerably expanded since Cajal because of the introduction of a number of experimental approaches that were not available in his time. For example, Cajal made several drawings of peripheral mechanoreceptors, as well as of bare nerve endings, but later work by others described additional somatosensory receptors and investigated the ultrastructure of bare nerve endings. Furthermore, the transducer molecules responsible for responses to nociceptive, thermal or chemical stimuli are now becoming known, including a series of TRP (transient receptor potential) receptor molecules, such as TRPV1 (the capsaicin receptor). Cajal described the development of dorsal root and other sensory ganglion cells and related the disposition of their somata and neurites to his theory of the functional polarity of neurons. He described the entry of both large and small afferent fibers into the spinal cord, including the projections of their collaterals into different parts of the gray matter and into different white matter tracts. He described a number of types of neurons in the gray matter, including ones in the marginal zone, substantia gelatinosa and head and neck of the dorsal horn. He found neurons in the deep dorsal horn whose dendrites extend dorsally into the superficial dorsal horn. Some of these neurons have since been shown by retrograde labeling to be spinothalamic tract cells. Cajal clearly described the dorsal column/medial lemniscus pathway, but the presence and course of the spinothalamic tract was unknown at the time.
1906 was a landmark year in the history of the study of the nervous system, most notably for the first 'neuroscience' Nobel prize given to the anatomists Ramon Y Cajal and Camillo Golgi. 1906 is less well known for another event, also of great significance for neuroscience, namely the publication of Charles Sherrington's book 'The Integrative Action of the Nervous system'. It was Cajal and Golgi who debated the anatomical evidence for the synapse and it was Sherrington who laid its foundation in electrophysiological function. In tribute to these pioneers in synaptic biology, this article will address the issue of synapse diversity from the molecular point of view. In particular I will reflect upon efforts to obtain a complete molecular characterisation of the synapse and the unexpectedly high degree of molecular complexity found within it. A case will be made for developing approaches that can be used to generate a general catalogue of synapse types based on molecular markers, which should have wide application.
The relationship between structure and function in the brain has an interesting counterpart in the scientific relationship of Santiago Ramon y Cajal and Charles Sherrington. In their search for the principles of organization of the nervous system, both men met at the synapse. For Sherrington, who coined the word 'synapse', the neuron was the functional unit that integrated excitatory and inhibitory input. For Cajal, the synapse was the explanation for how neurons could be individual elements, yet connected to form circuits. Both men were primarily concerned with local circuits in spinal cord and brain, but imaginatively extrapolated their discoveries on simple circuits to higher cognitive functions. Both men wrote poetically about their discoveries and so provided neuroscience with a rich vocabulary, vivid and memorable images, and concepts that remain part of the currency of 21st century neuroscience.
The Golgi staining method has served neuroscience well for more than a century. In this assay I review recent progresses using genetic methods to recapitulate and extend the Golgi staining method. These methods enable new discoveries on organization and development of neuronal circuits in the fly and mouse brains.
While Golgi's concept of the sensory neuron provided sound reasons for his rejection of the polarity principles underlying the 'neuron doctrine', it is now apparent that his concern about recovery of function after injury and the vast modern findings of ephemerality of connexin-clustered connections in the cerebral cortex and elsewhere in the central nervous system, and credibly termed 'reticularist', has somewhat eclipsed the polarized neuron doctrine of reflex physiology with the &quot;fixed and immutable&quot; connections championed by Cajal. Although Golgi's view was not the result of incisive reasoning based on subsequently confirmed observation, both principles espoused by these combatant Nobel laureate partners have proven robustly operative in different spheres and time frames of neural activity that have vastly enhanced contemporary understanding of neural connectivity.
The Cajal Club is a small organization of neuroscientists that has met annually since it was founded in 1947. The fourteen founding members voted at its organizational meeting that the Club be named to honor the great Spanish Neuroscientist, Santiago Ramon y Cajal. The beginnings and the early development of the Cajal Club that was led by Professor Wendell J. S. Krieg, a distinguished neuroanatomist and artist, are described. Since its beginnings, the Cajal Club meetings have provided a forum where scientists and their students can gather congenially to present and discuss research on the nervous system. In the 1980s, Wendell J. S. Krieg sold his summer home near Woods Hole, Massachusetts and donated part of the proceeds from that sale to the Cajal Club to fund awards for recognizing scientists and students for outstanding research on the cerebral cortex. The Cajal Club voted that the awards thus funded would be called Krieg Cortical Kudos. Now these awards have honored more than 60 investigators in this country and aboard for their outstanding research contributions. The development and final form of the contributions by the Krieg family for the Krieg Cortical Kudos awards are described.
Over a hundred years ago, Santiago Ramn y Cajal used a new staining method developed by Camillo Golgi to visualize, among many other structures, what we today call the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of the midbrain. Over the years, the DRN has emerged as a multifunctional and multitransmitter nucleus, which modulates or influences many CNS processes. It is a phylogenetically old brain area, whose projections reach out to a large number of regions and nuclei of the CNS, particularly in the forebrain. Several DRN-related discoveries are tightly connected with important events in the history of neuroscience, for example the invention of new histological methods, the discovery of new neurotransmitter systems and the link between neurotransmitter function and mood disorders. One of the main reasons for the wide current interest in the DRN is the nucleus' involvement in depression. This involvement is particularly attributable to the main transmitter of the DRN, serotonin. Starting with a historical perspective, this essay describes the morphology, ascending projections and multitransmitter nature of the DRN, and stresses its role as a key target for depression research.
In 1906 the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was shared between Camillo Golgi and Ramn y Cajal in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system. Golgi's most impressive contribution was his method, described in 1873. This was applied in studies of the cerebellum, the olfactory bulb, hippocampus and the spinal cord. These studies together with his earlier work were included in his Opera Omnia, published in 1903. His method was highly praised by Cajal. His adherence to the reticular theory was opposed by Cajal, however, who had spelled out the neuron theory already in the late 1800s. Cajal's extraordinary contributions to the structure of the nervous system, based largely on the Golgi method and Ehrlich's methylene blue stain, were published in his Textura del Sistema Nerviosa de Hombre y de los Vertebrados, three volumes published from 1897 to 1904. Documents from the Nobel Archives reveal that Klliker, Retzius and Frst were the ones who proposed Golgi and Cajal for a shared prize. Golgi was nominated by Hertwig, as well. Cajal was proposed by Ziehen and Holmgren, and also by Retzius, as an alternative to a shared prize. Holmgren, who was commissioned to write the report to the Nobel Committee, found Cajal far superior to Golgi. Sundberg, asked for another evaluation, was more positive to Golgi's contributions than Holmgren. Gadelius supported Holmgren's views. The final vote gave a majority for a shared prize. The prize ceremony and the lectures were described in detail in Cajal's autobiography.
The neuron doctrine, formulated in 1891, attacked in 1906 by Golgi and fiercely defended by Cajal, provided a powerful tool for analyzing the pathways of the brain. It has often been described as though it were merely the cell theory applied to nervous systems. In this essay I show that the neuron doctrine claims more than does the cell theory, and that in many instances, where it goes beyond the cell theory, it can no longer be defended on the basis of contemporary evidence. The neuron doctrine should be seen as a practical tool that is particularly useful for understanding the long pathways of the brain; it cannot be regarded as providing an accurate account of what nerve cells in general are really like.
The basic plan of nervous system organization has been investigated since classical antiquity. The first model centered on pneumas pumped from sensory nerves through the ventricular system and out motor nerves to muscles. It was popular well into the 17th century and diverted attention from the organization of brain parenchyma itself. Willis focused on gray matter production and white matter conduction of pneumas in 1664, and by the late 19th century a clear cellular model of nervous system organization based on sensory, motor, and association neuron classes transmitting nerve impulses was elaborated by Cajal and his contemporaries. Today, revolutionary advances in experimental pathway tracing methods, molecular genetics, and computer science inspire systems neuroscience. Seven minimal requirements are outlined for knowledge management systems capable of describing, analyzing, and modeling the basic plan of nervous system circuitry in general, and the plan evolved for vertebrates, for mammals, and ultimately for humans in particular. The goal remains a relatively simple, easy to understand model analogous to the one Harvey elaborated in 1628 for blood circulation in the cardiovascular system. As Cajal wrote in 1909, &quot;To extend our understanding of neural function to the most complex human physiological and psychological activities, it is essential that we first generate a clear and accurate view of the structure of the relevant centers, and of the human brain itself, so that the basic plan--the overview--can be grasped in the blink of an eye.&quot;
The principal focus of this treatise is the specificity of synaptic connectivity in the mammalian central nervous system. The occurrence of stereotypical patterns of connection at the macro level (e.g., the general consistency with which axonal pathways impinge on and originate within specific cortical areas and layers) implies that the cerebral cortex is a highly ordered structure. Order is seen also at the more micro level of synaptic connectivity, for instance, in the contrasting synaptic patterns of spiny vs. non-spiny neurons. Quantitative electron microscopic studies of synapses between identified neurons and correlative anatomical/electrophysiological investigations indicate that the high degree of order characterizing many aspects of cortical organization is mirrored by an equally ordered arrangement of synaptic connections between specific types of neurons. The recognition of recurring synaptic patterns has generated increased support for the notion of synaptic specificity as opposed to randomness, and we have begun now to understand the role of specificity in cortical function. At the core of cortical processing lie myriad possibilities for computation provided by the wealth of synaptic connections involving each neuron. Specificity, by limiting possibilities for connection, imposes an order on synaptic interactions even as processes of dynamic selection or synaptic remodeling ensure the constant formation and dissolution of cortical circuits. Collectively, these operations make maximal use of the richness of cortical synaptic connections to produce a highly flexible system, irrespective of the degree of hard-wiring, mutability, randomness or specificity that obtains for cortical wiring at any particular time. A brief, historical account of developments leading to our current understanding of cortical synaptic organization will precede the presentation of evidence for synaptic specificity.
The neural crest, the intriguing cell population that gives rise to a panoply of derivatives in the vertebrate embryo including the mesenchymal structures in the head, melanocytes and most of the peripheral nervous system still proves to be an important yet enigmatic developmental cell population to study, with applications in stem cell biology, cancer biology and clinical medicine. Albeit our knowledge base is rich due to a strong history of experimentation, the fact that we have yet to decipher so many key aspects of neural crest cell (NCC) behavior speaks to the challenging complexity of this transient yet vital cell population. With the advent of new fluorescent tracing techniques, we have reexamined the migratory behaviors and ultimate fate of ventrally migrating avian NCCs within a late wave of emigration and identified a subpopulation of lineally restricted NCCs who migrate to the contralateral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and therein give rise to mitotically active progenitor cells that ultimately produce the majority of the nociceptive sensory neurons in the DRG. These data provide evidence for the fate prespecification of subsets of NCCs while still resident in the neural tube.
Homers are scaffolding proteins that bind Ca(2+) signaling proteins in cellular microdomains. The Homers participate in targeting and localization of Ca(2+) signaling proteins in signaling complexes. However, recent work showed that the Homers are not passive scaffolding proteins, but rather they regulate the activity of several proteins within the Ca(2+) signaling complex in an isoform-specific manner. Homer2 increases the GAP activity of RGS proteins and PLCbeta that accelerate the GTPase activity of Galpha subunits. Homer1 gates the activity of TRPC channels, controls the rates of their translocation and retrieval from the plasma membrane and mediates the conformational coupling between TRPC channels and IP(3)Rs. Homer1 stimulates the activity of the cardiac and neuronal L-type Ca(2+) channels Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3. Homer1 also mediates the communication between the cardiac and smooth muscle ryanodine receptor RyR2 and Ca(v)1.2 to regulate E-C coupling. In many cases the Homers function as a buffer to reduce the intensity of Ca(2+) signaling and create a negative bias that can be reversed by the immediate early gene form of Homer1. Hence, the Homers should be viewed as the buffers of Ca(2+) signaling that ensure a high spatial and temporal fidelity of the Ca(2+) signaling and activation of downstream effects.
Voltage-gated L-type (Cav1.2 and Cav1.3) channels are widely expressed in cardiovascular tissues and represent the critical drug-target for the treatment of several cardiovascular diseases. The two isoforms are also abundantly expressed in neuronal and neuroendocrine tissues. In the brain, Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 channels control synaptic plasticity, somatic activity, neuronal differentiation and brain aging. In neuroendocrine cells, they are involved in the genesis of action potential generation, bursting activity and hormone secretion. Recent studies have shown that Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 are also expressed in chromaffin cells but their functional role has not yet been identified despite that L-type channels possess interesting characteristics, which confer them an important role in the control of catecholamine secretion during action potentials stimulation. In intact rat adrenal glands L-type channels are responsible for adrenaline and noradrenaline release following splanchnic nerve stimulation or nicotinic receptor activation. L-type channels can be either up- or down-modulated by membrane autoreceptors following distinct second messenger pathways. L-type channels are tightly coupled to BK channels and activate at relatively low-voltages. In this way they contribute to the action potential hyperpolarization and to the pace-maker current controlling action potential firings. L-type channels are shown also to regulate the fast secretion of the immediate readily releasable pool of vesicles with the same Ca(2+)-efficiency of other voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. In mouse adrenal slices, repeated action potential-like stimulations drive L-type channels to a state of enhanced stimulus-secretion efficiency regulated by beta-adrenergic receptors. Here we will review all these novel findings and discuss the possible implication for a specific role of L-type channels in the control of chromaffin cells activity.
Calcium ion channels coordinate an astounding number of cellular functions. Surprisingly, only 10 Ca(V)alpha(1) subunit genes encode the structural cores of all voltage-gated calcium channels. What mechanisms exist to modify the structure of calcium channels and optimize their coupling to the rich spectrum of cellular functions? Growing evidence points to the contribution of post-translational alternative processing of calcium channel RNA as the main mechanism for expanding the functional potential of this important gene family. Alternative splicing of RNA is essential during neuronal development where fine adjustments in protein signaling promote and inhibit cell-cell interactions and underlie axonal guidance. However, attributing a specific functional role to an individual splice isoform or splice site has been difficult. In this regard, studies of ion channels are advantageous because their function can be monitored with precision, allowing even subtle changes in channel activity to be detected. Such studies are especially insightful when coupled with information about isoform expression patterns and cellular localization. In this paper, we focus on two sites of alternative splicing in the N-type calcium channel Ca(V)2.2 gene. We first describe cassette exon 18a that encodes a 21 amino acid segment in the II-III intracellular loop region of Ca(V)2.2. Here, we show that e18a is upregulated in the nervous system during development. We discuss these new data in light of our previous reports showing that e18a protects the N-type channel from cumulative inactivation. Second, we discuss our published data on exons e37a and e37b, which encode 32 amino acids in the intracellular C-terminus of Ca(V)2.2. These exons are expressed in a mutually exclusive manner. Exon e37a-containing Ca(V)2.2 mRNAs and their resultant channels express at higher density in dorsal root ganglia and, as we showed recently, e37a increases N-type channel sensitivity to G-protein-mediated inhibition, as compared to generic e37b-containing N-type channels.
Fluorescence imaging represents a powerful approach for the detection of intracellular Ca(2+) signals in vivo. With appropriate techniques, Ca(2+) signals can be recorded at many levels of complexity, ranging from large scale neuronal networks down to individual presynaptic boutons or postsynaptic spines. Here we review the applicability of genetically encoded Ca(2+) indicators for in vivo Ca(2+) imaging of neural function. We describe some of the recent progress in sensor design and evaluate the performance of the new family of Troponin C-based Ca(2+) indicators. Further, we analyze properties of Ca(2+) biosensors transgenically expressed in various experimental animal models and illustrate their use for measuring somatic and dendritic Ca(2+) signals in neurons of the mammalian brain.
p53-related protein kinase (PRPK), the human homologue of yeast Bud32, belonging to a small subfamily of atypical protein kinases, is inactive unless it is previously incubated with cell lysates. Here we show that such an activation of PRPK is mediated by another kinase, Akt/PKB, which phosphorylates PRPK at Ser250. We show that recombinant PRPK is phosphorylated in vitro by Akt and its phospho-form is recognized by a Ser250-phospho-specific antibody; that cell co-transfection with Akt along with wild-type PRPK, but not with its Ser250Ala mutant, results in increased PRPK phosphorylation; and that the phosphorylation of p53 at Ser15, the only known substrate of PRPK, is markedly increased by co-transfection of Akt with wild-type PRPK, but not PRPK dead mutant, and is abrogated by cell treatment with the Akt pathway inhibitor LY294002. Our data disclose an unanticipated mechanism by which PRPK can be activated and provide a functional link between this enigmatic kinase and the Akt signaling pathway.
Two mechanisms for store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) regulated by two independent Ca(2+) stores, the dense tubular system (DTS) and the acidic stores, have been described in platelets. We have previously suggested that coupling between the type II IP(3) receptor (IP(3)RII) and hTRPC1, involving reorganization of the actin microfilaments, play an important role in SOCE. However, the involvement of the tubulin microtubules, located beneath the plasma membrane, remains unclear. Here we show that the microtubule disrupting agent colchicine reduced Ca(2+) entry stimulated by low concentrations (0.1 U/mL) of thrombin, which activates SOCE mostly by depleting acidic Ca(2+)-store. Consistently, colchicine reduced SOCE activated by 2,5 di-(tertbutyl)-1,4-hydroquinone (TBHQ), which selectively depletes the acidic Ca(2+) stores. In contrast, colchicine enhanced SOCE mediated by depletion of the DTS, induced by high concentrations of thapsigargin (TG), which depletes both the acidic Ca(2+) stores and the DTS, the major releasable Ca(2+) store in platelets. These findings were confirmed by using Sr(2+) as a surrogate for Ca(2+) entry. Colchicine attenuated the coupling between IP(3)RII and hTRPC1 stimulated by thrombin while it enhanced that evoked by TG. Paclitaxel, which induces microtubular stabilization and polymerization, exerted the opposite effects on thrombin- and TG-evoked SOCE and coupling between IP(3)RII and hTRPC1 compared with colchicine. Neither colchicine nor paclitaxel altered the ability of platelets to extrude Ca(2+). These findings suggest that tubulin microtubules play a dual role in SOCE, acting as a barrier that prevents constitutive SOCE regulated by DTS, but also supporting SOCE mediated by the acidic Ca(2+) stores.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are not only pivotal mediators of signal transduction but they also regulate diverse biological processes ranging from survival, proliferation and differentiation to apoptosis. By using human U87 astrocytoma and transfected FPRL1/CHO cells, we have demonstrated that activation of FPRL1 with WKYMVM effectively phosphorylated JNK and ERK. Interestingly, p38 MAPK activation was only seen with FPRL1/CHO cells. The MAPK phosphorylations in response to WKYMVM were blocked by WRW(4) (a selective FPRL1 antagonist), but not cyclosporine H (a well-known FPR antagonist). The key signaling intermediates in the MAPK pathways were also delineated. G(i)/G(o) proteins, Src family tyrosine kinases, but not phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase, protein kinase C and calmodulin-dependent kinase II, were required to transmit signals from FPRL1 toward JNK, ERK and p38 MAPK. Furthermore, phospholipase Cbeta was distinctively involved in the regulation of JNK but not the other MAPKs. Importantly, WKYMVM-stimulated U87 cells triggered noticeable increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha), which are correlated with reactive astrocytosis. In contrast, GFAP expression was not altered following stimulation with N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine. Moreover, inhibitions of G(i)/G(o) proteins and JNK completely abolished both GFAP and IL-1alpha upregulations by FPRL1, while blockade of the MEK/ERK cascade exclusively suppressed the GFAP production. Consistently, overexpression of MEK1 and constitutively active JNKK in U87 cells led to ERK and JNK activation, respectively, which was accompanied with markedly increased GFAP production. We have thus identified a possible linkage among FPRL1, MAPKs, astrocytic activation and the inflammatory response.
Subjects with migraine are at increased risk of subcortical white matter lesions (WML). Reports of cognitive testing in adults with migraine have yielded inconsistent results. We performed a cross-sectional study to assess whether migraine without aura (MwA) is associated with impairment in executive functioning, a typical cognitive correlate of subcortical WML. Forty-five subjects with MwA and 90 controls, matched for age and education, underwent a cognitive battery of tests evaluating executive functions. The following migraine characteristics were collected: age at onset and length of migraine history, and frequency, duration and intensity of attacks. Subjects with MwA performed significantly lower than controls in tests evaluating complex, multifactorial executive functions. After multiple adjustments, the duration and intensity of migraine attacks significantly predicted cognitive disturbances. In the interictal phase of MwA there is evidence of mild executive dysfunction. The cumulative effects of repeated migraine attacks on prefronto-cerebellar loop probably account for our results.
In Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning, reward typically comes seconds after reward-triggering actions, creating an explanatory conundrum known as &quot;distal reward problem&quot;: How does the brain know what firing patterns of what neurons are responsible for the reward if 1) the patterns are no longer there when the reward arrives and 2) all neurons and synapses are active during the waiting period to the reward? Here, we show how the conundrum is resolved by a model network of cortical spiking neurons with spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) modulated by dopamine (DA). Although STDP is triggered by nearly coincident firing patterns on a millisecond timescale, slow kinetics of subsequent synaptic plasticity is sensitive to changes in the extracellular DA concentration during the critical period of a few seconds. Random firings during the waiting period to the reward do not affect STDP and hence make the network insensitive to the ongoing activity-the key feature that distinguishes our approach from previous theoretical studies, which implicitly assume that the network be quiet during the waiting period or that the patterns be preserved until the reward arrives. This study emphasizes the importance of precise firing patterns in brain dynamics and suggests how a global diffusive reinforcement signal in the form of extracellular DA can selectively influence the right synapses at the right time.
An important issue in neuroscience is the characterization for the underlying architectures of complex brain networks. However, little is known about the network of anatomical connections in the human brain. Here, we investigated large-scale anatomical connection patterns of the human cerebral cortex using cortical thickness measurements from magnetic resonance images. Two areas were considered anatomically connected if they showed statistically significant correlations in cortical thickness and we constructed the network of such connections using 124 brains from the International Consortium for Brain Mapping database. Significant short- and long-range connections were found in both intra- and interhemispheric regions, many of which were consistent with known neuroanatomical pathways measured by human diffusion imaging. More importantly, we showed that the human brain anatomical network had robust small-world properties with cohesive neighborhoods and short mean distances between regions that were insensitive to the selection of correlation thresholds. Additionally, we also found that this network and the probability of finding a connection between 2 regions for a given anatomical distance had both exponentially truncated power-law distributions. Our results demonstrated the basic organizational principles for the anatomical network in the human brain compatible with previous functional networks studies, which provides important implications of how functional brain states originate from their structural underpinnings. To our knowledge, this study provides the first report of small-world properties and degree distribution of anatomical networks in the human brain using cortical thickness measurements.
Event sequence knowledge is necessary to learn, plan, and perform activities of daily life. Clinical observations suggest that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is crucial for goal-directed behavior such as carrying out plans, controlling a course of actions, or organizing everyday life routines. Functional neuroimaging studies provide further evidence that the PFC is involved in processing event sequence knowledge, with the medial PFC (Brodmann area 10) primarily engaged in mediating predictable event sequences. However, the exact role of the medial PFC in processing event sequence knowledge depending on the frequency of corresponding daily life activities remains obscure. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging while healthy volunteers judged whether event sequences from high- (HF), moderate- (MF), and low-frequency (LF) daily life activities were correctly ordered. The results demonstrated that different medial PFC subregions were activated depending on frequency. The anterior medial Area 10 was differentially activated for LF and the posterior medial Area 10 for HF activities. We conclude that subregions of the medial PFC are differentially engaged in processing event sequence knowledge depending on how often the activity was reportedly performed in daily life.
Thrombospondins are extracellular-matrix glycoproteins implicated in the control of synaptogenesis and neurite growth. Previous microarray studies suggested that one gene of this family, thrombospondin 4 (THBS4), was upregulated during human brain evolution. Using independent techniques to examine thrombospondin expression patterns in adult brain samples, we report approximately 6-fold and approximately 2-fold greater expression of THBS4 and THBS2 messenger RNA (mRNA), respectively, in human cerebral cortex compared with chimpanzees and macaques, with corresponding differences in protein levels. In humans and chimpanzees, thrombospondin expression differences were observed in the forebrain (cortex and caudate), whereas the cerebellum and most nonbrain tissues exhibited similar levels of the 2 mRNAs. Histological examination revealed THBS4 mRNA and protein expression in numerous pyramidal and glial cells in the 3 species but humans also exhibited very prominent immunostaining of the synapse-rich cortical neuropil. In humans, additionally, THBS4 antibodies labeled beta-amyloid containing plaques in Alzheimer's cases and some control cases. This is the first detailed characterization of gene-expression changes in human evolution that involve specific brain regions, including portions of cerebral cortex. Increased expression of thrombospondins in human brain evolution could result in changes in synaptic organization and plasticity, and contribute to the distinctive cognitive abilities of humans, as well as to our unique vulnerability to neurodegenerative disease.
The olfactory and the trigeminal systems have a close relationship. Most odorants also stimulate the trigeminal nerve. Further, subjects with no sense of smell exhibit a decreased trigeminal sensitivity with unclear underlying mechanisms. Previous studies indicated that single stages of trigeminal processing may differently be affected by olfactory loss. A better knowledge of adaptive and compensatory changes in the trigeminal system of subjects with acquired anosmia (AA) will improve the understanding of interactive processes between the 2 sensory systems. Thus, we aimed to assess trigeminal function on different levels of processing in subjects with AA. Subjects with AA showed larger electrophysiological responses to irritants obtained from the mucosa than healthy controls. On central levels, however, they exhibited smaller event-related potentials and psychophysical measures to irritants. Over 9 months, they exhibited an increase in trigeminal sensitivity. Subjects with recovering olfactory function showed an even more increased peripheral responsiveness to irritants. These data suggest dynamic mechanisms of mixed sensory adaptation/compensation in the interaction between the olfactory and trigeminal systems, where trigeminal activation is increased on mucosal levels in subjects with AA and amplified on central levels in subjects with a functioning olfactory system.
Body ownership refers to the special perceptual status of one's own body, which makes bodily sensations seem unique to oneself. We studied the neural correlates of body ownership by controlling whether an external object was accepted as part of the body or not. In the rubber hand illusion (RHI), correlated visuotactile stimulation causes a fake hand to be perceived as part of one's own body. In the present study, we distinguished between the causes (i.e., multisensory stimulation) and the effect (i.e., the feeling of ownership) of the RHI. Participants watched a right or a left rubber hand being touched either synchronously or asynchronously with respect to their own unseen right hand. A quantifiable correlate of the RHI is a shift in the perceived position of the subject's hand toward the rubber hand. We used positron emission tomography to identify brain areas whose activity correlated with this proprioceptive measure of body ownership. Body ownership was related to activity in the right posterior insula and the right frontal operculum. Conversely, when the rubber hand was not attributed to the self, activity was observed in the contralateral parietal cortex, particularly the somatosensory cortex. These structures form a network that plays a fundamental role in linking current sensory stimuli to one's own body and thus also in self-consciousness.
This article describes preschool social understanding and difficult behaviors (hot temper, disobedience, bossiness and bullying) as predictors of oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) and aggressive conduct disorder (ACD) in a Dutch population sample of (pre)adolescents (N = 1943), measured at age 10-12 and at age 13-15. ODD and ACD were assessed by the Child Behavior Checklist and the Youth Self-Report, preschool behavior was evaluated by the parental questionnaire [Symbol: see text]How was your child as a preschooler? (age 4-5)'. Adjusted for each other, all difficult preschool behaviors except bullying were associated with adolescent ODD, while only bullying significantly predicted adolescent ACD. Furthermore, the results suggest a qualitative difference between ODD and ACD in terms of the social component of the disorders: poor preschool social understanding was associated with the development of ACD but not of ODD; and poor social understanding interacted with difficult preschool behaviors to predict later ACD but not ODD. The associations did not differ between boys and girls, and were roughly similar for preadolescent (age 10-12) and early adolescent (age 13-15) outcomes. The finding that poor social understanding was implicated in the development of ACD but not in the development of ODD may help to demarcate the individuality of each disorder and offer leads for (differential) treatment strategies.


1. Synaptic plasticity is thought to underlie learning and memory formation in the brain. However, how synaptic plasticity is induced during these processes remains controversial. An attractive candidate mechanism for learning at the neuronal level is spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP), which depends on the precise (msec) timing of the synaptic input and the post-synaptic action potential. This temporal relationship resembles typical features of associative learning. Here, we review recent evidence suggesting that STDP is likely to underlie certain forms of learning. 2. First, we discuss the cellular mechanisms of STDP elucidated by in vitro experiments. A special focus is put onto aspects known to differ between in vitro preparations and the in vivo situation. 3. Second, we review the experimental induction of STDP in vivo, in various systems ranging from Xenopus tectum to human motor cortex. 4. The last part of the review addresses the question whether STDP can be induced by activity patterns occurring during normal behaviour. 5. We conclude that STDP is a robust phenomenon in vivo and a likely mechanism underlying sensory map plasticity in the neocortex. Further experimental evidence is required to determine whether STDP also has a role in more complex forms of learning.
1. The piriform cortex (PC) is the largest subdivision of the olfactory cortex and the first cortical destination of olfactory information. Despite the relatively simple anatomy of the PC and its obvious appeal as a model system for the study of cortical sensory processing, there are many outstanding questions about its basic cell physiology. In the present article, we review what is known about GABAergic inhibitory interneurons in the PC. 2. The GABA-containing neurons in the PC are morphologically diverse, ranging from small neurogliaform cells to large multipolar forms. Some of these classes are distributed across all three main layers of the PC, whereas others have a more restricted laminar expression. 3. Distinct and overlapping populations of GABAergic basket cells in Layers II and III of the PC express different combinations of calcium-binding proteins and neuropeptides. Few Layer I interneurons express any of the molecular markers so far examined. 4. The intrinsic firing properties of one or two types of putative PC interneurons have been measured and inhibitory post-synaptic responses have been recorded in PC pyramidal cells following extracellular stimulation. However, little is known about the physiology of the subtypes of interneurons identified. 5. In view of the likely importance of PC interneurons in olfactory learning, olfactory coding and epileptogenesis, further investigation of their properties is likely to be highly informative.
1. Synapse plasticity, defined as an activity dependent change in the strength of synapses, was first described in 1973 and, since those seminal experiments were reported, the field of synapse plasticity has expanded into one of the most widely studied areas in neuroscience. 2. Significant effort has been focused on determining the expression mechanisms of the changes in synapse strength. The present review will focus on the changes in the post-synaptic expression of glutamate receptors that have been shown to occur during the expression of synapse plasticity. 3. Biochemical studies of excitatory synapses in the central nervous system have revealed a high density of proteins concentrated at dendritic spines. These proteins appear to play critical roles in synaptic structure, plasticity and in trafficking receptors to synapses. 4. There is growing evidence that synapse plasticity could be the cellular basis of certain forms of learning and memory. Determining the behavioural correlates of this fundamental synaptic process will continue to be addressed in current and future research.


The empirical and theoretical development of the P300 event-related brain potential (ERP) is reviewed by considering factors that contribute to its amplitude, latency, and general characteristics. The neuropsychological origins of the P3a and P3b subcomponents are detailed, and how target/standard discrimination difficulty modulates scalp topography is discussed. The neural loci of P3a and P3b generation are outlined, and a cognitive model is proffered: P3a originates from stimulus-driven frontal attention mechanisms during task processing, whereas P3b originates from temporal-parietal activity associated with attention and appears related to subsequent memory processing. Neurotransmitter actions associating P3a to frontal/dopaminergic and P3b to parietal/norepinephrine pathways are highlighted. Neuroinhibition is suggested as an overarching theoretical mechanism for P300, which is elicited when stimulus detection engages memory operations.
Defense against pathogens is a critical component of comparative and ecological biology. However, pathogen recognition, a process necessary for the facilitation of systemic immune response, remains understudied in a comparative context, yet could provide insight into how the immune system interacts with pathogens in variable environments. We examined pathogen recognition by macrophages in relation to an ecological variable, day length, in Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Because peritoneal macrophages collected in long, summer-like day lengths are more responsive to a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge compared to macrophages collected during short, winter-like day lengths, we hypothesized that these functional differences are mediated by variation in pathogen recognition, which occurs through binding to Toll-like receptors (TLRs). We predicted that expression of TLR2 and 4, the receptors that bind and respond specifically to LPS, would be upregulated in long vs. short days, and that expression of these receptors would reflect macrophage responsiveness to LPS. Macrophages collected during long days were again more responsive to LPS challenge compared to short-day macrophages; however, TLR2 and TLR4 expression was similar between photoperiods and were unrelated to our measure of macrophage responsiveness suggesting that other downstream intracellular mechanisms may be responsible for photoperiod-based variation in macrophage responsiveness in this species.
For reasons that remain unknown, there is marked inter-person variability in awareness of episodic memory loss in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Existing research designs, primarily subjective in nature, have been at a relative disadvantage for evaluating disordered metamemory and its relation to the clinical and neuropathological heterogeneity of AD, as well as its prognosis for various disease outcomes. The current study sought to establish an objective means of evaluating metamemory in AD by modifying traditional metacognitive paradigms in which participants are asked to make predictions regarding their own memory performance. Variables derived from this measure were analyzed in relation to clinically rated awareness for memory loss. As predicted, a range of awareness levels existed across patients with mild to moderate AD (n=24) and clinical ratings of awareness (CRA) were significantly associated with verbal episodic memory monitoring (r = .46, p = .03). Further, patients who were rated as aware of their memory loss remained well calibrated over the course of the task whereas those rated as relatively unaware grew over-confident in their predictions [F (1, 33) = 4.19, p = .02]. Findings suggest that over-confidence may be related to impaired online error recognition and compromised use of metamemory strategies such as the Memory for Past Test (MPT) heuristic. Importantly, clinically rated awareness did not vary as a function of demographic variables, global cognition, or verbal memory. However, participants characterized as relatively unaware were impaired on a nonverbal memory task as compared to aware participants [F (1, 20) = 6.98, p = .02]. The current study provides preliminary support for the use of a recognition-based verbal episodic memory monitoring task as a quantitative measure of awareness for memory loss in AD, and offers insight into the manner in which metamemory breaks down. Discrepancies in nonverbal memory across the two awareness groups provide preliminary support for the idea that metamemory variability in AD may be related to the neuroanatomic presentation of the disease, with disordered awareness potentially reflective of a critical level of right hemisphere involvement.
Memory for faces and names has increasingly become a focus of cognitive assessment and research in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This paper reviews evidence from cognitive and clinical neuroscience regarding the question of whether AD is associated with a specific deficit in face recognition, face-name association, and retrieval of semantic information and names. Cognitive approaches conceptualizing face recognition and face-name association have revealed that, compared to other types of visual stimuli, faces are &quot;special&quot; because of their complexity and high intraclass similarity, and because their association with proper names is arbitrary and unique. Neuroimaging has revealed that due to this particular status, face perception requires a complex interplay of highly specialized secondary visual areas located in the occipitotemporal cortex with a widely distributed system of cortical areas subserving further task-dependent processing. Our review of clinical research suggests that AD-related deficits in face recognition are primarily due to mnestic rather than perceptual deficits. Memory for previously studied or famous faces is closely related to mediotemporal and temporocortical brain regions subserving episodic and semantic memory in general, suggesting that AD-related impairments in this domain are due to neural degeneration in these areas. Despite limited specificity due to the apparent absence of a &quot;genuine&quot; domain-specific deficit of face memory in AD, testing memory for faces and names is useful in clinical contexts, as it provides highly sensitive indices of episodic and semantic memory performance. Therefore, clinical assessment of face memory can usefully contribute to early detection of memory deficits in prodromal and initial stages of AD, and represents a basis for further attempts at rehabilitation. Further advantages, such as ecological validity, high task comprehensibility and, in the case of novel face learning, independence from premorbid intelligence level, render measures of face recognition valuable for clinical assessment in early AD.
Executive dysfunction is frequently reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). More specifically, inhibitory dysfunction is observed early in AD and inhibitory deficits are also prominent in patients with FTD. However, few studies have simultaneously explored and compared inhibitory abilities in both degenerative diseases. Consequently, the aim of this study was to compare verbal and motor inhibitory processes in the initial stages of AD and the frontal variant of FTD. Stroop and Go/No-go tasks were administered. The results demonstrate that, on the Go/No-go task, AD and FTD patients do not produce more errors than control subjects. However, both groups are impaired on the Stroop task (mainly with regard to the error score) but do not differ from each other. These results indicate that AD and FTD patients do not present a general impairment of their inhibitory abilities. Moreover, these two kinds of dementia present similar quantitative and qualitative inhibitory impairments on the two tasks, although their patterns of structural and functional cerebral impairments are known to be different. The presence of similar inhibitory deficits despite very different patterns of brain damage is in agreement with the hypothesis that inhibitory dysfunction in the two groups of patients depends on a disconnection process between anterior and posterior cerebral areas, rather than on the presence of focal metabolism decreases in different regions.
The current study examined the hypothesis that patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have a selective deficit in the coordination mechanism of the central executive, which is reflected in their inability to coordinate the performance of two tasks concurrently. One criticism of the previous studies in the literature is that they employ tasks that do not necessarily draw upon the separate peripheral mechanisms within working memory but combine a memory load with a perceptuomotor load. Therefore, the aim of the study was to examine the effects of AD and healthy adult ageing on a verbal memory plus visuospatial memory dual task paradigm. We investigated the performance of 15 AD patients and 20 healthy younger and 20 healthy older individuals on three different dual task combinations (i) digit recall and visual pattern recall; ii) digit recall and tracking; and iii) digit recall and articulatory suppression. The results demonstrate a significant dual task impairment in AD patients when two memory tasks are performed simultaneously compared to healthy younger and older adults. In contrast, there was not a significant age-related disruption in performance in healthy individuals compared to single task conditions. As the demands of each task were adjusted for individual ability levels, this provides further support for there being a specific AD dual task decrement in the mechanism responsible for coordinating dual task performance, which is separate from the resources needed to perform the tasks independently.
Memory impairment is a prominent defining feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the degree to which the profile of memory impairment is uniform across patients is not fully resolved. The study examined patterns of memory impairment in a large cohort of AD patients, with particular attention to the relationship between working and long-term declarative memory. Tests of working memory, visual and verbal recall and recognition, and recent personal memory were administered to 67 AD patients in the early to moderate stages of disease and to 30 age-matched controls. Performance on all measures was significantly poorer in patients than in controls. Factor analysis of test scores delineated five factors representing the domains of working memory, visual recall, verbal recall, recognition, and personal memory, indicating that these aspects of memory can break down separately. Cluster analysis revealed distinct memory profiles. Some patients showed predominant problems in working memory, with relatively superior long term retention, whereas other patients showed the reverse pattern. Qualitatively distinct profiles arose at comparable levels of severity. Problems in working memory, but not long term memory were associated with the presence of language and perceptuospatial deficits. The results reinforce previous findings that both working and long term memory failure contribute to the memory symptoms of AD patients, and demonstrate dissociations in memory breakdown across the cohort. The link between working memory and language performance, together with findings of posterior hemisphere abnormalities on neuroimaging, lead us to reassess the nature of working memory deficits in AD.
Variation in the clinical characteristics of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognised, although the factors underlying variation are not fully understood. The study examined the cognitive characteristics of 523 AD patients at the time of their presentation to a neurological dementia clinic and explored the relationship to family history and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype. Distinct profiles were identified, which were mirrored by topographical differences on neuroimaging. Clinical distinctions were maintained over time. Two-thirds of patients showed a constellation of deficits at presentation which included memory, language, visuospatial and constructional difficulties. However, a quarter had circumscribed presentations of amnesia, aphasia, perceptuospatial disorder or apraxia. The rare presence of frontal lobe characteristics was associated with a younger age of onset, an increased incidence of myoclonus at presentation, a positive family history but not with possession of APOE epsilon4 allele. An amnestic presentation (severe, yet circumscribed amnesia) was strongly associated with an older age of onset, a positive family history and the presence of APOE epsilon4 allele. Posterior cortical presentations showed a female bias, were typically sporadic, and showed no association with APOE epsilon4. The findings support the notion of phenotypic variation in AD, and show that genetic risk factors can influence clinical presentation. The findings draw attention to the specific association between APOE epsilon4 allele and memory but challenge the commonly held notion that the presence of the epsilon4 allele inevitably reduces onset age. The findings indicate that risk factors other than APOE epsilon4 allele underlie the non-familial, early onset posterior hemisphere presentations of AD.



Protocadherins are predominantly expressed in the nervous system, and constitute the largest subgroup within the cadherin superfamily. The recent structural elucidation of the amino-terminal cadherin domain in an archetypal protocadherin revealed unique and remarkable features: the lack of an interface for homophilic adhesiveness found in classical cadherins, and the presence of loop structures specific to the protocadherin family. The unique features of protocadherins extend to their genomic organization. Recent findings have revealed unexpected allelic and combinatorial gene regulation for clustered protocadherins, a major subgroup in the protocadherin family. The unique structural repertoire and unusual gene regulation of the protocadherin family may provide the molecular basis for the extraordinary diversity of the nervous system.

Large, chronically implanted arrays of microelectrodes are an increasingly common tool for recording from primate cortex and can provide extracellular recordings from many (order of 100) neurons. While the desire for cortically based motor prostheses has helped drive their development, such arrays also offer great potential to advance basic neuroscience research. Here we discuss the utility of array recording for the study of neural dynamics. Neural activity often has dynamics beyond that driven directly by the stimulus. While governed by those dynamics, neural responses may nevertheless unfold differently for nominally identical trials, rendering many traditional analysis methods ineffective. We review recent studies - some employing simultaneous recording, some not - indicating that such variability is indeed present both during movement generation and during the preceding premotor computations. In such cases, large-scale simultaneous recordings have the potential to provide an unprecedented view of neural dynamics at the level of single trials. However, this enterprise will depend not only on techniques for simultaneous recording but also on the use and further development of analysis techniques that can appropriately reduce the dimensionality of the data, and allow visualization of single-trial neural behavior.




The field of neuroimaging of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is now 30 years old. This brief selective review highlights the increasing sophistication of recent structural and functional neuroimaging studies of ADHD. In volumetric studies, investigators are examining extra-frontal, as well as frontal-striatal circuits and beginning to differentiate the potential effects of medication exposure. Functional MRI studies are focusing on familial/genetic influences and enrolling medication nave, as well as medicated children with ADHD. A promising trend is the application of resting state approaches to mapping functional connectivity, which provides unexpectedly detailed information about interregional relationships while bypassing potentially confounding issues related to task performance. These developments allow us to conclude that neuroimaging studies of ADHD will increasingly inform our understanding of the neuronal substrates of ADHD.
Psychiatric disorders and drug and alcohol use disorders commonly co-occur. A growing literature has documented the epidemiology and effects on the course of illness of comorbid psychiatric and substance use disorders (SUDs). Advances in treatment of co-occurring illnesses have progressed more slowly. The current article reviews recent developments in the diagnosis and treatment of co-occurring psychiatric disorders and SUDs with particular focus on psychotic disorders, affective disorders, anxiety disorders, personality disorders, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Current treatment options and implications for future research are highlighted.
A modified version of the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) was employed to determine whether exposure to a virtual audience using virtual reality (VR) technology would prompt an increase of neuroendocrine activity comparable to that prompted by a real audience. Following an anticipatory period, participants completed a speech or a speech-plus-math challenge in front of either a virtual audience, a panel of judges they were led to believe was behind a one-way mirror, or an audience comprised of confederates. An additional group that had prepared a speech was simply directed to observe the virtual audience but did not deliver the speech. Finally, a control group completed questionnaires for the duration of the experiment. Cortisol samples were obtained upon arrival to the laboratory, just before the challenge, and 15 and 30 minutes after the task. Participants also completed a measure assessing stressor appraisals of the task before and after the challenge. Anticipation of the task was associated with a modest increase of cortisol levels, and a further rise of cortisol was evident in response to the challenge. The neuroendocrine changes evoked by the virtual audience were comparable to those elicited by the imagined audience (behind the one-way mirror) but less than changes evoked by the panel of confederates. Stressor appraisals were higher post-challenge compared to those reported prior to the task; however, appraisals were similar across each group. These data suggest that VR technology may be amenable to evaluating the impact of psychosocial stressors such as the TSST.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are powerful sensors of foreign pathogens as well as cancer cells and provide the first line of defence against infection. They also serve as a major link between innate and adaptive immunity. Immature DCs respond to incoming danger signals and undergo maturation to produce high levels of proinflammatory cytokines including type I interferons (IFNs) to establish innate immunity. They then present antigens to T lymphocytes to stimulate lasting specific immune responses. Recent studies point to the importance of DCs in the induction of peripheral tolerance. Transcription factors of the IRF family have emerged as crucial controllers of many aspects of DC activity, playing an essential role in the establishment of early innate immunity. Furthermore, eight of the nine members of the IRF family have been shown to control either the differentiation and/or the functional activities of DCs. In this review, we focus on three aspects of DC properties that are under the control of IRFs: (1) the development and differentiation, (2) maturation in response to toll-like receptor (TLR) signalling and the production of anti-microbial cytokines, and (3) activation and expansion of lymphocytes to generate protective or tolerogenic immune responses.
The histone chaperone Asf1 assists in chromatin assembly and remodeling during replication, transcription activation, and gene silencing. However, it has been unclear to what extent Asf1 could be targeted to specific loci via interactions with sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins. Here, we show that Asf1 contributes to the repression of Notch target genes, as depletion of Asf1 in cells by RNAi causes derepression of the E(spl) Notch-inducible genes. Conversely, overexpression of Asf1 in vivo results in decreased expression of target genes and produces phenotypes that are strongly modified (enhanced and suppressed) by mutations affecting the Notch pathway, but not by mutations in other signaling pathways. Asf1 can be coprecipitated with the DNA-binding protein Su(H) and the corepressor Hairless and interacts directly with two components of this complex, Hairless and SKIP. Thus, in addition to playing more general roles in chromatin dynamics, Asf1 is directed via interactions with sequence-specific complexes to mediate silencing of specific target genes.
Alternating hemiplegia of childhood has many factors that make it difficult to manage. These include its rarity of about one case per million, the variability of the manifestations, with seven characteristic features, and the potential for disabilities and acute, often severe, episodes in a disease that is of uncertain cause and for which treatment evidence is sparse. An integrated multidisciplinary team and emergency availability are key medical requirements, as well as an educational setting that understands the variations in performance that occur. The mainstays of treatment have been flunarizine, antiepilepsy drugs for the 50% of patients with epilepsy, attempts to avoid trigger situations, and the rapid encouragement of sleep when attacks begin. The diagnostic and management predicament of child, parent, and paediatrician in complex rare disorders are well illustrated by this condition.
The aim of this study was to explore motor development in children with cerebral palsy (CP) using developmental curves for CP, subtypes, and the five severity levels of the Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS). The Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM) and the GMFCS were applied to 317 children (145 females, 172 males) with CP, aged between 1 and 15 years. The CP type distribution was spastic diplegia in 157 (49%), spastic hemiplegia in 101 (33%), spastic tetraplegia in 11 (3%), dyskinesia in 38 (12%), and ataxia in 10 (3%). Forty-five physiotherapists were trained in the GMFM and intra- and interrater reliability was tested. The GMFM was measured prospectively every 6 months up to the age of 4 years and once a year thereafter. Developmental curves were constructed for 258 children with spastic CP. About three-quarters of the children at GMFCS Level I reached 90% of the maximum GMFM score at 5 years of age. The performance peaked at 7 years of age. Children at GMFCS Level II reached 90% at a median age of 5 years, which was also the upper limit, reached by about three-quarters at 7 years of age. The majority of children at GMFCS Level III reached 80% of the GMFM by 7 years of age and most of the children at GMFCS Level IV reached 30% at 5 years and remained there. The median score for children at GMFCS Level V was 20%. The intra- and interrater reliability for the GMFM 88 among physiotherapists were Spearman's rank correlation coefficient 0.91 and 0.99 respectively. There were 931 measurements with a median of 2 (1-11) per child. The gross motor development was demonstrated for the five GMFCS levels in children with spastic CP. These kind of curves may be useful for monitoring and predicting motor development, for planning treatment, and for evaluating outcome after interventions.
Recent work on the molecular genetics of complex traits in typical and atypical human development has focused primarily on associations of single genes with behavior. Disparate literature suggests that the presence of one or two copies of the short allele of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene and the long allele (7-repeat allele) version of the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) gene predicts internalizing- and externalizing-related behaviors, respectively. Apparently for the first time in the extant literature, we report a gene-gene statistical interaction on behavior problems in a group of typically developing children at age 7. DNA was extracted from buccal cells collected from 108 children and genotyped for short and long alleles of the 5-HTT gene and the short (2-5 repeats) versus long (6-8 repeats) allele of the DRD4 gene. Mothers completed the Child Behavior Checklist. As predicted, children with one or two copies of the short allele of the 5-HTT gene and the long allele version of the DRD4 gene exhibited significantly more internalizing and externalizing behaviors at age 7 than children with other combinations of the 5-HTT and DRD4 short and long genotypes. As well, children with the 5-HTT long and DRD4 long genotypes had the lowest reported scores on internalizing and externalizing behaviors at age 7, suggesting that the presence of the 5-HTT long genotype may serve as a protective factor against these behaviors in children with the long DRD4 genotype. Implications of these findings for understanding cumulative biological risk and protective factors in childhood behavior problems and psychopathology are discussed.
Drosophila melanogaster is a highly attractive model system for the study of numerous biological questions pertaining to development, genetics, cell biology, neuroscience and disease. Until recently, our ability to manipulate flies genetically relied heavily on the transposon-mediated integration of DNA into fly embryos. However, in recent years significant improvements have been made to the transgenic techniques available in this organism, particularly with respect to integrating DNA at specific sites in the genome. These new approaches will greatly facilitate the structure-function analyses of Drosophila genes, will enhance the ease and speed with which flies can be manipulated, and should advance our understanding of biological processes during normal development and disease.
Survivors of ischemic stroke are at significant risk for recurrent stroke. Appropriate therapy for stroke prevention is needed given the significant morbidity and mortality associated with stroke, the high financial costs, and the neurologic disability associated with treatment failure. A treatment strategy based on assessed risk represents an appropriate use of medical resources and results in improved outcomes. This approach requires evaluation of major risk factors, the most serious of which is a history of ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack. The annual risk for recurrent stroke is 6% during the first 5 years after an initial stroke. Non-modifiable risk factors include age, race, ethnicity, gender, family history, and geography. The most important modifiable risk factor is hypertension. Diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, left ventricular hypertrophy, atrial fibrillation, and lifestyle factors such as smoking, alcohol abuse, and obesity contribute to stroke risk. Antihypertensive, lipid-lowering, and antiplatelet therapies have been successful in reducing the incidence of secondary stroke. Clinical trials validate the benefits of statin therapy in reducing the risk for secondary stroke. Studies of antiplatelet agents, including aspirin, clopidogrel, and aspirin combined with extended-release dipyridamole, have evaluated the risk reduction in recurrent stroke and have been concerned particularly with the risk for hemorrhage. Therapy for stroke prevention based on risk stratification can identify patients who are appropriate targets for aggressive intervention.
The DNA glycosylase hNEIL1 initiates base excision repair (BER) of a number of oxidized purines and pyrimidines in cellular DNA and is one of three mammalian orthologs of the Escherichia coli Nei/Fpg enzymes. Human NEIL1 has been purified and extensively characterized biochemically, however, not much is known about its intracellular distribution. In the present work, we have studied the cellular localization of hNEIL1 using both antibodies raised against the full-length recombinant protein and a stable HeLa cell line expressing hNEIL1 fused N-terminal to EGFP. The results presented reveal an intricate mitotic distribution of hNEIL1. Centrosomal localization of hNEIL1 was observed when mitotic HeLa cells were immunostained with hNEIL1 antibodies. This localization was confirmed when Western blots of isolated centrosomes from stably expressing hNEIL1-EGFP HeLa cells were probed with GFP or hNEIL1 antibodies, even though a fluorescent signal could not be detected in the centrosomes of these cells. Human NEIL1 was also shown to be associated with mitotic condensed chromosomes. Notably, the interaction of hNEIL1 with condensed chromatin was disrupted when cells were fixed with chemical fixatives that are regularly used in immunodetection techniques.
Phosphodiesterases are key enzymes in cellular signalling pathways. They degrade cyclic nucleotides and their inhibition via specific inhibitors offers unique 'receptor-independent' opportunities to modify cellular function. An increasing number of in vitro and animal model studies point to innovative treatment options in neurology and psychiatry. This review critiques a selection of recent studies and developments with a focus on dementia/neuroprotection, depression and schizophrenia. Despite increased interest among the clinical neurosciences, there are still no approved PDE inhibitors for clinical use in neurology or psychiatry. Adverse effects are a major impediment for clinical approval. It is therefore necessary to search for more specific inhibitors at the level of different PDE sub-families and isoforms.
Human physiology changes are often amplified in disease states and may be altered when a patient is mechanically ventilated. Normally, systolic blood pressure is slightly lower during inspiration than expiration due to the change in intrathoracic pressure. Pulsus paradoxus is a phenomenon in which the difference in systolic blood pressure (BP) between inspiration and expiration is more than 10 mmHg. When a patient is mechanically ventilated, the pattern of changes observed in pulsus paradoxus is reversed; that is, the systolic BP is higher during inspiration than expiration. In this article, the airway pressure and respiratory impedance tracings are used to demonstrate the inspiratory and expiratory phase of the respiratory cycle. Then BP can be determined with each respiratory phase. The difference in presentation of pulsus paradoxus in patients who are breathing spontaneously and with mechanical ventilation is described. A case study is also included to illustrate the presentation and treatment of pulsus paradoxus in a mechanically ventilated patient.

Orphanin FQ (OFQ), also known as nociceptin, is a member of the endogenous opioid peptide family that has been functionally implicated in the control of pain, anxiety, circadian rhythms, and neuroendocrine function. In the reproductive system, endogenous opioid peptides are involved in the steroid feedback control of GnRH pulses and the induction of the GnRH surge. The distribution of OFQ in the preoptic area and hypothalamus overlaps with GnRH, and in vitro evidence suggests that OFQ can inhibit GnRH secretion from hypothalamic fragments. Using the sheep as a model, we examined the potential anatomical colocalization between OFQ and GnRH using dual-label immunocytochemistry. Confocal microscopy revealed that approximately 93% of GnRH neurons, evenly distributed across brain regions, were also immunoreactive for OFQ. In addition, almost all GnRH fibers and terminals in the external zone of the median eminence, the site of neurosecretory release of GnRH, also colocalized OFQ. This high degree of colocalization suggested that OFQ might be functionally important in controlling reproductive endocrine events. We tested this possibility by examining the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of [Arg(14), Lys(15)] OFQ, an agonist to the OFQ receptor, on pulsatile LH secretion. The agonist inhibited LH pulse frequency in both luteal phase and ovariectomized ewes and suppressed pulse amplitude in the latter. The results provide in vivo evidence supporting a role for OFQ in the control of GnRH secretion and raise the possibility that it acts as part of an ultrashort, autocrine feedback loop controlling GnRH pulses.
Cervical stimulation induces two daily rhythmic prolactin surges, nocturnal and diurnal, which persist for several days. We have shown that a bolus injection of oxytocin initiates a similar prolactin rhythm, which persists despite low levels of oxytocin after injection. This suggests that oxytocin may trigger the cervical stimulation-induced rhythmic prolactin surges. To investigate this hypothesis, we infused an oxytocin antagonist that does not cross the blood-brain barrier for 24 h before and after cervical stimulation and measured serum prolactin. We also measured dopaminergic neuronal activity because mathematical modeling predicted that this activity would be low in the presence of the oxytocin antagonist. We thus tested this hypothesis by measuring dopaminergic neuronal activity in the tuberoinfundibular, periventricular hypophyseal, and tuberohypophyseal dopaminergic neurons. Infusion of oxytocin antagonist before cervical stimulation abolished prolactin surges, and infusion of oxytocin antagonist after cervical stimulation abolished the diurnal and significantly decreased the nocturnal surges of prolactin. The rhythmic prolactin surges returned after the clearance of the oxytocin antagonist. Hypothalamic dopaminergic activity was elevated in antiphase with prolactin surges, and the antiphase elevation was abolished by the oxytocin antagonist in the tuberoinfundibular and tuberohypophyseal dopaminergic neurons, consistent with the mathematical model. These findings suggest that oxytocin is a physiologically relevant prolactin-releasing factor. However, the cervical stimulation-induced prolactin surges are maintained even in the absence of oxytocin actions at the lactotroph, which strongly suggests the maintenance of prolactin surges are not dependent upon oxytocin actions at the pituitary gland.
Multiple GnRH receptors are known to exist in nonmammalian species, but it is uncertain which receptor type regulates reproduction via the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. The teleost fish, Astatotilapia burtoni, is useful for identifying the GnRH receptor responsible for reproduction, because only territorial males reproduce. We have cloned a second GnRH receptor in A. burtoni, GnRH-R1(SHS) (SHS is a peptide motif in extracellular loop 3), which is up-regulated in pituitaries of territorial males. We have shown that GnRH-R1(SHS) is expressed in many tissues and specifically colocalizes with LH in the pituitary. In A. burtoni brain, mRNA levels of both GnRH-R1(SHS) and a previously identified receptor, GnRH-R2(PEY), are highly correlated with mRNA levels of all three GnRH ligands. Despite its likely role in reproduction, we found that GnRH-R1(SHS) has the highest affinity for GnRH2 in vitro and low responsivity to GnRH1. Our phylogenetic analysis shows that GnRH-R1(SHS) is less closely related to mammalian reproductive GnRH receptors than GnRH-R2(PEY). We correlated vertebrate GnRH receptor amino acid sequences with receptor function and tissue distribution in many species and found that GnRH receptor sequences predict ligand responsiveness but not colocalization with pituitary gonadotropes. Based on sequence analysis, tissue localization, and physiological response we propose that the GnRH-R1(SHS) receptor controls reproduction in teleosts, including A. burtoni. We propose a GnRH receptor classification based on gene sequence that correlates with ligand selectivity but not with reproductive control. Our results suggest that different duplicated GnRH receptor genes have been selected to regulate reproduction in different vertebrate lineages.
Pituitary hormones are essential for normal growth and metabolic responsiveness after birth, but their role before birth remains unclear. This study examined the effects of hypophysectomizing fetal sheep on their growth and glucose metabolism during the late normal and extended periods of gestation, and on their metabolic response to maternal fasting for 48 h near term. Fetal hypophysectomy reduced crown rump length (CRL), limb lengths, and body weight but increased ponderal index relative to controls near normal term. It also lowered the daily rate of crown rump length increment uniformly from 35 d before, to 20 d after normal term. Hypophysectomized (HX) fetuses had normal weight-specific rates of umbilical uptake, utilization, and oxidation of glucose but lower rates of umbilical oxygen uptake than controls near term. All these metabolic rates were significantly less in HX fetuses during the extended period of gestation than in HX and intact fetuses near normal term. In contrast to controls, glucogenesis was negligible in HX fetuses during maternal fasting. Consequently, the rate of glucose utilization decreased significantly in fasted HX but not intact fetuses. Conversely, the rate of CO(2) production from glucose carbon decreased in fasted intact but not HX fetuses. Fetal hypophysectomy also prevented the fasting-induced increases in plasma cortisol and norepinephrine concentrations seen in controls. These findings demonstrate that the pituitary hormones are important in regulating the growth rate and adaptive responses of glucose metabolism to undernutrition in fetal sheep. They also suggest that fetal metabolism is altered when gestational length is extended.
The influence of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and/or common polymorphisms (677C --&gt; T, 1298A --&gt; C) of the methylene-tetrahydrofolate-reductase (MTHFR) gene on the recurrence time of hyper-total-homocysteinemia (tHcy &gt; 13 micromol/L) was investigated in 59 hyper-homocysteinemic patients (34M/25F, 20-49 years). Plasma tHcy and folate were assayed before and after 1-month folate supplementation (5 mg/day), and after 2, 4, and 6 months. Four MTHFR polymorphism groups were identified with the following tHcy (micromol/L) and folate (nmol/L) levels (mean +/- SD): (a) MTHFR677TT/1298AA, 24 patients, 36.0 +/- 4.8, 4.1 +/- 0.7; (b) MTHFR677CT/1298AC 27.1 +/- 2.7, 5.3 +/- 1.0 (n = 15); (c) MTHFR677CT/1298AA 16.6 +/- 3.6, 6.8 +/- 1.0 (n = 11), all taking enzyme-inducing AEDs; and (d) MTHFR677TT/1298AA 24.5 +/- 3.2, 5.6 +/- 1.1 (n = 9), treated with new AEDs. After folate therapy, plasma t-Hcy and folate were normal in all patients. At 6 months, 43 patients (72.9%) exhibited hyper-tHcy, the greater proportion belonging to the EI-AED-MTHFR677TT/1298AA (39%). Knowledge of the hyper-tHcy recurrence time after folate therapy discontinuation may help in optimizing folate supplementation pulses.



In preterm children (N = 66) without major physical and/or mental handicaps the prevalence of psychiatric disorders and minor neurological dysfunction (MND) was assessed at school age (8-10 years). In adolescence (15-17 years) 43 children were reassessed. The study sample was drawn from a cohort of non-handicapped preterm children (N = 218) hospitalised in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit because of serious neonatal complications. The findings in the preterm group were compared with two control groups (N = 20 and N = 20) matched for age and sex ratio. The association between psychiatric disorders on the one hand and group status (preterm versus control), MND, IQ and family adversity on the other was explored. At both ages the preterm children exhibited more psychiatric disorders and MND than controls. The very preterm and/or very low birth weight children contributed to the differential psychopathological findings between the preterm and control groups. Besides preterm birth, the prevalence of psychiatric disorders was positively associated with MND and negatively associated with VIQ and family adversity. In the preterm group there was a shift from school age into adolescence into a predominance of anxious and depressive disorders. No significant changes with age were found with respect to the prevalence of MND and psychiatric disorders. Thus, very preterm and/or very low birth weight children are at increased risk of persistent psychiatric disorders, especially anxious and depressive disorders. In preterm children the development of psychopathology seems to be mediated by MND, decreased verbal abilities and family adversity.
This review is concerned with recent literature on teleost fish CNS microglia. It covers not only various aspects of these cells, notably comparing them with mammalian microglia, but also points out the several potentialities neural tissue of teleosts exhibits in neurobiological research. The relationships between neurons and glial cells are considered in fish, aiming at an integrated picture of the complex ways neurons and glia communicate and collaborate in normal and injured neural tissues. In addition, attention has been paid to different teleost models according to their availability, easy maintenance in experimental conditions, possibilities of embryos manipulation and sequenced genome. The recent setting up of successful protocols for fish glia and mixed neuron-glia cultures, together with the molecular facilities offered from genome knowledge, should provide a new boost to studies about microglia and neuron-microglia relationships.
CD16, the low-affinity FcIgG receptor (FcgammaRIIIA), is predominantly expressed in human NK cells. Our recent findings indicate that CD16 expression on the outer membrane surface of NK cells is correlated with the membrane expression of phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC). In the present study we analyzed the trafficking of CD16 from the plasma membrane to cytoplasmic regions, after stimulation with specific mAb. The CD16 receptor is internalized, likely degraded and newly synthesized; its endocytosis is independent of ATP, but requires an integral and functional actin cytoskeleton. Antibody-mediated CD16 cross-linking results in an approximately twofold increase in PC-PLC enzymatic activity within 10 min. Analysis of PC-PLC and CD16 distribution in NK cell plasma membrane demonstrates that the proteins are physically associated and partially accumulated in lipid rafts. Pre-incubation of NK cells with a PC-PLC inhibitor, D609, causes a dramatic decrease both in CD16 receptor and PC-PLC enzyme expression on the plasma membrane. Interestingly, among phenotype PBL markers, only CD16 is strongly down-modulated by D609 treatment. CD16-mediated cytotoxicity is also reduced after D609 incubation. Taken together, these data suggest that the PC-PLC enzyme could play an important role in regulating CD16 membrane expression, the CD16-mediated cytolytic mechanism and CD16-triggered signal transduction.
The occipital cortex, normally visual, can be activated by auditory or somatosensory tasks in the blind. This cross-modal compensation appears after early or late onset of blindness with differences in activation between early and late blind. This could support the hypothesis of a reorganization of sensory pathways in the early blind that does not occur in later onset blindness. Using immunohistochemistry of the c-Fos protein following a white noise stimulus and injections of the anterograde tracer dextran-biotin in the inferior colliculus, we studied how the occurrence of blindness influences cross-modal compensation in the mutant anophthalmic mouse strain and in C57BL/6 mice enucleated at birth. We observed, in mutant mice, immunolabeled nuclei in the visual thalamus - the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus - in the primary visual area (V1) and a few labeled nuclei in the secondary visual area (V2). In enucleated mice, we observed auditory activity mainly in V2 but also sparsely in V1. No labeled cells could be found in the visual thalamus. Tracing studies confirmed the difference between anophthalmic and birth-enucleated mice: whereas the first group showed inferior colliculus projections entering both the dorsal lateral geniculate and the latero-posterior nuclei, in the second, auditory fibers were found only within the latero-posterior thalamic nucleus. None was found in controls with intact eyes. We suggest that the prenatal period of spontaneous retinal activity shapes the differences of the sensory reorganization in mice.
The actions of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and related peptides are mediated by two receptors (CRF(1) and CRF(2)). The respective role of each subtype in the control of food intake remains poorly known. In the present study, we examined the quantity and microstructure of ingestive behavior of knockout (KO) mice lacking CRF(2) receptors and their wild-type (WT) littermates. Under basal conditions, CRF(2) KO mice showed increased nocturnal food intake, evident as an increased zenith in circadian cosinor analysis of food intake. Microstructure analysis revealed that this greater food intake reflected increased meal size, rather than meal frequency, suggesting a decreased satiating value of food. Following acute restraint stress, CRF(2) KO mice showed an intact immediate anorectic response with increased latency to eat and decreased meal size. However, CRF(2) deletion abolished the prolonged phase of restraint-induced anorexia. CRF(2) KO mice did not differ from WT controls in feeding responses to food deprivation or injection of ghrelin receptor agonists. Independent of genotype, food deprivation increased food intake, with dramatic changes in meal size, meal frequency, water : food ratio and eating rate. Acyl-ghrelin or BIM-28131, a potent ghrelin analog, dose-dependently stimulated food intake by increasing meal size (ghrelin, BIM-28131) and meal number (BIM-28131), while slowing the average eating rate (BIM-28131) similarly in WT and KO mice. These results suggest that the CRF(2) receptor is involved in the control of meal size during the active phase of eating and following acute exposure to stress.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are widely regarded as the best characterized cell population in the mammalian CNS and until recently were believed to be a lineage-restricted precursor terminally differentiating to postmitotic oligodendrocytes. Recent evidence has suggested that OPCs may have in vitro and in vivo neuronal potential. In this report we examine the differentiation potential of cortical OPC populations following transplantation into the neurogenic environment of the intact neonatal and adult hippocampus. Donor OPCs were minimally manipulated and not subjected to long-term ex vivo manipulation such as expansion or treatment with mitogens. Minimally manipulated OPCs did not exhibit any intrinsic neuronal potential in vitro prior to transplantation. Following transplantation of GFP-OPCs into intact neonatal and adult hippocampus, cells were able to survive and integrate for at least 14 weeks but did not exhibit neuronal differentiation. Induction of a focal neurotoxic lesion also did not result in neuronal differentiation of graft-derived OPCs. These findings show that unselected and unmanipulated populations of cortical OPCs remain as precursor cells, commit to the oligodendrocyte lineage and fail to respond to the extrinsic cues of a neurogenic or injured environment.

We have previously reported that paraoxon, an organophosphate compound, at submicromolar concentrations effectively suppresses Ca2+ action potentials and modulates the activity of snail neurons. This effect was unrelated to acetylcholinesterase inhibition but was found to involve the direct or indirect modulation of ion channels [Vatanparast, J., Janahmadi, M., Asgari, A.R., Sepehri, H., Haeri-Rohani, A., 2006a. Paraoxon suppresses Ca2+ action potential and afterhyperpolarization in snail neurons: Relevance to the hyperexcitability induction. Brain Res. 1083 (1), 110-117]. In the present work, the interaction of paraoxon with protein kinase C (PKC) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-mediated Ca2+ release, on the modulation of Ca2+ action potentials and neuronal activity was investigated. Phorbol 12, 13 dibutyrate (PdBu), the activator of PKC, suppressed afterhyperpolarization and increased the activity of snail neurons without any significant effect on the Ca2+ action potential duration. Pretreatment with PKC activator attenuated the suppressing effect of paraoxon on the duration of Ca2+ action potentials. Staurosporine, a selective blocker of PKC, did not block the effect of paraoxon on Ca2+ action potential suppression and hyperexcitability induction. Our findings did not support the involvement PKC in the paraoxon induced Ca2+ action potential suppression and neuronal activity modulation, although activation of this protein kinase could attenuate some effects of paraoxon. Pretreatment with 8-(N,N-diethylamino)octyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate hydrochloride (TMB-8), an antagonist of IP3-mediated Ca2+ release, abolished the secondary silencing effect of paraoxon, which is observed after primary paraoxon-induced hyperexcitability. It was concluded that slow activation of intracellular cascades by paraoxon could induce an IP3 mediated Ca2+ release from intracellular stores and participate to its secondary silencing effect by mechanisms dependent on intracellular calcium homeostasis.

Findings from epidemiological, pharmacotherapeutical, genetic and neurobiological studies suggest a possible overlap in the neurobiology of generalized social anxiety disorder (gSAD) and panic disorder (PD). Previously we have found a rapid intravenous m-CPP challenge of 0.1 mg/kg to be highly sensitive and selective in the provocation of panic attacks in patients with PD. We therefore directly compared the behavioural, neuroendocrine and physiological effects of this rapid m-CPP challenge in a small sample of patients with gSAD, patients with PD and matched healthy controls. Panic attacks were significantly more provoked in patients with PD (85%), but not in patients with gSAD (14%) as compared to healthy controls (0%). Effects on the other behavioural parameters, but not on the neuroendocrine and physiological parameters, were significantly greater in patients with PD compared to patients with gSAD and controls. Our preliminary data do not support a shared neurobiology of gSAD and PD.
Mongrel dogs bred for research and weighing 25 +/- 3 kg were used to test the hypothesis that acetaminophen has antiar-rhythmic properties. Only ventricular arrhythmias defined by the Lambeth Conventions were investigated. Dogs were exposed either to 60 mins of regional myocardial ischemia followed by 180 mins of reperfusion (n = 14) or were administered a high dose of ouabain (n = 14). Both groups of 14 dogs were further divided into vehicle and acetaminophen treatment groups (n = 7 in each). During selected 10-min intervals, we recorded the numbers of ventricular premature beats, ventricular salvos, ventricular bigeminy, ventricular tachycardia (nonsustained and sustained), and we recorded the heart rate, systemic arterial blood pressure, and left ventricular function. Neither heart rate nor the number of ventricular arrhythmias differed significantly under baseline conditions. Conversely, the combined average number of ventricular ectopic beats during ischemia and reperfusion was significantly less in the presence of acetaminophen (28 +/- 4 vs. 6 +/- 1; P &lt; 0.05). Similarly, percent ectopy during reperfusion in vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated dogs was 1.4 +/- 0.4 and 0.4 +/- 0.2, respectively (P &lt; 0.05). The number of all ventricular ectopic beats except ventricular salvos was also significantly reduced in the presence of acetaminophen. Similar results were obtained with ouabain. Our results reveal that systemic administration of a therapeutic dose of acetaminophen has previously unreported antiarrhythmic effects in the dog.
Dynamic learning in humans has been extensively studied using externally applied force fields to perturb movements of the arm. These studies have focused on unimanual learning in which a force field is applied to only one arm. Here we examine dynamic learning during bimanual movements. Specifically we examine learning of a force field in one arm when the other arm makes movements in a null field or in a force field. For both the dominant and non-dominant arms, the learning (change in performance over the exposure period) was the same regardless of whether the other arm moved in a force field, equivalent either in intrinsic or extrinsic coordinates, or moved in a null field. Moreover there were no significant differences in learning in these bimanual tasks compared to unimanual learning, when one arm experienced a force field and the other arm was at rest. Although the learning was the same, there was an overall increase in error for the non-dominant arm for all bimanual conditions compared to the unimanual condition. This increase in error was the result of bimanual movement alone and was present even in the initial training phase before any forces were introduced. We conclude that, during bimanual movements, the application of a force field to one arm neither interferes with nor facilitates simultaneous learning of a force field applied to the other arm.
The interaction between integrin macrophage differentiation antigen associated with complement three receptor function (Mac-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), which is controlled tightly by the ligand-binding activity of Mac-1, is central to the regulation of neutrophil adhesion in host defense. Several &quot;inside-out&quot; signals and extracellular metal ions or antibodies have been found to activate Mac-1, resulting in an increased adhesiveness of Mac-1 to its ligands. However, the molecular basis for Mac-1 activation is not well understood yet. In this work, we have carried out a single-molecule study of Mac-1/ICAM-1 interaction force in living cells by atomic force microscopy (AFM). Our results showed that the binding probability and adhesion force of Mac-1 with ICAM-1 increased upon Mac-1 activation. Moreover, by comparing the dynamic force spectra of different Mac-1 mutants, we expected that Mac-1 activation is governed by the downward movement of its alpha7 helix.
RhoA is a crucial regulator of stress fiber and focal adhesion formation through the activation of actin nucleation and polymerization. It also regulates the nuclear translocation of myocardin-related transcription factor-A and -B (MRTF-A/B, MAL or MKL 1/2), which are co-activators of serum response factor (SRF). In dominant-negative MRTF-A (DN-MRTF-A)-expressing NIH 3T3 cell lines, the expressions of several cytoskeletal/focal adhesion genes were down-regulated, and the formation of stress fiber and focal adhesion was severely diminished. MRTF-A/B-knockdown cells also exhibited such cytoskeletal defects. In reporter assays, both RhoA and MRTF-A enhanced promoter activities of these genes in a CArG-box-dependent manner, and DN-MRTF-A inhibited the RhoA-mediated activation of these promoters. In dominant-negative RhoA (RhoA-N19)-expressing NIH 3T3 cell lines, the nuclear translocation of MRTF-A/B was predominantly prevented, resulting in the reduced expression of cytoskeletal/focal adhesion proteins. Further, constitutive-active MRTF-A/B increased the expression of endogenous cytoskeletal/focal adhesion proteins, and thereby rescued the defective phenotype of stress fibers and focal adhesions in RhoA-N19 expressing cells. These results indicate that MRTF-A/B act as pivotal mediators of stress fiber and focal adhesion formation via the transcriptional regulation of a subset of cytoskeletal/focal adhesion genes.
This retrospective study examined factors associated with nonmedical opioid use among 208 heroin-abusing research volunteers in the metropolitan Detroit area. Drug and medical history data were obtained from structured questionnaires administered during screening for behavioral pharmacology research studies. Analyses included demographic data (gender and race), history of drug use (prescribed, nonmedical, and route of use), and potentially relevant medical conditions (e.g., pain). All volunteers (mean age=43 years) reported chronic heroin use (mean duration=21 years), with 66% currently injecting heroin. Two multiple logistic regression analyses were used to identify factors related to lifetime and current nonmedical opioid use (predicted variables). Odds ratios (ORs) from logistic regression--which predicted membership in lifetime heroin use only (n=52) versus heroin plus nonmedical opioid use (n=156) groups--indicated that nonmedical opioid use was significantly associated with legitimate prescription opioid use (OR=10.5), having ever sought treatment for heroin use (OR=4.21), and a history of lung problems (OR=3.66) and dental pain (OR=2.58). The finding of a significant positive association (R(2)=.83) between lifetime rates of medical and nonmedical use of specific opioids in this study is consistent with previous observations that prescription opioid use or availability is a prominent risk factor for nonmedical opioid use. A limitation of this study is that age-of-onset data were not originally collected; thus, the relative (predictive) order of pain conditions, medical use, and nonmedical use of opioids cannot be determined retrospectively.
Estradiol benzoate (EB) facilitates the acquisition and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior when administered to ovariectomized (OVX) rats. In contrast, progesterone (P) decreases acquisition of cocaine self-administration, but the effects of P on the reinstatement of drug seeking are not known. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of EB and P on the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in female rats. Rats received either OVX or sham surgery (SH) and were trained to lever press for intravenous cocaine infusions (0.4 mg/kg) under a fixed ratio 1, 20-s time-out schedule during daily 2-hr sessions. After 14 days of stable responding, saline replaced cocaine, and a 21-day extinction period began. After extinction, rats were separated into 5 treatment groups (OVX+EB, OVX+EB+P, OVX+vehicle [VEH], SH+P, or SH+VEH), and VEH, EB, or EB+P was administered 30 min prior to each session for 5 days. After 3 days of hormone treatment, rats received a saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg) injection, and reinstatement of lever responding was assessed. Reinstatement responding in the OVX+EB group was greater relative to the OVX+EB+P, SH+P, and OVX+VEH groups, which had low levels of cocaine-primed responding. The SH+VEH and OVX+EB groups displayed similar high levels of cocaine-elicited reinstatement. The suppression of cocaine-induced reinstatement following P treatment suggests a role for P in the prevention of relapse to cocaine self-administration in female cocaine users.
We sought to directly compare growth and myelination of local and supraspinal axons by implanting into the injured spinal cord Schwann cells (SCs) transduced ex vivo with adenoviral (AdV) or lentiviral (LV) vectors encoding a bifunctional neurotrophin molecule (D15A). D15A mimics actions of both neurotrophin-3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Transduced SCs were injected into the injury center 1 week after a moderate thoracic (T8) adult rat spinal cord contusion. D15A expression and bioactivity in vitro; D15A levels in vivo; and graft volume, SC number, implant axon number and cortico-, reticulo-, raphe-, coerulo-spinal and sensory axon growth were determined for both types of vectors employed to transduce SCs. ELISAs revealed that D15A-secreting SC implants contained significantly higher levels of neurotrophin than non-transduced SC and AdV/GFP and LV/GFP SC controls early after implantation. At 6 weeks post-implantation, D15A-secreting SC grafts exhibited 5-fold increases in graft volume, SC number and myelinated axon counts and a 3-fold increase in myelinated to unmyelinated (ensheathed) axon ratios. The total number of axons within grafts of LV/GFP/D15A SCs was estimated to be over 70,000. Also 5-HT, DbetaH, and CGRP axon length was increased up to 5-fold within D15A grafts. In sum, despite qualitative differences using the two vectors, increased neurotrophin secretion by the implanted D15A SCs led to the presence of a significantly increased number of axons in the contusion site. These results demonstrate the therapeutic potential for utilizing neurotrophin-transduced SCs to repair the injured spinal cord.
Psychiatric disorders frequently occur in patients with epilepsy, but the relationship between epilepsy and psychopathology is poorly understood. Frequent comorbidities in epilepsy patients comprise major depression, anxiety disorders, psychosis and cognitive dysfunction. Animal models of epilepsy, such as the pilocarpine model of acquired epilepsy, are useful to study the relationship between epilepsy and behavioral dysfunctions. However, despite the advantages of mice in studying the genetic underpinning of behavioral alterations in epilepsy, mice have only rarely been used to characterize behavioral correlates of epilepsy. This prompted us to study the behavioral and cognitive alterations developing in NMRI mice in the pilocarpine model of epilepsy, using an anxiety test battery as well as tests for depression, drug-induced psychosis, spatial memory, and motor functions. In order to ensure the occurrence of status epilepticus (SE) and decrease mortality, individual dosing of pilocarpine was performed by ramping up the dose until onset of SE. This protocol was used for studying the consequences of SE, i.e. hippocampal damage, incidence of epilepsy with spontaneous recurrent seizures, and behavioral alterations. SE was terminated by diazepam after either 60, 90 or 120 min. All mice that survived SE developed epilepsy, but the severity of hippocampal damage varied depending on SE length. In all anxiety tests, except the elevated plus maze test, epileptic mice exhibited significant increases of anxiety-related behavior. Surprisingly, a decrease in depression-like behavior was observed in the forced swimming and tail suspension tests. Furthermore, epileptic mice were less sensitive than controls to most of the behavioral effects induced by MK-801 (dizocilpine). Learning and memory were impaired in epileptic mice irrespective of SE duration. Thus, the pilocarpine-treated mice seem to reflect several of the behavioral and cognitive disturbances that are associated with epilepsy in humans. This makes these animals an ideal model to study the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the association between epilepsy and psychopathology.
The objective of this study was to investigate functional deficits and reactive peri-tumoral brain plasticity events in glioma-bearing rats. 9L gliosarcoma cells were implanted into the forelimb region of the sensorimotor cortex in Fischer rats. Control animals underwent the same operation without tumor implantation. Sensitive tests for detecting sensorimotor dysfunction, including forelimb-use asymmetry, somatosensory asymmetry, and vibrissae-evoked forelimb placing tests, were conducted. We found that tumor-bearing animals exhibited significant composite behavioral deficits on day 14 post-tumor injection compared to surgical controls. With the assistance of magnetic resonance imaging, we demonstrated a significant correlation between tumor volume and magnitude of somatosensory asymmetry, indicating that the somatosensory asymmetry test can provide an effective and efficient means to measure and predict tumor progression. Histopathological assessments were performed after the rats were sacrificed 14 days following tumor implantation. Immunostaining revealed that densities of microtubule-associated protein 2, glial fibrillary acid protein, von Willebrand factor, and synaptophysin were all significantly upregulated in the peri-tumoral area, compared to the corresponding region in surgical controls, suggesting synaptic plasticity, astrocyte activation and angiogenesis in response to tumor insult. Understanding the behavioral and bystander cellular events associated with tumor progression may lead to improved evaluation and development of new brain tumor treatments that promote, or at least do not interfere with, functional adaptation.
We hypothesized that over-expressing the E3 ligase, parkin, whose functional loss leads to Parkinson's disease, in the nigrostriatal tract might be protective in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat lesion model. Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) encoding human parkin or green fluorescent protein (GFP) was injected into the rat substantia nigra 6 weeks prior to a four-site striatal 6-OHDA lesion. Vector-mediated parkin over-expression significantly ameliorated motor deficits as measured by amphetamine-induced rotational behavior and spontaneous behavior in the cylinder test but forelimb akinesia as assessed by the stepping test was unaffected. rAAV-mediated human parkin was expressed in the nigrostriatal tract, the substantia pars reticulata, and the subthalamic nucleus. However, in lesioned animals, there was no difference between nigral parkin and GFP-transduction on lesion-induced striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) innervation or nigral TH positive surviving neurons. A second lesion experiment was performed to determine if striatal dopamine (DA) neurotransmission was enhanced as measured biochemically. In this second group of parkin and GFP treated rats, behavioral improvement was again observed. In addition, striatal TH and DA levels were slightly increased in the parkin-transduced group. In a third experiment, we evaluated parkin and GFP transduced rats 6 weeks after vector injection without DA depletion. When challenged with amphetamine, parkin treated rats tended to display asymmetries biased away from the treated hemisphere. Nigral parkin over-expression induced increases in both striatal TH and DA levels. Therefore, while parkin over-expression exerted no protective effect on the nigrostriatal DA system, parkin appeared to enhance the efficiency of nigrostriatal DA transmission in intact nigral DA neurons likely due to the observed increases in TH.
Over the past two decades, the clinical management of depression has been revolutionized by the introduction of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and serotonin/noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors. However, despite this progress, several unmet medical needs remain. These challenges, which collectively represent the next frontier for antidepressant drug discovery, range from improving efficacy in treatment-resistant patients, to accelerating onset of therapeutic activity, to reducing deleterious side effects such as emesis or sexual dysfunction. The present review addresses some of the innovative approaches designed to create novel therapies that improve in one or more of these areas. Additionally, the authors propose that to discover truly novel disease-modifying agents we must improve our appreciation of disease etiology, pathophysiology and genetics. Therefore, while it is still very early in the characterization of these strategies - as well as our general understanding of disease progression - the next several years should allow sufficient time for one (or more) of these approaches to differentiate themselves from current therapies.
At present, dopamine agonists play an important role in antiparkinsonian therapy since they were proved effective in the management of both advanced- and early-stage Parkinson's disease. In the latter, they are often regarded as first-choice medication to delay the introduction of levodopa therapy. Despite sharing the capacity to directly stimulate dopamine receptors, dopamine agonists show different pharmacological properties as they act on different subsets of dopamine receptors. This, in theory, provides the advantage of obtaining a different antiparkinsonian activity or safety profile with each agent. However, there is very little evidence that any of the marketed dopamine agonists should be consistently preferred in the management of patients with Parkinson's disease. Pergolide and cabergoline are now considered a second-line choice after the proven association with valvular fibrosis. Transdermal administration (rotigotine) and subcutaneous infusion (apomorphine) of dopamine receptor agonists are now available alternatives to oral administration and provide continuous dopaminergic stimulation. Continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusion during waking hours leads to a large reduction in daily 'off' time, dyskinesias and levodopa daily dose. Almost all currently used dopamine agonists are able to provide neuroprotective effects towards dopaminergic neurons during in vitro and in vivo experiments. This neuroprotection may be the result of different mechanisms including antioxidation, scavenging of free radicals, suppression of lipid peroxidation and inhibition of apoptosis. However, the disease-modifying effect of these agents in Parkinson's disease remains to be ascertained.
Malignant gliomas represent an heterogeneous group of brain tumors both in terms of natural history and response to treatment. The standard therapeutic approach for treating glioblastomas is a combination of radiotherapy and concomitant/adjuvant temozolomide, and methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter methylation is now recognized as an important factor for predicting both prognosis and response to alkylating agents. In the future, the discovery of targeted therapies will increasingly allow personalized medical treatments. Anaplastic oligodendroglial tumors display a better prognosis and are more chemosensitive than glioblastomas; the discovery of molecular factors of prognostic significance, such as 1p/19q codeletion, will lead to different treatment strategies for different subgroups of patients. Gliomatosis cerebri is a rare diffuse glioma, and upfront chemotherapy is increasingly being employed instead of whole-brain radiotherapy to avoid/delay cognitive defects in long surviving patients, despite the lack of data to support this.

A growing body of evidence suggests that chromogranin A (CgA), a secretory protein released by many neuroendocrine cells and frequently used as a diagnostic and prognostic serum marker for a range of neuroendocrine tumors, is a precursor of several bioactive fragments. This work was undertaken to assess whether the N-terminal fragment CgA(1-76) (called vasostatin I) can inhibit the proangiogenic activity of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a factor involved in tumor growth. The effect of recombinant human vasostatin I (VS-1) on VEGF-induced human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVEC) signaling, proliferation, migration, and organization has been investigated. We have found that VS-1 (3 microg/ml; 330 nM) can inhibit VEGF-induced ERK phosphorylation, as well as cell migration, proliferation, morphogenesis, and invasion of collagen gels in various in vitro assays. In addition, VS-1 could inhibit the formation of capillary-like structures in Matrigel plugs in a rat model. VS-1 could also inhibit basal ERK phosphorylation and motility of HUVEC, leading to a more quiescent state in the absence of VEGF, without inducing apoptotic or necrotic effects. Conclusion: These findings suggest that vasostatin I may play a novel role as a regulator of endothelial cell function and homeostasis.
Temptin, a component of the complex of water-borne protein pheromones that stimulate attraction and mating behavior in the marine mollusk Aplysia, has sequence homology to the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains of higher organisms that mediate protein-cell surface contact during fertilization and blood coagulation. In this work, recombinant temptin for structural and functional studies was produced in Escherichia coli using a cold shock promoter and purified by RP-HPLC. CD spectra confirmed a predominantly beta-sheet structure. Two disulfide bonds were determined via limited proteolysis and MS. One internal disulfide (Cys57-Cys77) was predicted from initial alignments with class I EGF-like domains; the second, between Cys18 and Cys103, could protect temptin against proteolysis in seawater and stabilize its interacting surface. A three-dimensional model of temptin was prepared with our MPACK suite, based on the Ca(2+)-binding, EGF-like domain of the extracellular matrix protein fibrillin. Two temptin residues, Trp52 and Trp79, which align with cysteine residues conserved in fibrillins, lie adjacent to and could stabilize the disulfide bonds and a proposed metal-binding loop. The water-borne pheromone attractin in egg cordon eluates is complexed with other proteins. Docking results with our model and the NMR structure of attractin suggest that one face of temptin interacts with the pheromone, perhaps controlling its access to the cellular receptors. Gel shifts confirmed that temptin complexes with wild-type attractin. These results indicate that temptin, analogous to the role of fibrillin in controlling transforming growth factor-beta concentration, modulates pheromone signaling by direct binding to attractin.

Over the last decade, genomics research in psychiatry and neuroscience has provided important insights into genes expressed under different physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Contrary to the great expectations regarding a clinical use of these datasets, genomics failed to improve markedly the diagnostic and therapeutic options in brain disorders. Due to alternative splicing and posttranslational modifications, one single gene determines a multitude of gene products. Therefore, in order to understand molecular processes in neuropsychiatric disorders, it is necessary to unravel signal transduction pathways and complex interaction networks on the level of proteins, not only DNA and mRNA. Proteomics utilises high-throughput mass spectrometric protein identification that can reveal protein expression levels, posttranslational modifications and protein-protein interactions. Proteomic tools have the power to identify quantitative and qualitative protein patterns in postmortem brain tissue, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or serum, thus increasing the knowledge about etiology and pathomechanisms of brain diseases. Comparing protein profiles in healthy and disease states provides an opportunity to establish specific diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. In addition, proteomic studies of the effects of medication - in vitro and in vivo - might help to design specific pharmaceutical agents with fewer side effects. In this overview, we present the most widely used proteomic techniques and illustrate the potential and limitations of this field of research. Furthermore, we provide insight into the contributions of proteomics to the study of psychiatric diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, drug addiction, schizophrenia and depression.
It has become increasingly clear that environmental chemicals have the capability of impacting endocrine function. Moreover, these endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have long term consequences on adult reproductive function, especially if exposure occurs during embryonic development thereby affecting sexual differentiation. Of the EDCs, most of the research has been conducted on the effects of estrogen active compounds. Although androgen active compounds are also present in the environment, much less information is available about their action. However, in the case of xenoestrogens, there is mounting evidence for long-term consequences of early exposure at a range of doses. In this review, we present data relative to two widely used animal models: the mouse and the Japanese quail. These two species long have been used to understand neural, neuroendocrine, and behavioral components of reproduction and are therefore optimal models to understand how these components are altered by precocious exposure to EDCs. In particular we discuss effects of bisphenol A and methoxychlor on the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems in rodents and the impact of these alterations. In addition, the effects of embryonic exposure to diethylstilbestrol, genistein or ethylene,1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl) is reviewed relative to behavioral impairment and associated alterations in the sexually dimorphic parvocellular vasotocin system in quail. We point out how sexually dimorphic behaviors are particularly useful to verify adverse developmental consequences produced by chemicals with endocrine disrupting properties, by examining either reproductive or non-reproductive behaviors.
This paper presents different conceptions of neuroethics, focusing both on applications of neuroscience aiming to provide access to other people's minds and on the theoretical study of the neural bases of moral judgement and decision making. It is argued that these studies have not yet seriously undermined the traditional view of humans as moral free agents, nor have they accomplished the radical naturalisation of ethics that is sometimes promised or predicted. A few implications for normative ethics and moral epistemology are also discussed.
All choices are economic decisions, and this is true because mobile organisms run on batteries. For them the clock is always ticking and their battery draining so every moment represents a choice of how to invest a bit of energy. From this perspective, all choices - those made and those not made - engender costs and yield variable future returns. There is no more fundamental stricture for an organism than to behave so as to recharge their batteries; consequently, each moment of existence is attended by the need to value that moment and its near-term future quickly and accurately. The central issue of neuroeconomics is valuation - the way the brain values literally everything from internal mental states to experienced time (the neuroscience part), and why it should do so one way and not another (the normative economics part). All these valuations have now begun to be probed in experiments by pairing quantitative behavioral and computational modeling with neuroimaging or neurophysiological experiments.
Our social life rests to a large extent on our ability to understand the intentions of others. What are the bases of this ability? A very influential view is that we understand the intentions of others because we are able to represent them as having mental states. Without this meta-representational (mind-reading) ability their behavior would be meaningless to us. Over the past few years this view has been challenged by neurophysiological findings and, in particular, by the discovery of mirror neurons. The functional properties of these neurons indicate that intentional understanding is based primarily on a mechanism that directly matches the sensory representation of the observed actions with one's own motor representation of those same actions. These findings reveal how deeply motor and intentional components of action are intertwined, suggesting that both can be fully comprehended only starting from a motor approach to intentionality.
In recent years, the study of decision making has provided a paradigmatic case of &quot;crossbreeding&quot; of different disciplines. The integration of economics, psychology and neurosciences within neuroeconomics calls for more accurate and comprehensive models of human rationality, which may be obtained by combining diverse theoretical approaches and experimental techniques. In this respect, neuroeconomics contributes to a naturalistic, brain-based, explanation of human agency. However, although contemporary naturalism insists on the unitary aspect of reality, we stress that supporting unitary study of nature is not the same as supporting a single, fundamental discipline to which all higher-order analyses could (or should) be reduced. We argue for integration, rather than reduction, as the best approach to a naturalistic explanation of human decision making, and we claim that supporting epistemological pluralism does not mean being committed to any specific ontological position. However, we suggest that an &quot;emergentist&quot; ontology is the best candidate to integrate the epistemological analysis here endorsed.
Neurophilosophy embraces the hypothesis that what we call &quot;the mind&quot; is in fact a level of brain activity. A corollary of this hypothesis states that we can learn much about the reality of mental function by studying the brain at all levels of organization. Until fairly recently, many philosophers preferred to believe that important domains of mental function could never be addressed using the tools of empirical science. Nevertheless, co-evolutionary progress by psychology and the neurosciences on many topics, including consciousness, free will and the nature of knowledge, have meant that such convictions need to be updated. Some large-scale mind-brain problems have not yet been solved, and do require significant theoretical innovation. In particular the problem of how to understand the true nature of representations remains unsolved.




Human genetic studies have shown that neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a potential susceptibility gene for schizophrenia. Nrg1 influences various neurodevelopmental processes, which are potentially related to schizophrenia. The neurodevelopmental theory of schizophrenia suggests that interactions between genetic and environmental factors are responsible for biochemical alterations leading to schizophrenia. To investigate these interactions and to match experimental design with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, we applied a comprehensive behavioural phenotyping strategy for motor activity, exploration and anxiety in a heterozygous Nrg1 transmembrane domain mutant mouse model (Nrg1 HET) using different housing conditions and age groups. We observed a locomotion- and exploration-related hyperactive phenotype in Nrg1 HETs. Increased age had a locomotion- and exploration-inhibiting effect, which was significantly attenuated in mutant mice. Environmental enrichment (EE) had a stimulating influence on locomotion and exploration. The impact of EE was more pronounced in Nrg1 hypomorphs. Our study also showed a moderate task-specific anxiolytic-like phenotype for Nrg1 HETs, which was influenced by external factors. The behavioural phenotype detected in heterozygous Nrg1 mutant mice is not specific to schizophrenia per se, but the increased sensitivity of mutant mice to exogenous factors is consistent with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and the neurodevelopmental theory. Our findings reinforce the importance of carefully controlling experimental designs for external factors and of comprehensive, integrative phenotyping strategies. Thus, Nrg1 HETs may, in combination with other genetic and drug models, help to clarify pathophysiological mechanisms behind schizophrenia.
Trace amines have been implicated in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders including depression and schizophrenia. Although long known to modulate neurotransmission indirectly through the release of catecholamines, the identification of the Trace Amine 1 receptor (TA1) offers a mechanism by which trace amines can influence synaptic activity directly. TA1 binds and is activated by trace amines such as beta-phenylethylamine and tyramine. Our pharmacological characterization of mouse TA1 showed that, as in rat and primate, amphetamine is an agonist at this receptor but with surprisingly high potency. Without selective ligands for TA1 that do not also possess catecholamine-releasing properties, however, it has not been possible to study its physiological role in the central nervous system. To that end, a line of mice lacking the TA1 receptor was generated to characterize its contribution to the regulation of behavior. Compared with wild-type littermates, TA1 knockout (KO) mice displayed a deficit in prepulse inhibition. Knockout animals, in which the TA1-agonist influence of amphetamine was absent, showed enhanced sensitivity to the psychomotor-stimulating effect of this drug, which was temporally correlated with significantly larger increases in the release of both dopamine and norepinephrine in the dorsal striatum and associated with a 262% increase in the proportion of striatal high-affinity D2 receptors. TA1 therefore appears to play a modulatory role in catecholaminergic function and represents a potentially novel mechanism for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. Furthermore, the TA1 KO mouse may provide a useful model for the development of treatments for some positive symptoms of schizophrenia.
Mammalian social relationships, such as mother-offspring attachments and pair bonds, can directly affect reproductive output. However, conspecifics approach one another in a comparatively broad range of contexts, so conceivably there are motivations for social congregation other than those underlying reproduction, parental care or territoriality. Here, we show that reward mediated by social contact is a fundamental aspect of juvenile mouse sociality. Employing a novel social conditioned place preference (SCPP) procedure, we demonstrate that social proximity is rewarding for juvenile mice from three inbred strains (A/J, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J), while mice from a fourth strain (BALB/cJ) are much less responsive to social contact. Importantly, this strain-dependent difference was not related to phenotypic variability in exploratory behavior or contextual learning nor influenced by the genetic background associated with maternal care or social conditioning. Furthermore, the SCPP phenotype was expressed early in development (postnatal day 25) and did not require a specific sex composition within the conditioning group. Finally, SCPP responses resulted from an interaction between two specifiable processes: one component of the interaction facilitated approach toward environments that were associated with social salience, whereas a second component mediated avoidance of environmental cues that predicted social isolation. We have thus identified a genetically prescribed process that can attribute value onto conditions predicting a general form of social contact. To our knowledge, this is the first definitive evidence to show that genetic variation can influence a form of social valuation not directly related to a reproductive behavior.
Aberrant exon 5 skipping of presenilin-2 (PS2) pre-mRNA produces a deleterious protein isoform PS2V, which is almost exclusively observed in the brains of sporadic Alzheimer's disease patients. PS2V over-expression in vivo enhances susceptibility to various endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stresses and increases production of amyloid-beta peptides. We previously purified and identified high mobility group A protein 1a (HMGA1a) as a trans-acting factor responsible for aberrant exon 5 skipping. Using heterologous pre-mRNAs, here we demonstrate that a specific HMGA1a-binding sequence in exon 5 adjacent to the 5' splice site is necessary for HMGA1a to inactivate the 5' splice site. An aberrant HMGA1a-U1 snRNP complex was detected on the HMGA1a-binding site adjacent to the 5' splice site during the early splicing reaction. A competitor 2'-O-methyl RNA (2'-O-Me RNA) consisting of the HMGA1a-binding sequence markedly repressed exon 5 skipping of PS2 pre-mRNA in vitro and in vivo. Finally, HMGA1a-induced cell death under ER stress was prevented by transfection of the competitor 2'-O-Me RNA. These results provide insights into the molecular basis for PS2V-associated neurodegenerative diseases that are initiated by specific RNA binding of HMGA1a.
We present CVMHAPLO, a probabilistic method for haplotyping in general pedigrees with many markers. CVMHAPLO reconstructs the haplotypes by assigning in every iteration a fixed number of the ordered genotypes with the highest marginal probability, conditioned on the marker data and ordered genotypes assigned in previous iterations. CVMHAPLO makes use of the cluster variation method (CVM) to efficiently estimate the marginal probabilities. We focused on single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in the evaluation of our approach. In simulated data sets where exact computation was feasible, we found that the accuracy of CVMHAPLO was high and similar to that of maximum-likelihood methods. In simulated data sets where exact computation of the maximum-likelihood haplotype configuration was not feasible, the accuracy of CVMHAPLO was similar to that of state of the art Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) maximum-likelihood approximations when all ordered genotypes were assigned and higher when only a subset of the ordered genotypes was assigned. CVMHAPLO was faster than the MCMC approach and provided more detailed information about the uncertainty in the inferred haplotypes. We conclude that CVMHAPLO is a practical tool for the inference of haplotypes in large complex pedigrees.
Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), a tryptophan catabolizing enzyme, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurological disorders. IDO expression is induced by IFN-gamma and leads to neurotoxicity by generating quinolinic acid. Additionally, it inhibits the immune response through both tryptophan depletion and generating other tryptophan catabolites. IL-4 and IL-13 have been shown to control IDO expression by antagonizing the effects of IFN-gamma in different cell types. Here, we investigated the effects of these cytokines on IDO expression in microglia. Interestingly, we observed that both IL-4 and IL-13 greatly enhanced IFN-gamma-induced IDO expression. However, tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (WRS), which is coinduced with IDO by IFN-gamma, is downregulated by IL-4 and IL-13. The effect of IL-4 and IL-13 was independent of STAT-6. Modulation of IDO but not WRS was eliminated by inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway further differentiated the regulation of these two enzymes, as inhibiting the PI3K pathway eliminated IFN-gamma induction of IDO, whereas such inhibition greatly enhanced WRS expression. These findings show discordance between modulations of expression of two distinct enzymes utilizing tryptophan as a common substrate, and raise the possibility of their involvement in regulating immune responses in various neurological disorders.
Oligodendrocytes (OGs) assemble the myelin sheath around axons in the central nervous system. Specification of cells into the OG lineage is largely the result of interplay between bone morphogenetic protein, sonic hedgehog and Notch signaling pathways, which regulate expression of transcription factors (TFs) dictating spatial and temporal aspects of oligodendrogenesis. Many of these TFs and others then direct OG development through to a mature myelinating OG. Here we describe signaling pathways and TFs that are inductive, inhibitory, and/or permissive to OG specification and maturation. We develop a basic transcriptional network and identify similarities and differences between regulation of oligodendrogenesis in the spinal cord and brain.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), the presence of demyelinating plaques has concentrated researchers' minds on the role of the oligodendrocyte in its pathophysiology. Recently, with the rediscovery of early and widespread loss of axons in the disease, new emphasis has been put on the role of axons and axon-oligodendrocyte interactions in MS. Despite the fact that, in 1904, Mller claimed that MS was a disease of astrocytes, more recently, astrocytes have taken a back seat, except as the cells that form the final glial scar after all hope of demyelination is over. However, perhaps it is time for the return of the astrocyte to popularity in the pathogenesis of MS, with recent reports on the dual role of astrocytes in aiding degeneration and demyelination, by promoting inflammation, damage of oligodendrocytes and axons, and glial scarring, but also in creating a permissive environment for remyelination by their action on oligodendrocyte precursor migration, oligodendrocyte proliferation, and differentiation. We review these findings to try to provide a cogent view of astrocytes in the pathology of MS.
The anti-serum against an unknown human placental antigen complex X-P2 (hPAX-P2) immunohistochemically recognizes three putative molecules (hPAX-P2S, hPAX-P2N, and hPAX-P2R), each of which is associated with the stigmoid bodies (STBs), necklace olfactory glomeruli (NOGs), or reticulo-filamentous structures (RFs) in the rat brain. The STBs also contain huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1), and the HAP1-cDNA transfection induces STB-like inclusions in cultured cells. In order to clarify the relationship between hPAX-P2S and HAP1 isoforms (A/B), we performed Western blotting, immuno-histo/cytochemistry for light- and electron-microscopy and pre-adsorption tests with HAP1 deletion fragments. The results showed that the anti-hPAX-P2 anti-serum recognizes HAP1(474-577) of HAP1A/B in Western blotting and strongly immunostains HAP1A-induced STB-like inclusions but far weakly detects HAP1B-induced diffuse structures in HAP1-transfected HEK 293 cells. In the rat brain, immunoreactivity of the anti-hPAX-P2 anti-serum for the STBs was eliminated by pre-adsorption with HAP1(474-577), whereas no pre-adsorption with any different HAP1 fragments can suppress immunoreactivity for the NOGs and RFs, which were not immunoreactive to anti-HAP1 anti-serum. These findings indicate that hPAX-P2S, which is distinct from hPAX-P2N and hPAX-P2R, is identical with STB-constituted HAP1 and that the HAP1-induced/immunoreactive inclusions correspond to the hPAX-P2-immunoreactive STBs previously identified in the brain.
The extrastriate visual cortex forms a complex system enabling the analysis of visually presented objects. To gain deeper insight into the anatomical basis of this system, we cytoarchitectonically mapped the ventral occipital cortex lateral to BA 18/V2 in 10 human postmortem brains. The anatomical characterization of this part of the ventral stream was performed by examination of cell-body-stained histological sections using quantitative cytoarchitectonic analysis. First, the gray level index (GLI) was measured in the ventral occipital lobe. Cytoarchitectonic borders, i.e., significant changes in the cortical lamination pattern, were then identified using an observer-independent algorithm based on multivariate analysis of GLI profiles. Two distinct cytoarchitectonic areas (hOC3v, hOC4v) were characterized in the ventral extrastriate cortex lateral to BA 18/V2. Area hOC3v was found in the collateral sulcus. hOC4v was located in this sulcus and also covered the fusiform gyrus in more occipital sections. Topographically, these areas thus seem to represent the anatomical substrates of functionally defined areas, VP/V3v and V4/V4v. Following histological analysis, the delineated cytoarchitectonic areas were transferred to 3D reconstructions of the respective postmortem brains, which in turn were spatially normalized to the Montreal Neurological Institute reference space. A probabilistic map was generated for each area which describes how many brains had a representation of this area in a particular voxel. These maps can now be used to identify the anatomical correlates of functional activations observed in neuroimaging experiments to enable a more informed investigation into the many open questions regarding the organization of the human visual cortex.
A remarkable characteristic of the human nervous system is its ability to learn to integrate novel (foreign) complex sounds into words. However, the neural changes involved in how adults learn to integrate novel sounds into words and the associated individual differences are largely unknown. Unlike English, most languages of the world use pitch patterns to mark individual word meaning. We report a study assessing the neural correlates of learning to use these pitch patterns in words by English-speaking adults who had no previous exposure to such usage. Before and after training, subjects discriminated pitch patterns of the words they learned while blood oxygenation levels were measured using fMRI. Subjects who mastered the learning program showed increased activation in the left posterior superior temporal region after training, while subjects who plateaued at lower levels showed increased activation in the right superior temporal region and right inferior frontal gyrus, which are associated with nonlinguistic pitch processing, and prefrontal and medial frontal areas, which are associated with increased working memory and attentional efforts. Furthermore, we found brain activation differences even before training between the two subject groups, including the superior temporal region. These results demonstrate an association between range of neural changes and degrees of language learning, specifically implicating the physiologic contribution of the left dorsal auditory cortex in learning success.
Functional MRI was used to identify the brain areas underlying automatic beliefs about gender and race, and suppression of those attitudes. Participants (n = 20; 7 females) were scanned at 3 tesla while performing the Implicit Association Test (IAT), an indirect measure of race and gender bias. We hypothesized that ventromedial prefrontal cortex areas (PFC) would mediate gender and racial stereotypic attitudes, and suppression of these beliefs would recruit dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Performance data on the IAT revealed gender and racial biases. Racial bias was correlated with an explicit measure of racism. Results showed activation of anteromedial PFC and rostral ACC while participants implicitly made associations consistent with gender and racial biases. In contrast, associations incongruent with stereotypes recruited DLPFC. Implicit gender bias was correlated with amygdala activation during stereotypic conditions. Results suggest there are dissociable roles for anteromedial and dorsolateral PFC circuits in the activation and inhibition of stereotypic attitudes.


Since millions suffer from major depressive and bipolar disorders, the modeling, characterization, classification, and diagnostic analysis of such mental disorders bear great significance in medical and pharmaceutical research. YinYang bipolar sets are introduced for neurobiological modeling and diagnostic analysis of such disorders. It is shown that bipolar sets and a bipolar dynamic modus ponens (BDMP) build a technological bridge from a linear, static, and closed world to a nonlinear, dynamic, and open world of equilibria, quasi-equilibria, or nonequilibria and provide a novel model for bipolar neurobiological diagnostic analysis with added rigor to the current standard. It is shown that bipolar inference can help in understanding both the classic manifestations and the counterintuitive symptoms of bipolar disorders with applications in clinical psychopharmacology. Mathematical and visual characterizations of core features of such disorders are presented. A unified diagnosis and outcome model of different treatments are presented for different types of bipolar disorders. The significance and novelty of this work is twofold: (1) it introduces YinYang into biomedicine for the understanding of certain neurobiological disorders and fosters a new standard model for clinical, therapeutic, and pharmacological research and applications; (2) it presents a mathematical basis for the characterization of mood regulation in individuals and/or a cohort of patients with applications in biomedical engineering and potential applications in nanotechnologies for integrated care of major depressive and bipolar disorders.




The olfactory-driven blood-feeding behaviour of female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes is the primary transmission mechanism by which the arboviruses causing dengue and yellow fevers affect over 40 million individuals worldwide. Bioinformatics analysis has been used to identify 131 putative odourant receptors from the A. aegypti genome that are likely to function in chemosensory perception in this mosquito. Comparison with the Anopheles gambiae olfactory subgenome demonstrates significant divergence of the odourant receptors that reflects a high degree of evolutionary activity potentially resulting from their critical roles during the mosquito life cycle. Expression analyses in the larval and adult olfactory chemosensory organs reveal that the ratio of odourant receptors to antennal glomeruli is not necessarily one to one in mosquitoes.
Full remission of symptoms is the goal for the acute treatment of depression, because incomplete remission is associated with poor outcomes including higher risk of relapse and chronicity. The current definitions for remission (e.g. a score of &lt;/=7 on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale), however, allow for the presence of residual symptoms of depression even if remission is attained. The focus now is on the quality of remission, that is, ensuring a minimum of such residual symptoms, because the consequences of low-quality remission also include impairment in psychosocial functioning. The most common residual symptoms are sleep disturbances, fatigue, and disinterest. Sleep-associated residual symptoms are particularly common, and are a major concern because most current treatments fail to adequately address sleep disturbances and may even aggravate them. Other side effects of current treatments, such as weight gain and sexual dysfunction, may also reduce the quality of remission. A novel approach to the treatment of depression with agomelatine, a melatonergic MT1 and MT2 receptor agonist and 5-HT2C receptor antagonist, may be an effective treatment that improves the quality of remission, as it combines good efficacy with positive effects on sleep, neutral effects on sexual function, and a favorable side effect profile.
An acoustical model using simplified ear anatomy was designed to predict the ear-canal sound pressure occlusion effect in humans. These predictions were compared perceptually as well as with ear-canal sound pressure occlusion effect measurements using a foam earplug with shallow insertion, a foam earplug with deep insertion into the bony part of the ear canal, and a circumaural earmuff. There was good resemblance between model predictions and ear-canal sound pressure measurements. It was also found that all occlusion positions, even deep ear-canal occlusion, produced noticeable occlusion effects. With the bone-conduction transducer at the forehead, the perceived occlusion effect was close to that obtained from ear-canal sound pressure data in the 0.3 to 2 kHz frequency range; when the stimulation was at the mastoid the difference between the perceived and measured ear-canal sound pressure occlusion effect was around 10 dB at frequencies below 1 kHz. Further, the occlusion effect was obtained in two clinical settings: with supra-aural earphones (TDH39), and insert earphones (CIR22). Although both transducers produced occlusion effects, insert earphones produced a greater effect than surpa-aural earphones at the low frequencies.

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are utilized in the treatment of depression in pregnant and lactating women. SSRIs may be passed to the fetus through the placenta and the neonate through breastfeeding, potentially exposing them to SSRIs during peri- and postnatal development. However, the long-term effects of this SSRI exposure are still largely unknown. The simplicity and genetic amenability of model organisms provides a critical experimental advantage compared to studies with humans. This review will assess the current research done in animals that sheds light on the role of serotonin during development and the possible effects of SSRIs. Experimental studies in rodents show that administration of SSRIs during a key developmental window creates changes in brain circuitry and maladaptive behaviors that persist into adulthood. Similar changes result from the inhibition of the serotonin transporter or monoamine oxidase, implicating these two regulators of serotonin signaling in developmental changes. Understanding the role of serotonin in brain development is critical to identifying the possible effects of SSRI exposure.


Psychiatric disorders are amongst the most prevalent, burdensome, and costly of all medical disorders. Several factors make this an exciting time for research on these conditions; these include relevant advances in (1) nosology and epidemiology; (2) neuroscience, including neurogenetics, molecular neurobiology, cognitive-affective neuroscience, and brain imaging; (3) psychopharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions; (4) systems research in mental health, including evaluation of evidence and of costs; and (5) patient advocacy and mental health literacy. At the same time, there are important challenges facing psychiatry researchers; these include (1) limitations of current diagnostic systems; (2) problems in attracting talented researchers to neuroscience and in obtaining sufficient funding for the vast amount of needed work; (3) a relative lack of controlled pharmacotherapeutic and psychotherapeutic studies undertaken outside the context of tertiary centres in the developed world; (4) ongoing gaps in systems research, including a relative lack of research on the effects of mental health policy; and (5) stigmatization of mental illness and anti-scientific beliefs in the community. These opportunities and challenges exist in both the developed and the developing world, but their scope may differ qualitatively and quantitatively; here we present a perspective from the developing world. We conclude with a wish list for the way forwards.
Mental health problems are relevant for every country. They are particularly important for low-income countries which face a high burden of illness due to infectious disease, greater socio-economic disparities, and have limited resources for mental health care. There is a great mismatch in the areas of mental health research, practice, policy and services in comparison to developed countries. There have been a few studies that have investigated major mental health problems prevailing in these countries but missed out significant health problems. Studies have tended to be more donor driven and conducted in tertiary centres. The low priority accorded to mental health by the policy makers, scarcity of human resources, lack of culture-specific study instruments, lack of support from scientific journals have been some of the impediments to mental health research in these countries. In addition, lack of community participation and absence of sound mental health policies have deprived the vast majority of the benefit of modern psychiatric treatments. Recently, with increase in collaboration in research, availability of treatment including low-priced psychotropics, and a growing emphasis on the need for mental health policy in some low-income countries, the bleak scenario is expected to change.
The goal of this paper is to illustrate the application of the tools of genetic epidemiology, particularly the family study method, to inform the classification of psychiatric disorders in adults and children. The first section describes family studies of adults designed to investigate the causes of comorbidity of anxiety and depression. The analysis of familial traits provides stronger evidence for the validity of certain sub-types of anxiety and mood disorders that co-occur within the same individual and within families. The second section presents an example of the use of the family study method to examine the validity of the autism spectrum disorders (ASD). A review of these studies suggests that the most consistently familial traits in ASD are language and communication skills, insistence on sameness and non-verbal IQ. These are also the traits most commonly associated with the differentiation of autism from Asperger disorder and PDDNOS using both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. From these data, a new classification system of the ASDs is proposed based on these familial traits.

The sensing of blood gas tensions and/or pH is an evolutionarily conserved, homeostatic mechanism, observable in almost all species studied from invertebrates to man. In vertebrates, a shift from the peripheral O(2)-oriented sensing in fish, to the central CO(2)/pH sensing in most tetrapods reflects the specific behavioral requirements of these two groups whereby, in teleost fish, a highly O(2)-oriented control of breathing matches the ever-changing and low oxygen levels in water, whilst the transition to air-breathing increased the importance of acid-base regulation and O(2)-related drive, although retained, became relatively less important. The South American lungfish and tetrapods are probably sister groups, a conclusion backed up by many similar features of respiratory control. For example, the relative roles of peripheral and central chemoreceptors are present both in the lungfish and in land vertebrates. In both groups, the central CO(2)/pH receptors dominate the ventilatory response to hypercarbia (60-80%), while the peripheral CO(2)/pH receptors account for 20-30%. Some basic components of respiratory control have changed little during evolution. This review presents studies that reflect the current trends in the field of chemoreceptor function, and several laboratories are involved. An exhaustive review on the previous literature, however, is beyond the intended scope of the article. Rather, we present examples of current trends in respiratory function in vertebrates, ranging from fish to humans, and focus on both O(2) sensing and CO(2) sensing. As well, we consider the impact of chronic levels of hypoxia-a physiological condition in fish and in land vertebrates resident at high elevations or suffering from one of the many cardiorespiratory disease states that predispose an animal to impaired ventilation or cardiac output. This provides a basis for a comparative physiology that is informative about the evolution of respiratory functions in vertebrates and about human disease. Currently, most detail is known for mammals, for which molecular biology and respiratory physiology have combined in the discovery of the mechanisms underlying the responses of respiratory chemoreceptors. Our review includes new data on nonmammalian vertebrates, which stresses that some chemoreceptor sites are of ancient origin.
Integrative movement neuroscience involves blending &quot;inside-out&quot; and &quot;outside-in&quot; approaches in the study of posture and movement. The former is characterized by determining the properties of single cells within the central nervous system (CNS) and then ascertaining how these properties influence the operation of CNS microcircuits, single reflexes, groups of reflexes, and generators of central pattern. This information is then used to theorize about CNS control of overt motor behavior. In contrast, the outside-in approach begins with analysis of the biomechanics of posture and movement and then uses this information to theorize how the mechanics are solved by the CNS and its pathways, circuitry, and even single cells. Studies conducted in the 1960s on CNS circuitry generating locomotor patterns in several invertebrate and vertebrate species, together with work on the treadmill locomotion of brain-stimulated decerebrate cats, led to a subsequent convergence of inside-out and outside-in understanding of the neural control of locomotion in invertebrates, nonmammalian vertebrates, and mammalian vertebrates, even including humans. This convergence of integrative and comparative approaches has been facilitated by modeling and simulation studies. These developments have important implications for doctoral and postdoctoral training programs in movement neuroscience. They can profit greatly by use of a multidisciplinary university-wide faculty who place a strong emphasis on integrative and comparative biology. Furthermore, the next generation of movement neuroscientists will require more familiarity with modeling and simulation than are being provided in most current training programs. To achieve the above, it will be advantageous if university culture and structure truly champion university-wide interdisciplinary research.
The neural control of locomotion involves a constant interplay between the actions of a central pattern generator (CPG) and sensory input elicited by bodily movement. With respect to the CPG, recent analysis of fictive locomotion has shown that durations of flexion and extension tend to covary along specific lines in plots of phase duration versus cycle duration. The slopes of these lines evidently depend on internal states that vary among preparations, but, within a preparation, remain rather steady from one sequence to the next. These relationships can be reproduced in a simple oscillator model having two pairs of preset parameters, suggesting that steady internal drives to flexor and extensor half-centers determine how phase durations covary. Regarding the role of sensory inputs, previous experiments have revealed state-dependent rules that govern phase-switching independently of the CPG rhythm. In addition, sensory input is known to modulate motoneuronal activation through stretch reflexes. To explore how sensory input combines with the locomotor CPG, we used a neuromechanical model with muscle actuators, proprioceptive feedback, sensory phase-switching rules, and a CPG. Interestingly, sequences of stable locomotion were always associated with phase durations that conformed to an extensor-dominated phase-duration characteristic (where extension durations vary more than flexion durations). This is the characteristic seen in normal animals, but not necessarily in fictive locomotion, where movement and associated sensory input are absent. This suggests that to produce the biomechanical events required for stability, an extensor-dominated phase-duration characteristic is required. In the model, when the preset CPG phase durations were well matched to coincide the biomechanical requirements, CPG-mediated phase switching produced stable cycles. When CPG phase durations were too short, phases switched prematurely and the model soon fell. When CPG phase durations were too long, sensory rules fired and overrode the CPG, maintaining stability. We posit that under normal circumstances, descending input from higher centers continually adjusts the operating point of the CPG on the preset phase-duration characteristic according to anticipated biomechanical requirements. When the predictions are good, CPG-generated phase durations closely match those required by the kinetics and kinematics, and little or no sensory adjustment occurs. We propose the term &quot;neuromechanical tuning&quot; to describe this process of matching the CPG to the biomechanical requirements.


Delayed auditory feedback (DAF) regarding speech can cause dysfluency. The purpose of this study was to explore whether providing visual feedback in addition to DAF would ameliorate speech disruption. Speakers repeated sentences and heard their auditory feedback delayed with and without simultaneous visual feedback. DAF led to increased sentence durations and an increased number of speech disruptions. Although visual feedback did not reduce DAF effects on duration, a promising but nonsignificant trend was observed for fewer speech disruptions when visual feedback was provided. This trend was significant in speakers who were overall less affected by DAF. The results suggest the possibility that speakers strategically use alternative sources of feedback.

Improving economy and health in developing countries like India, has increased the life span and changed the emphasis from communicable to noncommunicable diseases. This is likely to increase the prevalence of movement disorders and, age-related diseases like Parkinson's disease (PD). We review Indian epidemiological studies to describe: a) Prevalence of movement disorders, b) methodological issues and c) potential of epidemiological research in a country with multiple ethnic races and environmental risks for PD. Most Indian epidemiological studies do not specifically assess PD and figures are from studies evaluating all neurological diseases. Well-designed Indian studies on PD and essential tremors estimate prevalence rates in Parsis who are ethnically different from Indians. We compare Indian prevalence studies with other parts of the world to examine the role of ethnicity in PD. Lack of accurate epidemiological data on PD and movement disorders creates an urgent need for properly designed and conducted epidemiological studies in India. This will help find out their load, identify areas of focus, create public health policies for elderly Indians and, possibly, provide etiological clues to the pathogenesis of PD.
Homozygous tau mutant (tau(ss)) hamsters show an extremely short (20 h) circadian period (tau) that is attributable to altered enzymatic activity of casein kinase 1epsilon. It has been proposed that coupling of constituent circadian oscillators is strengthened in tau(ss) hamsters, explaining their tendency to show strong resetting after prolonged exposure to constant darkness. To evaluate further the circadian organization of tau(ss) hamsters, the authors assessed the extent of shortening of period as an aftereffect of exposure to light:dark cycles whose period (T) is 91% of tau and the ability of constant light to induce splitting. They find that tau(ss) hamsters show aftereffects comparable to wild types, indicating that normal CK1epsilon activity is not required for T cycles to shorten tau. This finding also contradicts the proposal that circadian period is homeostatically conserved. However, the authors find that tau(ss) hamsters rarely show splitting in constant light. Furthermore, LL does not induce lengthening of tau or reduction of activity duration (alpha) in these mutants. The authors' findings support the conclusion that the tau mutation alters the coupling between constituent circadian oscillators.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the mammalian circadian pacemaker, receives information about ambient light levels through the retinohypothalamic tract. This information resets the molecular clock of SCN neurons, thereby entraining overt animal behavior and physiology to the solar cycle. Progress toward functional characterization of retinal influences on the SCN has been hampered by limitations of established experimental paradigms. To overcome this hurdle, the authors have developed a novel in vitro preparation of the rat retinohypothalamic circuit that maintains functional connectivity between the retinas and the SCN. This method permits whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from visually identified, light-responsive SCN neurons. Using this preparation, the authors have found that in the SCN, light-evoked responses are partly driven by the melanopsin photosensory system of the intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells and that SCN neurons exhibit light adaptation. The authors have also been able to generate this preparation from mice, demonstrating the feasibility of applying this method to transgenic mice.
Pronounced hyperglycemia provoked by extradural compression (EC) of the sensorimotor cortex was recently described in the non-insulin dependent Goto-Kakizaki (GK) diabetic rat. Compared with control Wistar rats, GK rats exhibited more extensive brain damage after cortical ischemia at 48 h of reperfusion (Moreira et al, 2007). We hypothesized that the enhanced brain injury in GK rats could be caused by differential regulation of the heme degrading enzyme heme oxygenase (HO)-1, known to interact with the expression of other target genes implicated in antioxidant defense, inflammation and neurodegeneration, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD)-1, -2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). At 48 h after ischemia, relative mRNA expression of such target genes was compared between ipsilateral (compressed) and contralateral (uncompressed) hemispheres of GK rats, along with baseline comparison of sham, uncompressed GK and Wistar rats. Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect cellular and regional localization of HO-1 at this time point. Baseline expression of HO-1, iNOS, and TNFalpha mRNA was increased in the cortex of sham GK rats. GK rats showed pronounced hyperglycemia during EC and transient attenuation of regional cerebral blood flow recovery. At 48 h after reperfusion, HO-1 mRNA expression was 7- to 8-fold higher in the ischemic cortex of both strains, being the most upregulated gene under study. Heme oxygenase-1 protein expression was significantly reduced in diabetic rats and was found in perilesional astrocytes and rare microglial cells, in both strains. The reduced HO-1 protein expression in GK rats at 48 h after reperfusion combined with more extensive neurodegeneration induced by EC, provides further in vivo evidence for a neuroprotective role of HO after brain ischemia.
This meta-analysis assessed aggression and/or hostility-related events in children and adolescents treated with fluoxetine (n = 376) compared with placebo (n = 255). Aggression and/or hostility-related events were identified in 2.1% of fluoxetine versus 3.1% of placebo-treated patients (p = 0.588). This analysis fails to support an association between fluoxetine treatment and increased risk of aggression and/or hostility-related events in children and adolescents compared with placebo.
This article documents the development, factor structure, and psychometric properties of the parent- and youth-report forms of the Child Obsessive Compulsive Impact Scale-Revised (COIS-R), a measure of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)-specific functional impairment. Using a sample of 250 youth (M age = 11.7, 54% male, 80% Caucasian) diagnosed with OCD in a university hospital-based child anxiety clinic, exploratory factor analysis was employed to develop a 4-factor structure for the parent-report measure (Daily Living Skills, School, Social, Family/Activities) and a 3-factor structure for the youth-report form (School, Social, Activities). Both measures demonstrated good internal consistency, concurrent validity, and test-retest reliability. Moreover, partial correlations demonstrated significant associations between COIS-R scales and clinician global assessment of functioning scores controlling for both symptom severity and comorbid internalizing and externalizing symptomatology. These findings suggest that the COIS-R may hold utility for assessing the specific impact of OCD symptoms on youth functioning.

Cognitive impairment is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), occurring at all stages of the disease, and can be a major source of vocational disability, social impairment, and impoverished quality of life. Dysfunction in free recall from long-term memory, speed of information processing, working memory, and abstract reasoning are frequently observed in MS. Despite weak correlation with disease duration and physical disability status, the degree of cognitive impairment in MS has been related to the extent of topographically specific neuronal tissue damage and loss. Additional clinical factors including disease course, fatigue, affective disturbance, and medication can impact on the degree of MS-related cognitive impairment. We suggest that the symbol digits modalities test, paced auditory serial addition task, the clock drawing test and the MS neuropsychological screening questionnaire be considered as valid and relevant screening tests for cognitive impairment in MS.


Recent evidence in cognitive neuroscience has suggested that attention is a complex organ system subserved by at least three attentional networks in the brain, for alerting, orienting, and executive control functions. However, how these different networks work together to give rise to the seemingly unitary mental faculty of attention remains unclear. We describe a connectionist model of human attentional networks to explore the possible interplays among the networks from a computational perspective. This model is developed in the framework of leabra (local, error-driven, and associative, biologically realistic algorithm) and simultaneously involves these attentional networks connected in a biologically inspired way. We evaluate the model by simulating the empirical data collected on normal human subjects using the Attentional Network Test (ANT). The simulation results fit the experimental data well. In addition, we show that the same model, with a single parameter change that affects executive control, is able to simulate the empirical data collected from patients with schizophrenia. This model represents a plausible connectionist explanation for the functional structure and interaction of human attentional networks.
Understanding the basic neural processes that underlie complex higher order cognitive operations and psychosocial functioning is a fundamental goal of cognitive neuroscience. Event-related potentials allow investigators to probe the earliest stages of information processing. Mismatch negativity (MMN) and P3a are auditory event-related potential components that reflect automatic sensory discrimination. The aim of the present study was to determine if MMN and P3a are associated with higher order cognitive operations and psychosocial functioning in clinically normal healthy subjects. Twenty adults were assessed using standardized clinical, cognitive, and psychosocial functional instruments. All individuals were within the normal range on cognitive tests and functional ratings. Participants were also tested on a duration-deviant MMN/P3a paradigm (50-msec standard tones, p = .90; 100-msec deviant tones, p = .10; stimulus onset asynchrony [SOA] = 505 msec). Across fronto-central electrode regions, significant correlations were observed between psychosocial functioning and MMN (r = -.62, p &lt; .01) and P3a (r = .63, p &lt; .01) amplitudes. P3a amplitude was also highly associated with immediate and delayed recall of verbal information with robust correlations widely distributed across fronto-central recording areas (e.g., r = .72, p &lt; .001). The latency of the P3a response was significantly associated with both working memory performance (r = -.53, p &lt; .05) and functional ratings (r = -.48, p &lt; .05). Neurophysiological measures of relatively automatic auditory sensory information processing are associated with higher order cognitive abilities and psychosocial functioning in normal subjects. Efficiency at elementary levels of information processing may underlie the successful encoding, retrieval, and discrimination of task-relevant information, which, in turn, facilitates the iterative and responsive processing necessary for adaptive cognitive and social functioning.
Little is known about the mechanisms by which memory for relations is accomplished, or about the time course of the critical processes. Here, eye movement measures were used to examine the time course of subjects' access to and use of relational memory. In four experiments, participants studied faces superimposed on scenic backgrounds and were tested with three-face displays superimposed on the scenes viewed earlier. Participants exhibited disproportionate viewing of the face originally studied with the scene, compared to other equally familiar faces in the test display. When a preview of a previously viewed scene was provided, permitting expectancies about the to-be-presented face to emerge, disproportionate viewing was manifested within 500-750 msec after test display onset, more than a full second in advance of explicit behavioral responses, and occurred even when overt responses were not required. In the absence of preview, the viewing effects were delayed by approximately 1 sec. Relational memory effects were absent in the eye movement behavior of amnesic patients with hippocampal damage, suggesting that these effects depend critically on the hippocampal system. The results provide an index of memory for face-scene relations, indicate the time by which retrieval and identification of these relations occur, and suggest that retrieval and use of relational memory depends critically on the hippocampus and occurs obligatorily, regardless of response requirements.
Dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, along with those of a wide range of other cell types, support active backpropagation of axonal action potentials. Consistent with previous work, recent experiments demonstrating that properties of synaptic plasticity are different for distal synapses, suggest an important functional role of bAPs, which are known to be prone to failure in distal locations. Using conductance-based models of CA1 pyramidal cells, we show that underlying &quot;traveling wave attractors&quot; control action potential propagation in the apical dendrites. By computing these attractors, we dissect and quantify the effects of I(A) channels and dendritic morphology on bAP amplitudes. We find that non-uniform activation properties of I(A) can lead to backpropagation failure similar to that observed experimentally in these cells. Amplitude of forward propagation of dendritic spikes also depends strongly on the activation dynamics of I(A). I(A) channel properties also influence transients at dendritic branch points and whether or not propagation failure results. The branching pattern in the distal apical dendrites, combined with I(A) channel properties in this region, ensure propagation failure in the apical tuft for a large range of I(A) conductance densities. At the same time, these same properties ensure failure of forward propagating dendritic spikes initiated in the distal tuft in the absence of some form of cooperativity of synaptic activation.

Humans apply complex conceptual judgments to point-light displays (PLDs) representing biological motion (BM), but how animals process this kind of display remains uncertain. Four baboons (Papio papio) were trained to discriminate BM from nonbiological motion PLDs using an operant computerized test system. Transfer tests were given after training with novel BM stimuli representing humans or baboons (Experiment 1), with inverted PLDs (Experiment 2), and with BM stimuli in which body parts had been spatially disorganized (Experiment 3). Very limited transfer was obtained with the novel and inverted displays in Experiments 1 and 2, but transfer was much higher after spatial disorganization in Experiment 3. It is suggested that the baboons did not retrieve and interpret the articulated shape of the human or monkey body from the BM PLD stimuli, but rather focused their attention on the configural properties of subparts of the stimuli. Limits in perceptual grouping and restricted abilities in picture-object equivalence might explain why the baboons did not map BM PLD displays onto what they represent.
This study was aimed at examining whether pitch height and pitch change are mentally represented along spatial axes. A series of experiments explored, for isolated tones and 2-note intervals, the occurrence of effects analogous to the spatial numerical association of response codes (SNARC) effect. Response device orientation (horizontal vs. vertical), task, and musical expertise of the participants were manipulated. The pitch of isolated tones triggered the automatic activation of a vertical axis independently of musical expertise, but the contour of melodic intervals did not. By contrast, automatic associations with the horizontal axis seemed linked to music training for pitch and, to a lower extent, for intervals. These results, discussed in the light of studies on number representation, provide a new example of the effects of musical expertise on music cognition.
C. M. MacLeod and P. A. MacDonald (2000) suggested that congruent and incongruent Stroop stimuli cause more task conflict than neutral stimuli because the anterior cingulate cortex is more activated with these stimuli. This study investigated behavioral expression for this pattern. Experiment 1 reduced task conflict control by increasing the proportion of nonword neutrals. Additionally, half the trials had conflict or neutral cues. The control reduction revealed the task conflict. For noncued trials, response time was longer for congruent stimuli than for neutral stimuli (reverse facilitation effect). In addition, response time for congruent stimuli was longer when stimuli were uncued vs. cued. Experiment 2 increased task conflict control by changing the neutral stimuli to noncolor words. Consequently, the task conflict expression disappeared.
The goal-directed theory of imitation (GOADI) states that copying of action outcomes (e.g., turning a light switch) takes priority over imitation of the means by which those outcomes are achieved (e.g., choice of effector or grip). The object &lt; effector &lt; grip error pattern in the pen-and-cups task provides strong support for GOADI. Experiment 1 replicated this effect using video stimuli. Experiment 2 showed that shifting the color cue from objects to effectors makes imitation of effector selection more accurate than imitation of object and grip selection. Experiment 3 replicated this result when participants were required to describe actions. Experiment 4 indicated that, when participants are imitating and describing actions, enhancing grip discriminability makes grip selection the most accurately executed component of the task. Consistent with theories that hypothesize that imitation relies on task-general mechanisms (e.g., the associative sequence learning model, ideomotor theory), these findings suggest that imitation is no more or less goal directed than other tasks involving action observation.
Vision was for a long time considered to be essential in the elaboration of the semantic numerical representation. However, early visual deprivation does not seem to preclude the development of a spatial continuum oriented from left to right to represent numbers (J. Castronovo &amp; X. Seron, 2007; D. Szcs &amp; V. Cspe, 2005). The authors investigated the impact of blindness and its following experience on a 3rd property of the mental number line: its obedience to Weber's law. A group of blind subjects and a group of sighted subjects were submitted to 2 numerical estimation tasks: (a) a keypress estimation task and (b) an auditory events estimation task. Blind and sighted subjects' performance obeyed Weber's law. However, blind subjects demonstrated better numerical estimation abilities than did sighted subjects, especially in contexts involving proprioception, indicating the existence of better mapping abilities between the symbolic representations of numbers and their corresponding magnitude representations, obeying Weber's law (e.g., J. S. Lipton &amp; E. Spelke, 2005). These findings suggest that blindness and its following experience with numbers might result in better accuracy in numerical processing.
The tapetum is described by Johann Christian Rell (1759-1813). It is formed primarily by decussating fibers in the splenium of the corpus callosum that arch over the atrium of the lateral ventricle and course inferiorly in the lateral wall of the posterior, and somewhat into the temporal horns, of the lateral ventricle. The term of tapetum was discussed from etymological and anatomical points of view.
The French neurohistologist Louis-Antoine Ranvier (1835-1922), somewhat neglected in classical histories of nineteenth-century studies on the nervous system, developed a personal style, traditionally referred to as a synthesis between histology and physiology. Ranvier's research was not centered on the brain. Rather, he remained attached to the intimate nature of minute structures, with a style marked by the concept of generality. Ranvier's original style and role in the development of French histology and anatomie gnrale are analyzed, and their significance evaluated. Ranvier is reassessed as a prominent figure and as the leader in the renewal of the French anatomy.
We investigated the history of the fronto-occipital fasciculus (FOF) and related tracts in the cerebral white matter because of their contemporary relevance for connectional neuroanatomy, magnetic resonance tractography, and clinical neurology. The term &quot;FOF&quot; originated with Forel and Onufrowicz who misidentified aberrant longitudinally oriented callosal fibers in patients with callosal agenesis. This error was soon recognized, and Dejerine described an actual FOF linking frontal and occipital lobes, but gross dissection and lesion-degeneration methods could not distinguish the FOF from the subcallosal fasciculus of Muratoff and neighboring white matter bundles. Subsequent descriptions of a probably nonexistent &quot;inferior FOF&quot; have led to the FOF being misnamed post-hoc &quot;superior FOF,&quot; and other imprecise anatomical concepts and terminologies from the early literature are still perpetuated. Our analysis of brain fiber pathways using isotope anterograde tract tracers (Schmahmann &amp; Pandya, 2006) resolves the earlier uncertainties and provides hypotheses regarding functions of these fiber pathways.
Spanish histologist Santiago Ramn y Cajal, one of the most notable figures in Neuroscience, and winner, along with Camillo Golgi, of the 1906 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discoveries on the structure of the nervous system, did not escape experimenting with some of the psychiatric techniques available at the time, mainly hypnotic suggestion, albeit briefly. While a physician in his thirties, Cajal published a short article under the title, &quot;Pains of labour considerably attenuated by hypnotic suggestion&quot; in Gaceta Mdica Catalana. That study may be Cajal's only documented case in the field of experimental psychology. We here provide an English translation of the original Spanish text, placing it historically within Cajal's involvement with some of the key scientific and philosophical issues at the time.



When properly applied, stereology is a very robust and efficient method to quantify a variety of parameters from biological material. A common sampling strategy in stereology is systematic random sampling, which involves choosing a random sampling [corrected] start point outside the structure of interest, and sampling relevant objects at [corrected] sites that are placed at pre-determined, equidistant intervals. This has proven to be a very efficient sampling strategy, and is used widely in stereological designs. At the microscopic level, this is most often achieved through the use of a motorized stage that facilitates the systematic random stepping across the structure of interest. Here, we report a simple, precise and cost-effective software-based alternative to accomplishing systematic random sampling under the microscope. We believe that this approach will facilitate the use of stereological designs that employ systematic random sampling in laboratories that lack the resources to acquire costly, fully automated systems.
We analyzed the distribution of long interspersed nuclear elements (LINE)-1 (L1) along mouse autosomes at a 1-Mb scale, and found a unique combination of high density and strand asymmetry of L1 elements at the imprinted Prader-Willi syndrome/Angelman syndrome (PWS/AS) locus on mouse chromosome 7. This L1 signature overlaps the paternally expressed domain of the locus, excluding the maternally expressed Ube3a gene, and is conserved in rat and human. Unlike the PWS/AS locus, other instances of high L1 density and strand asymmetry in the mouse are not associated with imprinted regions and are not evolutionarily conserved in human. The evolutionary conservation of the L1 signature at the PWS/AS locus despite differences in composition of L1 elements between rodent and human, requires a mechanism for active perpetuation of L1 asymmetry during bursts of L1 activity, and indicates a possible functional role for L1 elements at this locus. Aside from the PWS/AS locus, rodents have a far greater correlation of L1 densities between DNA strands than do humans; we provide evidence that this difference in interstrand correlation between the two taxa is due largely to the difference in average age of the dominant L1 families.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG-expansion in the gene encoding the protein huntingtin. The disease is characterized by progressive motor disturbances, cognitive defects, dementia, and weight loss. Using western blotting and immunohistochemistry we have assessed the expression levels and patterns of a number of proteins involved in neurotransmitter release in post-mortem frontal cortex samples from 10 HD cases with different disease grades. We report a loss of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein, synaptosome-associated protein 25 (SNAP 25) in HD brains of grades I-IV. Moreover, in brains of grade III and IV we found a reduction in rabphilin 3a, a protein involved in vesicle docking and recycling. These losses appear to be specific and not due to a general loss of synapses in the HD cortex. Thus, levels of synaptobrevin II, syntaxin 1, rab3a or synaptophysin are unaltered in the same patient samples. SNAP 25 and rabphilin 3a are crucial for neurotransmitter release. Therefore, we suggest that a deficient pre-synaptic transmitter release may underlie some of the symptoms of HD.
The use of inbred rat strains provides a tool to investigate the role of genetic factors in drug abuse. Two such strains are Lewis and Fischer 344 rats. Although several biochemical and hormonal differences have been observed between Lewis and Fischer 344 strains, a systematic comparison of the effect of different drugs of abuse on dopamine (DA) transmission in the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens of these strains is lacking. We therefore investigated, by means of dual probe microdialysis, the effect of different doses of morphine (1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/kg), amphetamine (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg) and cocaine (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg) on DA transmission in the shell and in the core of nucleus accumbens. Behavior was monitored during microdialysis. In general, Lewis rats showed greater DA responsiveness in the NAc core compared to F344 rats except after 2.5 mg/kg of morphine and 20 mg/kg of cocaine. In the NAc shell, different effects were obtained depending on drug and dose: after 1.0 mg/kg of morphine no strain differences were observed, at 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg Lewis rats showed greater increase in DA in the NAc shell. Following amphetamine and cocaine challenge, Lewis rats showed greater DA increase in the shell after 0.25 mg/kg of amphetamine and 20 mg/kg of cocaine. Behavioral activation was greater in Lewis rats in response to the lowest dose of morphine (1.0 mg/kg), to the highest dose of amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) and to all doses of cocaine. These differences might be the basis for the different behavioral responses of these strains to drugs of abuse.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is activated in vivo in a number of brain areas by nicotine and other drugs of abuse. Here we show that nicotine stimulation of cultured mouse cortical neurons leads to a robust induction of ERK phosphorylation that is dependent on nicotine concentration and duration of exposure. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activity is necessary for nicotine-induced ERK phosphorylation and neither cAMP-dependent protein kinase or protein kinase C appear to be involved. Activity of glutamate receptors, L-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and voltage-gated sodium channels are also required for nicotine-induced ERK phosphorylation. Nicotine-induced ERK phosphorylation was inhibited by high concentrations of mecamylamine, however it was not blocked by other broad nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) inhibitors (including hexamethonium and chlorisondamine) or nAChR subtype selective inhibitors (such as methyllycaconitine, alpha-bungarotoxin, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, and alpha-conotoxin Au1B). In accord with these pharmacological results, nicotine-induced ERK phosphorylation was normal in primary cultures made from beta2 or alpha7 nAChR subunit knockout mice. The alpha3/beta4 nAChR agonist cytisine did not induce ERK phosphorylation suggesting that alpha3/beta4 nAChRs were not involved in this process. Taken together, these data define a necessary role for glutamatergic signaling and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in nicotine-induced ERK phosphorylation in cortical neurons and do not provide evidence for the involvement of classical nAChRs.
Inhibition of astrocytic apoptosis has been regarded as a novel prospective strategy for treating neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. In the present study, we demonstrated that iptakalim (IPT), an ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP) channel) opener, exerted protective effect on MPP(+)-induced astrocytic apoptosis, which was reversed by selective mitochondrial K(ATP) channel blocker 5-hydroxydecanoate. Further study revealed that IPT inhibited glutathione (GSH) depletion, mitochondrial membrane potential loss and subsequent release of pro-apoptotic factors (cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) phosphorylation induced by MPP(+). Meanwhile, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 inhibitor PD98059 inhibited the protective effect of IPT on MPP(+)-induced astrocytic apoptosis. Furthermore, IPT could also activate ERK/MAPK and maintain increased phospho-ERK1/2 level after MPP(+) exposure. Taken together, these findings reveal for the first time that IPT protects against MPP(+)-induced astrocytic apoptosis via inhibition of mitochondria apoptotic pathway and regulating the MAPK signal transduction pathways by opening mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (mitoK(ATP)) channels in astrocytes. And targeting K(ATP) channels expressed in astrocytes may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for neurodegenerative disorders.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinases, protein kinase B/Akt and cyclase response element-binding protein play important roles in drug-induced neuroadaptations. Acute psychostimulant exposure rapidly alters the phosphorylation of these proteins in the striatum but less is known about their responses to repeated stimulant administration. In this study the phosphorylated state of these proteins in rat striatum was analyzed by immunoblotting 15 min and 2 h after amphetamine (AMPH)-induced behavioral sensitization. Two weeks after the last dose of 5 mg/kg, i.p. AMPH once daily for 5 days, rats were challenged with 1 mg/kg, i.p. AMPH or saline and sacrificed 15 min or 2 h later. Sensitization to AMPH-induced behavioral activity was observed in AMPH pre-treated rats after AMPH on the challenge day. Phosphorylation of all three proteins was significantly greater 15 min after AMPH in AMPH-pre-treated than in saline-pre-treated rats. Two hours after AMPH challenge in AMPH-pre-treated rats, phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase and phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein immunoreactivity was still significantly elevated but not after AMPH injection in saline-pre-treated rats. In contrast, phospho-Akt was down-regulated to the same extent 2 h after acute AMPH or repeated AMPH with an AMPH challenge. These data implicate differential regulation of phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase, phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein versus phospho-Akt in sensitized responses to AMPH.
Mutations in Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are linked to the most common familial forms and some sporadic forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). The LRRK2 protein contains two well-known functional domains, MAPKKK-like kinase and Rab-like GTPase domains. Emerging evidence shows that LRRK2 contains kinase activity which is enhanced in several PD-associated mutants of LRRK2. However, the GTPase activity of LRRK2 has yet to be formally demonstrated. Here, we produced and purified the epitope-tagged LRRK2 protein from transgenic mouse brain, and showed that purified brain LRRK2 possesses both kinase and GTPase activity as assayed by GTP binding and hydrolysis. The brain LRRK2 is associated with elevated kinase activity in comparison to that from transgenic lung or transfected cultured cells. In transfected cell cultures, we detected GTP hydrolysis activity in full-length as well as in GTPase domain of LRRK2. This result indicates that LRRK2 GTPase can be active independent of LRRK2 kinase activity (while LRRK2 kinase activity requires the presence of LRRK2 GTPase as previously shown). We further found that PD mutation R1441C/G in the GTPase domain causes reduced GTP hydrolysis activity, consistent with the altered enzymatic activity in the mutant LRRK2 carrying PD familial mutations. Therefore, our study shows the biochemical characteristics of brain-specific LRRK2 which is associated with robust kinase and GTPase activity. The distinctive levels of kinase/GTPase activity in brain LRRK2 may help explain LRRK2-associated neuronal functions or dysfunctions in the pathogenesis of PD.
Synaptic vesicle proteins govern all relevant functions of the synaptic vesicle life cycle, including vesicle biogenesis, vesicle transport, uptake and storage of neurotransmitters, and regulated endocytosis and exocytosis. In spite of impressive progress made in the past years, not all known vesicular functions can be assigned to defined protein components, suggesting that the repertoire of synaptic vesicle proteins is still incomplete. We have identified and characterized a novel synaptic vesicle membrane protein of 31 kDa with six putative transmembrane helices that, according to its membrane topology and phylogenetic relation, may function as a vesicular transporter. The vesicular allocation is demonstrated by subcellular fractionation, heterologous expression, immunocytochemical analysis of brain sections and immunoelectron microscopy. The protein is expressed in select brain regions and contained in subpopulations of nerve terminals that immunostain for the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and the vesicular GABA transporter VGaT (vesicular amino acid transporter) and may attribute specific and as yet undiscovered functions to subsets of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses.
The histamine H(3) receptor is a constitutively active G protein-coupled receptor for the neurotransmitter histamine that serves a negative feedback function. A role for the histamine H(3) receptor has been suggested in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinsons disease and Alzheimer's disease. Mice deficient in apolipoprotein E (apoE), a protein involved in development, regeneration, neurite outgrowth, and neuroprotection, show increased measures of anxiety and reduced sensitivity to effects of histamine H(3) receptor antagonists on measures of anxiety. In this study, we tested whether in mice lacking apoE (Apoe-/-) histamine levels and histamine release in brain areas involved in the regulation of anxiety are altered. H(3) receptor antagonist-induced histamine release was lower in the amygdala of Apoe-/- than wild-type mice. In contrast, there were no genotype differences in histamine release in the hypothalamus. Consistent with these data, histamine immunohistochemistry revealed lower total and synaptic histamine levels in the central nucleus of the amygdala of Apoe-/- than wild-type mice. Such changes were not seen in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, or cortex. In Apoe-/- mice, chronically decreased histamine levels and reduced histamine release in the amygdala might contribute to increased measures of anxiety.
The spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) is a sexually dimorphic group of motoneurones that innervates the bulbocavernosus (BC) and levator ani (LA), skeletal muscles that attach to the base of the penis. In many species, including mice, rats and hamsters, the LA and BC have been found to be highly responsive to androgen and, in rats, these muscles mediate several effects of androgen on the SNB system. However, characterising the SNB system in mice is important because of the availability of genetic models in this species. In the present study, we examined AR expression in skeletal muscles of C57/BlJ6 adult male mice using immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry, comparing the BC/LA to the androgen-unresponsive extensor digitorum longus (EDL). We found similar differences in AR expression for these muscles in the mouse as previously reported for rats. In mice, the BC/LA contains more AR protein than does the EDL. At the cellular level, the LA contains a higher percentage of AR positive myonuclei and fibroblasts than does the EDL. Finally, AR expression is enriched at the neuromuscular junction of mouse LA fibres. The increased expression of AR in the LA compared to the EDL in both muscle fibres and fibroblasts indicates that each cell type may critically mediate androgen action on the SNB system in mice.
Steroid hormones act on developing neural circuits that regulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and are involved in hormone-sensitive behaviours. To test the hypothesis that developmental exposure to oestradiol (E(2)) organises the quantity of adult oestrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta), we used male mice with a targeted mutation of the aromatase enzyme gene (ArKO) and their wild-type (WT) littermates. These mice are unable to aromatise testosterone to E(2), but still express both ERalpha and beta. To evaluate adult responsiveness to E(2), gonadectomised males were implanted with Silastic capsules containing E(2), or an empty implant, 5 days prior to sacrifice. Immunoreactivity for ERalpha and ERbeta was quantified in the caudal ventromedial nucleus (VMN) and the medial preoptic area (POA). Regardless of genotype, adult treatment with E(2) reduced ERalpha-immunoreactive (ir) and ERbeta-ir cell numbers in the POA, as well as ERbeta-ir, but not ERalpha-ir, cell numbers in the VMN. Genotype, and thus endogenous exposure to E(2), produced opposite effects on ER expression in the two brain areas. In the VMN, ArKO males had more ERalpha-ir and ERbeta-ir cells than did WT males. In the POA, ArKO males had fewer ERalpha-ir and ERbeta-ir cells than did WT males. Thus, numbers of immunoreactive neurones containing both ERs in the adult ArKO male were enhanced in the POA, but decreased in the VMN, and most likely these patterns were established during the developmental critical period. Furthermore, although both ERalpha and beta-ir cell numbers are altered by the disruption of the aromatase gene, ERbeta is altered in a more robust and region-specific manner.

Decompression sickness (DCS) typically causes changes in the white matter of the spinal cord on MR imaging. We present a case of DCS in a scuba diver with dorsal white matter lesions typical of venous infarction. In addition, some central gray matter involvement was noted. Characteristic features of venous spinal cord infarction can be recognized on MR imaging in DCS but may be more extensive in severe cases.
Arterial dissection is the underlying stroke mechanism in approximately 2.5% of all strokes and the second leading cause of stroke in patients younger than 45 years of age. Controversy exists regarding the medical management of carotid dissection. Both anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents have been used with no compelling data supporting one therapy over the other. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) emboli monitoring may help in establishing the diagnosis and guide the treatment by measuring the frequency of microembolic signals (MES). We present two cases of carotid dissection where TCD monitoring for MES helped in establishing the diagnosis and proved useful in identifying that standard anticoagulation treatment was not preventing emboli. Both cases were also monitored for emboli count reduction with subsequent antiplatelet therapy.


Although autoimmune processes may take place in human polymyositis, little is known with regard to its pathogenesis due to the lack of appropriate animal models. In the present study, we developed experimental autoimmune myositis (EAM) in Lewis rats by immunization with recombinant skeletal C-protein and examined the role of pathogenic T cells and autoantibodies. Using recombinant proteins and synthetic peptides, we demonstrated that skeletal C-protein Fragment 2 (SC2) has the strongest myositis-inducing ability and that myositis-inducing epitope(s) reside within the residues 334-363 of SC2 (SC2P3). However, immunization with SC2P3 induced only mild EAM compared with SC2 immunization. Characterization of T cells and antisera revealed that SC2P3 and SC2P7 contain the B cell epitope, while the T cell epitope resides in SC2P5. Furthermore, anti-SC2, but not anti-SC2P3, antisera contained antibodies against the conformational epitope(s) in the SC2 molecule. However, SC2P3 or SC2P5 immunization plus anti-SC2 antibody transfer aggravated the disease only slightly. These findings suggest that C-protein-induced EAM is formed by activation of C-protein-specific T cells along with antibodies against conformational epitopes in C-protein but that there are undetermined factors related to the disease progression. Further analysis of C-protein-induced EAM will provide useful information to elucidate the pathomechanisms of human polymyositis.
Activation and mobilization of microglia are early events in the majority of brain pathologies. Among the signalling molecules that can affect microglial behaviour, we investigated whether nerve growth factor (NGF) was able to influence microglial motility. We found that NGF induced chemotaxis of microglial cells through the activation of TrkA receptor. In addition, NGF chemotactic activity was increased in the presence of low concentrations (&lt; or =0.2 ng/ml) of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), which at this concentration showed chemotactic activity per se. On the contrary, NGF-induced microglial migration was reduced in the presence of chemokinetic concentration of TGF-beta (&gt; or =2 ng/ml). Finally, both basal and NGF-induced migratory activity of microglial cells was increased after a long-term exposure of primary mixed glial cultures to 2 ng/ml of TGF-beta. Our observations suggest that both NGF and TGF-beta contribute to microglial recruitment. The chemotactic activities of these two pleiotropic factors could be particularly relevant during chronic diseases in which recruited microglia remove apoptotic neurons in the absence of a typical inflammatory reaction.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a devastating autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). This study investigated whether expression and activity of the calcium-activated protease calpain correlated with Th1/Th2 dysregulation in MS patients during states of relapse and remission. Calpain expression and activity were significantly increased in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from MS patients, compared to controls, with the highest expression and activity noted during relapse. Th1 cytokines were highest and Th2 cytokines were lowest in MS patients during relapse. Treatment with calpain inhibitor, calpeptin, decreased Th1 cytokines in PBMCs from MS patients. Calpain inhibitor also reduced degradation of myelin basic protein (MBP) by inhibiting the calpain secreted from MBP-specific T cells. Taken together, these results suggested calpain involvement in Th1/Th2 dysregulation in MS patients.
The PINK1 gene mutation is probably the second most common genetic cause of early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD). The frequency and the characteristics of the PINK1 mutation in the Taiwanese population are unknown. This study was designed to investigate the genotype, phenotype and dopaminergic function of PINK1 in a cohort of EOPD patients. The genetic settings were to detect the PINK1 gene mutations in 138 EOPD patients and in 191 controls. Using the (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 (TRODAT) scan, we investigated the differences in the dopamine transporter (DAT) activities between the PINK1 patients, late-onset Parkinson's disease (LOPD) patients and healthy controls. Four EOPD patients with 3 genotypic mutations in the PINK1 gene were found: a compound heterozygous mutation (Q239X/R492X) in 2 sisters, a novel homozygous mutation (R492X) in a woman, and a novel heterozygous mutation (G193R) in a man. The three PINK1 patients had typical phenotype with juvenile onset, benign course, and frequently with dyskinesias. The TRODAT scan showed a rather even and symmetrical reduction of uptake in PINK1 patients, unlike the dominant decline in the putamen in the LOPD patients. The annual reduction rate of uptake in the striatum was much slower in PINK1 patients than that in the LOPD patients (1.7 % vs. 4.1%; p&lt;0.005). In the patient with a heterozygous mutation in the PINK1 gene, the reduction ratio in the striatum, as well as the annual reduction rate, were closer to those in the LOPD group. We conclude that the incidence of carrying PINK1 mutations in the present cohort of Taiwanese EOPD patients was low, accounting for 2/39 (5.1 %) in familial cases, and 2/99 (2 %) in sporadic cases. The slower annual reduction of DAT activity might indicate the insidious degeneration of dopamine neurons and a benign prognosis.
Blink reflexes (BR) to electric stimuli of the supraorbital nerve were recorded in 26 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 26 patients with multiple system atrophy, 26 patients with Parkinson's disease, with or without REM sleep behaviour disorder (RBD), and in 20 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 with progressive supranuclear palsy without RBD, and compared with recordings in 30 healthy controls. BR were significantly delayed (p&lt;0.001) only in DLB patients in comparison with controls and with the other groups of patients; 14 (53.8%) patients had BR latency above 2 SD of the control mean, ranging from 36.1 to 46.3 ms. BR latency was not related to the presence of RBD, while a Spearman correlation rho of 0.68 was found for scores assessing the presence of cognitive fluctuations. R2 delay was prominently (71.5%) bilateral.


Quantification of growth in experimental F98 and C6 rat brain tumours was performed on 51 rat brains, 17 of which have been further assessed by 3D tumour reconstruction. Brains were cryosliced and radio-labelled with a ligand of the peripheral type benzodiazepine-receptor (pBR), (3)H-Pk11195 [(1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methyl-propylene)-3-isoquinoline-carboxamide)] by receptor autoradiography. Manually segmented and automatically registered tumours have been 3D-reconstructed for volumetric comparison on the basis of (3)H-Pk11195-based tumour recognition. Furthermore automatically computed areas of -300 microm inner (marginal) zone as well as 300 microm and 600 microm outer tumour space were quantified. These three different regions were transferred onto other adjacent slices that had been labelled by receptor autoradiography with the A(1) Adenosine receptor (A(1)AR)-ligand (3)H-CPFPX ((3)H-8-cyclopentyl-3-(3-fluorpropyl)-1-propylxanthine) for quantitative assessment of A(1)AR in the three different tumour zones. Hence, a method is described for quantifying various receptor protein systems in the tumour as well as in the marginal invasive zones around experimentally implanted rat brain tumours and their representation in the tumour microenvironment as well as in 3D space. Furthermore, a tool for automatically reading out radio-labelled rat brain slices from auto radiographic films was developed, reconstructed into a consistent 3D-tumour model and the zones around the tumour were visualized. A(1)AR expression was found to depend upon the tumour volume in C6 animals, but is independent on the time of tumour development. In F98 animals, a significant increase in A(1)AR receptor protein was found in the Peritumoural zone as a function of time of tumour development and tumour volume.
The PARK10 locus is associated with idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD), but the responsible gene remains to be identified. Genes associated with familial PD, as well as biochemical evidence from sporadic PD and animal models, have implicated components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in PD pathogenesis. One attractive candidate gene at the PARK10 locus is RING-Finger Protein 11 (RNF11), the deduced amino acid sequence of which predicts a RING-H2 domain common to E3 ubiquitin ligases such as parkin. To facilitate understanding of this protein and its possible role in PD, we characterized the expression and localization of RNF11 in brain. We detected RNF11 transcript and protein and provided the first direct evidence that RNF11 is expressed in brain. Immunohistochemical analysis of RNF11 protein in rat and human brain, using 2 different antibodies, corroborated the mRNA findings. Both antibodies show that RNF11 is restricted to neurons and excluded from white matter. Moreover, RNF11 is expressed by vulnerable neurons of the substantia nigra and sequestered into Lewy bodies in brains of patients with idiopathic PD. Collectively, these findings identify RNF11 as a strong candidate gene at the PARK10 locus and highlight its potential significance in the development of the common form of PD.
APOBEC3G restricts retrovirus replication through inducing guanosine-to-adenosine (G-to-A) hypermutations in viral DNA. Its role in brain &quot;intrinsic immunity&quot; has not been elucidated nor has it been convincingly demonstrated which brain cell compartments produce this defense factor in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and antiretroviral therapy. Here, we investigated by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization the cell-specific regulation of APOBEC3G in rhesus macaque brains during infection with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) clone deltaB670, a primate model of HIV disease. We found that APOBEC3G protein and mRNA were exclusively expressed by some perivascular macrophages throughout the brain of noninfected and asymptomatic SIV-infected monkeys. Depending on virus burden, APOBEC3G was induced in microglia/macrophage-derived cells and T lymphocytes in late-stage SIV infection. Intracellularly, APOBEC3G was found in the cytoplasm and/or in the nucleus. APOBEC3G-positive cells were in close proximity to SIV gag-positive cells or were SIV-copositive. Induction of APOBEC3G was accompanied by G-to-A hypermutations in the gag and pol regions of retroviral DNA isolated from brain sections of AIDS-symptomatic monkeys. Although brain-directed treatment with antiretroviral 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine suppressed brain SIV burden, encephalitis and reduced cerebral APOBEC3G synthesis hypermutations were still detectable. Upregulation of APOBEC3G may restrict spread of SIV in the brain and thus limit brain damage during lentiviral infection.
Previous studies of spiral ganglion neuron electrophysiology have shown that specific parameters differ according to cochlear location, with apical neurons being distinctly different from basal neurons. To align these features more precisely along the tonotopic axis of the cochlea, we developed a novel spiral ganglion culture system in which positional information is retained. Patch-clamp recordings made from neurons of known gangliotopic location revealed two basic firing pattern distributions. Membrane characteristics related to spike timing, such as accommodation, latency and onset tau, were distinctly heterogeneous, yet when averaged, they were distributed in a graded manner along the length of the cochlea. Action potential threshold levels also displayed a wide range, the averages of which were distributed nonmonotonically such that neurons with the greatest sensitivity were localized to the mid-regions of the ganglion. These studies shed new light on the complexity and sophistication of the intrinsic firing features of spiral ganglion neurons. Because timing-related elements are organized in an overall tonotopic manner, it is hypothesized that they contribute to aspects of frequency-dependent acoustic processing. On the other hand, the different distribution of threshold levels, with the greatest sensitivity in the middle region of the tonotopic map, suggests that this neuronal parameter is regulated differently and thus may contribute a distinct realm of auditory sensory processing.
We examined the coordination between right and left hindlimbs during voluntary forward swimming in adult red-eared turtles, before and after midsagittal section of the spinal cord hindlimb enlargement (segments D8-S2) or the enlargement plus the first preenlargement segment (D7-S2). Our purpose was to assess the role of crossed commissural axons in these segments for right-left hindlimb alternation during voluntary locomotion. Midsagittal splitting severed commissural fibers and separated the right and left halves of the posterior spinal cord. Adult turtles (n = 9) were held by a band clamp around the shell in a water-filled tank while digital video of forward swimming was recorded from below and computer analyzed with motion analysis software. In a subset of these animals (n = 5), we also recorded electromyograms from hip extensor and/or hip flexor muscles on both sides. Surprisingly, splitting spinal segments D8-S2 or D7-S2 did not affect the strength of out-of-phase coordination between right and left hindlimbs, although hindlimb movement amplitudes were reduced compared with presurgical controls. These results show that commissural axons in the hindlimb enlargement and preenlargement cord are not necessary for right-left hindlimb alternation during voluntary swimming. We suggest that alternating propriospinal drive from the right and left sides of the forelimb enlargement maintains the out-of-phase coordination of right and left hindlimbs in the bisected-cord preparation. Our data support the hypothesis that descending propriospinal (forelimb-hindlimb) and crossed commissural (hindlimb-hindlimb) spinal cord pathways function together as redundant mechanisms to sustain right-left hindlimb alternation during turtle locomotion.
Complex visual scenes preferentially activate several areas of the human brain, including the parahippocampal place area (PPA), the retrosplenial complex (RSC), and the transverse occipital sulcus (TOS). The sensitivity of neurons in these regions to the retinal position of stimuli is unknown, but could provide insight into their roles in scene perception and navigation. To address this issue, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure neural responses evoked by sequences of scenes and objects confined to either the left or right visual hemifields. We also measured the level of adaptation produced when stimuli were either presented first in one hemifield and then repeated in the opposite hemifield or repeated in the same hemifield. Although overall responses in the PPA, RSC, and TOS tended to be higher for contralateral stimuli than for ipsilateral stimuli, all three regions exhibited position-invariant adaptation, insofar as the magnitude of adaptation did not depend on whether stimuli were repeated in the same or opposite hemifields. In contrast, object-selective regions showed significantly greater adaptation when objects were repeated in the same hemifield. These results suggest that neuronal receptive fields (RFs) in scene-selective regions span the vertical meridian, whereas RFs in object-selective regions do not. The PPA, RSC, and TOS may support scene perception and navigation by maintaining stable representations of large-scale features of the visual environment that are insensitive to the shifts in retinal stimulation that occur frequently during natural vision.
Activity-dependent insertion of AMPA-type glutamate receptors is thought to underlie long-term potentiation (LTP) at Schaffer collateral fiber synapses on pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1 region. Although it is widely accepted that the AMPA receptors at these synapses contain glutamate receptor type 2 (GluR2) subunits, recent findings suggest that LTP in hippocampal slices obtained from 2- to 3-wk-old rodents is dependent on the transient postsynaptic insertion and activation of Ca(2+)-permeable, GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors. Here we examined whether LTP in slices prepared from adult animals exhibits similar properties. In contrast to previously reported findings, pausing synaptic stimulation for as long as 30 min post LTP induction had no effect on LTP maintenance in slices from 2- to 3-mo-old mice. LTP was also not disrupted by postinduction application of a selective blocker of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors or the broad-spectrum glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate. Although these results suggest that the role of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors in LTP might be regulated during postnatal development, LTP in slices obtained from 15- to 21-day-old mice also did not require postinduction synaptic stimulation or activation of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors. Thus the insertion and activation of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors do not appear to be fundamental processes involved in LTP at excitatory synapses in the hippocampal CA1 region.
Acoustic experience critically influences auditory cortical development as well as emergence of highly selective auditory neurons in the songbird sensorimotor circuit. In adult zebra finches, these &quot;song-selective&quot; neurons respond better to the bird's own song (BOS) than to songs of other conspecifics. Birds learn their songs by memorizing a tutor's song and then matching auditory feedback of their voice to the tutor song memory. Song-selective neurons in the pallial-basal ganglia circuit called the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) reflect the development of BOS. However, during learning, they also respond strongly to tutor song and are compromised in their adult selectivity when birds are prevented from matching BOS to tutor, suggesting that selectivity depends on tutor song learning as well as sensorimotor matching of BOS feedback to the tutor song memory. We examined the contribution of sensory learning of tutor song to song selectivity by recording from AFP neurons in birds reared without exposure to adult conspecifics. We found that AFP neurons in these &quot;isolate&quot; birds had highly tuned responses to isolate BOS. The selectivity was as high, and in the striato-pallidal nucleus Area X, even higher than that in normal birds, due to abnormally weak responsiveness to conspecific song. These results demonstrate that sensory learning of tutor song is not necessary for BOS tuning of AFP neurons. Because isolate birds develop their song via sensorimotor learning, our data further illustrate the importance of individual sensorimotor learning for song selectivity and provide insight into possible functions of song-selective neurons.
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is a condition that results from an autosomal dominant trait. It manifests as attacks of swelling involving the extremities, trunk, abdominal viscera, face, neck, or airway. The attacks may occur spontaneously, without any identifiable trigger, or may be the result of a specific trigger, such as a minor tissue trauma. The symptoms of an attack range from abdominal discomfort to a swelling of the upper extremities to a laryngeal edema that can lead to severe airway obstruction. Therapy for HAE can be divided into three distinct phases: treatment for acute attacks, short-term prophylaxis, and long-term prophylaxis. Treatment for an acute attack is largely supportive, including administration of epinephrine and antihistamines to maintain a patent, reliable airway. Shortterm prophylaxis includes fresh frozen plasma and corticosteroids. Long-term prophylaxis includes use of androgens and antifibrinolytics, as well as the avoidance of known triggers. Prior to the advent of such therapies, mortality from an acute attack of HAE was reported as high as 30%. Repeated episodes of unexplained cutaneous edema or abdominal discomfort may be caused by HAE. The nurse's role focuses on prevention of complications and supportive care, as well as education of the patient to minimize risk factors that may cause further episodes.
Significant advances have been made in understanding the neurophysiological basis of learning, including the discovery of mirror neurons and the role of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) responsive element binding (CREB) protein in learning. Mirror neurons help us visually compare an observed activity with a remembered action in our memory, an ability that helps us imitate and learn through watching. Long-term potentiation, the Hebb rule, and CREB protein are associated with the formation of long-term memories. Conversely, protein phosphatase 1 and glucocorticoids are neurophysiological phenomena that limit what can be learned and cause forgetfulness. Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences contends that different areas of the brain are responsible for different competencies that we all possess to varying degrees. These multiple intelligences can be used as strategies for improved learning. Repeating material, using mnemonics, and avoiding overwhelming stress are other strategies for improving learning. Imaging studies have shown that practice with resultant learning results in significantly less use of brain areas, indicating that the brain becomes more efficient. Experts have advantages over novices, including increased cognitive processing efficiency. Nurses are in a unique position to use their understanding of neurophysiological principles to implement better educational strategies to provide quality education to patients and others.
Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis, Dutch type (HCHWA-D), is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by the Dutch mutation (E693Q) in the beta-amyloid precursor protein. This mutation produces an aberrant amyloid beta (Abeta) species (AbetaE22Q) and causes severe meningocortical vascular Abeta deposition. We analyzed the Abeta composition of the vascular amyloid in the brains of HCHWA-D patients. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the vascular amyloid contained both Abeta40 and Abeta42, with a high Abeta40/Abeta42 ratio. In Western blotting of cerebral microvessel fractions isolated from the brains, both wild-type and Dutch-type Abeta40 were observed as major species. Reverse-phase HPLC-mass spectrometric analysis of the fractions revealed both wild-type and Dutch-type Abeta38 as the other main components of the vascular amyloid. Moreover, we detected peaks corresponding to Dutch-type Abeta42 but not to wild-type Abeta42. These results suggest a pathogenic role for the mutant Abeta42 in addition to the mutant Abeta40 in the cerebral amyloid angiopathy of HCHWA-D.
The CC2D1A gene family consists of two homologous genes, Freud-1/CC2D1A and Freud-2/CC2D1B, that share conserved domains, including several DM14 domains that are specific to this protein family, a C-terminal helix-loop-helix domain, and a C2 calcium-dependent phospholipid binding domain. Although the function of Freud-2 is unknown, Freud-1 has been shown to function as a transcriptional repressor of the serotonin-1A receptor gene that binds to a novel DNA element (FRE, 5'-repressor element). The DNA binding and repressor activities of Freud-1 are inhibited by calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. Recently, a deletion in the CC2D1A gene has been linked to nonsyndromic mental retardation. This deletion results in the truncation of the helix-loop-helix DNA binding and the C2 domains, crucial for Freud-1 repressor activity, and hence is predicted to generate an inactive or weakly dominant negative protein. The possible mechanisms by which inactivation of Freud-1 could lead to abnormal cortical development and cognitive impairment and the potential roles of Freud-1 gene targets are discussed.

Human recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects following both vascular and mechanical brain injury. Previously, we showed that behavioral symptoms associated with mechanical lesions of the hippocampus are nearly abolished due to EPO treatment. In these studies, the EPO administration took place simultaneously with the infliction of brain injury and the rehabilitation training started 6-7 days postoperatively. In the present study, we tested whether the therapeutic effect of EPO on the acquisition of an allocentric eight-arm radial maze spatial task also manifests itself if the rehabilitative training is postponed. Postoperatively, the animals were left without any specific stimulation for 30 days. The current results show an improved behavioral performance of the EPO-treated lesioned group relative to the saline-treated lesioned group, and confirm EPO's therapeutic effect even in case of postponed rehabilitation. However, compared to the control group, the EPO-treated lesioned group demonstrated an impaired task acquisition. All subjects eventually recovered functionally. Subsequently, the animals were given behavioral challenges during which the cue constellation in the room was changed. The challenges revealed that, although the EPO-treated lesion group had achieved the same level of task proficiency as the control group, the cognitive mechanisms mediating the task performance in the EPO-treated lesion group (as well as in the saline-treated lesion group) were dissimilar from those mediating the task in the control group. Both the EPO-treated and the saline-treated lesion group demonstrated an increased dependency on the original cue configuration.
Following traumatic brain injury (TBI), cascades of inflammatory processes occur. Laboratory studies implicate the cytokines interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and IL-1beta in the pathophysiology of TBI and cerebral ischemia, whilst exogenous and endogenous interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) is neuroprotective. We analyzed IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-1ra in brain microdialysates (100-kDa membrane) in 15 TBI patients. We also analyzed energy-related molecules (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, glutamate, and the lactate/pyruvate ratio) in these brain microdialysates. Mean of mean (+/-SD) in vitro microdialysis percentage recoveries (extraction efficiencies) were IL-1alpha 19.7+/-7.6%, IL-1beta 23.9+/-10.5%, and IL-1ra 20.9+/-6.3%. In the patients' brain microdialysates, mean of mean cytokine concentrations (not corrected for percentage recovery) were IL-1alpha 5.6+/-14.8 pg/mL, IL-1beta 10.4+/-14.7 pg/mL, and IL-1ra 2796+/-2918 pg/mL. IL-1ra was consistently much higher than IL-1alpha and IL-1beta. There were no significant relationships between IL-1 family cytokines and energy-related molecules. There was a significant correlation between increasing IL-1beta and increasing IL-1ra (Spearman r=0.59, p=0.028). There was also a significant relationship between increasing IL-1ra and decreasing intracranial pressure (Spearman r=-0.57, p=0.041). High concentrations of IL-1ra, and also high IL-1ra/IL-1beta ratio, were associated with better outcome (Mann Whitney, p=0.018 and p=0.0201, respectively), within these 15 patients. It is unclear whether these IL-1ra concentrations are sufficient to antagonize the effects of IL-1beta in vivo. This study demonstrates feasibility of our microdialysis methodology in recovering IL-1 family cytokines for assessing their inter-relationships in the injured human brain, and suggests a neuroprotective role for IL-1ra. It remains to be seen whether exogenous IL-1ra or other agents can be used to manipulate cytokine levels in the brain, for potential therapeutic effect.
When planning a study measuring the effects of a neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT), we were confronted with the methodological problem that while measuring the effects of NDT, a rival hypothesis is that the decision to implement the NDT might be related to the quality of nursing care. Therefore, we measured the quality of nursing care as a possible confounding variable in relation to this outcome study. The quality of nursing care was measured on 12 wards participating in the experimental and control groups of the outcome study. Data were collected from 125 patients and 71 nurses and patients' records. The findings showed no significant differences in the quality of nursing care between the 2 groups of wards (P = .49). This method may be useful to other researchers conducting outcome research and who are confronted with a similar methodological problem.
Ventilator-associated pneumonia is one of the most frequent complications among critically ill patients. Growth of pathogenic bacteria in dental plaque may serve as the source of these infections. This performance improvement initiative evaluated an aggressive oral care approach to prevent the accumulation of plaque containing bacteria. Our data support the use of these oral care measures and deep oral-pharyngeal suctioning for the prevention of aspiration of oral contents.
The signal-to-noise ratio of a measurement is determined by the photon economy of the detection technique and the available photons that are emitted by the sample. We investigate the efficiency of various frequency-domain lifetime detection techniques also in relation to time-domain detection. Nonlinear effects are discussed that are introduced by the use of image intensifiers and by fluorophore saturation. The efficiency of fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy setups is connected to the speed of acquisition and thus to the imaging throughput. We report on the optimal conditions for balancing signal-to-noise ratio and acquisition speed in fluorescence lifetime sensing.

1-((R)-5-tert-butyl-indan-1-yl)-3-isoquinolin-5-yl-urea (A-778317) is a novel, stereoselective, competitive antagonist that potently blocks transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) receptor-mediated changes in intracellular calcium concentrations (pIC50 = 8.31 +/- 0.13). The (S)-stereoisomer, 1-((S)-5-tert-butyl-indan-1-yl)-3-isoquinolin-5-yl-urea (A-778316), is 6.8-fold less potent (pIC50 = 7.47 +/- 0.07). A-778317 also potently blocks capsaicin and acid activation of native rat TRPV1 receptors in dorsal root ganglion neurons. A-778317 was tritiated ([3H]A-778317; 29.3 Ci/mmol) and used to study recombinant human TRPV1 (hTRPV1) receptors expressed in Chinese ovary cells (CHO) cells. [3H]A-778317 labeled a single class of binding sites in hTRPV1-expressing CHO cell membranes with high affinity (KD = 3.4 nM; Bmax = 4.0 pmol/mg protein). Specific binding of 2 nM [3H]A-778317 to hTRPV1-expressing CHO cell membranes was reversible. The rank-order potency of TRPV1 receptor antagonists to inhibit binding of 2 nM [3H]A-778317 correlated well with their functional potencies in blocking TRPV1 receptor activation. The present data demonstrate that A-778317 blocks polymodal activation of the TRPV1 receptor by binding to a single high-affinity binding site and that [3H]A-778317 possesses favorable binding properties to facilitate further studies of hTRPV1 receptor pharmacology.
Capsaicin, the active ingredient in some pain-relieving creams, is an agonist of a nonselective cation channel known as the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1). The pain-relieving mechanism of capsaicin includes desensitization of the channel, suggesting that TRPV1 antagonism may be a viable pain therapy approach. In agreement with the above notion, several TRPV1 antagonists have been reported to act as antihyperalgesics. Here, we report the in vitro and in vivo characterization of a novel and selective TRPV1 antagonist, N-(4-[6-(4-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-pyrimidin-4-yloxy]-benzothiazol-2-yl)-acetamide I (AMG 517), and compare its pharmacology with that of a closely related analog, tert-butyl-2-(6-([2-(acetylamino)-1,3-benzothiazol-4-yl]oxy)pyrimidin-4-yl)-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenylcarbamate (AMG8163). Both AMG 517 and AMG8163 potently and completely antagonized capsaicin, proton, and heat activation of TRPV1 in vitro and blocked capsaicin-induced flinch in rats in vivo. To support initial clinical investigations, AMG 517 was evaluated in a comprehensive panel of toxicology studies that included in vivo assessments in rodents, dogs, and monkeys. The toxicology studies indicated that AMG 517 was generally well tolerated; however, transient increases in body temperature (hyperthermia) were observed in all species after AMG 517 dosing. To further investigate this effect, we tested and showed that the antipyretic, acetaminophen, suppressed the hyperthermia caused by TRPV1 blockade. We also showed that repeated administration of TRPV1 antagonists attenuated the hyperthermia response, whereas the efficacy in capsaicin-induced flinch model was maintained. In conclusion, these studies suggest that the transient hyperthermia elicited by TRPV1 blockade may be manageable in the development of TRPV1 antagonists as therapeutic agents. However, the impact of TRPV1 antagonist-induced hyperthermia on their clinical utility is still unknown.
We showed previously that treatment of human airway smooth muscle cells and lung fibroblasts with lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) increases the binding of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to EGF receptors (EGFRs). The purpose of this study was to determine whether LPA also regulates EGFR binding in airway epithelial cells. Airway epithelial cells were incubated in the absence or presence of 10 microM LPA for increasing times, and binding of 125I-EGF to intact cells on ice was measured. Exposure to LPA for only 15 min caused a 30 to 70% decrease in EGFR binding in a dose-dependent manner, depending on the cell line. This decrease in binding was sustained to at least 18 h in BEAS-2B and primary human bronchial epithelial cells. In contrast, the LPA-induced decrease in binding reversed rapidly in two lung cancer epithelial cell lines, H292 and A549, returning to control levels within 3 h. LPA increased phosphorylation of the EGFR in BEAS-2B cells, and this phosphorylation was inhibited by both 4-(3'-chloroanilino)-6,7-dimethoxy-quinazoline (AG1478; EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor) and N-[(2R)-2-(hydroxamidocarbonylmethyl)-4-methylpentanoyl]-l-tryptophan methylamide (GM6001; matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor) but not by CRM197 (heparin-binding EGF inhibitor). AG-1478 and GM6001 also inhibited the LPA-induced decrease in EGFR binding but only by 50%, suggesting only partial involvement of EGFR transactivation in the decrease in EGFR binding. In summary, LPA stimulates a decrease in EGFR binding in airway epithelial cells that is sustained in normal cells but that rapidly reverses in cancer cells. LPA-induced transactivation of EGFRs occurs and contributes to the decrease in EGFR binding, but additional pathway(s) may also be involved.
Reduction of brain beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) synthesis by gamma-secretase inhibitors is a promising approach for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. However, measurement of central pharmacodynamic effects in the Alzheimer's disease patient will be a challenge. Determination of drug occupancy may facilitate the analysis of efficacy of gamma-secretase inhibitors in a clinical setting. In this study, the relationship of gamma-secretase site occupancy and brain Abeta40 reduction by gamma-secretase inhibitors was examined in Tg2576 mice. [3H](2R,3S)-2-Isobutyl-N1-((S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-5-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-3-yl)-3-propylsuccinamide (IN973) was used as a gamma-secretase radioligand, since it has been shown to bind to gamma-secretase in rat, rhesus, and human brains with high affinity and specificity. We extended these findings by showing that [3H]IN973 bound to gamma-secretase in Tg2576 brains with an affinity, specificity, and regional localization very similar to the other species. To quantify gamma-secretase occupancy by gamma-secretase inhibitors, an ex vivo binding assay was developed using [3H]IN973 and frozen brain sections from drug-treated mice. Gamma-secretase occupancy and brain Abeta40 reduction were found to be highly correlated in animals dosed with either 2-[(1R)-1-[[4-chlorophenyl)-sulfonyl](2,5-difluorophenyl)amino] ethyl]-5-fluoro-benzenepropanoic acid (BMS-299897) or (S)-2-((S)-2-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-2-hydroxyacetamido)-N-((S,Z)-3-methyl-4-oxo-4,5-dihydro-3H-benzo[d][1,2]diazepin-5-yl)propanamide (BMS-433796) over a wide range of doses and times postdose, with the exception of the earliest times postdose. This lag in Abeta40 response to gamma-secretase inhibition is probably related to the delayed clearance of previously produced Abeta40. The excellent correlation between brain Abeta40 and gamma-secretase occupancy suggests that a positron emission tomography ligand for gamma-secretase could be a valuable biomarker to determine whether gamma-secretase inhibitors bind to their target in humans.
The aim of this study was to test the potential neurotoxicity of three antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), carbamazepine (5H-dibenzepine-5-carboxamide), topiramate [2,3:4,5-bis-O-(1-methylethylidene)-beta-d-fructopyranose sulfamate], and levetiracetam [2-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)butanamide], in the developing rat brain, when given alone or in combinations. The extent of cell death induced by AEDs was measured in several brain regions of rat pups (postnatal day 8) by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling assay 24 h after drug treatment. Carbamazepine alone did not increase neurodegeneration when given in doses up to 50 mg/kg, but it induced significant cell death at 100 mg/kg. When combined with phenytoin, carbamazepine, 50 but not 25 mg/kg, significantly exacerbated phenytoin-induced cell death. Although topiramate (20-80 mg/kg) alone caused no neurodegeneration, all doses exacerbated phenytoin-induced neurodegeneration. Levetiracetam (250-1000 mg/kg) alone did not induce cell death, nor did it exacerbate phenytoin-induced neurodegeneration. Of the combinations examined, only that of levetiracetam (250 mg/kg) with carbamazepine (50 mg/kg) did not induce neurodegeneration. Our data underscore the importance of evaluating the safety of combinations of AEDs given during development and not merely extrapolating from the effects of exposure to single drugs. Although carbamazepine and topiramate alone did not induce neuronal death, both drugs exacerbated phenytoin-induced cell death. In contrast, because cotreatment with levetiracetam and carbamazepine did not enhance cell death in the developing brain, it may be possible to avoid proapoptotic effects, even in polytherapy, by choosing appropriate drugs. The latter drugs, as monotherapy or in combination, may be promising candidates for the treatment of women during pregnancy and for preterm and neonatal infants.
To be able to address the question how neurotransmitters or pharmacological agents influence activity of neuronal populations in freely moving animals, the combidrive was developed. The combidrive combines an array of 12 tetrodes to perform ensemble recordings with a moveable and replaceable microdialysis probe to locally administer pharmacological agents. In this study, the effects of cumulative concentrations of tetrodotoxin, lidocaine, and muscimol on neuronal firing activity in the prefrontal cortex were examined and compared. These drugs are widely used in behavioral studies to transiently inactivate brain areas, but little is known about their effects on ensemble activity and the possible differences between them. The results show that the combidrive allows ensemble recordings simultaneously with reverse microdialysis in freely moving rats for periods at least up to 2 wk. All drugs reduced neuronal firing in a concentration dependent manner, but they differed in the extent to which firing activity of the population was decreased and the in speed and extent of recovery. At the highest concentration used, both muscimol and tetrodotoxin (TTX) caused an almost complete reduction of firing activity. Lidocaine showed the fastest recovery, but it resulted in a smaller reduction of firing activity of the population. From these results, it can be concluded that whenever during a behavioral experiment a longer lasting, reversible inactivation is required, muscimol is the drug of choice, because it inactivates neurons to a similar degree as TTX, but it does not, in contrast to TTX, affect fibers of passage. For a short-lasting but partial inactivation, lidocaine would be most suitable.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express bTREK-1 background K+ channels that set the resting membrane potential. Whole-cell and single-channel patch-clamp recording were used to compare five Ca2+ channel antagonists with respect to their potency as inhibitors of native bTREK-1 K+ channels. The dihydropyridine (DHP) Ca2+ channel antagonists amlodipine and niguldipine potently and specifically inhibited bTREK-1 with IC50 values of 0.43 and 0.75 microM, respectively. The other Ca2+ channel antagonists, including the DHP nifedipine, the diphenyldiperazine flunarizine, and the cannabinoid anandamide were less potent, with IC50 values of 8.18, 2.48, and 5.07 microM, respectively. Additional studies with the highly prescribed antihypertensive amlodipine showed that inhibition of bTREK-1 by this agent was voltage-independent and specific. At concentrations that produced near complete block of bTREK-1, amlodipine inhibited voltage-gated Kv1.4 K+ and T-type Ca2+ currents in AZF cells by less than 10%. At the single-channel level, amlodipine reduced bTREK-1 open probability without altering the unitary conductance. The results demonstrate that selected DHP L-type Ca2+ channel antagonists potently inhibit native bTREK-1 K+ channels, whereas other Ca2+ channel antagonists also inhibit bTREK-1 at higher concentrations. Collectively, organic Ca2+ channel antagonists make up the most potent class of TREK-1 inhibitors yet described. Because TREK-1 K+ channels are widely expressed in the central nervous and cardiovascular systems, it is possible that some of the therapeutic or toxic effects of frequently prescribed drugs such as amlodipine may be due to their interaction with TREK-1 K+ rather L-type Ca2+ channels.

Sensitization of purinergic P2X receptors is one of the mechanisms responsible for exaggerated pain responses to inflammatory injuries. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), produced by inflamed tissues, is known to contribute to abnormal pain states. In a previous study, we showed that PGE2 increases fast inactivating ATP currents that are mediated by homomeric P2X3 receptors in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons isolated from normal rats. Protein kinase A (PKA) is the signalling pathway used by PGE2. Little is known about the action of PGE2 on ATP currents after inflammation, although the information is crucial for understanding the mechanisms underlying inflammation-induced sensitization of P2X receptors. We therefore studied the effects of PGE2 on P2X3 receptor-mediated ATP currents in DRG neurons dissociated from complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflamed rats. We found that PGE2 produces a large increase in ATP currents. PKCepsilon, in addition to PKA, becomes involved in the modulatory action of PGE2. Thus, PGE2 signalling switches from a solely PKA-dependent pathway under normal conditions to both PKA- and PKC-dependent pathways after inflammation. Studying the mechanisms underlying the switch, we demonstrated that cAMP-responsive guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (Epac1) is up-regulated after inflammation. The Epac agonist CPT-OMe mimics the potentiating effect of PGE2 and occludes the PKC-mediated PGE2 action on ATP currents. These results suggest that Epac plays a critical role in P2X3 sensitization by activation of de novo PKC-dependent signalling of PGE2 after inflammation and would be a useful therapeutic target for pain therapies.
alpha(1H) T-type channels recruited by beta(1)-adrenergic stimulation in rat chromaffin cells (RCCs) are coupled to fast exocytosis with the same Ca(2+) dependence of high-threshold Ca(2+) channels. Here we show that RCCs exposed to chronic hypoxia (CH) for 12-18 h in 3% O(2) express comparable densities of functional T-type channels that depolarize the resting cells and contribute to low-voltage exocytosis. Following chronic hypoxia, most RCCs exhibited T-type Ca(2+) channels already available at -50 mV with the same gating, pharmacological and molecular features as the alpha(1H) isoform. Chronic hypoxia had no effects on cell size and high-threshold Ca(2+) current density and was mimicked by overnight incubation with the iron-chelating agent desferrioxamine (DFX), suggesting the involvement of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs). T-type channel recruitment occurred independently of PKA activation and the presence of extracellular Ca(2+). Hypoxia-recruited T-type channels were partially open at rest (T-type 'window-current') and contributed to raising the resting potential to more positive values. Their block by 50 microm Ni(2+) caused a 5-8 mV hyperpolarization. The secretory response associated with T-type channels could be detected following mild cell depolarizations, either by capacitance increases induced by step depolarizations or by amperometric current spikes induced by increased [KCl]. In the latter case, exocytotic bursts could be evoked even with 2-4 mm KCl and spike frequency was drastically reduced by 50 microm Ni(2+). Chronic hypoxia did not alter the shape of spikes, suggesting that hypoxia-recruited T-type channels increase the number of secreted vesicles at low voltages, without altering the mechanism of catecholamine release and the quantal content of released molecules.
The sensitivity of medial superior olive (MSO) neurons to tens of microsecond differences in interaural temporal delay (ITD) derives in part from their membrane electrical characteristics, kinetics and timing of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, and dendrite structure. However, maturation of these physiological and structural characteristics are little studied, especially in relationship to the onset of auditory experience. We showed, using brain slices at physiological temperature, that MSO neurons exhibited sensitivity to simulated temporally delayed (TD) EPSCs (simEPSC), injected through the recording electrode, by the initial phase of hearing onset at P10, and TD sensitivity was reduced by block of low threshold potassium channels. The spike generation mechanism matured between P10 and P16 to support TD sensitivity to adult-like excitatory stimuli (1-4 ms duration) by P14. IPSP duration was shorter at physiological temperature than reported for lower temperatures, was longer than EPSP duration at young ages, but approached the duration of EPSPs by P16, when hearing thresholds neared maturity. Dendrite branching became less complex over a more restricted time frame between P10 and P12. Because many physiological and structural properties approximated mature values between P14 and P16, we studied temporal integration of simEPSCs and IPSPs at P15. Only a narrow range of relative onset times (&lt; 1 ms) yielded responses showing sensitivity to TD. We propose that shaping of excitatory circuitry to mediate TD sensitivity can begin before airborne sound is detectable, and that inhibitory inputs having suboptimal neural delays may then be pruned by cellular mechanisms activated by sensitivity to ITD.
Renshaw cell properties have been studied extensively for over 50 years, making them a uniquely well-defined class of spinal interneuron. Recent work has revealed novel ways to identify Renshaw cells in situ and this in turn has promoted a range of studies that have determined their ontogeny and organization of synaptic inputs in unprecedented detail. In this review we illustrate how mature Renshaw cell properties and connectivity arise through a combination of activity-dependent and genetically specified mechanisms. These new insights should aid the development of experimental strategies to manipulate Renshaw cells in spinal circuits and clarify their role in modulating motor output.
Melatonin has multiple roles including neuroprotection. Melatonin signaling involves diverse targets including two G-protein-coupled receptors, MT(1) and MT(2), which have both been localized to the nigrostriatal pathway. Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated preservation of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, following chronic treatment with a physiological dose of melatonin, in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of Parkinson's disease. Additionally, we reported the presence of the melatonin MT(1) receptor subtype in cultured C17.2 neural stem cells (NSCs). In the present study, we examined the effects of C17.2 NSC transplantation on dopaminergic denervation following 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning in the rat striatum. Moreover, based on our detection of the MT(1) in these cells, we examined the effects of combined C17.2 NSC transplantation and melatonin treatment, following striatal lesioning. Behavioral studies indicated a marked inhibition of apomorphine-induced rotations in lesioned animals that received C17.2 NSC transplantation, melatonin, or the combined regimen. In addition, these treatments resulted in a significant protection of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum and substantia nigra of lesioned animals, when compared with untreated controls. Lesioned animals treated with C17.2 NSCs, melatonin or a combination of both agents exhibited no significant differences in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the substantia nigra or ventral tegmental area ipsilateral or contralateral to the lesioned striatum. These findings suggest that stem cell therapy and concomitant use of neuroprotective agents such as melatonin could be a viable approach in Parkinson's disease.
The aim of the study was to investigate how starting to use dialectical behavioural therapy (DBT) in the work with young self-harming women showing symptoms of borderline personality disorder affected the psychiatric professionals (n = 22) experience of occupational stress and levels of professional burnout. The study was carried out in relation to an 18-month clinical psychiatric development project, and used a mix of quantitative and qualitative research methods [a burnout inventory, the Maslach burnout inventory-General Survey (MBI-GS), free format questionnaires and group interviews]. The result confirms previous reports that psychiatric health professionals experience treatment of self-harming patients as very stressful. DBT was seen as stressful in terms of learning demands, but decreased the experience of stress in the actual treatment of the patients. The teamwork and supervision were felt to be supportive, as was one particular facet of DBT, namely mindfulness training which some therapists felt also improved their handling of other work stressors not related to DBT. The inventory for professional burnout, the MBI-GS, showed no significant changes over the 18-month period, although there was a tendency for increased burnout levels at the 6-month assessment, which had returned to baseline levels at 18 months.


There is preliminary evidence that therapeutic massage is a useful modality for the relief of a variety of symptoms and symptom-related distress affecting cancer patients. Mechanistic studies are necessary to delineate underlying biologic and psychological effects of massage and their relationship to outcomes. The current article discusses a model for using nuclear magnetic resonance techniques to capture dynamic in vivo responses to biomechanical changes induced in the soft tissues by massage. This model enables study of the communication of soft tissue changes to activity in the subcortical central nervous system. We hypothesize that the therapeutic components of massage are twofold: (1) a rapid direct effect on local fascia, muscle, and nerves and (2) a slower delayed effect on the subcortical central nervous system that ultimately incorporates remodeling of plastic neuronal connections. This testable model has important implications for mechanistic research on massage for symptom control of cancer patients since it opens up new research avenues that link objective physiologic indices with the effects of massage on the subjective experience of pain and other symptoms.



The NorthEast Under/graduate Research Organization for Neuroscience (N.E.U.R.O.N.) promotes preparation, education, and undergraduate research in Neuroscience. The N.E.U.R.O.N. Conference was initially held at undergraduate institutions primarily in New England. Then, for the previous two years, to broaden its impact and increase diversity, the meeting moved to Hunter College, CUNY, New York. This year represents the first year in which two N.E.U.R.O.N. meetings were held, one in Boston and one in New York City. The following is a report of the New York City meeting which was held at Hunter College on April 28, 2007. Eminent Neuroscientist, Dr. Carol Sue Carter, of the University of Illinois at Chicago, delivered the keynote address. The meeting also included the second bestowal of the Suzannah Bliss Tieman Research Awards for outstanding poster presentations and a workshop aimed at increasing minority participation in Neuroscience research. These highlights and future plans for N.E.U.R.O.N. are discussed.
Neuroanatomy can be a challenging topic for undergraduates, making the development of new methods of instruction an important goal of neuroscience educators. In the present report we describe the utility and versatility of the Allen Brain Atlas as a novel tool for instruction of several important anatomical principles of the mammalian central nervous system. Using this digital database, we detail how instructors of laboratory or lecture-based courses can demonstrate cytoarchitecture, cellular diversity, and gene expression profiles of the brain.
Principles of signal transmission in nervous systems are commonly demonstrated in the undergraduate neuroscience laboratory through extracellular recording of nerve and muscle action potentials. Here we describe the construction of a simple suction electrode that we use routinely in our laboratory classes for nerve recording and stimulation. The electrode parts are relatively inexpensive, easily available from established scientific and electronic distributors and local hardware stores, and the electrode is resilient to student handling. Our undergraduate students use this electrode design for high resolution, extracellular recordings of action potentials from crayfish motor and sensory nerves and insect muscle, and for stimulation of crustacean and insect motor nerves.
Adult learners require alternative learning opportunities to enable them to work and still be able to upgrade their education. This dual format course, combining online and face-to-face components, was developed to meet the need of students to complete a prerequisite undergraduate level neuroanatomy and neurophysiology course while attending a program that included fly-in weekends (seven) and online instruction (15 weeks). A combination of online lectures and on-campus lectures were used to teach pre-requisite neuroanatomy and neurophysiology course topics. The article presents the teaching material division between online and on-campus lectures and presentation of data collected. Survey data collected included student preferred: online media presentation, online activities developed to facilitate learning of the online material, online case study discussion, and testing formats. Students also were asked to comment on whether the class should move to a 100% online format and what their concerns would be moving to an all online format. Additional qualitative data on student input related to the course, adult learning and the learning environment will be presented. Blackboard data include: student daily access patterns, media and documents access and download patterns, and case study participation. Additionally, descriptive statistics from in class quizzes versus online quizzes includes: student patterns of test taking in an unlimited retake environment, scores on retakes and final scores (highest of retakes), in-class quiz scores, and comparison of comprehensive final exam scores from online versus face-to-face lecture material and testing. Findings provide valuable information for online course formatting, revisions and additional course development.
Studies described in this issue indicate that the gap junction protein connexin40 (Cx40) appears to play an unexpected role in blood pressure regulation. In mice lacking this gap junction protein, renin secretion is high and not regulated by arteriolar pressure.

Although amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and its variants are readily recognised by neurologists, about 10% of patients are misdiagnosed, and delays in diagnosis are common. Prompt diagnosis, sensitive communication of the diagnosis, the involvement of the patient and their family, and a positive care plan are prerequisites for good clinical management. A multidisciplinary, palliative approach can prolong survival and maintain quality of life. Treatment with riluzole improves survival but has a marginal effect on the rate of functional deterioration, whereas non-invasive ventilation prolongs survival and improves or maintains quality of life. In this Review, we discuss the diagnosis, management, and how to cope with impaired function and end of life on the basis of our experience, the opinions of experts, existing guidelines, and clinical trials. We highlight the need for research on the effectiveness of gastrostomy, access to non-invasive ventilation and palliative care, communication between the care team, the patient and his or her family, and recognition of the clinical and social effects of cognitive impairment. We recommend that the plethora of evidence-based guidelines should be compiled into an internationally agreed guideline of best practice.

We report a case of 50-year-old man who was presented with recurrent episodes of left sided hemiparesis. CT scan and MRI brain revealed a large intraventricular fatty lesion. Histopathological examination showed a picture of angiolipoma.
Two experiments explored the levels of text representation that mediate text repetition effects, following the Raney (2003) model. The magnitude of the repetition benefit in Experiment 1 supported predictions of Raney's model, indicating that the ease of forming a situation model contributed to the magnitude of the reprocessing benefit. In addition, representations organized around a good situation model were more sensitive to changes than were representations formed from reading without a good situation model. The results of Experiment 2 did not support the suggestion that the surface form and textbase are bound to a well-developed situation model, thereby limiting repetition effects to similar linguistic contexts. Rather, the nature of the repetition benefits in the present series of experiments are better explained by the degree o foverlap between passages at eachof the three levels of text representation.
In situ hybridization is an important tool for analyzing gene expression and developing hypotheses about gene functions. The discovery of hundreds of microRNA (miRNA) genes in animals has provided new challenges for analyzing gene expression and functions. The small size of the mature miRNAs ( approximately 20-24 nucleotides in length) presents difficulties for conventional in situ hybridization methods. However, we have described a modified in situ hybridization method for detection of mammalian miRNAs in tissue sections, based upon the use of RNA oligonucleotide probes in combination with highly specific wash conditions. Here, we present detailed procedures for detection of miRNAs in tissue sections or cultured cells. The methods described can utilize either nonradioactive hapten-conjugated probes that are detected by enzyme-coupled antibodies, or radioactively labeled probes that are detected by autoradiography. The ability to visualize miRNA expression patterns in tissue sections provides an additional tool for the analyses of miRNA expression and function. In addition, the use of radioactively labeled probes should facilitate quantitative analyses of changes in miRNA gene expression.
In migrating cells, actin polymerization promotes protrusion of the leading edge, whereas actomyosin contractility powers net cell body translocation. Although they promote F-actin-dependent protrusions of the cell periphery upon adhesion to fibronectin (FN), Abl family kinases inhibit cell migration on FN. We provide evidence here that the Abl-related gene (Arg/Abl2) kinase inhibits fibroblast migration by attenuating actomyosin contractility and regulating focal adhesion dynamics. arg-/- fibroblasts migrate at faster average speeds than wild-type (wt) cells, whereas Arg re-expression in these cells slows migration. Surprisingly, the faster migrating arg-/- fibroblasts have more prominent F-actin stress fibers and focal adhesions and exhibit increased actomyosin contractility relative to wt cells. Interestingly, Arg requires distinct functional domains to inhibit focal adhesions and actomyosin contractility. The kinase domain-containing Arg N-terminal half can act through the RhoA inhibitor p190RhoGAP to attenuate stress fiber formation and cell contractility. However, Arg requires both its kinase activity and its cytoskeleton-binding C-terminal half to fully inhibit focal adhesions. Although focal adhesions do not turn over efficiently in the trailing edge of arg-/- cells, the increased contractility of arg-/- cells tears the adhesions from the substrate, allowing for the faster migration observed in these cells. Together, our data strongly suggest that Arg inhibits cell migration by restricting actomyosin contractility and regulating its coupling to the substrate through focal adhesions.
Ethanol exerts numerous pharmacological effects through its interaction with various neurotransmitters. The dopaminergic pathway is associated with cognitive, endocrine, and motor functions, and reinforcement of addictive substances or behaviours. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) is a vital enzyme involved with alcohol metabolism and detoxification. In the present study, we investigated the role of cerebral cortex and brain stem dopamine D(2) receptors in the functional regulation on ALDH enzyme activity, in ethanol administrated rats. Two groups of rats were selected viz. control and alcoholic. Cerebral cortex, brain stem and the liver dopamine content was decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.05, 0.05, 0.001, respectively) and homovanillic acid/dopamine (HVA/DA) ratio has significantly increased (P &lt; 0.05, 0.001 and 0.001), respectively in ethanol treated rats when compared to control. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H]YM-09151-2 binding to synaptic membrane preparations of cerebral cortex and brain stem showed a significant decrease (P &lt; 0.001, 0.05, respectively) in B (max) in ethanol treated rats compared to control and the K (d) also decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.05). The ALDH analysis showed a significant increase (P &lt; 0.05) in V (max) in cerebral cortex, plasma and liver of experimental rats when compared with control without having significant change in brain stem but with decreased K (m) (P &lt; 0.001). Our results suggest that decreased function of dopamine mediated through DA D(2) receptor in the cerebral cortex and brain stem enhanced the brain, plasma and liver ALDH activity in ethanol treated rats. This ALDH regulation has significance to correct alcoholics from addiction due to allergic reaction observed in aldehyde accumulation.
Reelin is an extracellular matrix protein with various functions during development and in the mature brain. It activates different signaling cascades in target cells, one of which is the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway, which we investigated further using pathway inhibitors and in vitro brain slice and neuronal cultures. We show that the mTor (mammalian target of rapamycin)-S6K1 (S6 kinase 1) pathway is activated by Reelin and that this depends on Dab1 (Disabled-1) phosphorylation and activation of PI3K and Akt (protein kinase B). PI3K and Akt are required for the effects of Reelin on the organization of the cortical plate, but their downstream partners mTor and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) are not. On the other hand, mTor, but not GSK3beta, mediates the effects of Reelin on the growth and branching of dendrites of hippocampal neurons. In addition, PI3K fosters radial migration of cortical neurons through the intermediate zone, an effect that is independent of Reelin and Akt.
Nogo-A has been considered as one of the most important myelin-associated axonal regeneration inhibitors in the central nervous system. Recent studies have demonstrated various additional physiological roles of Nogo family members. To understand the possible effect of Nogo-A on the differentiation of oligodendrocytes, antibodies against distinct extracellular domains of Nogo-A were applied in cell cultures. Oligodendrocyte precursor cells from P2 rat cortex were grown in the presence of monoclonal antibody against the N-terminal inhibitory domain of Nogo-A or the C-terminal 66 amino acid loop of Nogo-A for 3 days, and the antibody treatment resulted in stunted process extension and inhibited differentiation of oligodendrocytes. Concomitant with morphology changes, Rho GTPases activity was greatly increased upon the antibody treatment and the expression level of LINGO-1, which was recently shown to be a negative regulator for the oligodendrocyte maturation, was upregulated in the process of antibody treatment. These results indicate that endogenous Nogo-A expressed in oligodendrocyte may act though Rho GTPase and LINGO-1 to influence the morphological differentiation of oligodendrocytes and will help us to understand the physiology role of Nogo-A in oligodendrocyte biology.
Substances such as acetylcholine and glutamate act as both neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. As neuromodulators, they change neural information processing by regulating synaptic transmitter release, altering baseline membrane potential and spiking activity, and modifying long-term synaptic plasticity. Slice physiology research has demonstrated that many neuromodulators differentially modulate afferent, incoming information compared to intrinsic and recurrent processing in cortical structures such as piriform cortex, neocortex, and the hippocampus. The enhancement of afferent (external) pathways versus the suppression at recurrent (internal) pathways could cause cortical dynamics to switch between a predominant influence of external stimulation to a predominant influence of internal recall. Modulation of afferent versus intrinsic processing could contribute to the role of neuromodulators in regulating attention, learning, and memory effects in behavior.

Progesterone is a survival factor in rat periovulatory granulosa cells. The mechanisms involved are unclear but progesterone receptor (PGR) antagonists have been shown to inhibit cholesterol synthesis and induce apoptosis. Furthermore, reports suggest that statins induce apoptosis by inhibition of protein isoprenylation. Statins inhibit the rate-limiting step of the cholesterol synthesis, thereby reducing availability of intermediates used for the post-translational isoprenylation process. It has been suggested that PGR antagonists in a similar manner induce apoptosis by decreasing cholesterol synthesis and thereby protein isoprenylation. In this study we hypothesized that the mechanism by which the nuclear PGR antagonist Org 31,710 induces apoptosis in rat periovulatory granulosa cells, is by decreasing cholesterol synthesis and thereby general cell protein isoprenylation. Incubation of isolated granulosa cells with Org 31,710 or simvastatin for 22 hr resulted in increased apoptosis and reduced cholesterol synthesis. However, simvastatin caused a substantial inhibition of cholesterol synthesis after 6 hr in culture without inducing apoptosis. In contrast, Org 31,710 had only a modest effect on cholesterol synthesis after 6 hr while it significantly induced apoptosis. Addition of isoprenylation substrates partially reversed apoptosis induced by simvastatin and to a lesser extent apoptosis induced by Org 31,710. In addition, and in contrast to Org 31,710, simvastatin caused a decrease in isoprenylation of a selected isoprenylation marker protein, the Ras-related protein RAB11. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the PGR antagonist inhibits cholesterol synthesis in granulosa cells but reduced protein isoprenylation is not the mediating mechanism of increased apoptosis as previously hypothesized.
This study assessed the efficacy of pancreatic surface delivered enkephalin (ENK)-encoding herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) on spontaneous behaviors and spinal cord and pancreatic enkephalin expression in an experimental pancreatitis model. Replication-defective HSV-1 with proenkephalin complementary DNA (cDNA) (HSV-ENK) or control beta-galactosidase cDNA (HSV-beta-gal), or media vehicle (Veh) was applied to the pancreatic surface of rats with dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced pancreatitis. Spontaneous exploratory behavioral activity was monitored on days 0 and 6 post DBTC and vector treatments. The pancreas, thoracic dorsal root ganglia (DRG, T9-10), and spinal cord (T9-10) were immunostained for met-enkephalin (met-ENK), beta-gal, and HSV-1 proteins. Spinal cord was also immunostained for c-Fos, and pancreas was stained for the inflammatory marker regulated on activation, normal T-cells expressed and secreted (RANTES), mu-opioid receptor, and hemotoxylin/eosin. On day 6, compared to pancreatitis and vector controls, the DBTC/HSV-ENK treated rats had significantly improved spontaneous exploratory activities, increased met-ENK staining in the pancreas and spinal cord, and normalized c-Fos staining in the dorsal horn. Histopathology of pancreas in DBTC/HSV-ENK treated rats showed preservation of acinar cells and cytoarchitecture with minimal inflammatory cell infiltrates, compared to severe inflammation and acinar cell loss seen in DBTC/HSV-beta-gal and DBTC/Veh treated rats. Targeted transgene delivery and met-ENK expression successfully produced decreased inflammation in experimental pancreatitis.
In adult mammals, sensory axons that regenerate in the dorsal root are unable to grow across the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) into the spinal cord. In this study we examined whether, by inducing expression of polysialic acid (PSA) (a large carbohydrate attached to molecules on the cell surface), in the spinal cord by lentiviral vector (LV) delivery of polysialyltransferase (PST), DREZ could be rendered permeable to regenerating sensory axons. High-level PSA expression was observed in astrocytes and many other cell types after LV/PST injection into the spinal cord. In animals receiving LV/PST injection in combination with a conditioning lesion, many axons penetrated the DREZ following L4-5 dorsal rhizotomy. Some axons reached lamina IV-V and extended rostrally and caudally in the degenerating dorsal column. In LV/green fluorescent protein (GFP)-injected animals, most of the regenerating axons were halted before DREZ, even with a conditioning lesion. More Schwann cells migrated into the LV/PST-transduced spinal cord, many of them accompanying the regenerating axons. A Schwann cell-astrocyte-dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron co-culture experiment confirmed that induced PSA expression on astrocytes facilitates the crossing of DRG axons from Schwann cells to astrocytes. These data suggest that over-expression of PSA can create a favorable condition for regenerating axons, and that this approach could form part of a combinational therapeutic strategy for promoting the repair of central nervous system (CNS) injuries.
Over the years various steroid trials have been conducted in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). In children who are still able to walk as well as in those who are wheelchair-bound, corticosteroids have been found to stabilize muscle strength for a period of time. Controlled clinical observations have shown that some boys remain ambulatory for years longer than reported in natural history data. The two main steroids used are prednisone/prednisolone and deflazacort. They are probably equally effective in stabilizing muscle strength but may have different side-effect profiles; for instance, deflazacort causes less weight gain. The exact mechanism by which steroids slow the dystrophic process is under investigation. DMD children treated long term also seem to develop other complications of the condition less frequently. For instance, they develop respiratory insufficiency later and have fewer cardiac symptoms. The therapeutic value of corticosteroids is limited, but these drugs represent the best treatment option currently available.


Recent studies have revealed that animal models of Huntington's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesia show similar changes in corticostriatal transmission. In both conditions, corticostriatal long-term potentiation (LTP) is abnormally stable, causing persistent inhibition of the output nuclei of the basal ganglia, and involuntary movements. This finding has led to speculation that interventions that interfere with the maintenance of corticostriatal LTP might be useful as antidyskinetic treatments. One approach that is known to reduce cortical hyperexcitability in human disorders is the delivery of a long train of low-frequency ( approximately 1 Hz) stimulation using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. This stimulation protocol is remarkably similar to that used in brain slices to reverse previously induced LTP, and consequently it has been used in patients with Huntington's disease or levodopa-induced dyskinesia to try to interfere with the abnormal corticostriatal plasticity postulated to underlie the motor disturbances in these conditions. Clear antidyskinetic effects of stimulation have been obtained in both disorders, without significant side effects. These findings could have implications for the treatment of hyperkinetic disorders in the clinic, and they illustrate how basic neuroscience can generate predictions to be tested in patients.

The lineage commitment of CD4+ T cells is coordinately regulated by signals through the T cell receptor and cytokine receptors, yet how these signals are integrated remains elusive. Here we find that mice lacking Dock2, a Rac activator in lymphocytes, developed allergic disease through a mechanism dependent on CD4+ T cells and the interleukin 4 receptor (IL-4R). Dock2-deficient CD4+ T cells showed impaired antigen-driven downregulation of IL-4Ralpha surface expression, resulting in sustained IL-4R signaling and excessive T helper type 2 responses. Dock2 was required for T cell receptor-mediated phosphorylation of the microtubule-destabilizing protein stathmin and for lysosomal trafficking and the degradation of IL-4Ralpha. Thus, Dock2 links T cell receptor signals to downregulation of IL-4Ralpha to control the lineage commitment of CD4+ T cells.

One of the fundamental challenges of binocular vision is that objects project to different positions on the two retinas (binocular disparity). Neurons in visual cortex show two distinct types of tuning to disparity, position and phase disparity, which are the results of differences in receptive field location and profile, respectively. Here, we point out that phase disparity does not occur in natural images. Why, then, should the brain encode it? We propose that phase-disparity detectors help to work out which feature in the left eye corresponds to a given feature in the right. This correspondence problem is plagued by false matches: regions of the image that look similar, but do not correspond to the same object. We show that phase-disparity neurons tend to be more strongly activated by false matches. Thus, they may act as 'lie detectors', enabling the true correspondence to be deduced by a process of elimination.
Neural crest cells (NCCs) are a transient population of multipotent progenitors that give rise to numerous cell types in the embryo. An unresolved issue is the degree to which the fate of NCCs is specified prior to their emigration from the neural tube. In chick embryos, we identified a subpopulation of NCCs that, upon delamination, crossed the dorsal midline to colonize spatially discrete regions of the contralateral dorsal root ganglia (DRG), where they later gave rise to nearly half of the nociceptor sensory neuron population. Our data indicate that before emigration, this NCC subset is phenotypically distinct, with an intrinsic lineage potential that differs from its temporally synchronized, but ipsilaterally migrating, cohort. These findings not only identify a major source of progenitor cells for the pain- and temperature-sensing afferents, but also reveal a previously unknown migratory pathway for sensory-fated NCCs that requires the capacity to cross the embryonic midline.
In noninvasive neuroimaging, neural activity is inferred from local fluctuations in deoxyhemoglobin. A fundamental question of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is whether the inferred neural activity is driven primarily by synaptic or spiking activity. The answer is critical for the interpretation of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal in fMRI. Here, we have used well-established visual-system circuitry to create a stimulus that elicits synaptic activity without associated spike discharge. In colocalized recordings of neural and metabolic activity in cat primary visual cortex, we observed strong coupling between local field potentials (LFPs) and changes in tissue oxygen concentration in the absence of spikes. These results imply that the BOLD signal is more closely coupled to synaptic activity.
Nerve cells mould the lipid fabric of their membranes to ease vesicle fusion, regulate ion fluxes and create specialized microenvironments that contribute to cellular communication. The chemical diversity of membrane lipids controls protein traffic, facilitates recognition between cells and leads to the production of hundreds of molecules that carry information both within and across cells. With so many roles, it is no wonder that lipids make up half of the human brain in dry weight. The objective of neural lipidomics is to understand how these molecules work together; this difficult task will greatly benefit from technical advances that might enable the testing of emerging hypotheses.
Complexins constitute a family of four synaptic high-affinity SNARE complex-binding proteins. They positively regulate a late, post-priming step in Ca2+-triggered synchronous neurotransmitter release, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear. We show here that SNARE complex binding of complexin I (CplxI) via its central alpha-helix is necessary but, unexpectedly, not sufficient for its key function in promoting neurotransmitter release. An accessory alpha-helix on the N-terminal side of the SNARE complex-binding region has an inhibitory effect on fast synaptic exocytosis, whereas sequences N-terminally adjacent to this helix facilitate Ca2+-triggered release even in the absence of the Ca2+ sensor synaptotagmin-1. Our results indicate that distinct functional domains of CplxI differentially regulate synaptic exocytosis and that, through the interplay between these domains, CplxI carries out a crucial role in fine-tuning Ca2+-triggered fast neurotransmitter release.
Cells in extrastriate visual cortex have been reported to be selective for various configurations of local contour shape [Pasupathy, A., &amp; Connor, C. E. (2001). Shape representation in area V4: Position-specific tuning for boundary conformation. The Journal of Neurophysiology, 86 (5), 2505-2519; Hegd, J., &amp; Van Essen, D. C. (2003). Strategies of shape representation in macaque visual area V2. Visual Neuroscience, 20 (3), 313-328]. Specifically, Pasupathy and Connor found that in area V4 most cells are strongly responsive to a particular local contour conformation located at a specific position on the object's boundary. We used a population of &quot;V4-like cells&quot;-units sensitive to multiple shape features modeled after V4 cell behavior-to generate representations of different shapes. Standard classification algorithms (earth mover's distance, support vector machines) applied to this population representation demonstrate high recognition accuracies classifying handwritten digits in the MNIST database and objects in the MPEG-7 Shape Silhouette database. We compare the performance of the V4-like unit representation to the &quot;shape context&quot; representation of Belongie et al. [Belongie, S., Malik, J., &amp; Puzicha, J. (2002). Shape matching and object recognition using shape contexts. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 24 (24), 509-522]. Results show roughly comparable recognition accuracies using the two representations when tested on portions of the MNIST database. We analyze the relative contributions of various V4-like feature sensitivities to recognition accuracy and robustness to noise - feature sensitivities include curvature magnitude, direction of curvature, global orientation of the contour segment, distance of the contour segment from object center, and modulatory effect of adjacent contour regions. Among these, local curvature appears to be the most informative variable for shape recognition. Our results support the hypothesis that V4 cells function as robust shape descriptors in the early stages of object recognition.

Recent meta-analyses have provided a comprehensive overview of studies investigating Toxoplasma gondii antibodies in schizophrenic patients, thus attempting to clarify the potential role these infections might play in causing schizophrenia. Issues for further research have been suggested. Associations and theories that may enrich the current level of knowledge with regard to this significant subject deserve attention. Anti-parasitic agents as well as antipsychotics are effective in treating parasitosis. Both classes of drugs have been shown to exert dopaminergic activity. Parasites and human organisms have a long history of mutual contact. The effect of parasitosis on the host and the host's response to infection are undoubtedly the product of a long evolutionary process. The neurochemical background of delusions of parasitosis is potentially similar to ancient evolutionary traces of altered neurotransmission and neuropeptide gene expression caused by parasites; these include fungal and viral infections. This is very unique in medicine if a class of drugs is effective in the treatment of an illness but also cures the delusion of the same disorder as well. Furthermore, metabolic disturbances such as hyperglycemia and insulin resistance were reported several decades before the antipsychotic era. Toxoplasmosis may also be linked to insulin resistance. Schizophrenia research can benefit from understanding this evolutionary link. New chemical entities that are liable to alter neurochemical changes related to the brain's perception of the risk of predation secondary to parasites may result in new approaches for the treatment of psychosis. These findings suggest that further research is needed to clarify this evolutionary link between parasite infection and delusions of parasitosis. We believe this model may well open up new avenues of research in the discovery of drugs to counteract schizophrenia.
Leptin, a product of the ob gene, is a pleiotropic signal implicated in regulation of multiple physiological functions in the periphery and centrally, including hypothalamic integration of energy homeostasis. Recessive mutations of ob gene result in early onset of hyperphagia, morbid obesity, metabolic disorders, early mortality and shortened life-span. Intracerebroventricular injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector (rAAV) encoding the leptin gene in adult obese ob/ob mice enhanced leptin transgene expression only in the hypothalamus, normalized food intake, body weight and more than doubled the life-span as compared to control cohorts and extended it to near that of normal wild type mice. These life-extending benefits were associated with drastic reductions in visceral fat, and blood glucose and insulin levels, but elevated ghrelin levels, the anti-aging biomarkers. Thus, bioavailability of leptin transduced by ectopic gene in the hypothalamus alone is both necessary and sufficient to normalize life-span. Evidently, site-specific ectopic gene expression with rAAV is durable and safe for alleviating neural disorders that stem from missing or functional disruption of a single gene.
The DBA/2J mouse is a model of age-related pigmentary glaucoma in humans. Visual detection, pattern discrimination and visual acuity were evaluated in DBA/2J, C57BL/6J, B6.mpc1d (a C57 congenic strain) and D2.mpc1b (a D2 congenic strain) mice at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months of age. Mice were also tested in the Morris Water Maze and olfactory discrimination learning task. At 6 months, DBA/2J and D2.mpc1b mice outperformed C57BL/6J and B6.mpc1d mice in the visual detection task and there were no strain differences in performance on the water maze. At 12, 18 and 24 months, C57BL/6J and B6.mpc1d mice outperformed DBA/2J and D2.mpc1b mice in the vision tasks and in the water maze. Strains did not differ in the olfactory learning task. Therefore, loss of visual function occurs between 6 and 12 months of age in DBA/2J mice. Strain differences in visual task performance accounted for a significant proportion of the variance in measures of learning and memory in the water maze at 12, 18 and 24 months of age.
Normal brain function depends critically on cholesterol. Although cholesterol is synthesized locally in the adult brain, the precise anatomical localization of cholesterogenic enzymes is not known. Here we show that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoAred) and 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (7dhcred), the first and last enzymes, respectively, in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, are co-expressed in neurons throughout adult murine brain. Co-localization is most prominent in cortical, hippocampal, and cholinergic neurons. Since adult hippocampal and cholinergic neurons express p75 neurotrophin receptors (p75NTR) we hypothesized that p75NTR regulates expression of cholesterogenic enzymes. Treatment of Neuro2a neuroblastoma cells or primary cerebellar cultures with siRNA downregulates p75NTR and decreases the expression level of HMG-CoAred and 7dhcred. Native neuroblastoma cell lines with differential expression of p75NTR differentially express 7dhcred; 7dhcred expression correlates with p75NTR expression. This suggests that, in p75NTR-expressing cells, p75NTR regulates cholesterol synthesis through regulation of HMG-CoAred and 7dhcred expression. The unexpected localization of cholesterogenic enzymes in adult neurons suggests that at least some adult neurons retain the ability to synthesize cholesterol.
We sought to determine if sex impacts the cognitive and neuropathological phenotype of the 3xTg-AD mice. We find that male and female 3xTg-AD mice show comparable impairments on Morris water maze (MWM) and inhibitory avoidance (IA) at 4 months. Shortly thereafter, however, the cognitive performance varies among the sexes, with females performing worse than males. These behavioral differences are not attributable to differences in Abeta or tau levels. The behavioral effect is transient as from 12 months onward, the disparity is no longer apparent. Because females perform worse than males on stressful tasks, we explored their corticosterone responses and find that young female 3xTg-AD mice show markedly heightened corticosterone response after 5 days of MWM training compared to age-matched male 3xTg-AD mice; this difference is no longer apparent in older mice. Thus, the enhanced corticosterone response of the young female mice likely underlies their poorer performance on stressful tasks.
We have previously reported CNS and locomotor deficits in KCC3 knockout mice, an animal model of agenesis of the corpus callosum associated with peripheral neuropathy (ACCPN) [Howard, H.C., Mount, D.B., Rochefort, D., Byun, N., Dupre, N., Lu, J., Fan, X., Song, L., Riviere, J.B., Prevost, C., Horst, J., Simonati, A., Lemcke, B., Welch, R., England, R., Zhan, F.Q., Mercado, A., Siesser, W.B., George, A.L., Jr., McDonald, M.P., Bouchard, J.P., Mathieu, J., Delpire, E., Rouleau, G.A., 2002. The K-Cl cotransporter KCC3 is mutant in a severe peripheral neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum. Nat. Genet. 32, 384-392]. To assess the role of KCC3 in peripheral axon and/or myelin development and maintenance, we determined its expression and performed a detailed morphometric analysis of sciatic nerves. Sciatic nerves of juvenile wild-type mice, but not of adult, express KCC3. In the knockout, Schwann cell/myelin development appears normal at P3, but axons are swollen. At P8 and into P30, some fibers accumulate fluid periaxonally. These initial swelling pathologies are followed by axon and myelin degeneration in adult nerves, leading to reduction in nerve conduction velocity. Mutant mice also exhibit decreased sensitivity to noxious pain. This evidence for fluid-related axonopathy, which ultimately result in neurodegeneration, implicates cell volume regulation as a critical component of peripheral nerve maintenance.
Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated that galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor and weak cholinergic agonist, facilitated classical trace eyeblink conditioning in healthy, young rabbits [Simon, B. B., Knuckley, B., &amp; Powell, D. A. (2004). Galantamine facilitates acquisition of a trace-conditioned eyeblink response in healthy, young rabbits. Learning &amp; Memory, 11(1), 116-122.]. The current study investigated the effects of galantamine (0.0 or 3.0mg/kg) in rabbits sustaining knife-cut lesions to the fimbria-fornix, a major projection pathway connecting the hippocampus to cortical and subcortical brain structures involved in the formation of long-term memories. Two experiments were conducted. Experiment one assessed the effects of knife-cut lesions to the fornix or sham surgeries on trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning. Results indicate that fornix lesions significantly retarded EB conditioning when trace parameters were employed. Experiment 2 assessed whether treatment with galantamine would reverse the deficits caused by fornix damage. Results indicate that 3.0mg/kg GAL reversed trace EB conditioning deficits in animals with fornix knife-cut lesions. These findings suggest that galantamine may provide benefit in the reversal of cognitive dysfunction following certain types of brain damage, especially damage involving hippocampal structures.
Latent inhibition is a phenomenon by which pre-exposure to a conditioned-stimulus (CS), prior to subsequent pairings of that same CS with an unconditioned-stimulus (US), results in decreased conditioned responding to the CS. Previous work in our laboratory has suggested that the entorhinal cortex is critically involved in the establishment of latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. Furthermore, utilizing systemic pharmacology, we have demonstrated a role for of NMDA receptors, protein kinase A (PKA), and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK, also known as ERK) in latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning, but until now, where these cell signaling cascades are critically activated during latent inhibition of cued fear was unknown. Here, we use direct drug infusion to demonstrate that cell signaling via NMDA receptors, the cAMP/PKA pathway, and the MAPK pathway within the entorhinal cortex are critically involved in latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. In the present study, CS pre-exposed mice received 20 CS pre-exposures 24h prior to two pairings of the same CS with a 0.53 mA foot shock US, while control animals receive no pre-exposure to the CS. The NMDA antagonist APV (0.25 or 2.5 microg/side), the cAMP inhibitor Rp-cAMP (1.8 or 18.0 microg/side), or the MAPK inhibitor U0126 (0.1 or 1.0 microg/side) were directly infused into the entorhinal cortex prior to pre-exposure. All three drugs produced dose-dependent disruptions in latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. Importantly, none of the drugs had any effect on cued fear conditioning when administered on training day, suggesting that the effects of each of the drugs were specific to CS pre-exposure. These results are discussed in relation to the potential mechanisms of plasticity that support latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning.
Accounts of anosognosia for hemiplegia have long suggested some implicit knowledge of deficit, where lack of awareness is driven by the emotionally-aversive consequences of bringing deficit-related thoughts to consciousness. The present study investigates this issue using an attentional-capture paradigm, presenting words associated with hemiplegia-related deficit. As anticipated, non-anosognosics showed reduced latencies (i.e., facilitation) for emotionally threatening words. In striking contrast, anosognosics showed increased latencies (i.e., interference), a finding which supports the claim of implicit awareness. The effect appears to be due to newly-learned associations to disability-related words: where anosognosics show a pattern of performance previously described as repression.
We investigated planning abilities in patients with frontal temporal dementia (FTD) and normal controls (NC) using a chore location planning task. Planning tasks with increasing complexity could be either solved by constructing a linear total plan (total-order planning) or partially ordered sub-plans (partial-order planning). The NC group appeared to use partial-order planning, while the FTD group appeared to use total-order planning based on error pattern in performance, task-solution, and planning time. Our results are a reminder that besides social impairments, FTD patients also demonstrate higher-order cognitive impairment in domains such as planning and that these impairments may also have a profound effect upon the patients' day-to-day functioning.
We studied a case of psychogenic amnesia by means of a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment involving the retrieval of autobiographical memories. The 38-year-old patient was unable to access most of her autobiographical memories from her childhood up to 16 years of age. Compared with the forgotten period, evocation of the normally retrieved memories elicited increased activity in medial temporal and dorso-lateral frontal regions. Evocation of the preserved scattered recollections was associated with bilaterally distributed temporo-parieto-occipital loci of activations. These functional changes seem to support the idea of common mechanisms involved in both organic and psychogenic amnesias.
A case study was conducted to investigate whether dexamphetamine enhances interference control in an adult with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Continuous electroencephalography was recorded both on and off dexamphetamine during performance on a Stroop task. An age-, gender- and IQ-matched control also completed the same task. Event related potentials for the control participant revealed a positive potential to incongruent stimuli between 270 and 440 ms, whereas for the participant with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder off medication, the reverse polarity was observed in a later time window. Following administration of dexamphetamine, however, the event-related potentials for the incongruent condition closely resembled those in the control, suggesting that dexamphetamine successfully normalises electroencephalographic activity.
Childhood and adolescent depression is an increasingly problematic diagnosis for young people due to a lack of effective treatments for this age group. The symptoms of adult depression can be treated effectively with multiple classes of antidepressant drugs which have been developed over the years using animal and human studies. But many of the antidepressants used to treat adult depression cannot be used for pediatric depression because of a lack of efficacy and/or side effects. The reason that children and adolescents respond differently to antidepressant treatment than adults is poorly understood. In order to better understand the etiology of pediatric depression and treatments that are effective for this age group, the differences between adults, children and adolescents needed to be elucidated. Much of the understanding of adult depression has come from studies using adult animals, therefore studies using juvenile animals would likely help us to better understand childhood and adolescent depression. Recent studies have shown both neurochemical and behavioral differences between adult and juvenile animals after antidepressant treatment. Juvenile animals have differences compared to adult animals in the maturation of the serotonergic and noradrenergic systems, and in dose of antidepressant drug needed to achieve similar brain levels. Differences after administration of antidepressant drug have also been reported for adrenergic receptor regulation, a physiologic hypothermic response, as well as behavioral differences in two animal models of depression. The differences between adults and juveniles not only in the human response to antidepressants but also with animals studies warrant a specific distinction between the study of pediatric and adult depression and the manner in which new treatments are pursued.
The influence of postnatal iron overload upon implications of the functional and interactive role of dopaminergic and noradrenergic pathways that contribute to the expressions of movement disorder and psychotic behaviours in mice was studied in a series of experiments. (1) Postnatal iron overload at doses of 7.5 mg/kg (administered on Days 10-12 post partum) and above, invariably induced a behavioural syndrome consisting of an initial (1st 20-40 min of a 60-min test session) hypoactivity followed by a later (final 20 min of a 60-min test session) hyperactivity, when the mice were tested at adult ages (age 60 days or more). (2) Following postnatal iron overload, subchronic treatment with the neuroleptic compounds, clozapine and haloperidol, dose-dependently reversed the initial hypoactivity and later hyperactivity induced by the metal. Furthermore, DA D(2) receptor supersensitivity (as assessed using the apomorphine-induced behaviour test) was directly and positively correlated with iron concentrations in the basal ganglia. (3) Brain noradrenaline (NA) denervation, using the selective NA neurotoxin, DSP4, prior to administration of the selective DA neurotoxin, MPTP, exacerbated both the functional (hypokinesia) and neurochemical (DA depletion) effects of the latter neurotoxin. Treatment with L-Dopa restored motor activity only in the animals that had not undergone NA denervation. These findings suggest an essential neonatal iron overload, termed &quot;the Youdim factor&quot;, directing a DA-NA interactive component in co-morbid disorders of nigrostriatal-limbic brain regions.
Following trauma or ischemia to the central nervous system (CNS), there is a marked increase in the expression of cell cycle-related proteins. This up-regulation is associated with apoptosis of post-mitotic cells, including neurons and oligodendrocytes, both in vitro and in vivo. Cell cycle activation also induces proliferation of astrocytes and microglia, contributing to the glial scar and microglial activation with release of inflammatory factors. Treatment with cell cycle inhibitors in CNS injury models inhibits glial scar formation and neuronal cell death, resulting in substantially decreased lesion volumes and improved behavioral recovery. Here we critically review the role of cell cycle pathways in the pathophysiology of experimental stroke, traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury, and discuss the potential of cell cycle inhibitors as neuroprotective agents.
This paper describes the work of five scientists who, among others, carried on the work of J. L. W. Thudichum, the pre-eminent investigator of brain chemistry in the latter half of the 19th century, after his death in 1901.
Alpha2-adrenoceptors inhibit Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels throughout the nervous system and Ca2+ channel function is modulated following activation of some G-protein coupled receptors. We studied the specific Ca2+ channel inhibited following alpha2-adrenoceptor activation in guinea-pig small intestinal myenteric neurons. Ca2+ currents (I(Ca2+)) were studied using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. Changes in intracellular Ca2+ (delta[Ca2+]i) in nerve cell bodies and varicosities were studied using digital imaging where Ca2+ influx was evoked by KCl (60 mmol L(-1)) depolarization. The alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, UK 14 304 (0.01-1 micromol L(-1)) inhibited I(Ca2+) and delta[Ca2+]i; maximum inhibition of I(Ca2+) was 40%. UK 14 304 did not affect I(Ca2+) in the presence of SNX-482 or NiCl2 (R-type Ca2+ channel antagonists). UK 14 304 inhibited I(Ca2+) in the presence of nifedipine, omega-agatoxin IVA or omega-conotoxin, inhibitors of L-, P/Q- and N-type Ca2+ channels. UK 14 304 induced inhibition of I(Ca2+) was blocked by pertussis toxin pretreatment (1 microg mL(-1) for 2 h). Alpha2-adrenoceptors couple to inhibition of R-type Ca2+ channels via a pertussis toxin-sensitive pathway in myenteric neurons. R-type channels may be a target for the inhibitory actions of noradrenaline released from sympathetic nerves on to myenteric neurons.
Opioid neurons exhibit tonic restraint on intestinal motility; opioid antagonists stimulate peristalsis and increase transit. In vitro, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT4) agonists combined with selective opioid antagonists significantly increased colonic propulsion relative to a 5-HT4 agonist alone. We hypothesized that the combination of 5-HT4 agonist and non-selective opioid antagonist enhances intestinal transit more than either treatment alone in female constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (C-IBS) patients. Our aim was to examine the effect of tegaserod 6 mg b.i.d. alone and combined with naltrexone 50 mg on intestinal transit and stool characteristics in females with C-IBS. Forty-eight patients were randomized to tegaserod alone, naltrexone alone or in combination with tegaserod or placebo for 6 days. Small bowel, ascending colon half-life (in pharmacokinetics) (t1/2), and colonic geometric centre (8, 24, 48 h) were assessed by scintigraphy. Tegaserod increased small bowel (P &lt; 0.01) and colon transit (P &lt; 0.01). Naltrexone did not accelerate colonic transit relative to placebo. Combination treatment did not significantly accelerate transit relative to tegaserod alone. Tegaserod and tegaserod with naltrexone resulted in looser stool form (P &lt; 0.01). In female C-IBS patients, tegaserod accelerates small bowel and colon transit and contributed to looser stool consistency. Use of naltrexone, 50 mg, does not support the hypothesis that combination of 5-HT4 agonist and non-selective opioid antagonist enhances intestinal transit.
The present paper reviews that macroanatomical landmarks are problematic for a reliable and sufficiently precise localization of clusters of activation obtained by functional imaging because sulcal and gyral patterns are extremely variable and macroanatomical landmarks do not match (in nearly all cases) architectonically defined borders. It argues that cytoarchitectonic probabilistic maps currently offer the most precise tool for the localization of brain functions as obtained from functional imaging studies. Finally, it provides some examples that cytoarchitecture is more than localization with respect to a particular brain region because it reflects the inner organization of cortical areas and, furthermore, functional principles of the brain.
Averaging of repeated responses to sensory stimuli is the standard approach in cognitive electrophysiology. This procedure can give rise to inappropriate interpretations in some situations, because two factors contribute to the average ERP responses: the amplitude of the responses during the individual experimental trials, and the concentration of the phases (phase-locking) across responses. Larger poststimulus single-trial amplitudes compared to prestimulus baseline are thought to correspond to a stimulus-related increase of postsynaptic potentials or/and activation of an increased amount of neural assemblies. But the functional interpretation of an enhanced inter-trial phase-locking is unclear. BOLD responses are probably related to single-trial EEG amplitudes, but not to the phase concentration across trials. Therefore, separation of amplitude and phase contributions is indispensable to avoid misinterpretations and to gain a deeper understanding of the relation between event-related EEG and fMRI.
In this event-related fMRI study, we demonstrate the effects of a single session of practising configural hand actions (guitar chords) on cortical activations during observation, motor preparation and imitative execution. During the observation of non-practised actions, the mirror neuron system (MNS), consisting of inferior parietal and ventral premotor areas, was more strongly activated than for the practised actions. This finding indicates a strong role of the MNS in the early stages of imitation learning. In addition, the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) was selectively involved during observation and motor preparation of the non-practised chords. This finding confirms Buccino et al.'s [Buccino, G., Vogt, S., Ritzl, A., Fink, G.R., Zilles, K., Freund, H.-J., Rizzolatti, G., 2004a. Neural circuits underlying imitation learning of hand actions: an event-related fMRI study. Neuron 42, 323-334] model of imitation learning: for actions that are not yet part of the observer's motor repertoire, DLPFC engages in operations of selection and combination of existing, elementary representations in the MNS. The pattern of prefrontal activations further supports Shallice's [Shallice, T., 2004. The fractionation of supervisory control. In: Gazzaniga, M.S. (Ed.), The Cognitive Neurosciences, Third edition. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, pp. 943-956] proposal of a dominant role of the left DLPFC in modulating lower level systems and of a dominant role of the right DLPFC in monitoring operations.
fMR adaptation in the ventral visual pathway reflects information processing that may contribute to implicit and explicit memory. In experiments that employed &lt;1 s repetition lag, we found that attention increases adaptation for repeated objects in brain regions at the top of the visual processing hierarchy (anterior fusiform and parahippocampal gyri) but that it can still appear with minimal attention in most of the fusiform bilaterally. Of the ventral visual regions showing adaptation, the parahippocampal region and LOC showed the strongest correlation between adaptation magnitude and recognition memory across subjects. Although there was some overlap, regions showing correlations between adaptation and priming lay more posteriorly within the fusiform region. The positive association between encoding-related activation and adaptation suggests that over an entire test set, memory performance can be determined by neural events occurring in the peristimulus period. This may reflect stronger engagement of attention at encoding.
Brain imaging techniques largely spread in neuroscience literature. Due to initial technical limitations such as the very low signal-to-noise ratio, group experiments became the rule. This fact, together with the wide use of standard brains to localize the activations, lead several experimenters to the wrong idea that the brain can be described by a Cartesian coordinate system, neglecting at the same time the importance of individual neuroanatomy. My commentary on the paper by Devlin and Poldrack reinforces their reminder that it is necessary to deal with anatomy. Moreover, it adds some considerations on the relevance of single subjects studies and on the importance of the BOLD intensity signal, which should be used to describe brain activity together with the most used statistical tools.
As public availability of gene expression profiling data increases, it is natural to ask how these data can be used by neuroscientists. Here we review the public availability of high-throughput expression data in neuroscience and how it has been reused, and tools that have been developed to facilitate reuse. There is increasing interest in making expression data reuse a routine part of the neuroscience tool-kit, but there are a number of challenges. Data must become more readily available in public databases; efforts to encourage investigators to make data available are important, as is education on the benefits of public data release. Once released, data must be better-annotated. Techniques and tools for data reuse are also in need of improvement. Integration of expression profiling data with neuroscience-specific resources such as anatomical atlases will further increase the value of expression data.
The computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstruction of neuronal morphology is becoming an increasingly popular technique to quantify the arborization patterns of dendrites and axons. The resulting digital files are suitable for comprehensive morphometric analyses as well as for building anatomically realistic compartmental models of membrane biophysics and neuronal electrophysiology. The digital tracings acquired in a lab for a specific purpose can be often re-used by a different research group to address a completely unrelated scientific question, if the original investigators are willing to share the data. Since reconstructing neuronal morphology is a labor-intensive process, data sharing and re-analysis is particularly advantageous for the neuroscience and biomedical communities. Here we present numerous cases of &quot;success stories&quot; in which digital reconstructions of neuronal morphology were shared and re-used, leading to additional, independent discoveries and publications, and thus amplifying the impact of the &quot;source&quot; study for which the data set was first collected. In particular, we overview four main applications of this kind of data: comparative morphometric analyses, statistical estimation of potential synaptic connectivity, morphologically accurate electrophysiological simulations, and computational models of neuronal shape and development.
The sharing of primary data in the field of neuroscience has received considerable scrutiny from scientific societies and from science journals. Many see this as value added for science publishing that can enhance and inform secondary examination of data and results. Still others worry that data sharing is an undue burden for researchers with little long term value to science. But examples of how data sharing can be done successfully do exist. The fMRI Data Center, established at Dartmouth College in 2000 and now based at the University of California Santa Barbara, has worked to facilitate the open sharing of neuroimaging data from peer-reviewed papers to foster progress in cognitive science. The fMRI study on the representation of objects in the human occipital and temporal cortex, published in 2000 in the Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience (JOCN), marked the first deposition in the new database. Despite initial concerns about fMRI data sharing, this data set was frequently downloaded. We describe the original results of distributed brain activation patterns elicited by faces and objects in the human visual system, and overview several secondary analyses by independent investigators. A philosopher tested Husserl's temporal components of consciousness, whereas other brain imagers deployed new analytic tools, from Dynamic Causal Modeling, which estimates the neural interactions between cortical regions, to a novel method for constructing reproducibility maps. These re-analyses revealed new findings not reported in the original study, provided new perspectives on visual perception, generated new predictions, and resulted in new collaborations and publications in high profile journals.

A 37-year-old gentleman presented with macrocephaly since early childhood and progressive impairment of motor and cognitive functions. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed extensive white matter involvement and frontotemporal subcortical cysts. Absent ankle jerk and abnormal nerve conduction study raised a possibility of associated peripheral neuropathy. Sural nerve biopsy was suggestive of dysmyelinating neuropathy. This report serves to expand the clinical spectrum of this rare leukodystrophy.


Continued elucidation of the mechanisms of brain edema in acute liver failure (ALF) has established ammonia and the astrocyte as major players in its pathogenesis. The metabolism of ammonia to glutamine appears to be a requisite, and is followed by an osmotic disturbance in the brain, mitochondrial dysfunction with oxidative/nitrosative stress, and alterations of brain glucose metabolism. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) is also altered in ALF and strongly influence the development of brain edema and intracranial hypertension. Additional factors such as systemic inflammation, alterations of the brain extracellular concentration of amino acids and neurotransmitters, and others have been identified and may contribute to the cerebral alterations of ALF. Such pathophysiologic insights are reflected in the various clinical trials of novel therapeutic interventions using ammonia-lowering agents, N-acetylcysteine, hypertonic saline, indomethacin, high-volume plasmapheresis, bio-artificial liver assist devices, albumin dialysis and mild hypothermia.


The aim of this study was to provide a quantitative view of the utilisation of the c-fos immunohistochemical method. Articles including the term &quot;c-fos&quot; in their title, abstract or keywords and published in 2004 were retrieved from the Current Content/Life Sciences or Current Content/Clinical Medicine collection of the SCI database. The 933 article-type documents retained were distributed in almost all the sub-disciplines of the Life Sciences and Clinical Medicine, but were principally published in the field of neuroscience. They were authored by researchers from 44 countries - the most prolific were the USA (435 articles), Japan (135) and the UK (55). The 933 articles were published in 283 different journals; all but one of the top-20 most prolific journals are in the Life Sciences discipline, and their Impact Factors ranged from 2.0 to 7.9. A comparison of the USA and the European Union scientific profiles is also made.
The objective was to carry out a pilot study exploring memory outcome in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and low-grade tumour. A prospective study using a competence-related memory assessment was carried out in the Laboratory of Neuropsychology, Epilepsy Center and Neurosurgical Department of the &quot;C. Besta&quot; National Neurological Institute in 24 TLE patients undergoing surgical resection for left (n=12) or right (n=12) low-grade tumours and 36 healthy subjects. Patients underwent mesial or lateral temporal lobe lesionectomy. Neuropsychological tests exploring verbal and visual short-term memory, learning, delayed recall and ability to control interference in memory were applied. Before and after surgery, significant verbal impairment was present in left TLE patients compared to controls and right TLE patients, and visual deficits were present in both groups compared to controls. After surgery, there was no significant decrease in mean verbal or visual memory scores related to the operated side. Some memory abilities subserved by the contralateral temporal lobe improved. Postoperative memory scores were related to preoperative scores, side of operation, age and education. In patients with TLE and low-grade tumour, temporal lobe surgery does not necessarily induce memory deficits. Improvement of memory abilities subserved by the unoperated temporal lobe may be expected.
Human embryonic stem cells are pluripotent cells with the potential to differentiate into any cell type in the presence of appropriate stimulatory factors and environmental cues. Their broad developmental potential has led to valuable insights into the principles of developmental and cell biology and to the proposed use of human embryonic stem cells or their differentiated progeny in regenerative medicine. This review focuses on the prospects for the use of embryonic stem cells in cell-based therapy for motor neurone disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressive neurodegenerative disease that specifically affects upper and lower motor neurones and leads ultimately to death from respiratory failure. Stem cell-derived motor neurones could conceivably be used to replace the degenerated cells, to provide authentic substrates for drug development and screening and for furthering our understanding of disease mechanisms. However, to reliably and accurately culture motor neurones, the complex pathways by which differentiation occurs in vivo must be understood and reiterated in vitro by embryonic stem cells. Here we discuss the need for new therapeutic strategies in the treatment of motor neurone disease, the developmental processes that result in motor neurone formation in vivo, a number of experimental approaches to motor neurone production in vitro and recent progress in the application of stem cells to the treatment and understanding of motor neurone disease.
Lewy bodies (LBs) are hallmark lesions in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We raised a monoclonal antibody LB509 against purified LBs from the brains of patients with DLB that strongly immunolabled LBs, and found that alpha-synuclein is one of the major components of LBs. Thus, the deposition of alpha-synuclein, an abundant presynaptic brain protein, as fibrillary aggregates in affected neurons or glial cells, was highlighted as a hallmark lesion of a subset of neurodegenerative disorders, including PD, DLB and multiple system atrophy collectively referred to as synucleinopathies. Importantly, the identification of missense mutations in and multiplication of alpha-synuclein gene in some pedigrees of familial PD has strongly implicated alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of PD and other synucleinopathies. We then examined the specific posttranslational modifications that characterize and underlie the aggregation of alpha-synuclein in synucleinopathy brains by mass spectrometry and using a specific antibody, and found that serine 129 of alpha-synuclein deposited in synucleinopathy lesions is selectively and extensively phosphorylated. Furthermore we generated transgenic C. elegans overexpressing alpha-synuclein in neurons, and found that overexpression of familial PD-linked mutant form of alpha-synuclein impairs functions of dopamine neurons. These findings collectively underscore the importance of deposition of alpha-synuclein as well as its phosphorylation in the pathogenesis of alpha-synucleinopathies.
Galanin's influence on monoaminergic neurotransmission, together with its discrete CNS distribution in corticolimbic brain areas, points to a potential role for this neuropeptide in mediating anxiety- and depression-like responses. To evaluate this hypothesis, the non-selective galanin receptor agonist, galnon, was tested in multiple preclinical models of anxiolytic- and antidepressive-like activity. Acute administration of galnon (0.03-1mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently increased punished crossings in the four plate test, with magnitude similar to the effects of the endogenous ligand, galanin (0.1-1.0 microg, i.c.v.). Moreover, the effects of galnon and galanin were blocked by central administration of the non-selective galanin receptor antagonist, M35 (10 microg, i.c.v.). Interestingly, the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, flumazenil (1mg/kg, i.p.), reversed galnon's effect in the four plate test, implicating GABAergic neurotransmission as a potential mechanism underlying this anxiolytic-like response. In the elevated zero maze, galnon (0.3-3.0mg/kg, i.p.) and galanin (0.03-0.3 microg, i.c.v.) increased the time spent in the open arms, while in the stress-induced hyperthermia model, galnon (0.3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated stress-induced changes in body temperature. Consistent with these anxiolytic-like effects, in vivo microdialysis showed that acute galnon (3mg/kg, i.p.) treatment preferentially elevated levels of GABA in the rat amygdala, a brain area linked to fear and anxiety behaviors. In contrast to the effects in anxiety models, neither galnon (1-5.6 mg/kg, i.p.) nor galanin (0.3-3.0 microg, i.c.v.) demonstrated antidepressant-like effects in the mouse tail suspension test. Galnon (1-10mg/kg, i.p.) also failed to reduce immobility time in the rat forced swim test. In vitro, galnon and galanin showed affinity for human galanin receptors expressed in Bowes melanoma cells (K(i)=5.5 microM and 0.2 nM, respectively). Galanin displayed high affinity and functional potency for membranes expressing rat GALR1 receptors (K(i)=0.85 nM; EC(50)=0.6 nM), while galnon (10 microM) failed to displace radiolabeled galanin or inhibit cAMP production in the same GALR1 cell line. Galnon (10 microM) showed affinity for NPY1, NK2, M5, and somatostatin receptors but no affinity for galanin receptors expressed in rat hippocampal membranes. Taken together, the present series of studies demonstrate novel effects of galnon in various preclinical models of anxiety and highlight the galaninergic system as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of anxiety-related disorders. Moreover, these data indicate rodent GALR1 receptors do not mediate galnon's in vivo activity.
Cognitive control mechanisms permit memory to be accessed strategically, and so aid in bringing knowledge to mind that is relevant to current goals and actions. In this review, we consider the contribution of left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) to the cognitive control of memory. Reviewed evidence supports a two-process model of mnemonic control, supported by a double dissociation among rostral regions of left VLPFC. Specifically, anterior VLPFC (approximately BA 47; inferior frontal gyrus pars orbitalis) supports controlled access to stored conceptual representations, whereas mid-VLPFC (approximately BA 45; inferior frontal gyrus pars triangularis) supports a domain-general selection process that operates post-retrieval to resolve competition among active representations. We discuss the contribution of these control mechanisms across a range of mnemonic domains, including semantic retrieval, recollection of contextual details about past events, resolution of proactive interference in working memory, and task switching. Finally, we consider open directions for future research into left VLPFC function and the cognitive control of memory.
Social neuroscience provides insights into the neural correlates of the human capacity to explain and predict other people's intentions, a capacity that lies at the core of the Theory of Mind (ToM) mechanism. Results from neuroimaging research describe a widely distributed neural system underlying ToM, including the right and left temporo-parietal junctions (TPJ), the precuneus, and the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC). Nevertheless, there is disagreement in the literature concerning the key region for the ToM network. Some authors point to the MPFC, others to the right TPJ. In the effort to make a contribution to the debate, we propose a model of a dynamic ToM network consisting of four regions. We also introduce a novel theoretical distinction among varieties of intention, which differ by the nature of an individual's pursued goal (private or social) and by the social interaction's temporal dimension (present or future). Our results confirm the crucial role of both the MPFC and the right TPJ, but show that these areas are differentially engaged depending on the nature of the intention involved. Whereas the right TPJ and the precuneus are necessary for processing all types of prior intentions, the left TPJ and the anterior paracingulate cortex are specifically involved in the understanding of social intention. More specifically, the left TPJ is activated only when a subset of social intentions are involved (communicative intentions). Taken together, these results demonstrate the progressive recruitment of the ToM network along the theoretical dimensions introduced in the present paper.
Negative biases in emotional information processing are characteristic of patients with acute depression and may persist after clinical recovery. It is not clear, however, whether such biases are present before the onset of the depressive disorder. The aim of the present study was to examine whether young people at risk of depression, by virtue of having a depressed biological parent (FH+), demonstrate negative biases in tasks of emotional facial recognition and emotional categorization. We also assessed whether task performance and the influence of parental depression are modified by allelic variation in the serotonin transporter (5HTT) gene. We found that the FH+ participants did not show evidence of negative biases relative to matched controls. They were, however, significantly slower to perform a task of emotional categorization. 5HTT genotype did not influence emotional processing significantly. We conclude that negative biases in emotional processing do not appear to be present in people with a family history of depression. However, impairment in emotional categorization could identify a high-risk phenotype and may indicate that people at genetic risk of depression have difficulty in using &quot;mood as information&quot;.
We describe a 74-year-old, right-handed woman who exhibited a peculiar form of delusional misidentification due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) combined with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH). The patient's most distinctive symptom was that she often misidentified her daughters as her sisters. She had severe atrophy of the bilateral medial temporal lobe and right-hemisphere-dominant hypoperfusion in the fronto-temporo-parietal cortices. Detailed tests revealed that she had a selective deficit in retrieving the family relationships between herself and her daughters/husband (i.e., she misidentified her daughters as her sisters and her husband as her father), despite being able to retrieve the names and faces of her family members, and some person-specific semantic information (e.g., occupation) related to them. We speculate that this specific type of misidentification can be elicited by failure to update semantic memory through the encoding of new episodic memory due to right-hemisphere-dominant fronto-temporal dysfunction.
Direct gaze or eye contact is a strong social signal, which triggers distinct processes as compared to other gaze directions. Thus, direct gaze could be early dissociated from averted gaze during the processing of gaze direction. In order to examine the processing of gaze contact relative to averted gaze, we studied evoked potentials in human adults in response to the apparent motion of gaze. Deviated and frontal faces were presented with a fixed gaze direction, followed by an apparent movement of the eyes either toward the subject or away from him/her. The results showed that the perception of direct relative to averted gaze evoked a greater, later and longer lasting N170, suggesting that gaze contact recruited more resources than averted gaze in the early stage of gaze direction processing. Furthermore, direct and averted motion of gaze elicited distinct ERP components between 160 and 210 ms, initiated over centro-parietal electrodes. Source reconstruction revealed the involvement of the Theory-of-Mind network, including the regions of the superior temporal sulcus, the medial prefrontal and the orbitofrontal cortices, in this early dissociation. In addition, the perception of gaze contact relative to averted gaze yielded increased fronto-central P3a and parieto-occipital P3b. All the results were significant whatever the head orientation. Our findings show that gaze contact, as compared to other gaze directions, is an essential social cue which recruits early specific processes. The dissociation between direct and averted gaze processing occurs as soon as 160 ms, involving the social brain network.
This study explores the processing of mental number lines and physical lines in five patients with left unilateral neglect. Three tasks were used: mental number bisection ('report the middle number between two numbers'), physical line bisection ('mark the middle of a line'), and a landmark task ('is the mark on the line to the left/right or higher/lower than the middle of the line?'). We manipulated the number line orientation purely by task instruction: neglect patients were told that the number-pairs represented either houses on a street (horizontal condition) or floors in a building (vertical condition). We also manipulated physical line orientation for comparison. All five neglect patients showed a rightward bias for horizontally oriented physical and number lines (e.g. saying 'five' is the middle house number between 'two' and 'six'). Only three of these patients also showed an upward bias for vertically oriented number lines. The remaining two patients did not show any bias in processing vertical lines. Our results suggest that: (1) horizontal and vertical neglect can associate or dissociate among different patients; (2) bisecting number lines operates on internal horizontal and vertical representations possibly analogous to horizontal and vertical physical lines; (3) at least partially independent mechanisms may be involved in processing horizontal and vertical number lines.
Recent volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have suggested brain volume changes in schizophrenia to be progressive in nature. Whether this is a global process or some brain areas are more affected than others is not known. In a 5-year longitudinal study, MRI whole brain scans were obtained from 96 patients with schizophrenia and 113 matched healthy comparison subjects. Changes over time in focal gray and white matter were measured with voxel-based morphometry throughout the brain. Over the 5-year interval, excessive decreases in gray matter density were found in patients in the left superior frontal area (Brodmann areas 9/10), left superior temporal gyrus (Brodmann area 42), right caudate nucleus, and right thalamus as compared to healthy individuals. Excessive gray matter density decrease in the superior frontal gray matter was related to increased number of hospitalizations, whereas a higher cumulative dose of clozapine and olanzapine during the scan interval was related to lesser decreases in this area. In conclusion, gray matter density loss occurs across the course of the illness in schizophrenia, predominantly in left frontal and temporal cortices. Moreover, the progression in left frontal density loss appears to be related to an increased number of psychotic episodes, with atypical antipsychotic medication attenuating these changes.
Previous studies suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and its receptor TrkB are critically involved in the therapeutic actions of antidepressant drugs. We have previously shown that the antidepressants imipramine and fluoxetine produce a rapid autophosphorylation of TrkB in the rodent brain. In the present study, we have further examined the biochemical and functional characteristics of antidepressant-induced TrkB activation in vivo. We show that all the antidepressants examined, including inhibitors of monoamine transporters and metabolism, activate TrkB rapidly in the rodent anterior cingulate cortex and hippocampus. Furthermore, the results indicate that acute and long-term antidepressant treatments induce TrkB-mediated activation of phospholipase-Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) and increase the phosphorylation of cAMP-related element binding protein, a major transcription factor mediating neuronal plasticity. In contrast, we have not observed any modulation of the phosphorylation of TrkB Shc binding site, phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase or AKT by antidepressants. We also show that in the forced swim test, the behavioral effects of specific serotonergic antidepressant citalopram, but not those of the specific noradrenergic antidepressant reboxetine, are crucially dependent on TrkB signaling. Finally, brain monoamines seem to be critical mediators of antidepressant-induced TrkB activation, as antidepressants reboxetine and citalopram do not produce TrkB activation in the brains of serotonin- or norepinephrine-depleted mice. In conclusion, our data suggest that rapid activation of the TrkB neurotrophin receptor and PLCgamma1 signaling is a common mechanism for all antidepressant drugs.
In humans, stressful events during pregnancy may raise the risk of psychiatric disorders in offspring, and studies with rodents have found that physical prenatal stress can cause changes in the physiology, neurobiology, and behavior of offspring. In the present study, we examined whether psychological prenatal stress with little physical stress could cause changes in the neurobiology and behavior of offspring in Sprague-Dawley rats, as physical prenatal stress did. Dams received psychological stress by observing a rat being electrically shocked behind a transparent wall in the social communication box during the last trimester of gestation but were not exposed to any physical stress. Male offspring from the dams exposed to psychological stress showed enhanced emotionality in an open field test, depression-like behavior in a forced swim test, and enhanced activity in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, compared with rats from untreated dams. However, the prenatally stressed rats showed intact ability to acquire context conditioning. This is the first report that psychological prenatal stress in the communication box can cause changes in the neurobiology and behavior of offspring in rodents.






Variations in the formation of the brachial plexus and in the course of its branches are not as uncommon as was once thought. A description of the abnormalities and complexities of the anatomy of the upper arm is very important with regard to surgical approaches. This case study reports a combined absence of musculocutaneous nerve associated with a third head of biceps brachii muscle in the left upper arm of an adult male cadaver. Moreover, the left ulnar nerve is entrapped within the substance of the medial head of the triceps muscle. The clinical implications, as well as the possible clinical symptoms resulting from these anomalies are discussed.
The most commonly known nerve compression syndrome is carpal tunnel syndrome, in which the median nerve is compressed at the wrist. Along with the pathological processes, some of the anatomically variant structures can also compress the nerves and often leads to confusion in the diagnosis and treatment if one is unaware of such possible anatomical variants. Here, we present a case of possible median nerve compression by an additional belly of coracobrachialis and a fascial sheet from the brachialis, and we also discuss the other possible structures that can compress the median nerve.
During the dissection of an 80-year-old, white, male cadaver, a large scalenus minimus muscle was detected on the right side. Scalenus minimus muscle, a fiber bundle which strengthens the suprapleural membrane, arises from the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the 7th cervical vertebra, and inserts to the inner border of the first rib and cupula pleura. In the present case, the scalenus minimus muscle on the suprapleural membrane was large on the right side. Its origin was on the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the 7th cervical vertebra, and the muscle was located between the C7 and C8 anterior rami. The present case is noteworthy because of its great dimension and relation with the brachial plexus. Apart from its importance in cervical region anesthesia and surgery, such an anatomical structure can lead to several clinical conditions both by spasm and compression such as neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome.
The association of optic hydrops and Reiter`s syndrome in the literature has not been mentioned previously. This syndrome characteristically consists of 3 manifestations: arthritis, urethritis, and conjunctivitis. A 42-year-old woman with a history of Reiter`s syndrome presented with progressive vision disturbance in her left eye and with headache. Orbital MRI demonstrated enlarged perioptic nerve subarachnoidal space on the left side.
The spinal cord can be involved in a variety of disease processes. These can be congenital or acquired. An acute onset of symptoms usually allows a defined set of causes to be considered including trauma, ruptured vascular anomalies, demyelination, and myelitis. Intramedullary cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord is a congenital or acquired vascular malformation, and one of the rare causes of hematomyelia. We present such a case, and discuss the symptoms, diagnosis, and suggested best treatment options based on a review of present day literature.
In adults, seizures manifesting with abdominal complaints are usually associated with complex partial or secondary generalized seizures. Also, seizure periodicity is not expected in postmenopausal women. We encountered a 72-year-old woman with episodic nausea and abdominal pain that usually occurred with predictable regularity. When symptoms persisted after extensive gastrointestinal investigations and cholecystectomy, she was referred to us and the diagnosis of simple partial seizures was suspected. Both EEG and brain MRI were normal. The diagnosis was established by video/EEG monitoring, which recorded several typical clinical events associated with right temporal ictal discharges. Because treatment with several antiepileptic medications caused intolerable side effects, the patient is now maintained on a low dose of Lamotrigine, which reduced seizure frequency and severity. This patient demonstrates that `abdominal` complaints, although rare, may be the sole manifestation of simple partial seizures. Unless considered in the differential diagnosis, the patient may undergo unnecessary and potentially harmful procedures.











Blindsight is a visual phenomenon whereby hemianopic patients are able to process visual information in their blind visual field without awareness. Previous research demonstrating the existence of blindsight in hemianopic patients has been criticized for the nature of the paradigms used, for the presence of methodological artifacts, and for the possibility that spared islands of visual cortex may have sustained the phenomenon because the patients generally had small circumscribed lesions. To respond to these criticisms, the authors have been investigating for several years now residual visual abilities in the blind field of hemispherectomized patients in whom a whole cerebral hemisphere has been removed or disconnected from the rest of the brain. These patients have offered a unique opportunity to establish the existence of blindsight and to investigate its underlying neuronal mechanisms because in these cases, spared islands of visual cortex cannot be evoked to explain the presence of visual abilities in the blind field. In addition, the authors have been using precise behavioral paradigms, strict control for potential methodological artifacts such as light scatter, fixation, criterion effects, and macular sparing, and they have utilized new neuroimaging techniques such as diffusion tensor imaging tractography to enhance their understanding of the phenomenon. The following article is a review of their research on the involvement of the superior colliculi in blindsight in hemispherectomized patients. .
Rho-associated protein kinases (ROCKs) play key roles in mediating the control of the actin cytoskeleton by Rho family GTPases in response to extracellular signals. Such signaling pathways contribute to diverse neuronal functions from cell migration to axonal guidance to dendritic spine morphology to axonal regeneration to cell survival. In this review, the authors summarize biochemical knowledge of ROCK function and categorize neuronal ROCK-dependent signaling pathways. Further study of ROCK signal transduction mechanisms and specificities will enhance our understanding of brain development, plasticity, and repair. The ROCK pathway also provides a potential site for therapeutic intervention to promote neuronal regeneration and to limit degeneration.
UK government targets aim for 50% of 18- to 30-year-olds entering higher education; however, with the vast choice of subjects to study available at this level, it is important to help pupils make informed decisions. As part of this process, awareness of newer fields such as neuroscience, which is not on the syllabus for science at school, needs to be promoted. Various challenges face neuroscientists working with visiting school pupils, including the lack of appropriate teaching resources, the culture and language barrier, and the risk of misinterpretation through oversimplification. The authors have designed a workshop to promote neuroscience and related scientific issues with school pupils aged 16 to 18 years. Pupil feedback showed that awareness of options within science increased after the workshop. The workshop also used resources taken from an undergraduate course successfully, demonstrating that appropriate resources are already available. A practical session using human brains was most popular, with all pupils believing it to be thought provoking and interesting. The final session aimed to challenge stereotypes within science, and despite the lowest pupil ratings overall, the majority agreed this aim was met. Pupils reported that the workshop was interesting and that the information about options within science useful. The most impressive outcome was that, although no pupil recorded less inclination to continue in science following the workshop, 46% said that they were more likely to do so. These data confirm the importance of outreach work for pupils' interest and career choice.


This review examines the mode of action, safety profile and clinical efficacy of some of the most promising new therapeutic strategies for multiple sclerosis. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can regenerate a new and tolerant immune system and is a potentially effective rescue therapy in a subset of patients with aggressive forms of MS refractory to approved immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive agents. High-dose cyclophosphamide without stem cell support is suggested to induce prolonged remissions through similar immunological mechanisms with less toxicity. Fingolimod (FTY720) is a novel oral immunomodulating agent that acts through preventing lymphocyte recirculation from lymphoid organs. Monoclonal antibody therapy has provided scientists and clinicians the opportunity to rationally direct the therapeutic intervention against specific molecules. Targeting molecules of the immune system such as CD52 (alemtuzumab), CD25 (daclizumab), VLA-4 (natalizumab) and CD20 (rituximab) have resulted in potent immunomodulatory effects through sometimes unpredicted mechanisms. The potential of immunoglobulins to induce remyelination in the CNS is being investigated in an attempt to develop therapies promoting tissue repair and functional recovery. The evidence supporting the potential of these emerging immunotherapies suggests that strong progress is being made in the development of effective cures for multiple sclerosis.
Chemokines and chemokine receptors comprise a large number of molecules implicated in a wide range of physiological and pathological functions. Numerous studies have demonstrated the roles of chemokines and chemokine receptors: 1) during development, by regulating hematopoiesis, cardiogenesis, and vascular and cerebellar development; 2) during tumor biology, by controlling cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and metastasis; and 3), especially during leukocyte migration, by acting on firm adhesion, locomotion, diapedesis, and chemotaxis. This review focuses on chemokine and chemokine receptor involvement in diverse neurological diseases and their therapeutic potentials. Because of its induction or upregulation during CNS pathologies, members of the chemokine system can be used as biological markers. CXCR4 and CXCL12, by the correlation between their expression and the glioblastoma tumor progression, could be a marker to grade this type of CNS tumor. CCR1, by virtue of specific expression in Abeta plaques, may be a marker for Alzheimer pathology. Downregulation of CCL2 in cerebrospinal fluid may be a candidate to characterize multiple sclerosis (MS), but needs additional investigation. Moreover, chemokines and chemokine receptors represent interesting therapeutic targets. Using chemokine receptor antagonists, several studies provided exciting findings for potential neurological disease treatment. Chemokine receptor antagonists reduce disease severity in animal models of MS. In glioblastoma, a CXCR4 antagonist (AMD3100) showed an inhibition of tumor growth. Inhibition of chemokine receptor signaling is not the only therapeutic strategy: for example, CXCR4-CXCL12 has anti-inflammatory properties and CX3CL1-CX3CR1 controls neurotoxicity. Thus, chemokine biology suggests several approaches for treating neurological disease.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are important enzymes that regulate developmental processes, maintain normal physiology in adulthood and have reparative roles at specific stages after an insult to the nervous system. Conversely, the concordant presence and significant upregulation of several MMP members in virtually all neurological conditions result in pathology. Thus, the MMPs have diverse functions, capable of mediating repair and recovery on the one hand and being involved in producing injury on the other. Therefore, targeting MMPs in neurological conditions has become a complicated challenge. This article highlights the beneficial roles of MMPs in normal and reparative processes within the nervous system and discusses the detriments of MMPs encountered in pathology. We review the availability of MMP inhibitors for clinical use and propose that an important consideration for these inhibitors is timing and duration of their use. With acute injuries where a massive upregulation of several MMPs are observed in the early periods after the insult, early and short-term use of broad spectrum MMP inhibitors would seem logical. In chronic conditions where recurrent insults to the CNS are accompanied by prolonged upregulation of MMPs, thereby necessitating the chronic use of medications, the beneficial effects of MMPs in repair may be compromised by the long-term application of MMP inhibitors. In this review we have used spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis as examples of acute and chronic neurological conditions, respectively, and we consider the use of MMP inhibitors in these states.


Understanding the role of voltage-gated sodium channels in nociception may provide important insights into pain mechanisms. Voltage-gated sodium channels are critically important for electrogenesis and nerve impulse conduction, and a target for important clinically relevant analgesics such as lidocaine. Furthermore, within the last decade studies have shown that certain sodium channel isoforms are predominantly expressed in peripheral sensory neurons associated with pain sensation, and that the expression and functional properties of voltage-gated sodium channels in peripheral sensory neurons can be dynamically regulated following axonal injury or peripheral inflammation. These data suggest that specific voltage-gated sodium channels may play crucial roles in nociception. Experiments with transgenic mice lines have clearly implicated Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 in inflammatory, and possibly neuropathic, pain. However the most convincing and perhaps most exciting results regarding the role of voltage-gated sodium channels have come out recently from studies on human inherited disorders of nociception. Point mutations in Na(v)1.7 have been identified in patients with two distinct autosomal dominant severe chronic pain syndromes. Electrophysiological experiments indicate that these pain-associated mutations cause small yet significant changes in the gating properties of voltage-gated sodium channels that are likely to contribute substantially to the development of chronic pain. Equally exciting, recent studies indicate that recessive mutations in Na(v)1.7 that eliminate functional current can result in an apparent complete, and possibly specific, indifference to pain in humans, suggesting that isoform specific blockers could be very effective in treating pain. In this review we will examine what is known about the roles of voltage-gated sodium channels in nociception.
Recent studies indicate that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in neuropathic pain, predominantly through spinal mechanisms. Since the data suggest that ROS are involved in central sensitization, the present study examines the levels of activated N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the dorsal horn before and after removal of ROS with a ROS scavenger, phenyl-N-t-butyl nitrone (PBN), in animal models of pain. Tight ligation of the L5 spinal nerve was used for the neuropathic pain model and intradermal injection of capsaicin was used for the inflammatory pain model. Foot withdrawal thresholds to von Frey stimuli to the paw were measured as pain indicators. The number of neurons showing immunoreactivity to phosphorylated NMDA-receptor subunit 1 (pNR1) and the total amount of pNR1 proteins in the spinal cord were determined using immunohistochemical and Western blotting techniques, respectively. Hyperalgesia and increased pNR1 expression were observed in both neuropathic and capsaicin-treated rats. A systemic injection of PBN (100 mg/kg, i.p.) dramatically reduced hyperalgesia and blocked the enhancement of spinal pNR1 in both pain models within 1h after PBN treatment. The data suggest that ROS are involved in NMDA-receptor activation, an essential step in central sensitization, and thus contribute to neuropathic and capsaicin-induced pain.
Pathogenic substitutions in the Lrrk2 protein have been shown to be an important cause of both familial and sporadic parkinsonism. The molecular pathway involved in Lrrk2 dopaminergic neuron degeneration remains elusive. Employing a combination of Lrrk2-mediated protein precipitation and tandem mass spectrometry, we identified 14 potential Lrrk2 binding partners. The majority of these interactions may be subgrouped into three functional cellular pathways: (i) chaperone-mediated response, (ii) proteins associated with the cytoskeleton and trafficking and (iii) phosphorylation and kinase activity. Future investigation of these candidates is now warranted and may help resolve the pathomechanism behind Lrrk2 neurodegeneration.
Parkin (PRKN) mutations are a common cause of early-onset parkinsonism, however the role of this gene in typical late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unresolved. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region (PRKN-258; rs9347683) has been observed to associate with PD, affect age-at-onset (AAO) of symptoms, and to functionally effect differential expression of the PRKN transcript. In the present study, PRKN-258 did not associate with PD, and no evidence for an AAO effect was observed in three age and gender-matched Caucasian patient-control series from Norway, Ireland and the US. These data do not support a role for this common variant in PD etiology.
Two melanocyte-stimulating hormone release inhibiting factor-1 (MIF-1) also known as L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) peptidomimetic analogs, 3(R)-[[[2(S)-pyrrolidinyl]carbonyl]-amino]-3-(butyl)-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide trifluoroacetate (A) and 3(R)-[[[2(S)-pyrrolidinyl]carbonyl]amino]-3-(benzyl)-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide trifluoroacetate (B), were evaluated for their ability to modulate dopaminergic activity by measuring apomorphine-induced rotations in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, and haloperidol (HP)-induced vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) in rats; animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and human tardive dyskinesia (TD), respectively. In the 6-OHDA model, both analogs were found to potentiate the contralateral rotational behavior induced by apomorphine dose-dependently and with approximately the same potency. Furthermore, each analog was able to significantly attenuate HP-induced VCMs with almost equal efficacy. The potency and efficacy of these analogs were significantly greater than their parent compound, PLG. These results suggest that both analogs can modulate dopaminergic activity in vivo, likely by the same mechanisms recruited by PLG previously reported.
Animal and human data suggest the existence of a cross-species system of analog number representation (e.g., Cordes, Gelman, Gallistel, &amp; Whalen, 2001; Meeck &amp; Church, 1983), which may mediate the computation of statistical regularities in the environment (Gallistel, Gelman, &amp; Cordes, 2006). However, evidence of arithmetic manipulation of these nonverbal magnitude representations is sparse and lacking in depth. This study uses the analysis of variability as a tool for understanding properties of these combinatorial processes. Human subjects participated in tasks requiring responses dependent upon the addition, subtraction, or reproduction of nonverbal counts. Variance analyses revealed that the magnitude of both inputs and answer contributed to the variability in the arithmetic responses, with operand variability dominating. Other contributing factors to the observed variability and implications for logarithmic versus scalar models of magnitude representation are discussed in light of these results.
A complete understanding of visual phonetic perception (lipreading) requires linking perceptual effects to physical stimulus properties. However, the talking face is a highly complex stimulus, affording innumerable possible physical measurements. In the search for isomorphism between stimulus properties and phoneticeffects, second-order isomorphism was examined between theperceptual similarities of video-recorded perceptually identified speech syllables and the physical similarities among the stimuli. Four talkers produced the stimulus syllables comprising 23 initial consonants followed by one of three vowels. Six normal-hearing participants identified the syllables in a visual-only condition. Perceptual stimulus dissimilarity was quantified using the Euclidean distances between stimuli in perceptual spaces obtained via multidimensional scaling. Physical stimulus dissimilarity was quantified using face points recorded in three dimensions by an optical motion capture system. The variance accounted for in the relationship between the perceptual and the physical dissimilarities was evaluated using both the raw dissimilarities and the weighted dissimilarities. With weighting and the full set of 3-D optical data, the variance accounted for ranged between 46% and 66% across talkers and between 49% and 64% across vowels. The robust second-order relationship between the sparse 3-D point representation of visible speech and the perceptual effects suggests that the 3-D point representation is a viable basis for controlled studies of first-order relationships between visual phonetic perception and physical stimulus attributes.
As addiction is increasingly formulated as a developmental disorder, identifying how early developmental exposures influence later responses to drugs of abuse is important to our understanding of substance abuse neurobiology. We have previously identified behavioral changes in adult mice following gestational exposure to cocaine that differ when assessed with methods employing contingent and non-contingent drug administration. We sought to clarify this distinction using a Pavlovian behavioral measure, conditioned place-preference. Adult mice exposed to cocaine in utero (40 or 20 mg/kg/day), vehicle and pair-fed controls were place-conditioned to either cocaine (5 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline injections. The development of conditioned place-preference to cocaine was impaired in mice exposed to cocaine in utero, and was abolished by fetal malnutrition. A context-specific place-aversion to vehicle but not cocaine injection was observed in prenatally cocaine-exposed mice. Locomotor behavior did not differ among prenatal treatment groups. We conclude that early developmental exposure to cocaine may diminish the subsequent rewarding effects of cocaine in adulthood measured with classical conditioning techniques, and that this is not due to changes in locomotor behavior. Sensitivity to acute stress is also altered by prenatal cocaine exposure, consistent with earlier findings in this model.
The widely used recreational drug MDMA (ecstasy) supports self-administration in animals, but it is not known whether MDMA-associated cues are able to reinstate drug seeking in a relapse model of drug addiction. To assess this possibility, drug-nave rats were trained to press a lever for MDMA infusions (0.30 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) paired with a compound cue (light and tone) in daily 2 h sessions. Responding was reinforced contingent on a modified fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement. Conditioned cue-induced reinstatement tests were conducted after lever pressing was extinguished in the absence of MDMA and the conditioned cues. Conditioned cues reinstated lever pressing after extinction, and the magnitude of reinstatement was positively correlated with the level of responding during MDMA self-administration. These results show for the first time that conditioned cues can trigger reinstatement of MDMA-seeking behavior in rats, and that individual differences in the pattern of MDMA self-administration can predict the magnitude of reinstatement responding.
Withdrawal from high levels of progesterone in rodents has been proposed as a model for premenstrual syndrome or postpartum depression. Forced swim test (FST) immobility, used to model depression, was assessed in intact female DBA/2J mice following progesterone withdrawal (PWD) or treatment with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride. Following 5 daily progesterone injections (5 mg/kg IP) FST immobility increased only in mice withdrawn for 3 days (p&lt;.05). In another experiment, 3 days of PWD significantly decreased levels of progesterone compared to 0 days of withdrawal, but progesterone levels at 3 days of PWD did not differ from vehicle-treated controls. In a final study, mice received daily injections of progesterone (5 mg/kg IP) for 8 days, with 0 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, or 100 mg/kg finasteride co-administered for the last three days. Mice that received 100 mg/kg finasteride, but not 50 mg/kg finasteride, displayed increased FST immobility. PWD and finasteride treatment, both of which reduce allopregnanolone levels, were associated with increased FST immobility in female DBA/2J mice. These findings suggest that decreased levels of the GABAergic neurosteroid allopregnanolone contribute to symptoms of PWD. Future studies of PWD may provide information about human conditions that are associated with hormone changes such as premenstrual syndrome or postpartum depression.
Triazene compounds of clinical interest (i.e. dacarbazine and temozolomide) are a group of alkylating agents with similar chemical, physical, antitumour and mutagenic properties. Their mechanism of action is mainly related to methylation of O(6)-guanine, mediated by methyldiazonium ion, a highly reactive derivative of the two compounds. The cytotoxic/mutagenic effects of these drugs are based on the presence of DNA O(6)-methylguanine adducts that generate base/base mismatches with cytosine and with thymine. These adducts lead to cell death, or if the cell survives, provoke somatic point mutations represented by C:G--&gt;T:A transition in DNA helix. Triazene compounds have excellent pharmacokinetic properties and limited toxicity. Dacarbazine requires hepatic activation whereas temozolomide is spontaneously converted into active metabolite in aqueous solution at physiological pH. Moreover, temozolomide is fully active when administrated orally (100% bioavailability). The biological effects of triazene compounds and cell resistance to them depend on at least three DNA repair systems, (a) O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA-alkyltransferase, called also methyl-guanine methyl-transferase (MGMT); (b) mismatch repair (MMR), and (c) base excision repair (BER). MGMT is a small enzyme-like protein that removes small alkyl adducts from the O(6) position of DNA guanine through a stoichiometric and auto-inactivating reaction. This reaction consists in a covalent transfer of the alkyl group from the alkylated site in DNA to an internal cysteine residue of MGMT protein. High levels of MGMT are responsible for normal and tumour cell resistance to triazenes. Therefore, pre-treatment with MGMT inhibitors - i.e. O(6)-benzylguanine or O(6)-(4-bromotenyl)guanine (Lomeguatrib) - is followed by a great increase in the activity of triazenes against target cells expressing high MGMT levels. MMR is represented by a protein complex dedicated to the repair of biosynthetic errors generated during DNA replication. The MMR system recognizes base mismatches and insertion-deletion loops, cuts the nucleotide sequence containing the lesion, and restores the correct base sequence. Therefore, not only MGMT but also MMR is involved in target cell susceptibility to triazenes. However, the system does not suppress, but instead promotes the cytotoxic effects of triazenes. In fact, MMR is not able to repair the incorrect base pairing determined by treatment with triazenes and, according to a predominant hypothesis, it causes reiterated &quot;futile&quot; attempts of damage repair leading to the activation of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. BER removes lesions due to cellular metabolism, or to physical or chemical agents. BER is able to repair N(7)-methylguanine and N(3)-methyladenine determined by treatment with triazenes. Therefore, triazene compounds can also kill tumour cells by a N(3)-methyladenine-mediated mechanism if BER activity is inhibited by chemical agents (i.e. PARP inhibitors). In conclusion, in selected cases, triazenes can represent a therapeutic alternative to treatment of neoplastic diseases including haematological malignancies. Moreover, the susceptibility of neoplastic cells to these compounds can be substantially increased through pharmacological modulation of the expression level and functional activity of DNA repair enzymes.
Certain naturally occurring pregnane steroids act in a nongenomic manner to potently and selectively enhance the interaction of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA with the GABA(A) receptor. Consequently such steroids exhibit anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, analgesic, sedative, hypnotic, and anesthetic properties. In both physiological and pathophysiological scenarios, the pregnane steroids may function as endocrine messengers (e.g., produced in the periphery and cross the blood-brain barrier) to influence behaviour. However, additionally &quot;neurosteroids&quot; can be synthesised in the brain and spinal cord to act in a paracrine or autocrine manner and thereby locally influence neuronal activity. Given the ubiquitous expression of the GABA(A) receptor throughout the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), physiological, pathophysiological, or drug-induced pertubations of neurosteroid levels may be expected to produce widespread changes in brain excitability. However, the neurosteroid/GABA(A) receptor interaction is brain region and indeed neuron specific. The molecular basis of this specificity will be reviewed here, including (1) the importance of the subunit composition of the GABA(A) receptor; (2) how protein phosphorylation may dynamically influence the sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors to neurosteroids; (3) the impact of local steroid metabolism; and (4) the emergence of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors as a neurosteroid target.
Physical contact between melanocytes and keratinocytes is a prerequisite for melanosome transfer to occur, but cellular signals induced during or after contact are not fully understood. Herein, it is shown that interactions between melanocyte and keratinocyte plasma membranes induced a transient intracellular calcium signal in keratinocytes that was required for pigment transfer. This intracellular calcium signal occurred due to release of calcium from intracellular stores. Pigment transfer observed in melanocyte-keratinocyte co-cultures was inhibited when intracellular calcium in keratinocytes was chelated. We propose that a 'ligand-receptor' type interaction exists between melanocytes and keratinocytes that triggers intracellular calcium signalling in keratinocytes and mediates melanin transfer.
The Tragulidae are the living relics of the basal ruminant stock. They have a diffuse placenta, with no aggregations of the placental villi into localised placentomes characteristic of all other ruminants. Despite this difference, this ultrastructural and immunocytochemical investigation demonstrates that in Tragulus the trophoblast binucleate cell (BNC) plays the same central role in development and structure as in all other ruminants. It shows an identical development and ultrastructure, produces granules reactive with bovine placental lactogen and pregnancy associated glycoprotein antibodies, and migrates when mature through the trophoblast tight junction to fuse into a mosaic of syncytial plaques from which the granules are released to the mother and which have replaced the uterine epithelium. Unlike the persistent plaques in the sheep and goat placenta, in Tragulus they are transient, dying by apoptosis with the fragments phagocytosed by the trophoblast. This brings the trophoblast into direct endotheliochorial apposition to maternal tissue until BNC migration and fusion replace the dead plaque. This intimate fetomaternal confrontation has not been shown in any other ruminant, and could be a relic of the evolutionary development of the synepitheliochorial from the original basic eutherian endo- or hemo-chorial placenta.
A common-sense assumption concerning visual perception states that brightness and darkness cannot coexist at a given spatial location. One corollary of this assumption is that achromatic colors, or perceived grey shades, are contained in a one-dimensional (1-D) space varying from bright to dark. The results of many previous psychophysical studies suggest, by contrast, that achromatic colors are represented as points in a color space composed of two or more perceptual dimensions. The nature of these perceptual dimensions, however, presently remains unclear. Here we provide direct evidence that brightness and darkness form the dimensions of a two-dimensional (2-D) achromatic color space. This color space may play a role in the representation of object surfaces viewed against natural backgrounds, which simultaneously induce both brightness and darkness signals. Our 2-D model generalizes to the chromatic dimensions of color perception, indicating that redness and greenness (blueness and yellowness) also form perceptual dimensions. Collectively, these findings suggest that human color space is composed of six dimensions, rather than the conventional three.

The origins of our understanding of brain electricity and electrical discharges in epilepsy can be traced to Robert Bentley Todd (1809-60). Todd was influenced by his contemporary in London, Michael Faraday (1791-1867), who in the 1830 s and 1840 s was laying the foundations of our modern understanding of electromagnetism. Todd's concept of nervous polarity, generated in nerve vesicles and transmitted in nerve fibres (neurons in later terminology), was confirmed a century later by the Nobel Prize-winning work of Hodgkin and Huxley, who demonstrated the ionic basis of neuro-transmission, involving the same ions which had had been discovered by Faraday's mentor, Sir Humphry Davy (1778-1829).

Ciguatera is a form of poisoning that occurs after eating tropical and subtropical ciguatoxic fish. The ciguatoxins are a family of heat stable, lipid soluble cyclic polyether compounds that bind to and open voltage-sensitive Na(+) channels at resting membrane potential, resulting in neural hyperexcitability, as well as swelling of the nodes of Ranvier. The authors describe a 45-year-old man who developed acute gastrointestinal symptoms in Antigua soon after eating red snapper and grouper, potentially &quot;ciguatoxic fish&quot;. This was followed by neurological symptoms 24-48 hours later, including temperature reversal (paradoxical dysaesthesia), intense pruritus and increased nociception as a result of a small fibre peripheral neuropathy. The patient's symptoms and small fibre neuropathy improved over a period of 10 months.
New findings obtained during the past years, especially the discovery of mutations in the genes associated with brain iron metabolism, have provided key insights into the homeostatic mechanisms of brain iron metabolism and the pathological mechanisms responsible for neurodegenerative diseases. The accumulated evidence demonstrates that misregulation in brain iron metabolism is one of the initial causes for neuronal death in some neurodegenerative disorders. The errors in brain iron metabolism found in these disorders have a multifactorial pathogenesis, including genetic and nongenetic factors. The disturbances of iron metabolism might occur at multiple levels, including iron uptake and release, storage, intracellular metabolism and regulation. It is the increased brain iron that triggers a cascade of deleterious events, leading to neuronal death in these diseases. In the article, the recent advances in studies on neurochemistry and neuropathophysiology of brain iron metabolism were reviewed.
Research on the regulation and function of ascending noradrenergic, dopaminergic, serotonergic, and cholinergic systems has focused on the organization and function of individual systems. In contrast, evidence describing co-activation and interactions between multiple neuromodulatory systems has remained scarce. However, commonalities in the anatomical organization of these systems and overlapping evidence concerning the post-synaptic effects of neuromodulators strongly suggest that these systems are recruited in concert; they influence each other and simultaneously modulate their target circuits. Therefore, evidence on the regulatory and functional interactions between these systems is considered essential for revealing the role of neuromodulators. This postulate extends to contemporary neurobiological hypotheses of major neuropsychiatric disorders. These hypotheses have focused largely on aberrations in the integrity or regulation of individual ascending modulatory systems, with little regard for the likely possibility that dysregulation in multiple ascending neuromodulatory systems and their interactions contribute essentially to the symptoms of these disorders. This review will paradigmatically focus on neuromodulator interactions in the PFC and be further constrained by an additional focus on their role in cognitive functions. Recent evidence indicates that individual neuromodulators, in addition to their general state-setting or gating functions, encode specific cognitive operations, further substantiating the importance of research concerning the parallel recruitment of neuromodulator systems and interactions between these systems.
The year 2006 marks the centenary of the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine awarded to Santiago Ramn y Cajal and Camilo Golgi, &quot;in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system&quot;. Their discoveries are keys to understanding the present neuroscience, for instance, the discovery of dendritic spines. Cajal discovered dendritic spines in 1888 with the Golgi method, although other contemporary scientists thought that they were silver precipitates. Dendritic spines were demonstrated definitively as real structures by Cajal with the Methylene Blue in 1896. Many of the observations of Cajal and other contemporary scientists about dendritic spines are active fields of research of present neuroscience, for instance, their morphology, distribution, density, development and function. This article will deal with the main contributions of Cajal and other contemporary scientists about dendritic spines. We will analyse their contributions from the historical and present point of view. In addition, we will show high quality images of Cajal's original preparations and drawings related with this discovery.



The present model outlines the mechanisms underlying habitual control of responding and the ways in which habits interface with goals. Habits emerge from the gradual learning of associations between responses and the features of performance contexts that have historically covaried with them (e.g., physical settings, preceding actions). Once a habit is formed, perception of contexts triggers the associated response without a mediating goal. Nonetheless, habits interface with goals. Constraining this interface, habit associations accrue slowly and do not shift appreciably with current goal states or infrequent counterhabitual responses. Given these constraints, goals can (a) direct habits by motivating repetition that leads to habit formation and by promoting exposure to cues that trigger habits, (b) be inferred from habits, and (c) interact with habits in ways that preserve the learned habit associations. Finally, the authors outline the implications of the model for habit change, especially for the self-regulation of habit cuing.
Iconic memory and spatial attention are often considered separately, but they may have functional similarities. Here we provide functional magnetic resonance imaging evidence for some common underlying neural effects. Subjects judged three visual stimuli in one hemifield of a bilateral array comprising six stimuli. The relevant hemifield for partial report was indicated by an auditory cue, administered either before the visual array (precue, spatial attention) or shortly after the array (postcue, iconic memory). Pre- and postcues led to similar activity modulations in lateral occipital cortex contralateral to the cued side. This finding indicates that readout from iconic memory can have some neural effects similar to those of spatial attention. We also found common bilateral activation of a fronto-parietal network for postcue and precue trials. These neuroimaging data suggest that some common neural mechanisms underlie selective spatial attention and readout from iconic memory. Some differences were also found; compared with precues, postcues led to higher activity in the right middle frontal gyrus.
Inattentional blindness refers to the failure to see an unexpected object that one may be looking at directly when one's attention is elsewhere. We studied whether a stimulus whose meaning is relevant to the attentional goals of the observer will capture attention and escape inattentional blindness. The results showed that an unexpected stimulus belonging to the attended semantic category but not sharing physical features with the attended stimuli was detected more often than a semantically unrelated stimulus. This effect was larger when the unexpected stimuli were words than when they were pictures. The results imply that the semantic relation between the observer's attentional set and the unexpected stimulus plays a crucial role in inattentional blindness: An unexpected stimulus semantically related to the observer's current interests is likely to be seen, whereas unrelated unexpected stimuli are unseen. Attentional selection may thus be driven by purely semantic features: Meaning may determine whether or not one sees a stimulus.





Acute bacterial meningitis (ABM) is an acute inflammation of leptomeninges caused by bacteria, and has a case fatality rate of 10-30%. Prevention strategies, such as vaccination and prophylactic antibiotics, can prevent ABM and have substantial public health impact by reducing the disease burden associated with it. The aim of this paper is to summarize the main findings from Cochrane systematic reviews that have considered the evidence for measures to prevent ABM. We assessed the evidence available in the Cochrane Library. We found five Cochrane reviews focused on the prevention of ABM; three with use of vaccination and two with prophylactic antibiotics. Polysaccharide serogroup A vaccine is strongly protective for the first year, against serogroup A meningococcal meningitis in adults and children over 5 years of age. Meningococcal serogroup C conjugate (MCC) vaccine is safe and effective in infants. Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine is safe and effective against Hib-invasive disease at all ages. Ceftriaxone, rifampicin and ciprofloxacin are the most effective prophylactic antibiotics against Neisseria meningitidis. There is sufficient evidence to use polysaccharide serogroup A vaccine to prevent serogroup A meningococcal meningitis, MCC conjugate vaccines to prevent meningococcal C meningitis and Hib conjugate vaccine to prevent Hib infections. More studies are needed to evaluate the effects of Hib conjugate vaccine on mortality. Further, studies are required to compare the relative effectiveness of ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin and rifampicin in chemoprophylaxis against meningococcal infection.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common cause of nontraumatic severe neurological disability in young adults. If left untreated, most individuals with MS will accumulate significant physical and/or cognitive disability as the consequence of demyelination and axonal injury. Treatment has focused on disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) and questions remain about timing and indications for their use. Natalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against alpha4-integrin that prevents migration of leukocytes into the brain parenchyma. The clinical and radiological efficacy of natalizumab has been shown in several randomized trials; however, adverse events associated with natalizumab have limited its use as a first-line agent. In this review we compare current recommendations for the use of first-line DMTs, adverse events associated with MS therapies, and differences between the practices in North American and the European Union.
In this study, we developed a new system for quantitative evaluation of the wrist movement. We designed this system to analyze the causal relationship between movement disorders and abnormal muscle activities. In addition, this system was also designed to be non-invasive and used handily at the bedside. We tested this system for analysis of movement disorders in the cerebellar patients. As an experimental task, we asked subjects to perform step-tracking wrist movements with a manipulandum, and simultaneously recorded wrist joint movements and muscle activities of four wrist prime movers with surface electrodes. The participants included eight patients with cerebellar diseases and eight normal controls. First, we made quantitative analysis of movement kinematics in the cerebellar patients in terms of accuracy and directional deviation of wrist movements. Then we examined how well the wrist movement could be explained with the activities of the four prime movers. Specifically, we compared the wrist joint torque calculated from the movement of the wrist (kinematic torque) and the wrist joint torque estimated from the muscle activities (muscle torque). Then we evaluated match between the two. Our surprising observation was that there were very high correlations between the kinematic torque and the muscle torque for both normal controls and cerebellar patients. Correlation coefficients R for normal controls were 0.85 +/- 0.06 for X-axis component and 0.78 +/- 0.09 for Y-axis component. On the other hand, correlation coefficients R for cerebellar patients were 0.78 +/- 0.11 for X-axis component and 0.78 +/- 0.1 for Y-axis component. These results strongly suggested that there were enough information in the activities of the four muscles to explain the position, speed and acceleration of the wrist joint. In other words, with our system, it is possible to identify causal abnormality of muscle activities for movement disorders. Therefore, it is possible with our system to analyze movement disorders at a motor command level.
Eighty psychiatric patients with different clinical diagnoses completed the Rorschach (Exner, 1993), the MMPI-2 (Butcher et al., 1989) and also rated 51 written personality descriptions derived from the Comprehensive System (SAPCS). The 51 self-descriptions were constructed by the authors with the objective to achieve maximum overlap with the interpretive guidelines suggested for Rorschach Comprehensive System (RCS) variables, while simultaneously fitting with how patients could be expected to describe themselves in self-rating. With evidence of (1) independent judges' ability to correct classification of the items, (2) item test-retest stability, (3) sensitivity and specificity, measuring psychological adaptive capacity and vulnerability/pathology, and (4) item inter-correlation with the MMPI-2, patient's SAPCS ratings were expected to significantly converge with corresponding RCS measures. However, including all variable pairings, the mean correlation suggests that SAPCS statements overlapping with RCS interpretive statements do not measure the same constructs as the RCS variables to which the interpretive statements are referring. Standard validity scales in the MMPI-2 and first factor-related test interaction style did not predictably moderate the relation between RCS indices and the RCS-near self descriptions.
Auditory orienting and discrimination were studied with combined multi-channel EEG and MEG recordings in a patient with unilateral amygdala-hippocampus-partial temporal lobe resection of the right hemisphere. The results revealed abnormalities of habituation in alerting- and orienting-related responses, and discrimination-related responses, elicited by auditory stimulation contralateral to the resected cerebral hemisphere. These results give support to the notions about the role of the amygdala and hippocampus in alerting and orienting, respectively, and of the temporal cortex in auditory discrimination.

It has been accepted that human tactile sensation is mediated exclusively by large myelinated (Abeta) fibres. Nevertheless, recent studies indicated a dual mechanoceptive innervation of the skin in various mammals. Besides the known A fibers, the skin is also innervated by slow-conducting, low-threshold, small unmyelinated (C) afferents. These unmyelinated fibers respond vigorously to innocuous skin deformation, but poorly to rapid skin movement. They project to outer lamina II of spinal cord, and form synapse with the secondary sensory neurons. The latter then project to insular cortex via spinothalamic tracts. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies showed that a slowly moving tactile stimulus along hairy skin produced a strong activation of the insular cortex. Pleasant touch has also been demonstrated to activate orbitofrontal cortex adjacent to areas responding to pleasant taste and smell. Overall, the response characteristics and activated brain regions suggest that they are related with the limbic system and affective aspect rather than tactile discriminative function.


After neurotrauma, ischemia, or neurodegenerative disease, astrocytes upregulate their expression of the intermediate filament proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin (Vim), and nestin. This response, reactive gliosis, is attenuated in GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) mice, resulting in the promotion of synaptic regeneration after neurotrauma and improved integration of retinal grafts. Here we assessed whether GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) astrocytes affect the differentiation of neural progenitor cells. In coculture with GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) astrocytes, neural progenitor cells increased neurogenesis by 65% and astrogenesis by 124%. At 35 days after transplantation of neural progenitor cells into the hippocampus, adult GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) mice had more transplant-derived neurons and astrocytes than wild-type controls, as well as increased branching of neurite-like processes on transplanted cells. Wnt3 immunoreactivity was readily detected in hippocampal astrocytes in wild-type but not in GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) mice. These findings suggest that GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) astrocytes allow more neural progenitor cell-derived neurons and astrocytes to survive weeks after transplantation. Thus, reactive gliosis may adversely affect the integration of transplanted neural progenitor cells in the brain. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Skeletal muscle satellite cells play key roles in postnatal muscle growth and regeneration. To study molecular regulation of satellite cells, we directly prepared satellite cells from 8- to 12-week-old C57BL/6 mice and performed genome-wide gene expression analysis. Compared with activated/cycling satellite cells, 507 genes were highly upregulated in quiescent satellite cells. These included negative regulators of cell cycle and myogenic inhibitors. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that quiescent satellite cells preferentially express the genes involved in cell-cell adhesion, regulation of cell growth, formation of extracellular matrix, copper and iron homeostasis, and lipid transportation. Furthermore, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction on differentially expressed genes confirmed that calcitonin receptor (CTR) was exclusively expressed in dormant satellite cells but not in activated satellite cells. In addition, CTR mRNA is hardly detected in nonmyogenic cells. Therefore, we next examined the expression of CTR in vivo. CTR was specifically expressed on quiescent satellite cells, but the expression was not found on activated/proliferating satellite cells during muscle regeneration. CTR-positive cells reappeared at the rim of regenerating myofibers in later stages of muscle regeneration. Calcitonin stimulation delayed the activation of quiescent satellite cells. Our data provide roles of CTR in quiescent satellite cells and a solid scaffold to further dissect molecular regulation of satellite cells. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.



Among the changes which occur in the brain with age is an increase in hippocampal concentration of proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and an increase in IL-1beta-induced signaling. Here we demonstrate that the increase in IL-1beta concentration is accompanied by an increase in expression of IL-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI) and an age-related increase in microglial activation, as shown by increased expression of the cell surface marker, major histocompatibility complex II (MHCII) and increased MHCII staining. The evidence indicates that these age-related changes were abrogated in hippocampus of aged rats treated with dexamethasone and vitamin D3. Similarly, the age-related increases in activation of the stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), as well as caspase-3 and PARP were all attenuated in hippocampal tissue prepared from rats that received dexamethasone and vitamin D3. The data indicate that dexamethasone and vitamin D3 ameliorated the age-related increase in IFNgamma and suggest that IFNgamma may be the trigger leading to microglial activation, since it increases MHCII mRNA and IL-1beta release from cultured glia. In parallel with its ability to decrease microglial activation in vivo, we report that treatment of cultured glia with dexamethasone and vitamin D3 blocked the lipopolysaccharide increased MHCII mRNA and IL-1beta concentration, while the IL-1beta-induced increases in activation of JNK and caspase 3 in cultured neurons were also reversed by treatment with dexamethasone and vitamin D3. The data suggest that the antiinflammatory effect of dexamethasone and vitamin D3 derives from their ability to downreguate microglial activation.
The dopamine modulation of neuronal excitability in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) changes during critical late periods of postnatal development. In particular, D2 receptors activate fast-spiking interneurons after, and not before, adolescence. To test the functional impact of this change, we investigated the effects of dopamine agonists on PFC excitatory synaptic transmission with whole-cell recordings from deep-layer pyramidal neurons in brain slices obtained from prepubertal [postnatal day (PD) 28-35] and postpubertal (PD&gt;51) rats. Electrical stimulation of superficial layers elicited a fast AMPA/kainate excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP). In the adult PFC, the D2 agonist quinpirole decreased EPSP amplitude, an effect that lasted for at least 25 min after drug washout and was blocked by the D2 antagonist eticlopride. The late component of this effect was blocked by the GABA-A antagonist picrotoxin without affecting the early inhibition. Quinpirole also decreased EPSP amplitude in deep-layer pyramidal neurons from prepubertal rats, but this response was not affected by picrotoxin. A D1 agonist, on the other hand, did not affect the pyramidal neuron EPSP. These results indicate that D2, not D1, receptors attenuate local excitatory synaptic transmission in the adult PFC, and this effect of D2 involves a recruitment of local GABAergic activity.
Past reports have shown dopamine (DA) D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole (QNP) and the DA D2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol (HAL) display a significant increase in expression of catecholamine regulated protein (CRP40) in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and the striatum, respectively. The present study investigated the in vivo effects of QNP and HAL on CRP40 protein levels within the core and shell subcompartments of the NAcc. As significant homology exists between CRP40 and Hsp70/Hsc70, parallel studies with inducible Hsp70 and constitutive Hsc70 were conducted to establish the specificity with respect to QNP on Hsp70 and CRP40. Results demonstrated that CRP40 protein was significantly expressed in the shell relative to the core region of NAcc following chronic QNP (+16.28%+/-0.42%, P&lt;0.05) and CRP40 protein was significantly expressed in the core vs. the shell following chronic HAL (+36.02%+/-0.75%, P&lt;0.05). There was no significant change in Hsp70 protein levels following chronic QNP or HAL administration. The results demonstrated selective modulation of CRP40 within NAcc by QNP and HAL treatment, without affecting Hsp70.
Numerous reports now indicate that HIV patients administered long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART) are at a greater risk for developing cardiovascular diseases. Endothelial dysfunction is an initiating event in atherogenesis and may contribute to HIV-associated atherosclerosis. We previously reported that ART induces direct endothelial dysfunction in rodents. In vitro treatment of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) with ART indicated endothelial mitochondrial dysfunction and a significant increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we determined whether ART-induced endothelial dysfunction is mediated via mitochondria-derived ROS and whether this mitochondrial injury culminates in endothelial cell apoptosis. Two major components of ART combination therapy, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor and a protease inhibitor, were tested, using AZT and indinavir as representatives for each. Microscopy utilizing fluorescent indicators of ROS and mitochondria demonstrated the mitochondrial localization of ART-induced ROS. MnTBAP, a cell-permeable metalloporphyrin antioxidant, abolished ART-induced ROS production. As a final step in confirming the mitochondrial origin of the ART-induced ROS, HUVEC were transduced with a cytosolic- compared to a mitochondria-targeted catalase. Transduction with the mitochondria-targeted catalase was more effective than cytoplasmic catalase in inhibiting the ROS and 8-isoprostane (8-iso-PGF2alpha) produced after treatment with either AZT or indinavir. However, both mitochondrial and cytoplasmic catalase attenuated ROS and 8-iso-PGF2alpha production induced by the combination treatment, suggesting that in this case, the formation of cytoplasmic ROS may also occur, and thus, that the mechanism of toxicity in the combination treatment group may be different compared to treatment with AZT or indinavir alone. Finally, to determine whether ART-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and ROS production culminate in apoptosis, we performed the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), annexin V and 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining, and caspase-3 activity assays. However, none of these assays showed appreciable levels of ART-induced apoptosis. Our studies thus suggest that in endothelial cells, ART induces mitochondrial dysfunction with a concomitant increase in mitochondria-derived ROS. This compromised mitochondrial function may be one important factor culminating in endothelial dysfunction, without inducing an increase in apoptosis.
Much of cognitive research on deductive reasoning has been preoccupied with advocating for or against visuospatial (mental model theory) or linguistic/syntactic (mental logic theory) models of logical reasoning. Neuroimaging studies bear on this issue by pointing to both language-based and visuospatial systems being engaged during logical reasoning, and by raising additional issues not anticipated by these cognitive theories. Here, the literature on the neural basis of deductive reasoning from the past decade is reviewed. Although these results might seem chaotic and inconsistent, we identify several interesting patterns and articulate their implications for cognitive theories of reasoning. Cognitive neuroscience data point away from a unitary system for logical reasoning and towards a fractionated system dynamically reconfigured in response to specific task and environmental cues.
Combining the methods of neuroscience and economics generates powerful tools for studying the brain processes behind human social interaction. We argue that hedonic interpretations of theories of social preferences provide a useful framework that generates interesting predictions and helps interpret brain activations involved in altruistic, fair and trusting behaviors. These behaviors are consistently associated with activation in reward-related brain areas, such as the striatum, and with prefrontal activity implicated in cognitive control, the processing of emotions, and integration of benefits and costs, consistent with resolution of a conflict between self-interest and other-regarding motives.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) results from autoimmune-mediated loss of insulin-producing beta-cells. Recent findings suggest that the events controlling T1D development are not only immunological, but also neuronal in nature. In the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse model of T1D, a mutant sensory neuron channel, TRPV1, initiates chronic, progressive beta-cell stress, inducing islet cell inflammation. This novel mechanism of organ-specific damage requires a permissive, autoimmune-prone host, but ascribes tissue specificity to the local secretory dysfunction of sensory afferent neurons. In NOD mice, normalizing this neuronal function by administration of the neurotransmitter substance P clears islet cell inflammation, reduces insulin resistance and restores normoglycemia. Here, we discuss this neuro-immuno-endocrine model, its implications and the involvement of sensory neurons in other autoimmune disorders. These developments might provide novel neuronal-based therapeutic interventions, particularly in diabetes.
How the brain perceives volatile chemicals in the environment to evoke the appropriate behaviour is a fundamental question in sensory neuroscience. The olfactory system of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has emerged as a powerful model system to address this problem. Recent analysis of the molecular, neuroanatomical and physiological properties of the olfactory circuits that detect the sex and social aggregation pheromone cis-vaccenyl acetate now provides one of the most comprehensive outlines for the neural basis of odour perception. This review describes these latest advances, discusses what they reveal about where stimulus sensitivity and specificity is encoded in olfactory circuits, and considers future questions.
The invasion efficiency of Plasmodium falciparum merozoites was found to decrease with increasing red blood cell density, a finding relevant to protection strategies against falciparum malaria. The mechanism of this 'density effect' remained unexplained. Searching for possible explanations, we studied selected video recordings of the dynamic events during merozoite invasion and identified a pre-invasion stage as a crucial mediator of invasion efficiency. We suggest that the role of the pre-invasion stage is to induce the apical alignment of the merozoite, and propose a working hypothesis on its mechanism, with a crucial role for elevated intracellular Ca2+.

In the attentional blink [Raymond, J. E., Shapiro, K. L., &amp; Arnell, K. M. (1992). Temporary suppression of visual processing in an RSVP task: An attentional blink? Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 18(3), 849-860.], the second of two targets in a Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) stream is difficult to detect and identify when it is presented soon but not immediately after the first target. We varied the Stimulus Onset Asynchrony (SOA) of the items in the stream and the color of the targets (red from gray or vice versa), and looked at the responses to the second target. Exact responses to the second target (zero positional error) showed a typical attentional blink profile, with a drop in performance for an interval of 200-500 ms after the first target. Approximate responses (positional error no greater than 3 frames) showed no such drop in performance, although results were still dependent on color (better for red) and increased with increasing SOA. These findings are consistent with a two-stage model of visual working memory, where encoding of the first target disrupts attention to (and temporal binding of) the second target. We suggest that this disruption occurs within a certain time (approximately 0.5 s) after the first target, during which period salient distractors are as likely as the second target to enter working memory.
The selectivities of neurons in primary visual cortex are often considered to be adapted to the statistics of natural images. Accordingly, simple cell-like tuning emerges when unsupervised learning models that seek sparse representations of input probabilities are trained on natural scenes. However, orientation tuning develops before structured vision starts, rendering these previous results moot as models of activity-dependent development. A more stringent examination of such models comes from experiments demonstrating altered neural response properties in goggle-reared kittens. We show that an unsupervised learning model of cortical responsivity accounts well for the dramatic effects of stimulus driven development during goggle-rearing.

Neurodegenerative disorders of the aging population affect over 5 million people in the US and Europe alone. The common feature is the progressive accumulation of misfolded proteins with the formation of toxic oligomers. Previous studies show that while in Alzheimer's disease (AD) misfolded amyloid-beta protein accumulates both in the intracellular and extracellular space, in Lewy body disease (LBD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Multiple System Atrophy (MSA), Fronto-Temporal dementia (FTD), prion diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and trinucleotide repeat disorders (TNRD), the aggregated proteins accumulate in the plasma membrane and intracellularly. Protein misfolding and accumulation is the result of an altered balance between protein synthesis, aggregation rate and clearance. Based on these studies, considerable advances have been made in the past years in developing novel experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders. This has been in part driven by the identification of genetic mutations associated with familial forms of these conditions and gene polymorphisms associated with the more common sporadic variants of these diseases. Transgenic and knock out rodents and Drosophila as well as viral vector driven models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), PD, Huntington's disease (HD) and others have been developed, however the focus for this review will be on rodent models of AD, FTD, PD/LBD, and MSA. Promising therapeutic results have been obtained utilizing amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (tg) models of AD to develop therapies including use of inhibitors of the APP-processing enzymes beta- and gamma-secretase as well as vaccine therapies.

It is generally accepted that the main route for human pharmaceuticals to the aquatic environment is via sewage treatment plants receiving wastewater from households and hospitals. We have analysed pharmaceuticals in the effluent from a wastewater treatment plant serving about 90 bulk drug manufacturers in Patancheru, near Hyderabad, India--a major production site of generic drugs for the world market. The samples contained by far the highest levels of pharmaceuticals reported in any effluent. The high levels of several broad-spectrum antibiotics raise concerns about resistance development. The concentration of the most abundant drug, ciprofloxacin (up to 31,000 microg/L) exceeds levels toxic to some bacteria by over 1000-fold. The results from the present study call for an increased focus on the potential release of active pharmaceutical ingredients from production facilities in different regions.
A new variant of the pseudospectral method for an activity-dependent dendritic branch model is proposed. This algorithm incorporates the Neumann boundary conditions in a more efficient way than in the algorithms proposed before for similar problems. Numerical experiments indicate that the new algorithm is more efficient than the previous algorithms discussed in the literature on the subject.
Differences in cortical geometry within and between subjects can complicate multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP) and standard evoked potential (EP) intra- and inter-subject comparisons. We present methods for aligning temporal intra- and inter-subject data prior to comparison. Multiple groups have informally observed that the two dominant temporal principal components (PCs) of the pattern reversal visual evoked potential (VEP) obtained with singular value decomposition (SVD) exhibit little inter-subject variability relative to the inter-subject variability of the raw VEP. We present methods that employ the temporal PCs to formally quantify intra- and inter-subject variability of the mfVEP. When SVD was applied to data from eight subjects separately, it was found that two PCs accounted for, on average, 73% of intra-subject variance. When a single SVD was applied to combined data from multiple subjects, it was found that two PCs accounted for 67% of inter-subject variance. We used the 2D temporal subspaces derived from SVD as a basis for intra- and inter-subject comparisons.
Recordings of extracellular neural activity are used in many clinical applications and scientific studies. In most cases, these signals are analyzed as a point process, and a spike detection algorithm is required to estimate the times at which action potentials occurred. Recordings from high-density microelectrode arrays (MEAs) and low-impedance microelectrodes often have a low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR&lt;10) and contain action potentials from more than one neuron. We describe a new detection algorithm based on template matching that only requires the user to specify the minimum and maximum firing rates of the neurons. The algorithm iteratively estimates the morphology of the most prominent action potentials. It is able to achieve a sensitivity of &gt;90% with a false positive rate of &lt;5Hz in recordings with an estimated SNR=3, and it performs better than an optimal threshold detector in recordings with an estimated SNR&gt;2.5.
The design of a removable miniature microdrive-headstage waterproof assembly for extracellular recordings of single unit activity with high-impedance electrodes in swimming mice is presented. The assembly provides perfect protection of the critical components and electric contacts from water. Neuronal activity may be recorded even if the animal is diving and swimming under the water surface. The advantages of this construction include simple installation and removal of the electrodes, rapid attachment of the assembly to the animal's skull, and rapid removal after recording. The device provides precise vertical positioning of the electrode without rotation or lateral shift, stable recordings of single units for several hours and the possibility to change the penetration track many times in the same animal. The assembly weight is less than 160mg. This work is the first successful attempt to record neuronal activity in mice performing spatial task in water maze.
The human movement analysis panel (HMAP) measures separable components of arm motion and simple and complex finger coordination. HMAP testing takes 30min to administer. In separate experiments we have validated the HMAP against the standard grooved pegboard and measures of gait speed, and demonstrated important learning effects over both short durations of days, and longer intervals of months to years in normal subjects of different ages. Stepwise regression demonstrated the strongest correlation between the HMAP complex motor times and pegboard both-hand removal (R(2)=0.52, p=0.002 for dominant and R(2)=0.33, p=0.02 for non-dominant hands). The most consistent and sensitive measure of HMAP motor performance overall was the complex motor time. The HMAP is a short-duration, easily administered, objective quantitative test of motor function, with potential applications in aging, and in Parkinson's Disease and related motor disorders. The HMAP has a smaller version used in primates, so that measurements made in primate models of disease and its treatment are directly comparable to analogous clinical measurements made in the corresponding human disease.
Striatum, the input layer of the basal ganglia is important for functions such as the selection of motor behaviour. The lamprey, a lower vertebrate, is particularly well suited as a model system for the control of motor functions as its central nervous system is similar to that of higher vertebrates and exhibits a lower level of complexity. Therefore, studies in lamprey preparations enable cellular and synaptic mechanisms to be correlated with behaviour. The lamprey brain slice preparation presented has been developed to study the striatal microcircuits and input/output systems with patch-clamp recordings. The method involves dissection of the central nervous system, brain slice preparation, identification of the striatum, visual identification of striatal neurons and patch-clamp recordings. By combining studies in the slice preparation presented here and other lamprey preparations such as the semi-intact lamprey, we will be able to correlate striatal mechanisms on the cellular, synaptic and network levels with striatal output and motor behaviour. The method can be adapted to produce similar slice preparations from other areas of the lamprey brain.
A reliable and convenient marker of gene transfer in neurons is lacking for electron microscopy. To facilitate the use of molecular genetic approaches in such studies, we introduce the use of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) cDNA as a marker that identifies transfected neurons for correlated light and electron microscopy (EM). By flanking the cDNA with an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-retention signal, expressed HRP was localized and retained inside the ER of neurons. The construct was placed under the control of the synapsin promoter resulting in neuron-specific expression of HRP. After transfection of hippocampal neurons in culture and visualization of HRP with diaminobenzidine (DAB) after fixation, both cell bodies and proximal dendrites of HRP-positive neurons were readily identifiable by light microscopy. After processing for EM, the heavily DAB-labeled ER was obvious in both cell bodies and dendrites of transfected neurons. In addition, the labeling of distal dendrites, axons, and synapses was apparent. The structural preservation of transfected neurons was optimal as is typical for glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue. Due to the ER-retention signal, HRP was contained inside the ER and the ultrastructure of all other components was not occluded and was quantitatively accessible. These characteristics make HRP co-transfection a potentially powerful tool for modern electron microscopy in both cell biology and neuroscience.

The quality of results from microarray studies depends on RNA quality, which can be significantly influenced by postmortem factors. The aim of this study was to determine which postmortem factors and/or RNA electropherogram characteristics best correspond to microarray output and can be used to prospectively screen RNA prior to microarray analysis. Total RNA was extracted (N=125) from gray and white matter of postmortem frontal and occipital lobe tissue, acquired from normal controls, and patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depression. Electropherograms were generated by the Agilent BioAnalyzer 2100, allowing calculation of the 28S/18S ratio, the 18S/baseline peak ratio and the RNA Integrity Number (RIN). These values were compared to post-hybridization image analysis of Affymetrix microarrays. The postmortem variables correlated with some quality measures but could not be used as effective screening tools. Logistic regression demonstrated that all three electropherogram measures were predictive for microarray quality, and that the RIN threshold predictive of &quot;good quality&quot; (&gt;35% present calls) was most consistent with that of prior studies. The optimal RIN must be determined by the investigator's specifications for false inclusion and false exclusion. In contrast to RIN, the quality threshold for the 28S/18S ratio has proven unacceptably variable, due to sensitivity to slight differences in protocol and/or tissue source. In conclusion, the measures we found useful as screening criteria do not replace the need to exclude samples after a microarray analysis is performed, as an acceptable percent call rate and other measures of microarray quality represent the desired endpoint.
We present an algorithm for removing environmental noise from neurophysiological recordings such as magnetoencephalography (MEG). Noise fields measured by reference magnetometers are optimally filtered and subtracted from brain channels. The filters (one per reference/brain sensor pair) are obtained by delaying the reference signals, orthogonalizing them to obtain a basis, projecting the brain sensors onto the noise-derived basis, and removing the projections to obtain clean data. Simulations with synthetic data suggest that distortion of brain signals is minimal. The method surpasses previous methods by synthesizing, for each reference/brain sensor pair, a filter that compensates for convolutive mismatches between sensors. The method enhances the value of data recorded in health and scientific applications by suppressing harmful noise, and reduces the need for deleterious spatial or spectral filtering. It should be applicable to a wider range of physiological recording techniques, such as EEG, local field potentials, etc.
Action selection is the task of resolving conflicts between competing behavioural alternatives. This theme issue is dedicated to advancing our understanding of the behavioural patterns and neural substrates supporting action selection in animals, including humans. The scope of problems investigated includes: (i) whether biological action selection is optimal (and, if so, what is optimized), (ii) the neural substrates for action selection in the vertebrate brain, (iii) the role of perceptual selection in decision-making, and (iv) the interaction of group and individual action selection. A second aim of this issue is to advance methodological practice with respect to modelling natural action section. A wide variety of computational modelling techniques are therefore employed ranging from formal mathematical approaches through to computational neuroscience, connectionism and agent-based modelling. The research described has broad implications for both natural and artificial sciences. One example, highlighted here, is its application to medical science where models of the neural substrates for action selection are contributing to the understanding of brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
The problem of action selection has two components: what is selected and how is it selected? To understand what is selected, it is necessary to distinguish between behavioural and mechanistic levels of description. Animals do not choose between behaviours per se; rather, behaviour reflects interactions among brains, bodies and environments. To understand what guides selection, it is useful to take a normative perspective that evaluates behaviour in terms of a fitness metric. This perspective, rooted in behavioural ecology, can be especially useful for understanding apparently irrational choice behaviour. This paper describes a series of models that use artificial life (AL) techniques to address the above issues. We show that successful action selection can arise from the joint activity of parallel, loosely coupled sensorimotor processes. We define a class of AL models that help to bridge the ecological approaches of normative modelling and agent- or individual-based modelling (IBM). Finally, we show how an instance of apparently suboptimal decision making, the matching law, can be accounted for by adaptation to competitive foraging environments.
A basic question, intimately tied to the problem of action selection, is that of how actions are assembled into organized sequences. Theories of routine sequential behaviour have long acknowledged that it must rely not only on environmental cues but also on some internal representation of temporal or task context. It is assumed, in most theories, that such internal representations must be organized into a strict hierarchy, mirroring the hierarchical structure of naturalistic sequential behaviour. This article reviews an alternative computational account, which asserts that the representations underlying naturalistic sequential behaviour need not, and arguably cannot, assume a strictly hierarchical form. One apparent liability of this theory is that it seems to contradict neuroscientific evidence indicating that different levels of sequential structure in behaviour are represented at different levels in a hierarchy of cortical areas. New simulations, reported here, show not only that the original computational account can be reconciled with this alignment between behavioural and neural organization, but also that it gives rise to a novel explanation for how this alignment might develop through learning.
Models of natural action selection implicate fronto-striatal circuits in both motor and cognitive 'actions'. Dysfunction of these circuits leads to decision-making deficits in various populations. We review how computational models provide insights into the mechanistic basis for these deficits in Parkinson's patients and those with ventromedial frontal damage. We then consider implications of the models for understanding behaviour and cognition in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Incorporation of cortical noradrenaline function into the model improves action selection in noisy environments and accounts for response variability in ADHD. We close with more general clinical implications.
The Stroop task is a paradigmatic psychological task for investigating stimulus conflict and the effect this has on response selection. The model of Cohen et al. (Cohen et al. 1990 Psychol. Rev. 97, 332-361) has hitherto provided the best account of performance in the Stroop task, but there remains certain key data that it fails to match. We show that this failure is due to the mechanism used to perform final response selection-one based on the diffusion model of choice behaviour (Ratcliff 1978 Psychol. Rev. 85, 59-108). We adapt the model to use a selection mechanism which is based on the putative human locus of final response selection, the basal ganglia/thalamo-cortical complex (Redgrave et al. 1999 Neuroscience 89, 1009-1023). This improves the match to the core human data and, additionally, makes it possible for the model to accommodate, in a principled way, additional mechanisms of cognitive control that enable better fits to the data. This work prompts a critique of the diffusion model as a mechanism of response selection, and the features that any response mechanism must possess to provide adaptive action selection. We conclude that the consideration of biologically constrained solutions to the action selection problem is vital to the understanding and improvement of cognitive models of response selection.
Nerve growth factor mediates neuronal survival, synaptogenesis, and synaptic remodeling. We utilized primary hippocampal cultures to investigate the intrinsic motifs of proNGF that might contribute to its processing and subsequent allocation to a regulated versus constitutive secretory pathway. The addition of a carboxypeptidase E motif to proNGF did not alter the secretion of NGF. However, mutagenesis of proNGF proteolytic processing sites had significant effects on the final NGF product and its secretion. The furin recognition site (R118-S-K-R121) is essential for the proper processing of proNGF to its 13.5kDa mature product and mutating the furin site exposed an alternative processing site resulting in an intermediate NGF product of approximately 22kDa. Finally, inhibiting the processing of proNGF abolished regulated secretion of the resulting NGF product. These experiments demonstrate that hippocampal neurons harbor multiple pathways to process proNGF of which the furin consensus sequence is the preferred processing site.
Cognitive evaluation of emotional stimuli involves a network of brain regions including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). However, threatening stimuli may be perceived with differential salience in different individuals. The goal of our study was to evaluate how different personality styles are associated with differential modulation of brain activity during explicit recognition of fearful and angry facial expressions. Twenty-eight healthy subjects underwent fMRI. Based on a cognitivist model, subjects were categorized according to how they attribute salience to emotional stimuli and how they regulate their emotional activation. We compared 14 phobic prone (PP) subjects, whose identity is more centered on the inner experience (&quot;inward&quot;) and around control of environmental threat, and 14 eating disorders prone (EDP) subjects, whose identity is more centered on external referential contexts (&quot;outward&quot;) and much less around control of threatening stimuli. During fMRI subjects either matched the identity of one of two angry and fearful faces to that of a simultaneously presented target face or identified the expression of a target face by choosing one of two simultaneously presented linguistic labels. The fMRI results indicated that PP subjects had greater mPFC activation when compared with EDP subjects during cognitive labeling of threatening stimuli. Activity in the mPFC also correlated with personality style scores. These results demonstrate that PP subjects recruit greater neuronal resources in mPFC whose activity is associated with cognitive aspects that are closely intertwined with emotional processing. These findings are consistent with the contention that cognitive evaluation and salience of emotional stimuli are associated with different personality styles.
The aim of our study was to evaluate Motor Evoked Potentials (MEPs) and cortical excitability, using Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) as well as short latency Somatosensory Evoked Potentials (SEPs) in Autosomal Dominant Hereditary Spastic Paraparesis (ADHSP) patients. MEPs were recorded from upper and lower limb muscles in 12 patients (7 m and 5f) affected by ADHSP with spastin mutation (SPG4). We measured: (i) motor threshold (MTh); (ii) total motor conduction time (TMCT); (iii) direct and indirect central motor conduction time (d-CMCT and i-CMCT) calculated by subtracting from the cortical latency those obtained on magnetic spinal stimulation (d-PMCT) and via the F-wave method (i-PMCT); (iv) MEP amplitude (MEP/Mmax ratio%) and (v) duration of the cortical silent period (CSP). Latency, amplitude and persistence of the F-wave obtained with electrical nerve stimulation were also considered; H reflex was also tested from lower extremities. SEPs were recorded from spine and scalp sites following median and posterior tibial nerve stimulation; conventional latency and amplitude measurements were performed. In a comparison with the control group, the MTh recording from lower limbs was significantly higher (67.5 +/- 7.7% versus 52.5 +/- 6.9%), MEPs were absent in one case and showed reduced amplitude in the remainders (22.9 +/- 12.6% versus 66.3 +/- 25.9% of M wave); TMCT resulted to be abnormal (36.5 +/- 3.9 ms versus 27.1 +/- 1.4 ms) and d-CMCT as well as i-CMCT were significantly prolonged (23.1 +/- 3.5 ms versus 13.8 +/- 1.3 ms; and 20.1 +/- 3.4 ms versus 10.6 +/- 1.3 ms, respectively). The CSP, which was normal from the hands, was significantly shortened from the legs and correlated with spasticity scoring (Ashworth scale). Cortical SEPs from lower limbs were abnormal in all cases, whereas SEPs by stimulation of median nerves were normal; F-wave parameters from upper limbs showed no abnormalities, whereas an increased persistence was detected from lower limbs; H reflex amplitudes resulted larger compared with controls. Moreover, shortening of the CSP, being correlated with the Ashworth scale, can be considered an electrophysiological marker of spasticity that seems to arise from impairment of the supraspinal or intracortical inhibitory pathways with an additional contribution of increased segmental motor neuron excitability. These data prove the existence of comparable neurophysiological abnormalities in ADHSP with spastin mutation (SPG4) when long ascending and descending pathways are involved.

Two missense mutations (P123H and V70M) of beta-synuclein (beta-syn), the homologue of alpha-syn, have been recently identified in dementia with Lewy bodies. However, the mechanism through which these mutations influence the pathogenesis of dementia with Lewy bodies is unclear. To investigate the role of the beta-syn mutations in neurodegeneration, each mutant was stably transfected into B103 neuroblastoma cells. Cells overexpressing mutated beta-syn had eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion bodies immunopositive for mutant beta-syn, and electron microscopy revealed that these cells were abundant in various cytoplasmic membranous inclusions resembling the histopathology of lysosomal storage disease. Consistent with these findings, the inclusion bodies were immunopositive for lysosomal markers, including cathepsin B, LAMP-2, GM2 ganglioside, and ATP13A2, which has recently been linked to PARK9. Notably, formation of these lysosomal inclusions was greatly stimulated by co-expression of alpha-syn, was dependent on the phosphorylation of alpha-syn at Ser-129, and was more efficient with the A53T familial mutant of alpha-syn compared with wild type. Furthermore, the inclusion formation in cells overexpressing mutant beta-syn and transfected with alpha-syn was significantly suppressed by treatment with autophagy-lysosomal inhibitors, which were associated with impaired clearance of syn proteins and enhanced apoptosis, indicating that formation of lysosomal inclusions might be protective. Collectively, the results demonstrated unambiguously that overexpression of beta-syn mutants (P123H and V70M) in neuroblastoma cells results in an enhanced lysosomal pathology. We suggest that these missense mutations of beta-syn might play a causative role in stimulating neurodegeneration.
ClC-3 is a ubiquitously expressed chloride transport protein that is present in synaptic vesicles and endosome/lysosome compartments. It is largely intracellular but has been observed at the plasma membrane as well. The aim of this study was to identify the pathways and regulation of ClC-3 trafficking to intracellular sites. At the steady state, approximately 94% of transfected ClC-3 was localized intracellularly, and only 6% was at the plasma membrane. Pulse labeling with [(35)S]methionine and biotinylation demonstrated that about 25% of newly synthesized ClC-3 traffics through the plasma membrane. We used both immunofluorescence microscopy and biotinylation assays to assess the trafficking of ClC-3. Plasma membrane ClC-3 was rapidly endocytosed (t((1/2)) approximately 9 min); a portion entered a recycling pool that returned to the cell surface after internalization, and the remainder trafficked to more distal intracellular compartments. ClC-3 associated with clathrin at the plasma membrane. Coimmunoprecipitation and glutathione S-transferase pulldown assays demonstrated that the N terminus of ClC-3 binds to clathrin. Alanine replacement of a dileucine acidic cluster within the cytosolic N terminus (amino acids 13-19) resulted in a molecule that had decreased endocytosis and increased surface expression. This replacement also abolished interaction with clathrin as assessed both by coimmunoprecipitation and glutathione S-transferase pulldown assays. We conclude that ClC-3 is primarily an intracellular transport protein that is transiently inserted into the plasma membrane where it is rapidly endocytosed. Internalization of ClC-3 depends on the interaction between an N-terminal dileucine cluster and clathrin.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is an increasingly common technique used to selectively modify neural processing. However, application of TMS is limited by uncertainty concerning its physiological effects. We applied TMS to the cat visual cortex and evaluated the neural and hemodynamic consequences. Short TMS pulse trains elicited initial activation (approximately 1 minute) and prolonged suppression (5 to 10 minutes) of neural responses. Furthermore, TMS disrupted the temporal structure of activity by altering phase relationships between neural signals. Despite the complexity of this response, neural changes were faithfully reflected in hemodynamic signals; quantitative coupling was present over a range of stimulation parameters. These results demonstrate long-lasting neural responses to TMS and support the use of hemodynamic-based neuroimaging to effectively monitor these changes over time.

Aging is an inevitable process in human development, which follows a time course that can be delayed, or hastened, by lifestyles, diseases and events. The factors that affect the aging process can be delayed, but not prevented. This paper evaluates the neurochemical changes in the aging process and their relevance in the modality of elderly medication. For clarity and understanding of the relevant neurobiochemical process and effects, the neuroanatomical, physiological, and neurobehavioral changes are reviewed as they relate to medication in the elderly.
The tropical ginger compound, 1'-acetoxychavicol acetate (ACA) possesses cancer chemopreventive properties in several models but its effects on breast cancer have not been fully evaluated. In this study, the effects of ACA on human breast carcinoma-derived MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cell viability were assessed using trypan blue exclusion analysis. ACA significantly decreased cell viability in a time- and dose-dependent manner, with effective concentrations 10-50 microM. Apoptosis was confirmed by morphological examination of cells through light microscopy, 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride staining, and annexin V/Alexa Fluor 488 staining visualized using flow cytometry. ACA also increased protein expression of the activated form of caspase-3 in MDA-MB-231 cells. Addition of antioxidants N-acetylcysteine, ascorbic acid, or trolox prevented the loss of viability caused by ACA using trypan blue uptake as a marker. These results suggest ACA may have potential anticancer effects against breast carcinoma cells by inducing apoptosis.



To understand the molecular and cellular bases of plasticity in the primate motor cortex, we investigated the expression of three protein kinase-C (PKC) substrates: GAP-43, myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), and neurogranin, which are key molecules regulating synaptic plasticity. Prominent signals for the three mRNAs were primarily observed in pyramidal cells. Large pyramidal cells in layer V, from which the descending motor tract originates, contained weaker hybridization signals for GAP-43 and neurogranin mRNAs than did the smaller pyramidal cells. We also performed double-label in situ hybridization showing that GAP-43 and neurogranin mRNAs were expressed in a subset of MARCKS-positive neurons. Quantitative analysis showed that the expression was different between the layers: layer VI contained the strongest and layer II the weakest signals for all three mRNAs. The expression levels of GAP-43 and MARCKS mRNA in layer V were higher than in layer III, while the expression level of neurogranin mRNA in layer V was almost the same as in layer III. Developmental analysis from the newborn to adult indicated that the expression levels of the three mRNAs were higher in the infant motor cortex than in the adult. The expression of both GAP-43 and neurogranin mRNAs transiently increased over several months postnatally. The present study showed that the expression of the three PKC substrates was specific to cell types, cortical layers, and postnatal developmental stage. The specific expression may reflect functional specialization for plasticity in the motor cortex of both infants and adults.
The human orofacial system is richly endowed with low-threshold, slowly adapting mechanoreceptors that respond to self-generated movements and external loads. The functional linkage between these afferents and the recruitment of motor units in the lower face during the dynamics of speech is unknown. Mechanically evoked activity in the orbicularis oris muscles was studied in young human female adults (N=10) during a lip force recruitment task associated with the repetition of the nonsense speech utterance &quot;ah-wah.&quot; This speech task involved the recruitment of perioral motor units against an elastic load. A skin contactor probe coupled to a servo-controlled linear motor delivered punctate ipsilateral mechanical inputs (25 ms duration, 1800 mum displacement) to the glabrous surface of the upper lip in order to index the modulation and specificity of the compound trigeminofacial response as a function of speech force recruitment threshold (Ft). Modulation of the early (Ft=0.2 N) and later (Ft=1.0 N) components of the evoked perioral response was found at the two force thresholds. Beginning at approximately 60 ms post-stimulus, a significant suppression response was found among lower lip EMG recording sites and its magnitude was greatest when the mechanical perturbation occurred during the early phase of lip force recruitment. Variation in the lip force trajectories was manifest by a greater difference in net interangle force associated with lip perturbations indexed to the early Ft. This was interpreted to reflect the operation of a feedforward mechanism which may play a more significant role during an evolving speech action. Thus, the application of servo-controlled mechanosensory inputs effectively indexed the excitability of the facial motor nucleus during production of a simple speech phrase. Future studies are needed to explore mechanisms of short-term adaptation and trigeminofacial modulation during propositional speech in health and disease.
Although some studies report increased responsiveness of nucleus accumbens (NAc) AMPA receptors (AMPARs) after withdrawal from repeated cocaine treatment, others report decreased responsiveness after withdrawal plus cocaine challenge. Here we examine this apparent contradiction by quantifying cell surface and intracellular AMPAR subunits in the NAc before and after a challenge injection in behaviorally sensitized rats. Because MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) regulate AMPAR trafficking and are implicated in addiction, we also evaluated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38. Glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and GluR2 surface/intracellular (S/I) ratios were increased after 14 d of withdrawal in sensitized rats but were decreased 24 h after challenge with cocaine (which elicited a sensitized locomotor response) or saline (which elicited conditioned locomotion). These findings suggested redistribution of GluR1/2-containing receptors, a possibility supported by immunoprecipitation experiments indicating that most AMPARs in the NAc are GluR1/2 or GluR2/3, with few homomeric GluR1 or GluR1/3 receptors. In sensitized rats, ERK phosphorylation in the NAc increased during withdrawal and normalized after cocaine challenge. JNK phosphorylation also increased after withdrawal, but after cocaine challenge, it was inversely related to GluR1 and GluR2 S/I ratios. After saline challenge, p38 phosphorylation was increased. In summary, surface expression of GluR1/2-containing AMPARs increased in the NAc of sensitized rats, but AMPARs internalized after a single reexposure to cocaine or cocaine-related cues. ERK phosphorylation paralleled AMPAR surface expression. Although JNK results were complex, JNK and p38 may be involved in AMPAR internalization after cocaine or saline challenge, respectively.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) plays an important role in cognitive processes and may represent a drug target for treating cognitive deficits in neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. In the present study, we used a novel alpha7 nAChR-selective agonist, 2-methyl-5-(6-phenyl-pyridazin-3-yl)-octahydro-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole (A-582941) to interrogate cognitive efficacy, as well as examine potential cellular mechanisms of cognition. Exhibiting high affinity to native rat (Ki = 10.8 nM) and human (Ki = 16.7 nM) alpha7 nAChRs, A-582941 enhanced cognitive performance in behavioral assays including the monkey delayed matching-to-sample, rat social recognition, and mouse inhibitory avoidance models that capture domains of working memory, short-term recognition memory, and long-term memory consolidation, respectively. In addition, A-582941 normalized sensory gating deficits induced by the alpha7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine in rats, and in DBA/2 mice that exhibit a natural sensory gating deficit. Examination of signaling pathways known to be involved in cognitive function revealed that alpha7 nAChR agonism increased extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation in PC12 cells. Furthermore, increases in ERK1/2 and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation were observed in mouse cingulate cortex and/or hippocampus after acute A-582941 administration producing plasma concentrations in the range of alpha7 binding affinities and behavioral efficacious doses. The MEK inhibitor SL327 completely blocked alpha7 agonist-evoked ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Our results demonstrate that alpha7 nAChR agonism can lead to broad-spectrum efficacy in animal models at doses that enhance ERK1/2 and CREB phosphorylation/activation and may represent a mechanism that offers potential to improve cognitive deficits associated with neurodegenerative and psychiatric diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia.
Initiation of cocaine self-administration in rats was associated with release of glutamate in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The glutamate release was transient, despite continued cocaine intake. Similar glutamate release was seen in rats earning, for the first time, unexpected saline rather than expected cocaine. VTA glutamate release was not seen in similarly trained rats earning saline instead of cocaine for the 13th time. VTA glutamate release was also seen in similarly trained rats that received yoked rather than earned cocaine injections on test day. VTA glutamate release was not seen in a group of rats that had never earned cocaine but had received yoked injections during the training period. Glutamate release was also not seen in a group of rats that received yoked injections but had no previous experience with cocaine. VTA GABA levels did not fluctuate during any aspect of cocaine seeking. Blockade of VTA glutamate receptors appeared to attenuate the rewarding effects of intravenous cocaine injections and blocked almost completely the conditioned responding normally seen during extinction trials. These findings indicate that VTA glutamate release is a conditioned response dependent on an associative process and is not a simple consequence of previous cocaine exposure. The findings implicate glutamate as at least one of the sources of VTA signals from reward-associated environmental stimuli.
Growth factors influence the topography of axonal projections during nervous system development and facilitate axonal sprouting and regeneration after injury in the adult. However, in the absence of target reinnervation and reestablishment of synaptic activity, we hypothesized that continuing delivery of neurotrophins would be required to sustain regenerating axons for prolonged times points after neurotrophin-induced axon growth after spinal cord injury (SCI) in the adult. Using tetracycline-inducible expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor by genetically modified fibroblasts, we were able to extensively and significantly turn growth factor expression &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot; in vitro and in vivo within sites of SCI. Notably, we find that transient growth factor delivery is sufficient to sustain regenerated axons for prolonged time periods within spinal cord lesion sites. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated an absence of neuronal targets or synapses within transient growth factor expressing grafts but the persistent presence of Schwann cells. Thus, the adult CNS appears capable of sustaining axons that have extended after transient growth factor delivery, an effect potentially attributable to the persistence of Schwann cells in lesion/graft sites.
TAR DNA binding protein-43 (TDP-43) is the pathologic substrate of neuronal and glial inclusions in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions (FTDL-U) and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutations in the progranulin gene (PGRN) have been shown to cause familial FTLD-U. The relationship between progranulin and TDP-43 and their respective roles in neurodegeneration is unknown. We report that progranulin mediates proteolytic cleavage of TDP-43 to generate approximately 35 and approximately 25 kDa species. Suppression of PGRN expression with small interfering RNA leads to caspase-dependent accumulation of TDP-43 fragments that can be inhibited with caspase inhibitor treatment. Cells treated with staurosporine also induced caspase-dependent cleavage and redistribution of TDP-43 from its nuclear localization to cytoplasm. Altered cleavage and redistribution of TDP-43 in cell culture models are similar to findings in FTLD-U and ALS. The results suggest that abnormal metabolism of TDP-43 mediated by progranulin may play a pivotal role in neurodegeneration.
Ubiquitination regulates the degradation, membrane trafficking, and transcription of proteins. At mammalian synapses, the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) influences synaptic transmission and plasticity. Nicotine also has the ability to affect synaptic function via mechanisms that remain partially unknown. We found that nicotine, at concentrations achieved by smokers, reduced proteasomal activity, produced accumulation of ubiquitinated synaptic proteins, and increased total protein levels. In particular, a 24 h exposure to nicotine decreased proteasome-dependent degradation of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit, as indicated by the accumulation of ubiquitinated alpha7. The same nicotine treatment increased the levels of the AMPA glutamate receptor subunit GluR1, the NMDA receptor subunit NR2A, the metabotropic receptor mGluR1alpha, the plasticity factor Homer-1A, and the scaffolding postsynaptic density protein PSD-95, whereas the levels of another scaffolding protein, Shank, were reduced. These changes were associated with an inhibition of proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity by nicotine. The nAChR antagonist mecamylamine was only partially able to block the effects of nicotine on the UPS, indicating that nAChR activation does not completely explain nicotine-induced inhibition of proteasomal catalytic activity. A competition binding assay suggested a direct interaction between nicotine and the 20S proteasome. These results suggest that the UPS might participate in nicotine-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Current cocaine users show little evidence of cognitive impairment and may perform better when using cocaine, yet withdrawal from prolonged cocaine use unmasks dramatic cognitive deficits. It has been suggested that such impairments arise in part through drug-induced dysfunction within the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), yet the neurobiological mechanisms remain unknown. We observed that chronic cocaine self-administration increased expression of the transcription factor deltaFosB within both medial and orbitofrontal regions of the rat prefrontal cortex. However, the increase in OFC deltaFosB levels was more pronounced after self-administered rather than experimenter-administered cocaine, a pattern that was not observed in other regions. We then used rodent tests of attention and decision making to determine whether deltaFosB within the OFC contributes to drug-induced alterations in cognition. Chronic cocaine treatment produced tolerance to the cognitive impairments caused by acute cocaine. Overexpression of a dominant-negative antagonist of deltaFosB, deltaJunD, in the OFC prevented this behavioral adaptation, whereas locally overexpressing deltaFosB mimicked the effects of chronic cocaine. Gene microarray analyses identified potential molecular mechanisms underlying this behavioral change, including an increase in transcription of metabotropic glutamate receptor subunit 5 and GABA(A) receptors as well as substance P. Identification of deltaFosB in the OFC as a mediator of tolerance to the effects of cocaine on cognition provides fundamentally new insight into the transcriptional modifications associated with addiction.
Synapses are the key elements for signal processing and plasticity in the brain. To determine the structural factors underlying the unique functional properties of the hippocampal mossy fiber synapse, the complete quantitative geometry was investigated, using electron microscopy of serial ultrathin sections followed by computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstruction. In particular, parameters relevant for transmitter release and synaptic plasticity were examined. Two membrane specializations were found: active zones (AZs), transmitter release sites, and puncta adherentia, putative adhesion complexes. Individual boutons had, on average, 25 AZs (range, 7-45) that varied in shape and size (mean, 0.1 microm2; range, 0.07-0.17 microm2). The mean distance between individual AZs was 0.45 microm. Mossy fiber boutons and their target structures were mostly ensheathed by astrocytes, but fine glial processes never reached the active zones. Two structural factors are likely to promote synaptic cross talk: the short distance between AZs and the absence of fine glial processes at AZs. Thus, synaptic cross talk may contribute to the efficacy of hippocampal mossy fiber synapses. On average, a bouton contained 20,400 synaptic vesicles; approximately 900 vesicles were located within 60 nm from the active zone, approximately 4400 between 60 and 200 nm, and the remaining beyond 200 nm, suggesting large readily releasable, recycling, and reserve pools. The organization of the different pools may be a key structural correlate of presynaptic plasticity at this synapse. Thus, the mossy fiber bouton differs fundamentally in structure and function from the calyx of Held and other central synapses.
Although Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is enriched at the presynaptic nerve terminal, its role in neurotransmitter release is poorly defined. We assessed the function of presynaptic CaMKII in neurotransmitter release and tested the hypothesis that BK channel is a mediator of presynaptic CaMKII function by analyzing miniature and evoked postsynaptic currents at the Caenorhabditis elegans neuromuscular junction. Both loss-of-function (lf) and gain-of-function (gf) of unc-43, the gene encoding CaMKII, inhibited neurotransmitter release. The inhibitory effect of unc-43(gf) was reversed by mutation or blockade of the BK channel SLO-1. SLO-1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes could be activated by recombinant rat alpha-CaMKII, and this effect of CaMKII was abolished by mutating a threonine residue (T425) at a consensus CaMKII phosphorylation site in the first RCK (regulator of conductance for K+) domain of the channel. Expression of slo-1(T425A) in neurons antagonized the inhibitory effect of unc-43(gf) on neurotransmitter release as slo-1(lf) did. The inhibitory effect of unc-43(gf) was not reversed by unc-103(lf), dgk-1(lf), or eat-16(lf), which reportedly suppress behavioral phenotypes of unc-43(gf). These observations suggest that presynaptic CaMKII is a bidirectional modulator of neurotransmitter release, presumably by phosphorylating different molecular targets, and that its negative modulatory effect on the release is mainly mediated by SLO-1 activation.
The occipital lobes were obtained after death from six adult subjects with monocular visual loss. Flat-mounts were processed for cytochrome oxidase (CO) to reveal metabolic activity in the primary (V1) and secondary (V2) visual cortices. Mean V1 surface area was 2643 mm2 (range, 1986-3477 mm2). Ocular dominance columns were present in all cases, having a mean width of 863 microm. There were 78-126 column pairs along the V1 perimeter. Human column patterns were highly variable, but in at least one person they resembled a scaled-up version of macaque columns. CO patches in the upper layers were centered on ocular dominance columns in layer 4C, with one exception. In this individual, the columns in a local area resembled those present in the squirrel monkey, and no evidence was found for column/patch alignment. In every subject, the blind spot of the contralateral eye was conspicuous as an oval region without ocular dominance columns. It provided a precise landmark for delineating the central 15 degrees of the visual field. A mean of 53.1% of striate cortex was devoted to the representation of the central 15 degrees. This fraction was less than the proportion of striate cortex allocated to the representation of the central 15 degrees in the macaque. Within the central 15 degrees, each eye occupied an equal territory. Beyond this eccentricity, the contralateral eye predominated, occupying 63% of the cortex. In one subject, monocular visual loss began at age 4 months, causing shrinkage of ocular dominance columns. In V2, which had a larger surface area than V1, CO stripes were present but could not be classified as thick or thin.
In many cases of callosal dysgenesis in both human patients and mouse models, misguided fibers from the cortex form abnormal bilateral, barrel-shaped structures known as Probst bundles. Because little is known about how axons are arranged within these anomalous fiber bundles, understanding this arrangement may provide structural and molecular insights into how axons behave when they are misguided in vivo. Previous studies described these bundles as longitudinal swirls of axons that fail to cross the midline (Ozaki et al., 1987). However, recent studies on human acallosal patients using diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTMRI) technology suggest that axons project in an anteroposterior direction within the Probst bundle (Lee et al., 2004; Tovar-Moll et al., 2007). This led us to ask the question, is DTMRI an accurate method for analyzing axonal tracts in regions of high axon overlap and disorganization, or is our current perception of axon arrangement within these bundles inaccurate? Using DTMRI, immunohistochemistry, and carbocyanine dye tract-tracing studies, we analyzed the Probst bundles in both Netrin1 and deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) mutant mice. Our findings indicate that DTMRI can accurately demonstrate fiber tract orientation and morphology where axons are in ordered arrays such as in the dorsal part of the bundle. In ventral areas, where the axons are disorganized, no coordinated diffusion is apparent via DTMRI. In these regions, a higher-resolution approach such as tract tracing is required. We conclude that in DCC and Netrin1 mutant mice, guidance mechanisms remain in the dorsal part of the tract but are lost ventrally.
Although several lines of evidence suggest that stimulus selectivity in somatosensory and visual cortices is critically dependent on unselective inhibition, particularly in the thalamorecipient layer 4, no comprehensive comparison of the responses of excitatory and inhibitory cells has been conducted. Here, we recorded intracellularly from a large population of regular spiking (RS; presumed excitatory) and fast spiking (FS; presumed inhibitory) cells in layers 2-6 of primary visual cortex. In layer 4, where selectivity for orientation and spatial frequency first emerges, we found no untuned FS cells. Instead, the tuning of the spike output of layer 4 FS cells was significantly but moderately broader than that of RS cells. However, the tuning of the underlying synaptic responses was not different, indicating that the difference in spike-output selectivity resulted from differences in the transformation of synaptic input into firing rate. Layer 4 FS cells exhibited significantly lower input resistance and faster time constants than layer 4 RS cells, leading to larger and faster membrane potential (V(m)) fluctuations. FS cell V(m) fluctuations were more broadly tuned than those of RS cells and matched spike-output tuning, suggesting that the broader spike tuning of these cells was driven by visually evoked synaptic noise. These differences were not observed outside of layer 4. Thus, cell type-specific differences in stimulus feature selectivity at the first level of cortical sensory processing may arise as a result of distinct biophysical properties that determine the dynamics of synaptic integration.



Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of extracellularly acting proteolytic enzymes with well-recognized roles in plasticity and remodeling of synaptic circuits during brain development and following brain injury. However, it is now becoming increasingly apparent that MMPs also function in normal, nonpathological synaptic plasticity of the kind that may underlie learning and memory. Here, we extend this idea by investigating the role and regulation of MMP-9 in an inhibitory avoidance (IA) learning and memory task. We demonstrate that following IA training, protein levels and proteolytic activity of MMP-9 become elevated in hippocampus by 6 h, peak at 12-24 h, then decline to baseline values by approximately 72 h. When MMP function is abrogated by intrahippocampal infusion of a potent gelatinase (MMP-2 and MMP-9) inhibitor 3.5 h following IA training, a time prior to the onset of training-induced elevation in levels, IA memory retention is significantly diminished when tested 1-3 d later. Animals impaired at 3 d exhibit robust IA memory when retrained, suggesting that such impairment is not likely attributed to toxic or other deleterious effects that permanently disrupt hippocampal function. In anesthetized adult rats, the effective distance over which synaptic plasticity is impaired by a single intrahippocampal infusion of the MMP inhibitor of the kind that blocks IA memory is approximately 1200 microm. Taken together, these data suggest that IA training induces a slowly emerging, but subsequently protracted period of MMP-mediated proteolysis critical for enabling long-lasting synaptic modification that underlies long-term memory consolidation.
The neuropeptides, arginine vasopressin (AVP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) are synthesized by neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus and are important regulators of SCN function. Previous studies have demonstrated that acute exposure to stressors can disrupt circadian activity rhythms, suggesting the possibility of stress-related alterations in the expression of these neuropeptides within SCN neurons. In this study, we examined the effect of intermittent footshock stress on AVP mRNA and heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) and VIP mRNA expression in neurons of the SCN. Young adult male Sprague/Dawley rats were subjected to 15 s of scrambled intermittent footshock (0.50 mA pulses, 1 pulse/s, 300 ms duration) every 5 min for 30 min. Animals were sacrificed 75 or 135 min after the onset of stress and brains examined for AVP mRNA and hnRNA, and VIP mRNA using in situ hybridization. Footshock stress increased AVP hnRNA levels at the 75 min time point whereas AVP mRNA was elevated at both the 75 and 135 min time points. In contrast, footshock stress decreased the number of cells expressing VIP mRNA in the SCN without changing hybridization level per cell. These data indicate that the disruptive effect of stress on activity rhythms correlate with alterations in the expression of regulatory peptides within the SCN.
Studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play a critical role in pain processing at different levels of the central nervous system. In this study, we used cortex-specific NR1 knockout mice (C57BL/6 strain) to elucidate the role of cortical NMDA receptors in pain processes. On post-natal day 20, paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to a noxious thermal stimulus was measured in male and female knockout (KO), control (Ctrl), and C57BL/6 (C57) mice. Twenty-four hours later, the same mice were tested in the formalin-pain assay (20 microl of 5% formalin injected into one hind-paw). The results show that KO mice (both male and female) have significantly reduced pain responses during both early and late phases of formalin test, as compared with Ctrl and C57 mice (p&lt;0.01). By contrast, no differences among groups were found in PWL to a noxious thermal stimulus. Taken together, these results demonstrate dissociation in the role of cortical NMDA receptors in mediating different types of pain.
In the absence of any overt task performance, it has been shown that spontaneous, intrinsic brain activity is expressed as systemwide, resting-state networks in the adult brain. However, the route to adult patterns of resting-state activity through neuronal development in the human brain is currently unknown. Therefore, we used functional MRI to map patterns of resting-state activity in infants during sleep. We found five unique resting-states networks in the infant brain that encompassed the primary visual cortex, bilateral sensorimotor areas, bilateral auditory cortex, a network including the precuneus area, lateral parietal cortex, and the cerebellum as well as an anterior network that incorporated the medial and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that resting-state networks driven by spontaneous signal fluctuations are present already in the infant brain. The potential link between the emergence of behavior and patterns of resting-state activity in the infant brain is discussed.
TLX is a transcription factor that is essential for neural stem cell proliferation and self-renewal. However, the molecular mechanism of TLX-mediated neural stem cell proliferation and self-renewal is largely unknown. We show here that TLX recruits histone deacetylases (HDACs) to its downstream target genes to repress their transcription, which in turn regulates neural stem cell proliferation. TLX interacts with HDAC3 and HDAC5 in neural stem cells. The HDAC5-interaction domain was mapped to TLX residues 359-385, which contains a conserved nuclear receptor-coregulator interaction motif IXXLL. Both HDAC3 and HDAC5 have been shown to be recruited to the promoters of TLX target genes along with TLX in neural stem cells. Recruitment of HDACs led to transcriptional repression of TLX target genes, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21(CIP1/WAF1)(p21), and the tumor suppressor gene, pten. Either inhibition of HDAC activity or knockdown of HDAC expression led to marked induction of p21 and pten gene expression and dramatically reduced neural stem cell proliferation, suggesting that the TLX-interacting HDACs play an important role in neural stem cell proliferation. Moreover, expression of a TLX peptide containing the minimal HDAC5 interaction domain disrupted the TLX-HDAC5 interaction. Disruption of this interaction led to significant induction of p21 and pten gene expression and to dramatic inhibition of neural stem cell proliferation. Taken together, these findings demonstrate a mechanism for neural stem cell proliferation through transcriptional repression of p21 and pten gene expression by TLX-HDAC interactions.
In a previous study, we showed that the inositol pyrophosphate diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (IP(7)) physiologically phosphorylates mammalian and yeast proteins. We now report that this phosphate transfer reflects pyrophosphorylation. Thus, proteins must be prephosphorylated by ATP to prime them for IP(7) phosphorylation. IP(7) phosphorylates synthetic phosphopeptides but not if their phosphates have been masked by methylation or pyrophosphorylation. Moreover, IP(7) phosphorylated peptides are more acid-labile and more resistant to phosphatases than ATP phosphorylated peptides, indicating a different type of phosphate bond. Pyrophosphorylation may represent a novel mode of signaling to proteins.
Ahead of Print article withdrawn by publisher. Please see re-submitted article 'DNA polymorphisms as tools for spinal cord injury research' Spinal Cord advance online publication, 20 May 2008; doi:10.1038/sc.2008.67.
Cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonists can decrease methamphetamine self-administration. This study examined whether the CB(1) receptor antagonist AM251 [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-indophonyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide] modifies reinstatement in rats that previously self-administered methamphetamine. Rats (n=10) self-administered methamphetamine (0.1 mg/kg/infusion) under a fixed ratio 2 schedule. Non-contingent methamphetamine (0.01-1.78 mg/kg, i.v.) yielded responding for saline (reinstatement) that was similar to responding for self-administered methamphetamine. AM251 (0.032-0.32, i.v.) did not affect methamphetamine-induced reinstatement but significantly attenuated Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (2.0 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced hypothermia. These data fail to support a role for endogenous cannabinoids or cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in reinstatement and, therefore, relapse to stimulant abuse.
Imaging, electrophysiological studies, and lesion work have shown that the medial temporal lobe (MTL) is important for episodic memory; however, it is unclear whether different MTL regions support the spatial, temporal, and item elements of episodic memory. In this study we used fMRI to examine retrieval performance emphasizing different aspects of episodic memory in the context of a spatial navigation paradigm. Subjects played a taxi-driver game (&quot;yellowcab&quot;), in which they freely searched for passengers and delivered them to specific landmark stores. Subjects then underwent fMRI scanning as they retrieved landmarks, spatial, and temporal associations from their navigational experience in three separate runs. Consistent with previous findings on item memory, perirhinal cortex activated most strongly during landmark retrieval compared with spatial or temporal source information retrieval. Both hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex activated significantly during retrieval of landmarks, spatial associations, and temporal order. We found, however, a significant dissociation between hippocampal and parahippocampal cortex activations, with spatial retrieval leading to greater parahippocampal activation compared with hippocampus and temporal order retrieval leading to greater hippocampal activation compared with parahippocampal cortex. Our results, coupled with previous findings, demonstrate that the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex are preferentially recruited during temporal order and spatial association retrieval--key components of episodic &quot;source&quot; memory.
The APP intracellular domain (AICD) could be involved in signaling via interaction with the adaptor protein Fe65, and with the histone acetyl transferase Tip60. However, the real function of AICD and Fe65 in regulation of transcription remains controversial. In this study, the human APPGal4 fusion protein was expressed in CHO cells and the transcriptional activity of AICDGal4 was measured in a luciferase-based reporter assay. AICDGal4 was stabilized by expression of Fe65 and levels of AICDGal4 controlled luciferase activity. On the contrary, when human APP was expressed in CHO cells, coexpression of Fe65 increased luciferase activity without affecting the amount of AICD fragment. AICD produced from APP was protected from degradation by orthophenanthroline, but not by lactacystine, indicating that AICD is not a substrate of the chymotryptic activity of the proteasome. It is concluded that Fe65 can control luciferase activity without stabilizing the labile AICD fragment.
The gene DISC1 (Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia 1) is a leading candidate gene for schizophrenia. In this issue, Duan et al. (2007) present evidence implicating DISC1 in the maturation and integration of newly generated neurons in the adult mouse hippocampus. Surprisingly, DISC1 appears to have opposite effects on neurogenesis during development and in adulthood.
The tropomodulin (Tmod) family of proteins that cap the pointed, slow-growing end of actin filaments require tropomyosin (TM) for optimal function. Earlier studies identified two regions in Tmod1 that bind the N terminus of TM, though the ability of different isoforms to bind the two sites is controversial. We used model peptides to determine the affinity and define the specificity of the highly conserved N termini of three short, non-muscle TMs (alpha, gamma, delta-TM) for the two Tmod1 binding sites using circular dichroism spectroscopy, native gel electrophoresis, and chemical crosslinking. All TM peptides have high affinity for the second Tmod1 binding site (within residues 109-144; alpha-TM, 2.5 nM; gamma-TM, delta-TM, 40-90 nM), but differ &gt;100-fold for the first site (residues 1-38; alpha-TM, 90 nM; undetectable at 10 microM, gamma-TM, delta-TM). Residue 14 (R in alpha; Q in gamma and delta) and, to a lesser extent, residue 4 (S in alpha; T in gamma and delta) are primarily responsible for the differences. The functional consequence of the sequence differences is reflected in more effective inhibition of actin filament elongation by full-length alpha-TMs than gamma-TM in the presence of Tmod1. The binding sites of the two Tmod1 peptides on a model TM peptide differ, as defined by comparing (15)N,(1)H HSQC spectra of a (15)N-labeled model TM peptide in both the absence and presence of Tmod1 peptide. The NMR and CD studies show that there is an increase in alpha-helix upon Tmod1-TM complex formation, indicating that intrinsically disordered regions of the two proteins become ordered upon binding. A model proposed for the binding of Tmod to actin and TM at the pointed end of the filament shows how the Tmod-TM accentuates the asymmetry of the pointed end and suggests how subtle differences among TM isoforms may modulate actin filament dynamics.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
The multiple-origin hypothesis has been often considered for an unclear neurogenesis of a characteristic wave in various evoked potentials, none of which has been verified so far. Auditory evoked potential (AEP) in the temporal cortex of rodents has typical slow positive/negative (P1/N1) biphasic waves, which are occasionally associated with an additional 2-4-ms earlier small deflection (P0/N0). Despite previous extensive efforts, P0/N0 deflection is still discussed within the multiple-origin hypothesis. In this historical perspective, we hypothesized that observable AEP is an additive mixture of mutually temporally independent signals from different origins, and that the balance of the mixture impacts on the waveform of AEP. We attempted to verify this hypothesis for the first time by independent component analysis (ICA) of epidurally densely mapped AEPs in the primary auditory cortex of rats. The mapping showed that low amplitude AEPs tended to have more P0/N0 deflections in both pentobarbital- and ketamine/xylazine-anesthesia preparations. ICA of these AEP maps suggested that AEP consisted of at least three independent components and that the deflection appeared when subcortical contribution to AEP was equal to or larger than cortical contribution. In epicranially measured evoked potentials, subcortical and cortical contributions are mixed together because distances from electrodes to cortical sources approximate distances to subcortical sources. In such conditions, e.g. in human scalp-recording experiments or routine clinical screenings, our idea is specifically worth considering for the interpretation of signals.
We have investigated the neurite growth-stimulating properties of euxanthone, a xanthone derivative isolated from the Chinese medicinal plant Polygala caudata. Euxanthone was shown to exert a marked stimulatory action on neurite outgrowth from chick embryo dorsal root ganglia explanted in collagen gels, in the absence of added neurotrophins. It was also shown to promote cell survival in explanted chick embryo ganglia, and to stimulate neurite outgrowth from isolated adult rat primary sensory neurons in vitro. The further finding that euxanthone stimulates neurite outgrowth from explants of chick embryo retina and ventral spinal cord suggests an action on signaling pathways downstream of neuronal receptors for specific neurotrophic factors. Consistent with this, euxanthone did not promote neurite outgrowth from non-transfected PC12 cells, or from PC12 cells transfected with TrkB or TrkC, under conditions in which these cells extended neurites in response to, respectively, the neurotrophins nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin 3. Western blot analysis of euxanthone-stimulated dorsal root ganglion explants showed that expression of phospho-mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase was up-regulated after 1 h of euxanthone-treatment. Inhibition of the MAP kinase pathway using PD98059, a specific inhibitor of MAP kinase kinase, blocked all euxanthone-stimulated neurite outgrowth. However, analysis of phospho-Akt expression indicated that the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase-Akt pathway, another major signaling pathway engaged by neurotrophins, is not significantly activated by euxanthone. These results suggest that euxanthone promotes neurite outgrowth by selectively activating the MAP kinase pathway.
Reconsolidation of long-term memory has become a topic of great interest in recent years, and has the potential to provide important information regarding memory processes and the treatment of memory-related disorders. The present study examined the role of systemic protein synthesis inhibition in reconsolidation of a long-term spatial memory reactivated by a contextual latent learning trial in male and female rats. Using the Morris water maze, we demonstrate that: 1) a contextual latent reactivation treatment enhances memory, 2) systemic protein synthesis inhibition selectively impairs test performance when administered in conjunction with a memory reactivation treatment, and 3) that these effects are more pronounced in female rats. These findings indicate a role for protein synthesis in the reconsolidation of a contextually reactivated long-term spatial memory using the water maze, and a potential differential effect of sex in this apparatus. The role of the strength of the memory trace is discussed and the relevance of these findings to theories of reconsolidation and therapeutic treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder is discussed.
To elucidate the organization of the serotoninergic innervation within the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), serotonin transporter (SERT) density was quantified by autoradiography using [(3)H]cyanoimipramine binding. In six adult vervet monkeys, 15 architectonic areas were delineated according to cytoarchitectonic (Nissl), myeloarchitectonic (Gallyas) and chemoarchitectonic (acetylcholinesterase) criteria to assess SERT distribution at two levels of organization: cortical area and cortical type. For cortical type, the 15 areas were evenly divided into three different categories primarily based upon the degree of granularization of layer IV: agranular, dysgranular, and granular. Within agranular and dysgranular, but not granular cortical types, SERT density was area-specific and progressively decreased in a medial to lateral gradient. Across cortical types, SERT density decreased in a caudal to rostral gradient: agranular&gt;dysgranular&gt;granular. A similar caudal to rostral gradient was seen when serotonin content was measured (using high performance liquid chromatography) in areas representative of each cortical type. Collectively, these results suggest that the serotoninergic innervation is organized according to both cortical type and area, and is thus structured to differentially modulate information processing within the OFC.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a well-known neurotoxicant, responsible for neurological and cognitive alterations. However, there is very little information available on the effects of MeHg administration on activation of murine neuronal pathways involved in the stress response, and whether this is altered as a function of repeated exposure to MeHg. Moreover, interactions between MeHg and other psychogenic and inflammatory stressors have yet to be fully determined. Acute i.p. exposure of male C57BL/6J mice to MeHg (2-8 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated exploratory behavior in the open field in the presence and absence of a novel object. In addition, increased numbers of c-Fos immunoreactive cells appeared in response to acute i.p. and i.c.v. MeHg within thalamic (anterior paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVA)/posterior paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PV)), hypothalamic (paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN)), central amygdaloid nucleus (CeC), septal and hippocampal (dentate gyrus) nuclei, medial bed nucleus (BSTm) and the locus coeruleus (Lc). The increase in c-Fos positive cells in response to acute i.p. and i.c.v. MeHg did not appear to be influenced further by open field exposure. Repeated administration of MeHg led to an attenuation of most parameters of open field behavior altered by acute MeHg. However, increased c-Fos was significant in the CeC, Dg, supracapsular bed nucleus (BSTs), and Lc. Moreover, open field exposure after repeated treatments resulted in significant c-Fos responses in similar areas. Interestingly, 3 days after the final repeated MeHg dose (2 or 4 mg/kg) c-Fos increases to an immunogenic stressor (LPS) were not affected by MeHg pretreatment. These results demonstrate that systemic exposure to acute and repeated MeHg serves to activate the brain's stress circuitry, and furthermore appears to engage normal neuronal habituation processes.
Afferent activity modulates synaptic plasticity as well as the levels of activity-dependent molecules such as growth factors. Disruption of this activity due to deafferentation has been shown to result in an altered trophic support and consequently in changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. In the present study, to test whether lack of cochlear integrity results in changes in insulin-growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and synaptophysin immunostaining in the cochlear nucleus, the first relay structure in the auditory pathway, unilateral cochlear ablations were performed in adult ferrets. Changes in IGF-1 and synaptophysin immunostaining were assessed in the anteroventral (AVCN), posteroventral (PVCN) and dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) at 1, 20 and 90 days after deafferentation. An increase in IGF-1 immunostaining within AVCN, PVCN and DCN was observed ipsilaterally at all survival times after cochlear ablation when compared with the contralateral side and unoperated animals. This increase was accompanied by a significant ipsilateral increase in the mean gray level of synaptophysin immunostaining as well as a decrease in the area of synaptophysin immunostaining at 1 and 20 days after the ablation in AVCN, PVCN and DCN compared with the contralateral side and control animals. These changes in synaptophysin immunostaining were no longer present 90 days after cochlear ablation. The present results provide evidence of a persistent upregulation in IGF-1 and a transitory upregulation in synaptophysin levels in the cochlear nucleus that may reflect neuroprotective mechanisms following the loss of trophic support from spiral ganglion neurons.
Gene expression in adult neuronal circuits is dynamically modulated in response to synaptic activity. Persistent changes in synaptic strength, as seen during high-frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced long-term potentiation (LTP), require new gene expression. While modulation of many individual genes has been shown, an understanding of LTP as a complex dynamical response requires elucidation of the global gene expression signature and its impact on biologically meaningful gene sets. In this study, we demonstrate that LTP induction in the dentate gyrus of awake freely moving rats was associated with changes in the expression of genes linked to signal transduction, protein trafficking, cell structure and motility, and other processes consistent with the induction of mechanisms of synaptic reorganization and growth. Interestingly, the most significantly over-represented gene sets were related to immunity and defense, including T-cell-mediated immunity and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-mediated immunity. Real-time PCR confirmed the upregulation of a panel of immune-linked genes including the rt1-a/ce family, and the MHC class II members cd74, rt1-Ba and rt1-Da. These genes were N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-independent and not induced following HFS-LTP induction in anesthetized rats, indicating a gene response specific to behaving rats. Our data support recent assumptions that immunity-associated processes are functionally linked to adaptive neuronal responses in the brain, although the differential expression of immunity-linked genes could also be related to the HFS per se.
Detection of motor dysfunction in genetic mouse models of neurodegenerative disease requires reproducible, standardized and sensitive behavioral assays. We have utilized a center of pressure (CoP) assay in mice to quantify postural sway produced by genetic mutations that affect motor control centers of the brain. As a positive control for postural instability, wild type mice were injected with harmaline, a tremorigenic agent, and the average areas of the 95% confidence ellipse, which measures 95% of the CoP trajectory values recorded in a single trial, were measured. Ellipse area significantly increased in mice treated with increasing doses of harmaline and returned to control values after recovery. We also examined postural sway in mice expressing mutations that mimic frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) (T-279, P301L or P301L-nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2)(-/-) mice) and that demonstrate motor symptoms. These mice were then compared with a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (APPSwDI mice) that demonstrates cognitive, but not motor deficits. T-279 and P301L-NOS2(-/-) mice demonstrated a significant increase in CoP ellipse area compared with appropriate wild type control mice or to mice expressing the P301L mutation alone. In contrast, postural instability was significantly reduced in APPSwDI mice that have cognitive deficits but do not have associated motor deficits. The CoP assay provides a simple, sensitive and quantitative tool to detect motor deficits resulting from postural abnormalities in mice and may be useful in understanding the underlying mechanisms of disease.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine the effect of aging on neuromuscular adaptations to chronic overload. Eight young adult (8 months old) and eight aged (22 months old) Fischer 344 rats underwent unilateral synergist ablation to overload the plantaris and soleus muscles of that hindlimb and to provide control muscles from the contralateral hindlimb. Cytofluorescent staining and confocal microscopy were used to quantify pre- and post-synaptic features of neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Histochemical staining and light microscopy were used to assess adaptations of myofibers to chronic overload. Results demonstrate that NMJs of young adult and aged muscles did not undergo morphological remodeling as a result of 4 weeks of chronic overload. In contrast, myofibers of young and aged rats displayed significant (P&lt;0.05), but similar hypertrophy ( approximately 18%) following that 4 week intervention. In both age groups, however, this hypertrophy was detected in the plantaris, but not the soleus. These data indicate that moderate aging (the equivalent of 65 years in human lifetime) does not modify the sensitivity of the neuromuscular system to chronic overload.
Cell-cell communication in astroglial syncytia is mediated by intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) responses elicited by extracellular signaling molecules as well as by diverse physical and chemical stimuli. Despite the evidence that astrocytic swelling promotes [Ca(2+)](i) elevation through Ca(2+) influx, the molecular identity of the channel protein underlying this response is still elusive. Here we report that primary cultured cortical astrocytes express the transient receptor potential vanilloid-related channel 4 (TRPV 4), a Ca(2+)-permeable cation channel gated by a variety of stimuli, including cell swelling. Immunoblot and confocal microscopy analyses confirmed the presence of the channel protein and its localization in the plasma membrane. TRPV4 was functional because the selective TRPV4 agonist 4-alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (4alphaPDD) activated an outwardly rectifying cation current with biophysical and pharmacological properties that overlapped those of recombinant human TRPV4 expressed in COS cells. Moreover, 4alphaPDD and hypotonic challenge promoted [Ca(2+)](i) elevation mediated by influx of extracellular Ca(2+). This effect was abolished by low micromolar concentration of the TRPV4 inhibitor Ruthenium Red. Immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy of rat brain revealed that TRPV4 was enriched in astrocytic processes of the superficial layers of the neocortex and in astrocyte end feet facing pia and blood vessels. Collectively, these data indicate that cultured cortical astroglia express functional TRPV4 channels. They also demonstrate that TRPV4 is particularly abundant in astrocytic membranes at the interface between brain and extracerebral liquid spaces. Consistent with its roles in other tissues, these results support the view that TRPV4 might participate in astroglial osmosensation and thus play a key role in brain volume homeostasis.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptor (TRPV1) is an important nociceptor involved in neurogenic inflammation. We aimed to examine the role of TRPV1 in experimental colitis and in the development of visceral hypersensitivity to mechanical and chemical stimulation. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a single dose of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) in the distal colon. In the preemptive group, rats received the TRPV1 receptor antagonist JYL1421 (10 mumol/kg, i.v.) or vehicle 15 min prior to TNBS followed by daily doses for 7 days. In the post-inflammation group, rats received JYL1421 daily for 7 days starting on day 7 following TNBS. The visceromotor response (VMR) to colorectal distension (CRD), intraluminal capsaicin, capsaicin vehicle (pH 6.7) or acidic saline (pH 5.0) was assessed in all groups and compared with controls and nave rats. Colon inflammation was evaluated with H&amp;E staining and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. TRPV1 immunoreactivity was assessed in the thoraco-lumbar (TL) and lumbo-sacral (LS) dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. In the preemptive vehicle group, TNBS resulted in a significant increase in the VMR to CRD, intraluminal capsaicin and acidic saline compared the JYL1421-treated group (P&lt;0.05). Absence of microscopic colitis and significantly reduced MPO activity was also evident compared with vehicle-treated rats (P&lt;0.05). TRPV1 immunoreactivity in the TL (69.1+/-4.6%) and LS (66.4+/-4.2%) DRG in vehicle-treated rats was increased following TNBS but significantly lower in the preemptive JYL1421-treated group (28.6+/-3.9 and 32.3+/-2.3 respectively, P&lt;0.05). JYL1421 in the post-inflammation group improved microscopic colitis and significantly decreased the VMR to CRD compared with vehicle (P&lt;0.05, &gt;/=30 mm Hg) but had no effect on the VMR to chemical stimulation. TRPV1 immunoreactivity in the TL and LS DRG was no different from vehicle or nave controls. These results suggest an important role for TRPV1 channel in the development of inflammation and subsequent mechanical and chemical visceral hyperalgesia.
We have previously shown that the spinal cord is capable of learning a sensorimotor task in the absence of supraspinal input. Given the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on hippocampal learning, the current studies examined the role of BDNF in spinal learning. BDNF is a strong synaptic facilitator and, in association with other molecular signals (e.g. cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), calcium/calmodulin activated protein kinase II (CaMKII) and synapsin I), important for learning. Spinally transected rats given shock to one hind leg when the leg extended beyond a selected threshold exhibited a progressive increase in flexion duration that minimized shock exposure, a simple form of instrumental learning. Instrumental learning resulted in elevated mRNA levels of BDNF, CaMKII, CREB, and synapsin I in the lumbar spinal cord region. The increases in BDNF, CREB, and CaMKII were proportional to the learning performance. Prior work has shown that instrumental training facilitates learning when subjects are tested on the contralateral leg with a higher response criterion. Pretreatment with the BDNF inhibitor TrkB-IgG blocked this facilitatory effect, as did the CaMKII inhibitor AIP. Intrathecal administration of BDNF facilitated learning when subjects were tested with a high response criterion. The findings indicate that instrumental training enables learning and elevates BDNF mRNA levels within the lumbar spinal cord. BDNF is both necessary, and sufficient, to produce the enabling effect.
The incerto-hypothalamic area (IHy) is a poorly defined diencephalic region located at the junction of the medial hypothalamus and zona incerta (ZI). This region is characterized by the presence of the A13 dopaminergic group and also cells expressing melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). The dopaminergic neurons appear to influence luteinizing hormone secretion, but the role of the MCH/CART-expressing cells is unclear. Even though IHy presents a singular neurochemistry, it has long been assumed that it is also part of the zona incerta. By injecting biotinylated dextran amine into the IHy and ZI of adult male Wistar rats, we analyzed the efferent projections from the IHy in comparison to the ZI. We have found that ZI projects mainly to laterally located brain stem structures, whereas the main efferents from the IHy are the reuniens thalamic nucleus, precommissural nucleus, posterior hypothalamic area and dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter. The IHy projection pattern is quite similar to that of the anterior hypothalamic area and our hodological results suggest that IHy belongs to the medial hypothalamic system and might be part of the defensive behavior system. The IHy could be an integrative area associated with the regulation of neuroendocrine functions related to motivated behaviors, which are mediated by the medial hypothalamus.
Local neuronal circuits integrate synaptic information with different excitatory or inhibitory time windows. Here we report that activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) leads to biphasic effects on excitability in chick lateral spiriform (SPL) neurons during whole cell recordings in brain slices. Carbachol (100 microM in the presence of 1 microM atropine) produced an initial short-term increase in the firing rates of SPL neurons (125+/-14% of control) that was mediated by postsynaptic nAChRs. However, after 3 min exposure to nicotinic agonists, the firing rate measured during an 800 ms depolarizing pulse declined to 19+/-7% (100 microM carbachol) or 26+/-8% (10 microM nicotine) of the control rate and remained decreased for 10-20 min after washout of the agonists. Similarly, after 60 s of electrically-stimulated release of endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) from cholinergic afferent fibers, there was a marked reduction (45+/-5% of control) in firing rates in SPL neurons. All of these effects were blocked by the nAChR antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (30 microM). The inhibitory effect was not observed in Ca(2+)-free buffer. The nAChR-mediated inhibition depended on active G-proteins in SPL neurons and was prevented by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist phaclofen (200 microM), while the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (10 microM) decreased firing rate in SPL neurons to 13+/-1% of control. The inhibitory response thus appears to be due to a nAChR-mediated enhancement of presynaptic GABA release, which then activates postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors. In conclusion, activation of nAChRs in the SPL initiates a limited time window for an excitatory period, after which a prolonged inhibitory effect turns off this window. The prolonged inhibitory effect may serve to protect SPL neurons from excessive excitation.
The medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (MPOA/AH) is a key structure in the control of male sexual behavior. This area has reciprocal connections with mesencephalic and brainstem structures including the central tegmental field (CTF). It has been suggested that the CTF receives somatosensory information generated in the genitals promoting activation of the MPOA/AH. In the present study we evaluated the effects of bilateral neurotoxic lesions of the CTF upon male rat sexual behavior. We also explored the effects of these lesions on sociosexual behaviors, partner preference, sexual incentive motivation and motor execution. Tests were performed before and after bilateral quinolinic acid infusions. The lesion was evaluated by quantifying neuronal nuclei (Neu-N) and by the presence of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistries. A significant reduction in the percentage of animals displaying mounts, intromissions, and ejaculations was observed in the bilateral and misplaced lesion groups 1 week after the lesion. In the second week post-lesion, only animals with bilateral damage of the CTF showed a significant reduction in sexual behavior. In the third post-lesion test, the percentage of animals displaying sexual behavior returned to control levels. The frequency of pursuit and self-grooming was reduced, and genital exploration was increased after the lesion. Partner preference and sexual incentive motivation were not affected by the lesion suggesting that the CTF is not involved in the appetitive aspects of sexual behavior. Mount, intromission, and ejaculation latency were increased in animals with damage of the CTF and in animals with lesions outside this region. Motor execution was also affected in both groups, suggesting that alterations in latencies could be associated with damage not specific to the CTF.
Firing patterns of subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons influence normal and abnormal movements. The STN expresses multiple 5-HT receptor subtypes that may regulate neuronal excitability. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to characterize 5-HT receptor-mediated effects on membrane currents in STN neurons in rat brain slices. In 80 STN neurons under voltage-clamp (-70 mV), 5-HT (30 microM) evoked inward currents in 64%, outward currents in 17%, and biphasic currents in 19%. 5-HT-induced outward current was caused by an increased K(+) conductance (1.4+/-0.2 nS) and was blocked by the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100135. The 5-HT-evoked inward current, which was blocked by antagonists at 5-HT(2C) and/or 5-HT(4) receptors, had two types of current-voltage (I-V) relations. Currents associated with the type 1 I-V relation showed negative slope conductance at potentials &lt;-110 mV and were occluded by Ba(2+). In contrast, the type 2 I-V relation appeared linear and had positive slope conductance (0.64+/-0.11 nS). Type 2 inward currents were Ba(2+)-insensitive, and the reversal potential of -19 mV suggests a mixed cation conductance. In STN neurons in which 5-HT evoked inward currents, 5-HT potentiated burst firing induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA). But in neurons in which 5-HT evoked outward current, 5-HT slowed NMDA-dependent burst firing. We conclude that 5-HT receptor subtypes can differentially regulate firing pattern by modulating multiple conductances in STN neurons.
Cocaine's (COC) direct interaction with the dopamine (DA) transporter is usually considered the most important action underlying the psychomotor stimulant and reinforcing effects of this drug. However, some physiological, behavioral and psycho-emotional effects of COC are very rapid and brief and they remain intact during DA receptor blockade, suggesting possible involvement of peripheral non-DA neural mechanisms. To assess this issue, single-unit recording with microiontophoresis was used to examine changes in impulse activity of dorsal and ventral striatal neurons to i.v. COC (0.25-0.5 mg/kg) in the same rats under two conditions: awake with DA receptor blockade and anesthetized with urethane. In the awake preparation approximately 70% striatal neurons showed rapid and transient (latency approximately 6 s, duration approximately 15 s) COC-induced excitations. These effects were stronger in ventral than dorsal striatum. During anesthesia, these phasic effects were fully blocked and COC slowly decreased neuronal discharge rate. Cocaine-methiodide (COC-M), a derivative that cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, also caused phasic excitations in the awake, but not anesthetized condition. In contrast to regular COC, COC-M had no tonic effect on discharge rate in either preparation. Most striatal neurons that were phasically excited by both COC forms also showed short-latency excitations during tail-touch and tail-pinch in the awake preparation, an effect strongly attenuated during anesthesia. Finally, most striatal neurons that in awake conditions were phasically excited by somato-sensory stimuli and COC salts were also excited by iontophoretic glutamate (GLU). Although striatal neurons were sensitive to GLU in both preparations, the response magnitude at the same GLU current was higher in awake than anesthetized conditions. These data suggest that in awake animals i.v. COC, like somato-sensory stimuli, transiently excites striatal neurons via its action on peripheral neural elements and rapid neural transmission. While the nature of these neuronal elements needs to be clarified using other analytical techniques, they might involve voltage-gated K(+) and Na(+) channels, which have a high affinity for COC and are located on terminals of visceral sensory nerves that densely innervate peripheral vessels. Therefore, along with direct action on specific brain substrates, central excitatory effects of COC may occur via indirect action, involving afferents of visceral sensory nerves and rapid neural transmission. By providing a rapid sensory signal and triggering transient neural activation, such a peripherally triggered action might play a crucial role in the sensory effects of COC, thus contributing to learning and development of drug-taking behavior.
We compared amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens of vole species that exhibit differing mating systems to examine potential interactions between social organization and substance abuse. We found no species or regional differences in basal extracellular dopamine, however, monogamous voles had greater and longer-lasting increases in extracellular dopamine after amphetamine treatment than did promiscuous voles. We then examined whether amphetamine-induced increase in extracellular dopamine could induce pair bonds in monogamous voles. We found that, despite increasing dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, amphetamine administration did not induce pair-bonds in male prairie voles unless the animals were pretreated to preclude D1 receptor activation, which is known to inhibit pair-bond formation. These results support suggestions that social attachment and substance abuse share a common neural substrate.
Women have greater temporal summation of experimental pain stimuli and also have a higher propensity for developing chronic visceral pain conditions. Sex hormone-mediated regulation of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs) in nociceptive pathways is a plausible mechanism that may underlie these phenomena. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of 17-beta-estradiol (E2) in modulation of NMDAR activity in adult male and female rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. DRG neurons were collected from adult male or female rats and grown in short-term culture in steroid-free media. NMDAR currents were recorded on small to medium size neurons by whole cell patch clamp using rapid perfusion with saturating concentrations of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid and glycine in the absence of extracellular Mg(2+). We found that the average density of NMDAR currents was 2.8-fold larger in DRG neurons from female rats compared with male rats (P&lt;0.0001). Addition of 100 nM E2 increased NMDAR currents 55+/-15% in female neurons, but only 19+/-7% in male neurons. Potentiation was maximal after 20-40 min and dose dependent with an apparent 50% excitatory concentration of 17-23 nM. This effect was mimicked by E2 conjugated to BSA and attenuated by pretreatment with the protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor lavendustin A (1 microM) or the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182,780 (1 microM), strongly suggesting activation of a cell surface ER acting through a non-genomic mechanism involving protein tyrosine kinases to increase NMDAR currents. These results identify sex-based differences in both the basal expression and the regulation of the NMDARs in DRG neurons.
Photon or near-infrared light therapy (NILT) may be an effective neuroprotective method to reduce behavioral dysfunction following an acute ischemic stroke. We evaluated the effects of continuous wave (CW) or pulse wave (P) NILT administered transcranially either 6 or 12 h following embolization, on behavioral outcome. For the studies, we used the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM) using three different treatment regimens: 1) CW power density of 7.5 mW/cm(2); 2) P1 using a frequency of 300 mus pulse at 1 kHz or 3) P2 using a frequency of 2 ms pulse at 100 Hz. Behavioral analysis was conducted 48 h after embolization, allowing for the determination of the effective stroke dose (P(50)) or clot amount (mg) that produces neurological deficits in 50% of the rabbits. Using the RSCEM, a treatment is considered beneficial if it significantly increases the P(50) compared with the control group. Quantal dose-response analysis showed that the control group P(50) value was 1.01+/-0.25 mg (n=31). NILT initiated 6 h following embolization resulted in the following P(50) values: (CW) 2.06+/-0.59 mg (n=29, P=0.099); (P1) 1.89+/-0.29 mg (n=25, P=0.0248) and (P2) 1.92+/-0.15 mg (n=33, P=0.0024). NILT started 12 h following embolization resulted in the following P(50) values: (CW) 2.89+/-1.76 mg (n=29, P=0.279); (P1) 2.40+/-0.99 mg (n=24, P=0.134). At the 6-h post-embolization treatment time, there was a statistically significant increase in P(50) values compared with control for both pulse P1 and P2 modes, but not the CW mode. At the 12-h post-embolization treatment time, neither the CW nor the P1 regimens resulted in statistically significant effect, although there was a trend for an improvement. The results show that P mode NILT can result in significant clinical improvement when administered 6 h following embolic strokes in rabbits and should be considered for clinical development.
Early visual processing analyses fine and coarse image features separately. Here we show that motion signals derived from fine and coarse analyses are combined in rather a surprising way: Coarse and fine motion sensors representing the same direction of motion inhibit one another and an imbalance can reverse the motion perceived. Observers judged the direction of motion of patches of filtered two-dimensional noise, centered on 1 and 3 cycles/deg. When both sets of noise were present and only the 3 cycles/deg noise moved, judgments were reversed at short durations. When both sets of noise moved, judgments were correct but sensitivity was impaired. Reversals and impairments occurred both with isotropic noise and with orientation-filtered noise. The reversals and impairments could be simulated in a model of motion sensing by adding a stage in which the outputs of motion sensors tuned to 1 and 3 cycles/deg and the same direction of motion were subtracted from one another. The subtraction model predicted and we confirmed in experiments with orientation-filtered noise that if the 1 cycle/deg noise flickered and the 3 cycles/deg noise moved, the 1 cycle/deg noise appeared to move in the opposite direction to the 3 cycles/deg noise even at long durations.
Animals and humans learn to approach and acquire pleasant stimuli and to avoid or defend against aversive ones. However, both pleasant and aversive stimuli can elicit arousal and attention, and their salience or intensity increases when they occur by surprise. Thus, adaptive behavior may require that neural circuits compute both stimulus valence--or value--and intensity. To explore how these computations may be implemented, we examined neural responses in the primate amygdala to unexpected reinforcement during learning. Many amygdala neurons responded differently to reinforcement depending upon whether or not it was expected. In some neurons, this modulation occurred only for rewards or aversive stimuli, but not both. In other neurons, expectation similarly modulated responses to both rewards and punishments. These different neuronal populations may subserve two sorts of processes mediated by the amygdala: those activated by surprising reinforcements of both valences-such as enhanced arousal and attention-and those that are valence-specific, such as fear or reward-seeking behavior.
NF-kappaB signaling has been implicated in neurodegenerative disease, epilepsy, and neuronal plasticity. However, the cellular and molecular activity of NF-kappaB signaling within the nervous system remains to be clearly defined. Here, we show that the NF-kappaB and IkappaB homologs Dorsal and Cactus surround postsynaptic glutamate receptor (GluR) clusters at the Drosophila NMJ. We then show that mutations in dorsal, cactus, and IRAK/pelle kinase specifically impair GluR levels, assayed immunohistochemically and electrophysiologically, without affecting NMJ growth, the size of the postsynaptic density, or homeostatic plasticity. Additional genetic experiments support the conclusion that cactus functions in concert with, rather than in opposition to, dorsal and pelle in this process. Finally, we provide evidence that Dorsal and Cactus act posttranscriptionally, outside the nucleus, to control GluR density. Based upon our data we speculate that Dorsal, Cactus, and Pelle could function together, locally at the postsynaptic density, to specify GluR levels.
Surgical treatment appears to improve the cognitive prognosis in children undergoing surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The beneficial effects of surgery on memory functions, particularly on material-specific memory, are more difficult to assess because of potentially interacting factors such as age range, intellectual level, left-handedness, type of surgery and seizure outcome. This study investigated memory functions in 20 right-handed children who had left or right-temporal lobe surgery - including hippocampectomy - and became seizure-free. The neuropsychological evaluation included tests measuring verbally and visually mediated episodic memory, everyday memory as well as attention/working memory and language/semantic memory. We also assessed the relationships between age of seizure onset, general cognitive ability and memory functions. Children with TLE showed poor memory efficiency before surgery that tended to improve about 1 year after surgery. We found a material-specific memory effect, especially after surgery-9 (out of 12) children with left TLE had worse verbal memory results while 5 (out of 8) with right TLE had worse visual memory results. Post-operatively, most children had poor everyday memory performance on the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test. No significant relationship was observed between episodic memory scores and age of epilepsy onset but children with early onset remained with lower Performance IQ values, Rey's figure copy scores and naming performances after surgery. Surgery significantly improved all the attention/working memory scores, some verbal episodic memory tasks and naming test performances. A different pattern of episodic and semantic memory limitations related to left or right TLE was observed.
The presence or absence of conceptual information in pictorial stimuli may explain the mixed findings of previous studies of false recognition in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). To test this hypothesis, 48 patients with AD were compared to 48 healthy older adults on a recognition task first described by Koutstaal et al. [Koutstaal, W., Reddy, C., Jackson, E. M., Prince, S., Cendan, D. L., &amp; Schacter D. L. (2003). False recognition of abstract versus common objects in older and younger adults: Testing the semantic categorization account. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 29, 499-510]. Participants studied and were tested on their memory for categorized ambiguous pictures of common objects. The presence of conceptual information at study and/or test was manipulated by providing or withholding disambiguating semantic labels. Analyses focused on testing two competing theories. The semantic encoding hypothesis, which posits that the inter-item perceptual details are not encoded by AD patients when conceptual information is present in the stimuli, was not supported by the findings. In contrast, the conceptual fluency hypothesis was supported. Enhanced conceptual fluency at test dramatically shifted AD patients to a more liberal response bias, raising their false recognition. These results suggest that patients with AD rely on the fluency of test items in making recognition memory decisions. We speculate that AD patients' over reliance upon fluency may be attributable to (1) dysfunction of the hippocampus, disrupting recollection, and/or (2) dysfunction of prefrontal cortex, disrupting post-retrieval processes.
We report a Chinese-speaking patient WJX with left temporal lobe ischemic damage resulting in dementia. Similar to English speaking patients with this pathology, WJX showed impaired semantic system functioning together with a well preserved ability to read aloud Chinese characters including characters with unpredictable mappings between orthography and phonology-so called irregular characters. The summation hypothesis [Hillis, A. E., &amp; Caramazza, A. (1991). Mechanisms for accessing lexical representations for output-evidence from a category-specific semantic deficit. Brain and Language, 40, 106-144; Hillis, A. E., &amp; Caramazza, A. (1995). Converging evidence for the interaction of semantic and sublexical phonological information in accessing lexical representations for spoken output. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 12, 187-227] proposes that the good reading performance can be explained by the integration of a semantic route of reading and a nonsemantic route. Most Chinese characters contain components that can give a clue to the pronunciation (phonetic radical) and the meaning (semantic radical) of the character. We compared his comprehension and oral reading performance by varying the consistency of phonetic radicals and the transparency of semantic radicals. We observed an interaction between WJX's character comprehension and the consistency of the phonetic radical on reading performance; however, the transparency of semantic radicals had no effect on performance. We argue that this case report provides converging evidence for the principles of the summation hypothesis for reading.
Recent studies have shown that self-generated tactile sensations are perceived as weaker than the same sensations externally generated. This has been linked to a central comparator mechanism that uses efference copy to attenuate the predictable component of sensory inputs arising from one's own actions in order to enhance the salience of external stimuli. To provide a quantitative measure of this attenuation, a force-matching task was developed in which subjects experience a force applied to their finger and are then required to match the perceived force by actively pushing on the finger using their other hand. The attenuation of predictable sensory input results in subjects producing a larger active force than was experienced passively. Here, we have examined the effects of a novel rTMS protocol, theta-burst stimulation (TBS), over primary motor cortex on this attenuation. TBS can alter the excitability of motor cortex to incoming activity. We show that application of a 20s continuous train of TBS, that depresses motor cortex, significantly improves performance in a force-matching task. This suggests that the TBS intervention disturbed the predictive process that uses efference copy signals to attenuate predictable sensory input. A possible explanation for the effect is that TBS has a differential effect on the populations of neurones that generate motor output in M1 than on those neural structures that are involved in generating an efference copy of the motor command.
When foreperiods (FPs) of different duration vary on a trial-by-trial basis equiprobably but randomly, the RT is faster as the FP increases (variable FP effect), and becomes slower as the FP on the preceding trial gets longer (sequential effects). It is unclear whether the two effects are due to a common mechanism or to two different ones. Patients with lesions on the right lateral prefrontal cortex do not show the typical FP effect, suggesting a deficit in monitoring the FP adequately [Stuss, D. T., Alexander, M. P., Shallice, T., Picton, T. W., Binns, M. A., Macdonald, R., et al. (2005). Multiple frontal systems controlling response speed. Neuropsychologia, 43, 396-417]. The aim of this study was two-fold: (1) to replicate this neuropsychological result testing cerebral tumor patients before and after surgical removal of the tumor located unilaterally in the prefrontal, premotor or parietal cortex, respectively and (2) to investigate whether the sequential effects would change together with the FP effect (supporting single-process accounts) or the two effects can be dissociated across tumor locations (suggesting dual-process views). The results of an experiment with a variable FP paradigm show a significant reduction of the FP effect selectively after excision of tumors on right prefrontal cortex. On the other hand, the sequential effects were reliably reduced especially after surgical removal of tumors located in the left premotor region, despite a normal FP effect. The latter dissociation between the two effects supports a dual-process account of the variable FP phenomena. This study demonstrates that testing acute cerebral tumor patients represents a viable neuropsychological approach for the fractionation and localisation of cognitive processes.
DJ-1 is a multifunctional protein whose loss of function by gene mutations may play a causative role for familial Parkinson's disease (PD). A recent study has shown that the expression of this molecule is upregulated in both brains and cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) in various neurological disorders, including sporadic PD, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and stroke, raising a possibility that DJ-1 could be a potential biomarker for these diseases. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to determine if DJ-1 was increased in the plasma of PD patients. For this purpose, blood plasma samples collected from sporadic PD patients, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and healthy age-matched controls were analyzed by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results showed that the plasma DJ-1 levels in PD (n=104) were higher than those in control (n=80) (p&lt;0.05). Moreover, the plasma DJ-1 levels in the advanced stage of PD (n=52, Yahr III-IV) were higher than those in the early stage of PD (n=52, Yahr I-II) (p&lt;0.05), demonstrating that the plasma DJ-1 was correlated with the disease severity in PD. Plasma DJ-1 levels were also significantly higher in DLB (n=30) compared with both controls and early stage of PD (p&lt;0.01). Taken together, these results suggest that the plasma DJ-1 could be a useful biomarker for the evaluation of the disease severity in PD and possibly in other Lewy body diseases.
In this paper, we describe two types of neuroscience problems which challenge the typical statistical models assumed for analyzing neuronal data. This offers an opportunity for new modeling and statistical inference. In the first problem, the data are spatial neural counts which are often over-dispersed and spatially correlated so that a standard Poisson regression model is inadequate. In the second problem, the data are averaged electroencephalograph signals recorded during muscle fatigue, where a time series AR(1) regression model cannot fully capture all the variation and correlation structure in the data. It is shown that an additional parameter has to be included in the modeling of the correlation structure and that the role of the parameter differs from one channel to the other. We propose appropriate generalized models for these data, develop statistical procedures under the generalized models, and apply these procedures to the real data that motivated this paper. The effect of mis-specification of a correlation structure is also investigated.
Measurement of stimulus-induced changes in activity in the brain is critical to the advancement of neuroscience. Scientists use a range of methods, including electrode implantation, surface (scalp) electrode placement, and optical imaging of intrinsic signals, to gather data capturing underlying signals of interest in the brain. These data are usually corrupted by artifacts, complicating interpretation of the signal; in the context of optical imaging, two primary sources of corruption are the heartbeat and respiration cycles. We introduce a new linear state-space framework that uses the Kalman filter to remove these artifacts from optical imaging data. The method relies on a likelihood-based analysis under the specification of a formal statistical model, and allows for corrections to the signal based on auxiliary measurements of quantities closely related to the sources of contamination, such as physiological processes. Furthermore, the likelihood-based modeling framework allows us to perform both goodness-of-fit testing and formal hypothesis testing on parameters of interest. Working with data collected by our collaborators, we demonstrate the method of data collection in an optical imaging study of a cat's brain.
Stroke affects all age groups from the newborn to the elderly. Previous work from our laboratory has shown that despite a greater susceptibility to brain damage, the immature brain recovers more rapidly and to a greater extent than does the more mature nervous system. In the current study, we examined the influence of environmental enrichment on the effects of age on the brain damaging effects of stroke. Rats aged 10, 63, and 180 days received ischemic insults following stereotactic intra-cerebral injection of endothelin-1, and resulting in injury to the right middle cerebral artery territory. Rats were then housed in either environmentally enriched cages, or standard cages for 60 days, after which they were sacrificed, and brain volumes determined for the extent of neurologic injury. Rats receiving the insult at 10 days of age showed a reduction of pathologic injury when housed in the enriched cages compared to standard. Conversely, rats receiving the insult at 180 days and housed environmentally enriched cages actually showed an increased volume of brain damage compared to controls. Our findings clearly indicate the dramatic influence of age on the extent of stroke and the influence of rehabilitative therapies. Behavioral correlation to morphologic alterations is required. Attempts at therapeutic interventions clearly need to be age-specific.
The main objective of this study was to examine fronto-parietal networks underlying visual duration discriminations. Two types of interference tasks were used to augment cognitive load: line orientation associated with the right hemisphere and multiplication with the left. Both subtasks deteriorated duration discriminations, more severely for line orientation. Relative to the condition without interference, the dual task paradigm decreased amplitudes of the contingent negative variation (CNV) wave, predominant at frontal sites, and the P300 wave, predominant at parietal sites. Inversely, amplitudes of a later appearing positive component (LPC) and its parietal counterpart of opposite polarity (LNC) increased with spatial or numeric task interference. These results are concordant with the view that fronto-parietal networks underlying duration discriminations act in a concerted fashion, with the LPC/LNC waves acting as a warning signal to mitigate errors during high cognitive load.
The expression of glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) is reduced in selective brain regions in schizophrenic patients. To investigate transcriptional mechanisms regulating the human GCP II gene, a 3460 bp DNA fragment comprised of the proximal 3228 bp of 5' untranscribed sequence and first 232 bp of 5' UTR portion of this gene was cloned into the mammalian luciferase reporter gene vector pGL3-Basic. Transfection assays in human astrocyte-derived SVG and human prostate tumor-derived LNCaP cells demonstrated that constructs with 3460, 1590 and 761 bp portions of 5' region of human GCP II gene were able to drive the luciferase reporter gene. Additional deletion constructs showed that in the SVG cell line, constructs with 511 and 411 bp of GCP II gene fragments yielded highest transcriptional activity, with declining activity upon further removal of 5' sequences. 15 bp of the promoter 5' to a 225 bp GCP II fragment were essential for luciferase expression. Thus, in the SVG cells, the proximal 240 bp of the human GCP II promoter (232 bp of the 5' UTR and 8 bp of 5' untranscribed sequences) may represent the core promoter. Further, while a LyF-1 site lies within and overlaps a transcription start site in the 15 bp sequence, site-directed mutagenesis shows that LyF-1 is not the transcription initiator for the &quot;TATA and CAAT&quot; box lacking GCP II gene in the SVG cells. Finally, pattern differences in GCP II gene promoter expression in SVG and LNCaP cells suggest that sequences beyond 240 bp may be important for tissue-specific GCP II expression.
Time perception deficit has been demonstrated in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by using time production and time reproduction tasks. The impact of motor demand, however, has not yet been fully examined. The current study, which is reported herein, aimed to investigate the pure time perception of Chinese children with ADHD by using a duration discrimination task. A battery of tests that were specifically designed to measure time perception and other related abilities, such as inhibition, attention, and working memory, was administered to 40 children with ADHD and to 40 demographically matched healthy children. A repeated measure MANOVA indicated that children with ADHD showed significantly higher discrimination thresholds than did healthy controls, and there was an interaction effect between group and duration. Pairwise comparison indicated that children with ADHD were less accurate in discriminating duration at either target duration. Working memory (Corsi blocks task) was related to the discrimination threshold at a duration of 800 ms after controlling for full-scale IQ (FIQ) in the ADHD group, but this did not survive the Bonferroni correction. The results indicated that children with ADHD may have perceptual deficits in time discrimination. They needed a greater difference between the comparison and target intervals to discriminate the short, median, and long durations reliably. This study provides further support for the existence of a generic time perception deficit, which is probably due to the involvement of a dysfunctional fronto-striato-cerebellar network in this capacity, especially the presence of deficits in basic internal timing mechanisms.
The relationships between neural and metabolic processes in activated brain regions are central to the interpretation of noninvasive imaging. To examine this relationship, we have used a specialized sensor to measure simultaneously tissue oxygen changes and neural activity in colocalized regions of the cat's lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Previous work with this sensor has shown that a decrease or increase in tissue oxygen can be elicited by selective control of the location and extent of neural activation in the LGN. In the current study, to evaluate the temporal integration and homogeneity of neurometabolic coupling, we have determined the relationship between multiunit extracellular neural activity and tissue oxygen responses to visual stimuli of various durations and contrasts. Our results show that the negative but not the positive oxygen response changes in an approximately linear manner with stimulus duration. The relationship between the negative oxygen response and neural activity is relatively constant with stimulus duration. Moreover, both negative and positive oxygen responses saturate at high stimulus contrast levels. Coupling between neural activity and negative oxygen responses is well described by a power law function. These results help elucidate differences between the initial negative and subsequent positive metabolic responses and may be directly relevant to questions concerning brain mapping with functional magnetic resonance imaging.
Dexterous hands, used to manipulate food, tools, and other objects, are one of the hallmarks of primate evolution. However, the neural substrate of fine manual control necessary for these behaviors remains unclear. Here, we describe the functional organization of parietal cortical areas 2 and 5 in the cebus monkey. Whereas other New World monkeys can be quite dexterous, and possess a poorly developed area 5, cebus monkeys are the only New World primate known to use a precision grip, and thus have an extended repertoire of manual behaviors. Unlike other New World Monkeys, but much like the macaque monkey, cebus monkeys possess a proprioceptive cortical area 2 and a well developed area 5, which is associated with motor planning and the generation of internal body coordinates necessary for visually guided reaching, grasping, and manipulation. The similarity of these fields in cebus monkeys and distantly related macaque monkeys with similar manual abilities indicates that the range of cortical organizations that can emerge in primates is constrained, and those that emerge are the result of highly conserved developmental mechanisms that shape the boundaries and topographic organizations of cortical areas.
The purpose of this study was to elucidate the cellular/biochemical pathway(s) by which interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) contributes to the pathogenesis of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage. In vivo, IL-1 receptor type I (IL-1RI)-deficient mice showed smaller infarcts and less neurological deficits than wild-type animals after a 90 min reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion. In vitro, IL-1beta mediated an enhancement of hypoxic neuronal injury in murine cortical cultures that was lacking in cultures derived from IL-1RI null mutant animals and was blocked by the IL-1 receptor antagonist or an IL-1RI blocking antibody. This IL-1beta-mediated potentiation of hypoxic neuronal injury was associated with an increase in both cellular cystine uptake ([cystine]i) and extracellular glutamate levels ([glutamate]e) and was prevented by either ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonism or removal of L-cystine, suggesting a role for the cystine/glutamate antiporter (System x(c)-). Indeed, dual System x(c)-/metabotropic glutamate receptor subunit 1 (mGluR1) antagonism but not selective mGluR1 antagonism prevented neuronal injury. Additionally, cultures derived from mGluR1-deficient mice exhibited the same potentiation in injury after treatment with IL-1beta as wild-type cultures, an effect prevented by System x(c)-/mGluR1 antagonism. Finally, assessment of System x(c)- function and kinetics in IL-1beta-treated cultures revealed an increase in velocity of cystine transport (Vmax), in the absence of a change in affinity (Km). Neither the enhancement in [cystine]i, [glutamate]e, or neuronal injury were observed in chimeric cultures consisting of IL-1RI(+/+) neurons plated on top of IL-1RI(-/-) astrocytes, highlighting the importance of astrocyte-mediated alterations in System x(c)- as a novel contributor to the development and progression of hypoxic neuronal injury.

To investigate microdomain association of the dopamine transporter (DAT), we employed FCS (fluorescence correlation spectroscopy) and FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching). In non-neuronal cells (HEK293), FCS measurements revealed for the YFP-DAT (DAT tagged with yellow fluorescent protein) a diffusion coefficient (D) of approximately 3.6 x 10(-9) cm2/s, consistent with a relatively freely diffusible protein. In neuronally derived cells (N2a), we were unable to perform FCS measurements on plasma membrane-associated protein due to photobleaching, suggesting partial immobilization. This was supported by FRAP measurements that revealed a lower D and a mobile fraction of the YFP-DAT in N2a cells compared to HEK293 cells. Comparison with the EGFP-EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) and the EGFP-beta2AR (beta2 adrenergic receptor) demonstrated that this observation was DAT specific. Both the cytoskeleton-disrupting agent cytochalasin D and the cholesterol-depleting agent methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (mbetaCD) increased the lateral mobility of the YFP-DAT but not that of the EGFP-EGFR. The DAT associated in part with membrane raft markers both in the N2a cells and in rat striatal synaptosomes as assessed by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Raft association was further confirmed in the N2a cells by cholera toxin B patching. It was, moreover, observed that cholesterol depletion, and thereby membrane raft disruption, decreased both the Vmax and KM values for [3H]dopamine uptake without altering DAT surface expression. In summary, we propose that association of the DAT with lipid microdomains in the plasma membrane and/or the cytoskeleton serves to regulate both the lateral mobility of the transporter and its transport capacity.

Our sensory systems fill in information obscured by other, competing signals to maintain a stable representation of the world. A correlate of the continuity illusion, in which sounds are perceived to continue despite being interrupted by other sounds, has now been found in the auditory cortex.

How synaptic specificity is molecularly coded in target cells is a long-standing question in neuroscience. Whereas essential roles of several target-derived attractive cues have been shown, less is known about the role of repulsion by nontarget cells. We conducted single-cell microarray analysis of two neighboring muscles (M12 and M13) in Drosophila, which are innervated by distinct motor neurons, by directly isolating them from dissected embryos. We identified a number of potential target cues that are differentially expressed between the two muscles, including M13-enriched Wnt4. When the functions of Wnt4, or putative receptors Frizzled 2 and Derailed-2 or Dishevelled were inhibited, motor neurons that normally innervate M12 (MN12s) formed smaller synapses on M12 but instead formed ectopic nerve endings on M13. Conversely, ectopic expression of Wnt4 in M12 inhibits synapse formation by MN12s. These results suggest that Wnt4, via Frizzled 2, Derailed-2, and Dishevelled, generates target specificity by preventing synapse formation on a nontarget muscle. Ectopic expression of five other M13-enriched genes, including beat-IIIc and Glutactin, also inhibits synapse formation by MN12s. These results demonstrate an important role for local repulsion in regulating cell-to-cell target specificity.
Extensive research has demonstrated that several specialized cortical regions respond preferentially to faces. One such region, located in the inferior occipital gyrus, has been dubbed the occipital face area (OFA). The OFA is the first stage in two influential face-processing models, both of which suggest that it constructs an initial representation of a face, but how and when it does so remains unclear. The present study revealed that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) targeted at the right OFA (rOFA) disrupted accurate discrimination of face parts but had no effect on the discrimination of spacing between these parts. rTMS to left OFA had no effect. A matched part and spacing discrimination task that used house stimuli showed no impairment. In a second experiment, rTMS to rOFA replicated the face-part impairment but did not produce the same effect in an adjacent area, the lateral occipital cortex. A third experiment delivered double pulses of TMS separated by 40 ms at six periods after stimulus presentation during face-part discrimination. Accuracy dropped when pulses were delivered at 60 and 100 ms only. These findings indicate that the rOFA processes face-part information at an early stage in the face-processing stream.
GRASP-1 is a neuronally enriched protein that interacts with the AMPA-type glutamate receptor/GRIP complex. GRASP-1 can be cleaved by Caspase-3 in both normal and ischemic brains although the functional significance of this cleavage remains elusive. We investigated signal transduction pathways that might lie downstream of GRASP-1 and found that GRASP-1 potently activates JNK pathway signaling, with no effect on ERK signaling. Such JNK pathway activating activity requires binding of GRASP-1 to both JNK and the upstream JNK pathway activator MEKK-1. Furthermore, mutations that prevent Caspase 3-cleavage of GRASP-1 dramatically inhibit the JNK pathway activating activity of GRASP-1, suggesting a novel link between Caspase-3 activation and JNK pathway signaling. These results suggest that GRASP-1 serves as a scaffold protein to facilitate MEKK-1 activation of JNK signaling in neurons.
We previously reported that expression of myotonic dystrophy (DM1) expanded CUG repeats impedes NGF-induced differentiation in a PC12 clone (CTG90 cells). Here, we present evidence for changes in the fractional contribution of distinct voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, key elements in neurotrophin-promoted differentiation, to the total Ca(2+) current in the CTG90 cells. Patch-clamp recordings showed that the relative proportion of pharmacologically isolated Ca(2+) channel types differed between control and CTG90 cells. Particularly, the functional expression of N-type channels was significantly reduced. Though quantitative real-time RT-PCR revealed that transcripts for the pore-forming subunit encoding the N-type channels remained unchanged, the protein level analyzed by semi-quantitative Western blotting was down-regulated in the CTG90 cells. These data suggest modifications in the processing of N-type Ca(2+) channels in PC12 cells expressing the DM1 mutation.
The ability to perceive objects as alive is the first step in social cognition. When the status of an object is ambiguous--if far away or fast moving--animacy is best perceived using motion cues. Previous studies have revealed that acceleration is a robust cue to animacy. The current study tests the prediction that, in the absence of acceleration, an object traveling at a relatively faster constant speed is more likely to be perceived as animate. Experiment 1 confirmed this hypothesis. Experiment 2 investigated the robustness of this finding by employing an illusory speed difference: Participants viewed dots moving at the same speed across apparently smaller and apparently larger central circles that were actually equally sized. Two thirds of participants perceived a dot traveling across an apparently larger circle to be faster or alive. Experiment 3 showed that participants' responses were not due to response bias. Together, these results suggest that our perceptions of animacy are influenced by constant speed differences, and that the perceptual association of speed and animacy is influenced by actual and illusory speed differences similarly.
A half-century's worth of research has established the existence of numerous event-related potential components measuring different cognitive operations in humans including the selection of stimuli by covert attention mechanisms. Surprisingly, it is unknown whether nonhuman primates exhibit homologous electrophysiological signatures of selective visual processing while viewing complex scenes. We used an electrophysiological technique with macaque monkeys analogous to procedures for recording scalp event-related potentials from humans and found that monkeys exhibit short-latency visual components sensitive to sensory processing demands and lateralizations related to shifting of covert attention similar to the human N2pc component. These findings begin to bridge the gap between the disparate literatures by using electrophysiological measurements to study the deployment of visual attention in the brains of humans and nonhuman primates.
In monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), changes in body temperature and locomotor activity occur after the acute retroviral syndrome stage of the disease. However, alterations to the circadian rhythm of these factors in SIV-infected monkeys have not been reported. To determine whether the circadian rhythm of body temperature and locomotor activity are disrupted during SIV infection, we analyzed the temperature and activity patterns of SIV-infected monkeys through different stages of the disease, progressing to SIV encephalitis by using the cosinor model for circadian oscillation. We found that SIV infection resulted in significant impairments of the amplitude and mean of the circadian rhythm of body temperature and activity and in the acrophase of the circadian rhythm for temperature. These alterations were not related to changes observed in the acute febrile response induced after viral inoculation. In animals killed once marked circadian anomalies were evident, microglia infiltration and macrophage accumulation in the hypothalamus were observed. Together, these results clearly demonstrate that SIV infection compromises aspects of circadian regulation in monkeys, with important implications for physiological functions, including cognition, in HIV-infected individuals.
Dietary sugars are transported from the intestinal lumen into absorptive enterocytes by the sodium-dependent glucose transporter isoform 1 (SGLT1). Regulation of this protein is important for the provision of glucose to the body and avoidance of intestinal malabsorption. Although expression of SGLT1 is regulated by luminal monosaccharides, the luminal glucose sensor mediating this process was unknown. Here, we show that the sweet taste receptor subunit T1R3 and the taste G protein gustducin, expressed in enteroendocrine cells, underlie intestinal sugar sensing and regulation of SGLT1 mRNA and protein. Dietary sugar and artificial sweeteners increased SGLT1 mRNA and protein expression, and glucose absorptive capacity in wild-type mice, but not in knockout mice lacking T1R3 or alpha-gustducin. Artificial sweeteners, acting on sweet taste receptors expressed on enteroendocrine GLUTag cells, stimulated secretion of gut hormones implicated in SGLT1 up-regulation. Gut-expressed taste signaling elements involved in regulating SGLT1 expression could provide novel therapeutic targets for modulating the gut's capacity to absorb sugars, with implications for the prevention and/or treatment of malabsorption syndromes and diet-related disorders including diabetes and obesity.
Imaging studies of conscious perception using techniques such as masking often show increased neural responses in object processing regions of the brain, and accompany increased awareness of the stimulus. Imaging studies of the attentional blink, an effect where conscious awareness of the stimulus is suppressed through reduction of attentional resources, has tended to show the opposite neural response. This study examines changes in stimulus parameters such that either attention or perceptual information is limited. Findings show that under conditions of limited attention but reduced perception the BOLD response reveals increased activity when the stimulus cannot be reported; however, under conditions of reduced perception but normal attention, more activity is revealed on trials when the stimulus can be reported.
In this study, we have grafted neural stem cells (NSCs) into the lumbar spinal cord of a mouse mutant that has a specific loss of motoneurons (progressive motor neuronopathy/pmn). A small number of grafted cells ( approximately 3000) increased the life span of the mice by 56%. The improved survival was accompanied by a rescue of host motoneurons, a stabilization in the weight and an increase in the size of the muscle fibers. The grafted NSCs were small and round and exhibited no neural markers, suggesting that they remained in an undifferentiated state. Thus grafting of NSCs in a mouse model with motoneuron degeneration exerts a neuroprotective effect.
The neuregulins (NRGs) constitute a family of trophic factors that are known to play critical roles during neural development. We recently reported that Gbeta subunit regulates NRG-mediated signaling and gene transcription in cultured C2C12 myotubes. In this study, we demonstrated that NRG treatment of C2C12 myotubes stimulates a rapid translocation of Galphaz protein to the plasma membranes. In addition, Galphaz protein is localized to the postsynaptic regions at adult neuromuscular junctions and is prominently expressed in rat skeletal muscle during early postnatal stages. Interestingly, we found that expression of the constitutively activated Galphaz in C2C12 myoblasts attenuates myogenic differentiation. Taken together, our observations reveal an unanticipated role of Galphaz in mediating the actions of NRG during neural development.
Imagination, distinct from imagery, memory, and cognition, is a poorly understood but fascinating cognitive ability of human beings. Herein, imagination is defined as 'the cognitive process which enables the individual to manipulate intrinsically generated phenomenal information in order to create a representation perceived by the mind's senses.' This definition is expanded within the context of the neurobiology of the brain and the possible purposes the imagination fulfills in daily living, human development, and normal behavior.

Quinoline-2,4-dicarboxylic acids (QDCs) bearing lipophilic substituents in the 6- or 7-position were shown to be inhibitors of the glutamate vesicular transporter (VGLUT). Using the arrangement of the QDC lipophilic substituents as a template, libraries of X(1)X(2)EF and X(1)X(2)EW tetrapeptides were synthesized and tested as VGLUT inhibitors. The peptides QIEW and WNEF were found to be the most potent. Further stereochemical deconvolution of these two peptides showed dQlIdElW to be the best inhibitor (K(i)=828+/-252 microM). Modeling and overlay of the tetrapeptide inhibitors with the existing pharmacophore showed that H-bonding and lipophilic residues are important for VGLUT binding.
Insertional oncogenesis is a possible consequence of the integration of gamma-retroviral (RV) or lentiviral (LV) vectors into the human genome. RV common insertion sites (CISs) have been identified in hematopoietic malignancies and in the nonmalignant progeny of transduced hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSCs), possibly as a consequence of clonal selection in vivo. We have mapped a large number of RV and LV integrations in human CD34(+) HSCs, transduced in vitro and analyzed without selection. Recurrent insertion sites (hot spots) account for more than 21% of the RV integration events, while they are significantly less frequent in the case of LV vectors. RV but not LV hot spots are highly enriched in proto-oncogenes, cancer-associated CISs, and growth-controlling genes, indicating that at least part of the biases observed in the HSC progeny in vivo are characteristics of RV integration, already present in nontransplanted cells. Genes involved in hematopoietic and immune system development are targeted at high frequency and enriched in hot spots, suggesting that the CD34(+) gene expression program is instrumental in directing RV integration. The lower propensity of LV vectors for integrating in potentially dangerous regions of the human genome may be a factor determining a better safety profile for gene therapy applications.
In some songbirds perturbing auditory feedback can promote changes in song structure well beyond the end of song learning. One factor that may drive vocal change in such deafened birds is the ongoing addition of new vocal-motor neurons into the song system. Without auditory feedback to guide their incorporation, the addition of these new neurons could disrupt the established song pattern. To assess this hypothesis, the authors determined if neuronal recruitment into the vocal motor nucleus HVC is affected by neural signals that influence vocal change in adult deafened birds. Such signals appear to be conveyed via LMAN, a nucleus in the anterior forebrain that is necessary for vocal change after deafening. Here the authors tested whether LMAN lesions might restrict song degradation after deafening by reducing the addition or survival of new HVC neurons that would otherwise corrupt the ongoing song pattern. Using [3H]thymidine autoradiography to identify neurons generated in adult zebra finches, it was shown here that LMAN lesions do not reduce the number or percent of new HVC neurons surviving for either several weeks or months after [3H]thymidine labeling. However, the authors confirmed previous reports that LMAN lesions restrict vocal change after deafening. These data suggest that neurons incorporated into the adult HVC may form behaviorally adaptive connections without requiring auditory feedback, and that any role such neurons may play in promoting vocal change after adult deafening requires anterior forebrain pathway output.
Owls reared wearing prismatic spectacles learn to make adaptive orienting movements. This instructed learning depends on re-calibration of the midbrain auditory space map, which in turn involves the formation of new synapses. Here we investigated whether these processes are associated with differential gene expression, using longSAGE. Newly fledged owls were reared for 8-36 days with prism or control lenses at which time the extent of learning was quantified by electrophysiological mapping. Transciptome profiles were obtained from the inferior colliculus (IC), the major site of synaptic plasticity, and the optic tectum (OT), which provides an instructive signal that controls the direction and extent of plasticity. Twenty-two differentially expressed sequence tags were identified in IC and 36 in OT, out of more than 35,000 unique tags. Of these, only four were regulated in both structures. These results indicate that regulation of two largely independent gene clusters is associated with synaptic remodeling (in IC) and generation of the instructive signal (in OT). Real-time PCR data confirmed the changes for two transcripts, ubiquitin/polyubiquitin and tyrosine 3-monooxgenase/tryotophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein, theta subunit (YWHAQ; also referred to as 14-3-3 protein). Ubiquitin was downregulated in IC, consistent with a model in which protein degradation pathways act as an inhibitory constraint on synaptogenesis. YWHAQ was up-regulated in OT, indicating a role in the synthesis or delivery of instructive information. In total, our results provide a path towards unraveling molecular cascades that link naturalistic experience with synaptic remodeling and, ultimately, with the expression of learned behavior.
Cell death is a nearly ubiquitous feature of the developing nervous system, and differential death in males and females contributes to several well studied sex differences in neuron number. Nonetheless, the functional importance of neuronal cell death has been subjected to few direct tests. Bax, a pro-apoptotic protein, is required for cell death in many neural regions. Deletion of the Bax gene in mice increases neuron number in several areas and eliminates sex differences in cell number in the brain and spinal cord. Here, sexual and motor behaviors were examined in Bax-/- mice and their wild-type siblings to test the functional consequences of preventing Bax-dependent cell death. Animals were gonadectomized in adulthood and provided with ovarian hormones or with testosterone for tests of feminine and masculine sexual behaviors, respectively. Wild-type mice exhibited a sex difference in feminine sexual behavior, with high lordosis scores in females and low scores in males. This sex difference was eliminated by Bax deletion, with very low receptivity exhibited by both male and female Bax-/- mice. Masculine sexual behavior was not sexually dimorphic among wild-type mice, but mounts and pelvic thrusts were nearly eliminated in Bax-/- mice of both sexes. Motor strength and performance at low speeds on a RotaRod apparatus did not differ by sex or Bax gene status. However, Bax-/- animals exhibited impairments on the RotaRod at higher speeds. Thus, developmental cell death may be required for masculine and feminine sexual behaviors and the fine tuning of motor coordination.
Post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) is a form of homosynaptic plasticity important for information processing and short-term memory in the nervous system. The synapsins, a family of synaptic vesicle (SV)-associated phosphoproteins, have been implicated in PTP. Although several synapsin functions are known to be regulated by phosphorylation by multiple protein kinases, the role of individual phosphorylation sites in synaptic plasticity is poorly understood. All the synapsins share a phosphorylation site in the N-terminal domain A (site 1) that regulates neurite elongation and SV mobilization. Here, we have examined the role of phosphorylation of synapsin domain A in PTP and other forms of short-term synaptic enhancement (STE) at synapses between cultured Helix pomatia neurons. To this aim, we cloned H. pomatia synapsin (helSyn) and overexpressed GFP-tagged wild-type helSyn or site-1-mutant helSyn mutated in the presynaptic compartment of C1-B2 synapses. We found that PTP at these synapses depends both on Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent and cAMP-dependent protein kinases, and that overexpression of the non-phosphorylatable helSyn mutant, but not wild-type helSyn, specifically impairs PTP, while not altering facilitation and augmentation. Our findings show that phosphorylation of site 1 has a prominent role in the expression of PTP, thus defining a novel role for phosphorylation of synapsin domain A in short-term homosynaptic plasticity.
How the left and right sides of the brain acquire anatomical and functional specializations is not well understood. The zebrafish has proven to be a useful model to explore the genetic basis of neuroanatomical asymmetry in the developing forebrain. The dorsal diencephalon or epithalamus consists of the asymmetric pineal complex and adjacent paired nuclei, the left and right medial habenulae, which in zebrafish larvae, exhibit differences in their size, neuropil density and patterns of gene expression. In all vertebrates, axons from the medial habenular nuclei project within a prominent fiber bundle, the fasciculus retroflexus, to a shared midbrain target, the interpeduncular nucleus of the ventral tegmentum. However, in zebrafish, projections from the left habenula innervate the dorsal and ventral regions of the target nucleus, whereas right habenular efferents project only to the ventral region. A similar dorsoventral difference in habenular connectivity is found in another teleost species, the highly derived southern flounder, Paralichthys lethostima. In this flatfish, directional asymmetry of the habenular projection appears to be independent of the left-right morphology and orientation that an individual adopts post-metamorphosis. Comparative anterograde labeling of the brains of salamanders, frogs and mice reveals that axons emanating from the left and right medial habenulae do not project to different domains, but rather, they traverse the target nucleus in a complementary mirror image pattern. Thus, although the habenulo-interpeduncular conduction system is highly conserved in the vertebrate brain, the stereotypic dorsoventral topography of left-right connections appears to be a feature that is specific to teleosts.
How might changes in developmental regulatory pathways underlie evolutionary changes in morphology? Here we focus on a particular pathway regulated by a secreted, signaling peptide, Endothelin1 (Edn1). Developmental genetic analyses show the Edn1-pathway to be crucial for hyomandibular patterning, and we discuss our work with zebrafish suggesting how the signal may function in regulating numbers of skeletal elements, their sizes and their shapes. We then review a broader collection of comparative studies that examine morphological evolution of a subset of the same skeletal elements-the opercular-branchiostegal series of bones of the hyoid arch. We find that phenotypic changes in zebrafish mutants copy evolutionary changes that recur along many actinopterygian lineages. Hence the developmental genetic studies are informative for providing candidate pathways for macroevolution of facial morphology, as well as for our understanding of how these pathways work.
Some zebrafish genes appear to lack an ortholog in the human genome and researchers often call them &quot;novel&quot; genes. The origin of many so-called &quot;novel&quot; genes becomes apparent when considered in the context of genome duplication events that occurred during evolution of the phylum Chordata, including two rounds at about the origin of the subphylum Vertebrata (R1 and R2) and one round before the teleost radiation (R3). Ohnologs are paralogs stemming from such genome duplication events, and some zebrafish genes said to be &quot;novel&quot; are more appropriately interpreted as &quot;ohnologs gone missing&quot;, cases in which ohnologs are preserved differentially in different evolutionary lineages. Here we consider ohnologs present in the zebrafish genome but absent from the human genome. Reasonable hypotheses are that lineage-specific loss of ohnologs can play a role in establishing lineage divergence and in the origin of developmental innovations. How does the evolution of ohnologs differ from the evolution of gene duplicates arising from other mechanisms, such as tandem duplication or retrotransposition? To what extent do different major vertebrate lineages or different teleost lineages differ in ohnolog content? What roles do differences in ohnolog content play in the origin of developmental mechanisms that differ among lineages? This review explores these questions.
Although invariant NKT (iNKT) cells play a regulatory role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and allergy, an initial trigger for their regulatory responses remains elusive. In this study, we report that a proportion of human CD4+ iNKT cell clones produce enormous amounts of IL-5 and IL-13 when cocultured with CD1d+ APC in the presence of IL-2. Such IL-5 bias was never observed when we stimulated the same clones with alpha-galactosylceramide or anti-CD3 Ab. Suboptimal TCR stimulation by plate-bound anti-CD3 Ab was found to mimic the effect of CD1d+ APC, indicating the role of TCR signaling for selective induction of IL-5. Interestingly, DNA microarray analysis identified IL-5 and IL-13 as the most highly up-regulated genes, whereas other cytokines produced by iNKT cells, such as IL-4 and IL-10, were not significantly induced. Moreover, iNKT cells from BALB/c mice showed similar IL-5 responses after stimulation with IL-2 ex vivo or in vivo. The iNKT cell subset producing IL-5 and IL-13 could play a major role in the development of allergic disease or asthma and also in the immune regulation of Th1 inflammation.
Degeneration of the perforant pathway, not extensively surveyed so far in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with dementia, was found in eight out of twelve autopsied patients with clinically detectable dementia. Because the severity of degeneration of the entorhinal cortex and that of spongiosis of the outer half of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were correlated in these eight patients, it is suspected that the degeneration of the perforant pathway may explain these concomitant lesions. This was further corroborated by occasional involvement of the parahippocampal white matter and subiculum, other components of this pathway. Moreover, six of them manifested clinically detectable memory deficits and three of them exhibited amnesia or episodic memory impairments similar to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abnormal intensity restricted the dentate gyrus on brain magnetic resonance imaging in a severe case looks like the degeneration of the molecular layer. This involvement of the perforant pathway in ALS patients and its correlation to memory deficits should be taken in account for evaluation of dementia.
The occurrence and nature of cytogenetic aberrations in polyneuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy was determined. Therefore, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was applied in 22 patients with polyneuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay in 18 of these patients and genome-wide-array-based comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) in eight of these 18 patients. Four patients had 10-20% and one patient had 30% B cells with IgH rearrangements; one patient had additional loss of 14qter; one patient had amplification of 6p and loss of 6q. Cytogenetic aberrations may be found in one third of the patients with neuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy and are mainly associated with indolent Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia.
The site of vascular stenosis correlates well with the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project (OCSP) classification among Caucasians, but not among ethnic Chinese patients. We prospectively studied 205 consecutive ethnic South Asian ischemic stroke patients to investigate the prevalence of intracranial large artery disease determined by transcranial color-coded doppler and magnetic resonance angiography among OCSP subtypes. The distribution of OCSP subtypes was 7% total anterior circulation infarction (TACI), 17% partial anterior circulation infarction (PACI), 14% posterior circulation infarction (POCI) and 62% lacunar infarction (LACI). Significant intracranial large artery disease was common among all OCSP subtypes; 79% with TACI, 47% PACI, 65% POCI and 44% LACI. This is similar to ethnic Chinese data and is likely due to the predominance of intracranial disease over extracranial disease. Clinical axioms using OSCP subtypes based on Caucasian data may be misleading if applied to ethnic South Asians.
A patient developed frontal-lobe syndrome and psychotic symptoms after infarction in the pontomesencephalic junction. Stereotaxic lesion localization on magnetic resonance imaging and statistical analyses of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) disclosed an involvement of the rostral brainstem dopaminergic nuclei and hypoperfusion in the frontal-subcortical circuit components. We suggest that the patient's cognitive and behavioral disturbances were associated with disruption of ascending dopaminergic projections to the frontal-subcortical circuits.
Early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (EOFAD) has been associated with mutations in three genes, of which presenilin 1 (PSEN1) mutations are the most frequent. Several families with an association of progressive dementia and spastic paraplegia caused by PSEN1 mutations have been described. Here we described a novel PSEN1 mutation that was associated with dementia and spastic paraplegia in a family with 5 affected individuals in three generations. The proband was a 44-year-old woman who presented with 5 years history of progressive difficulties in walking, cognition and visuospatial impairment. Her maternal grandmother, mother and two maternal aunts also had similar neurological presentation. Molecular genetic analysis showed a missense mutation predicted to substitute an arginine residue for a serine residue at position 278 in the PSEN1 polypeptide (Arg278Ser). The novel PSEN1 mutation identified in this patient adds to the diverse list of existing mutations causing EOFAD associated with spastic paraparesis.
The influence of the emotional attributes of a visual scene on early perception processes remains a key question in contemporary affective neurosciences. The International Affective Picture System (IAPS; Lang et al., 2005) was developed to provide a set of standardized stimuli for experimental investigations of emotional processes. These stimuli have been widely used in brain activity investigations to study the influence of valence and/or arousal on visual processing. However, visual perception is strongly influenced by the physical properties of the images shown, especially their spatial frequency content, an aspect that has been unexpectedly neglected at large. In this study, we examine the complete set of IAPS with a discrete wavelet transform to highlight relations between the energy in different spatial frequencies and the emotional features of the pictures. Our results showed that these associations are weak when the complete dataset is considered, but for selected subsets of pictures, clear differences are present in both affective and spatial frequency content. The IAPS remains a powerful tool to explore emotional processing, but we strongly suggest that researchers use subsets of images that are controlled for the energy of their spatial frequencies when investigating emotional influence on visual processing.
Estimating the degree of synchrony or reliability between two or more spike trains is a frequent task in both experimental and computational neuroscience. In recent years, many different methods have been proposed that typically compare the timing of spikes on a certain time scale to be optimized by the analyst. Here, we propose the ISI-distance, a simple complementary approach that extracts information from the interspike intervals by evaluating the ratio of the instantaneous firing rates. The method is parameter free, time scale independent and easy to visualize as illustrated by an application to real neuronal spike trains obtained in vitro from rat slices. In a comparison with existing approaches on spike trains extracted from a simulated Hindemarsh-Rose network, the ISI-distance performs as well as the best time-scale-optimized measure based on spike timing.
Despite the capacity for spontaneous axonal regeneration, recovery following injuries to the peripheral nervous system (PNS) following transection are often incomplete and limited to short distances. Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been previously shown to support neuron survival, and direct growth of both developing and regenerating nerve fibers along a concentration gradient, based largely on in vitro studies. Here, we present a novel in vivo model of administering daily concentration gradients of NGF by directly manipulating the placement of the catheter-nerve conduit junction. Our results show that a dose of 800 pg NGF can be reliably used to establish a chemotactic concentration gradient over both a transient time period, and chronically through repeated daily administrations of the drug. Results from these studies may lead to a better mechanistic understanding of how concentration gradients of soluble NGF influence in vivo peripheral nerve regeneration.
The simple operant conditioning originally used in behavioral neurophysiology 30 years ago has given way to complex and sophisticated behavioral paradigms; so much so, that early general purpose programs for analyzing neurophysiological data are ill-suited for complex experiments. The trend has been to develop custom software for each class of experiment, but custom software can have serious drawbacks. We describe here a general purpose software tool for behavioral and electrophysiological studies, called MatOFF, that is especially suited for processing neurophysiological data gathered during the execution of complex behaviors. Written in the MATLAB programming language, MatOFF solves the problem of handling complex analysis requirements in a unique and powerful way. While other neurophysiological programs are either a loose collection of tools or append MATLAB as a post-processing step, MatOFF is an integrated environment that supports MATLAB scripting within the event search engine safely isolated in a programming sandbox. The results from scripting are stored separately, but in parallel with the raw data, and thus available to all subsequent MatOFF analysis and display processing. An example from a recently published experiment shows how all the features of MatOFF work together to analyze complex experiments and mine neurophysiological data in efficient ways.
Analgesic neurosteroids such as 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (5alpha3alpha) are potent selective endogenous modulators of the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) while certain synthetic derivatives (i.e. minaxolone) additionally enhance the function of recombinant glycine receptors (GlyR). Inhibitory transmission within the superficial dorsal horn has been implicated in mediating the analgesic actions of neurosteroids. However, the relative contribution played by synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors is unknown. In this study, we have compared the actions of 5alpha3alpha and minaxolone upon inhibitory transmission mediated by both GABA(A) and strychnine-sensitive GlyRs in lamina II neurones of juvenile (P15-21) rats. At the near physiological temperature of 35 degrees C and at a holding potential of -60 mV we recorded three kinetically distinct populations of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs): GlyR-mediated, GABA(A)R-mediated and mixed GABA(A)R-GlyR mIPSCs, arising from the corelease of both inhibitory neurotransmitters. In addition, sequential application of strychnine and bicuculline revealed a small (5.2 +/- 1.0 pA) GlyR- but not a GABA(A)R-mediated tonic conductance. 5alpha3alpha (1-10 microm) prolonged GABA(A)R and mixed mIPSCs in a concentration-dependent manner but was without effect upon GlyR mIPSCs. In contrast, minaxolone (1-10 microm) prolonged the decay of GlyR mIPSCs and, additionally, was approximately 10-fold more potent than 5alpha3alpha upon GABA(A)R mIPSCs. However, 5alpha3alpha and minaxolone (1 microm) evoked a similar bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory conductance, indicating that the extrasynaptic GABA(A)Rs do not discriminate between these two steroids. Furthermore, approximately 92% of the effect of 1 microm 5alpha3alpha upon GABAergic inhibition could be accounted for by its action upon the extrasynaptic conductance. These findings are relevant to modulation of inhibitory circuits within spinally mediated pain pathways and suggest that extrasynaptic GABA(A)Rs may represent a relevant molecular target for the analgesic actions of neurosteroids.
Following a suprathreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the primary motor cortex (M1) during voluntary muscle contraction, a motor evoked potential (MEP) occurs in the target muscle followed by a silent period (SP) in the electromyographic (EMG) activities. The present study investigated how short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) change during the SP. The time course of MEP and motor threshold during the SP were examined in the right first dorsal interosseous muscle. Using a triple-pulse protocol, SICI and ICF were tested at different times during the SP. The effects of different intensities of the conditioning stimulation (CS) for SICI and ICF were also investigated during the SP and at rest. During the SP, MEP was inhibited and motor threshold was increased, whereas MEP latency and background EMG level were same as those at rest. SICI decreased during the SP over a wide range of CS intensities. ICF increased at higher CS intensity. We conclude that SICI is suppressed and ICF is facilitated during the SP and the effects are separate from the interruption of voluntary drive.
Reaction time to a visual event can be dramatically reduced if the visual stimulus is accompanied by a startling sound. The mechanism may involve a motor programme being stored and triggered early by the sound. However, in a choice reaction task the required response is not known in advance, and so cannot be stored. In this case startling sound does not usually speed up the reaction and may even be detrimental to performance. Here we show that the reaction time of a special type of visually evoked movement can be substantially reduced by startling sound, even though the movement requires choice. The task involved stepping onto an illuminated target that sometimes moved mid-step left or right, requiring a foot trajectory adjustment. These adjustments occur at much shorter latency than conventional visuomotor reaction tasks and are thought to involve subcortical brain areas. The presence of the sound, which carried no information, shortened the already fast mean response time of 134 ms by approximately 20 ms. We attribute this to auditory-visual interaction since sound alone had no effect. Although we observed startle responses, the quickening effect was not contingent upon their presence. Given minimum motor and sensory conduction time, we estimate that the loud sound reduced the central visuomotor processing time by at least 30%.
Synaptic transmission can be described as a stochastic quantal process defined by three main parameters: N, the number of functional release sites; P, the release probability; and Q, the quantum of response. Many changes in synaptic strength that are observed during expression of short term plasticity rely on modifications in P. Regulation of N has been also suggested. We have investigated at identified cholinergic inhibitory Aplysia synapses the cellular mechanism of post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) expressed under control conditions or after N has been depressed by applying lethal toxin (LT) from Clostridium sordellii or tetanus toxin (TeNT). The analysis of the Ca(2+) dependency, paired-pulse ratio and variance to mean amplitude relationship of the postsynaptic responses elicited at distinct extracellular [Ca(2+)]/[Mg(2+)] elicited during control post-tetanic potentiation (PTP(cont)) indicated that PTP(cont) is mainly driven by an increase in release probability, P. The PTP expressed at TeNT-treated synapses (PTP(TeNT)) was found to be similar to PTP(cont), but scaled to the extent of reduction in N produced by TeNT. Despite LT inducing a decrease in N as TeNT does, the PTP expressed at LT-treated synapses (PTP(LT)) was characterized by exceptionally large amplitude and bi-exponential time course, as compared to PTP(cont) or the PTP(TeNT). Analysis of the Ca(2+) dependency of PTP(LT), paired-pulse ratio and fluctuations in amplitude of the postsynaptic responses elicited during PTP(LT) or the variance to mean amplitude relationship of time-locked postsynaptic responses in a series of subsequent PTP(LT) indicated that an N-driven change is involved in the early phase (1 s time scale) of PTP(LT), while at a later stage PTP(LT) is composed of both N and P increases. Our results suggest that fast switching on of the functional status of the release sites occurs also during the early events of PTP(cont). The early N-driven phase of PTP(LT) is likely to be a functional recovery of the release sites silenced by Rac inactivation. This effect did not appear to result from reversion of LT inhibitory action but from bypassing the step regulated by Rac. Altogether the data suggest that Rac and the intracellular pathway which allows the bypassing of Rac are key players in new forms of short-term plasticity that rely on fast, activity-dependent changes in the functional status of the release sites.
Pathological gambling (PG) has been reported as a complication of the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). We examined all published cases of PG for prevalence and risk factors of this complication, the relationship of PG and use of dopamine agonists (DA), and the relationship of PG to the dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). The prevalence of PG in prospective studies of PD patients using DA has been reported between 2.3 and 8%, compared to approximately 1% in the general population. As in the general population, PD patients with this complication are often young, male and have psychiatric co-morbidity. The vast majority are on DA, often at maximum dose or above. Differences between oral DA failed to reach significance. PG associated with levodopa monotherapy is uncommon, but in the majority of cases levodopa is co-prescribed, suggesting possible cross-sensitization of brain systems mediating reward. PG can occur with DDS but often occurs in isolation. In contrast to DDS, escalation and self regulation of anti-parkinsonian medication are not usually seen. PG in patients with PD using DA is higher than PG reported in the general population, but shares similar characteristics and risk factors. PG is predominantly associated with oral DA. It often occurs in isolation and may not be associated with DDS, which typically occurs on treatment with levodopa or subcutaneous apomorphine.
The aim of this study was to assess the outcome of nonmotor fluctuations (NMF) after chronic Subthalamic nucleus (STN) Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) in Parkinson's disease(PD). Chronic stimulation of the STN has proved to be an effective treatment for advanced PD with motor complications. The outcome of NMF, which are also disabling, remains unknown. Forty-patients underwent bilateral STN stimulation. Each patient was interviewed before and after 1 yr of STN DBS with a structured questionnaire about their NMF. After 1 yr of chronic stimulation, the improvement in the motor score (UPDRS III) and dyskinesia amounted respectively to 67.4 and 76.3%. The decrease in motor fluctuations (MF) was 59% and 13 patients reported that their MF had disappeared. Comparatively, a reduction of the total number of NMF was also observed (mean number preoperatively: 15.6 per patient, postoperatively: 6.6). Most of the nonmotor fluctuating symptoms occurred in the &quot;off&quot; state preoperatively and no longer depended on the patient's motor state after surgery. The improvement in NMF was not identical for the different categories: pain/sensory fluctuations showed the best response to STN DBS (84.2%). Dysautonomic and cognitive fluctuations were also markedly improved (&gt;60%) while psychic fluctuations remained the most frequent postoperative NMF observed. Some incapacitating manifestations such as drenching sweats and akathisia showed a remarkably good response to STN stimulation. In conclusion STN DBS alleviates NMF. It has strikingly successful effects on sensory, dysautonomic and cognitive fluctuations. However, psychic fluctuations respond less consistently to this treatment.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by an abnormally expanded CAG repeat in the IT-15 gene, which encodes a widely expressed protein called huntingtin. Abnormalities of mitochondrial respiratory chain function, specifically complex II/III, have been identified in HD striatum and defects of energy metabolism have been demonstrated in vivo in skeletal muscle in both symptomatic and presymptomatic HD patients. We have investigated respiratory chain function using histochemical and biochemical methods in HD skeletal muscle from 12 patients and compared these with 12 age and sex-matched controls. The data from the HD patients were related to clinical parameters of HD including the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS). There were positive correlations between CAG repeat years (a product of CAG repeat length and age) and both motor (P &lt; 0.002) and cognitive (P &lt; 0.01) scores of the UHDRS. There was no significant difference in the activities of complexes I to IV compared to age-matched controls. However, there were significant correlations for individual HD complex II/III activities with disease duration (P = 0.017), repeat years (P = 0.032), and cognitive scores (P = 0.019). There was also evidence from ultrastructural studies that inclusion formation may occur in HD muscle. These results provide additional evidence that mutant huntingtin influences mitochondrial complex II/III function in non-neuronal tissue (skeletal muscle) and suggest that muscle may be a potential marker of disease progression in HD.
The aim of the present study was to provide further evidence on the role of particular subdivisions of the mammillary bodies, anterior thalamus and dorsal hippocampus to contextual and auditory fear conditioning. We used c-Fos expression as a marker of neuronal activation to compare rats that received tone-footshock pairings in a distinctive context (conditioned group) to rats being exposed to both the context and the auditory CS without receiving footshocks (unconditioned group), and nave rats that were only handled. Fos immunoreactivity was significantly increased only in the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus and the lateral mammillary nucleus of the conditioned group. However, the dorsal hippocampus showed the highest density of c-Fos positive nuclei in the nave group as compared to the other groups. Together, our data support previous studies indicating a particular involvement of the mammillary bodies and anterior thalamus in fear conditioning.
Epidemiological evidence suggests that long term treatment with hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors, or statins, decreases the risk for developing Alzheimer disease (AD). However, statin-mediated AD protection cannot be fully explained by reduction of cholesterol levels. In addition to their cholesterol lowering effects, statins have pleiotropic actions and act to lower the concentrations of isoprenoid intermediates, such as geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate. The Rho and Rab family small G-proteins require addition of these isoprenyl moieties at their C termini for normal GTPase function. In neuroblastoma cell lines, treatment with statins inhibits the membrane localization of Rho and Rab proteins at statin doses as low as 200 nm, without affecting cellular cholesterol levels. In addition, we show for the first time that at low, physiologically relevant, doses statins preferentially inhibit the isoprenylation of a subset of GTPases. The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is proteolytically cleaved to generate beta-amyloid (Abeta), which is the major component of senile plaques found in AD. We show that inhibition of protein isoprenylation by statins causes the accumulation of APP within the cell through inhibition of Rab family proteins involved in vesicular trafficking. Moreover, inhibition of Rho family protein function reduces levels of APP C-terminal fragments due to enhanced lysosomal dependent degradation. Statin inhibition of protein isoprenylation results in decreased Abeta secretion. In summary, we show that statins selectively inhibit GTPase isoprenylation at clinically relevant doses, leading to reduced Abeta production in an isoprenoid-dependent manner. These studies provide insight into the mechanisms by which statins may reduce AD pathogenesis.
beta-Adrenergic receptors critically modulate long-lasting synaptic plasticity and long-term memory in the mammalian hippocampus. Persistent long-term potentiation of synaptic strength requires protein synthesis and has been correlated with some forms of hippocampal long-term memory. However, the intracellular processes that initiate protein synthesis downstream of the beta-adrenergic receptor are unidentified. Here we report that activation of beta-adrenergic receptors recruits ERK and mammalian target of rapamycin signaling to facilitate long-term potentiation maintenance at the level of translation initiation. Treatment of mouse hippocampal slices with a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist results in activation of eukaryotic initiation factor 4E and the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E kinase Mnk1, along with inhibition of the translation repressor 4E-BP. This coordinated activation of translation machinery requires concomitant ERK and mammalian target of rapamycin signaling. Taken together, our data identify distinct signaling pathways that converge to regulate beta-adrenergic receptor-dependent protein synthesis during long-term synaptic potentiation in the hippocampus. We suggest that beta-adrenergic receptors play a crucial role in gating the induction of long-lasting synaptic plasticity at the level of translation initiation, a mechanism that may underlie the ability of these receptors to influence the formation of long-lasting memories.
Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) is the rate-limiting enzyme in raphe serotonin biosynthesis, and polymorphisms of TPH2 are implicated in vulnerability to psychiatric disorders. Dynamic transcription regulation of TPH2 may underlie differences in vulnerability. We identified a transcription element in the TPH2 promoter that resembles the binding motif for RE-1 silencer of transcription (REST; also known as NRSF) transcription factor. REST limits tissue expression of non-neuronal genes through a canonical 21-bp motif called the NRSE (neuron-restrictive silencing element). The NRSE in TPH2 is a novel bipartite variant interrupted by a 6-base insertion. We confirmed that this bipartite NRSE permits transcriptional repression by REST identical to canonical NRSE in rat C6-glioma cells. Synthetic permutations of the motif revealed considerable flexibility in the juxtaposition of the two halves of bipartite NRSE. Computational analysis revealed many bipartite NRSE variants conserved between mouse and human genomes. A subgroup of these was found to bind REST by chromatin immunoprecipitation. Messenger RNAs for TPH2 and potassium channel H6, another gene with a bipartite NRSE, were up-regulated by dominant-negative REST in C6-glioma cells. These findings, which indicate that TPH2 expression is part of the developmental program regulated by REST and suggest that many previously unrecognized genes may be regulated by REST through the novel motif, have implications for the mechanism of REST action.
AMD3465 is a novel, nonpeptide CXCR4 antagonist and a potent inhibitor of HIV cell entry in that one of the four-nitrogen cyclam rings of the symmetrical, prototype bicyclam antagonist AMD3100 has been replaced by a two-nitrogen N-pyridinylmethylene moiety. This substitution induced an 8-fold higher affinity as determined against (125)I-12G5 monoclonal CXCR4 antibody binding, and a 22-fold higher potency in inhibition of CXCL12-induced signaling through phosphatidylinositol accumulation. Mutational mapping of AMD3465 and a series of analogs of this in a library of 23 mutants covering the main ligand binding pocket of the CXCR4 receptor demonstrated that the single cyclam ring of AMD3465 binds in the pocket around AspIV:20 (Asp(171)), in analogy with AMD3100, whereas the N-pyridinylmethylene moiety mimics the other cyclam ring through interactions with the two acidic anchor-point residues in transmembrane (TM)-VI (AspVI:23/Asp(262)) and TM-VII (GluVII:06/Glu(288)). Importantly, AMD3465 has picked up novel interaction sites, for example, His(281) located at the interface of extracellular loop 3 and TM-VII and HisIII:05 (His(113)) in the middle of the binding pocket. It is concluded that the simple N-pyridinylmethylene moiety of AMD3465 substitutes for one of the complex cyclam moieties of AMD3100 through an improved and in fact expanded interaction pattern mainly with residues located in the extracellular segments of TM-VI and -VII of the CXCR4 receptor. It is suggested that the remaining cyclam ring of AMD3465, which ensures the efficacious blocking of the receptor, in a similar manner can be replaced by chemical moieties allowing for, for example, oral bioavailability.
Head lice or pediculosis is recognized as an increasing problem in medical practice (Down et al, 1999). Secondary bacterial infections can occur in patients with infestation. In neurosurgical patients, head lice infestation may be a potential risk factor for peri-operative complications. Secondary infection could further complicate neurosurgical wounds with subsequent complications. The authors discuss epidemiology, pathogenesis of potential peri-operative complications resulting from pediculosis and methodology of treatment of this common condition. The importance of early recognition and prompt treatment in patients with neurological diseases is highlighted. A simple algorithm to treat scalp pediculosis is suggested.

Cell surface markers of neuronal precursor cells are of interest since they allow the isolation of these cells from mixed populations of cells. The monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2F7, a cell surface marker, has been shown to label neuronal precursors and post-mitotic neurones in the embryonic rat spinal cord and cortex. Little is known about the expression of the epitope recognised by mAb 2F7 in other regions of the developing brain. The present study found expression of this epitope in the embryonic rat cortex, ventral mesencephalon (VM) and striatum at times at which neurogenesis is known to occur in these regions. The expression profile of mAb 2F7 was similar to that of the polysialylated form of the neural adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a commonly used marker of neuronal precursor cells. The percentage of mAb 2F7-positive cells incorporating bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was found to be comparable to that of PSA-NCAM-positive cells in primary cell cultures of embryonic rat cortex, VM and striatum. These data demonstrate that mAb 2F7 can be used as a cell surface marker for neuronal precursor cells in several regions of the embryonic rat brain.
Ethanol withdrawal is associated with neuronal hyperexcitability and increased hippocampal glutamate release. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) appears to play an important role in regulation of hippocampal neuronal excitability by inhibiting glutamate release. Expression of NPY and its receptors Y1, Y2, and Y5 was studied in hippocampal areas of rats during ethanol withdrawal after repeated intragastric ethanol administration for 2 or 4 days using in situ hybridization. Withdrawal was associated with decreased hippocampal expression of NPY and each of its receptors, particularly Y2, after 2 and/or 4 days of ethanol compared to control rats. These data suggest that the hippocampal NPY system is downregulated during ethanol withdrawal and these neuroadaptational changes could play a role in mediating withdrawal hyperexcitability.
The phospholipid hypothesis of schizophrenia is becoming popular because of the findings from the niacin flush test, the treatment with polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), biochemical studies for the phospholipid metabolism pathway and genetic studies of phospholipase A2. The present study attempted to investigate the gene coding for phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), which is an important enzyme for the synthesis of membrane phospholipids. We recruited 271 Chinese parent-offspring trios of Han descent and detected 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the PEMT locus. The transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) showed allelic association for rs464396 (X2=9.4, P=0.002), but not for the other two. The 2-SNP haplotype analysis showed haplotypic association for both the rs936108-rs464396 haplotypes (X2=25.7, d.f.=3, P=0.00001) and the rs464396-rs4244593 haplotypes (X2=17.3, d.f.=3, P=0.0006). The 3-SNP haplotype analysis also showed a haplotypic association (X2=24.4, d.f.=7, P=0.0006). The present results suggest that the PEMT gene may contribute to the etiology of schizophrenia.
The firing patterns of visual neurons tracking approaching objects need to be translated into appropriate motor activation sequences to generate escape behaviors. Locusts possess an identified neuron highly sensitive to approaching objects (looming stimuli), thought to play an important role in collision avoidance through its motor projections. To study how the activity of this neuron relates to escape behaviors, we monitored jumps evoked by looming stimuli in freely behaving animals. By comparing electrophysiological and high-speed video recordings, we found that the initial preparatory phase of jumps occurs on average during the rising phase of the firing rate of the looming-sensitive neuron. The coactivation period of leg flexors and extensors, which is used to store the energy required for the jump, coincides with the timing of the peak firing rate of the neuron. The final preparatory phase occurs after the peak and takeoff happens when the firing rate of the looming-sensitive neuron has decayed to &lt;10% of its peak. Both the initial and the final preparatory phases and takeoff are triggered when the approaching object crosses successive threshold angular sizes on the animal's retina. Our results therefore suggest that distinct phases of the firing patterns of individual sensory neurons may actively contribute to distinct phases of complex, multistage motor behaviors.
Although it is agreed that physicochemical features of molecules determine their perceived odor, the rules governing this relationship remain unknown. A significant obstacle to such understanding is the high dimensionality of features describing both percepts and molecules. We applied a statistical method to reduce dimensionality in both odor percepts and physicochemical descriptors for a large set of molecules. We found that the primary axis of perception was odor pleasantness, and critically, that the primary axis of physicochemical properties reflected the primary axis of olfactory perception. This allowed us to predict the pleasantness of novel molecules by their physicochemical properties alone. Olfactory perception is strongly shaped by experience and learning. However, our findings suggest that olfactory pleasantness is also partially innate, corresponding to a natural axis of maximal discriminability among biologically relevant molecules.
Itch is an everyday sensation, but when associated with disease or infection it can be chronic and debilitating. Several forms of itch can be blocked using antihistamines, but others cannot and these constitute an important clinical problem. Little information is available on the mechanisms underlying itch that is produced by nonhistaminergic mechanisms. We examined the responses of spinothalamic tract neurons to histaminergic and, for the first time, nonhistaminergic forms of itch stimuli. Fifty-seven primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons were identified using antidromic activation techniques and examined for their responses to histamine and cowhage, the nonhistaminergic itch-producing spicules covering the pod of the legume Mucuna pruriens. Each examined neuron had a receptive field on the hairy skin of the hindlimb and responded to noxious mechanical stimulation. STT neurons were tested with both pruritogens applied in a random order and we found 12 that responded to histamine and seven to cowhage. Each pruritogen-responsive STT neuron was activated by the chemical algogen capsaicin and two-thirds responded to noxious heat stimuli, demonstrating that these neurons convey chemical, thermal, and mechanical nociceptive information as well. Histamine or cowhage responsive STT neurons were found in both the marginal zone and the deep dorsal horn and were classified as high threshold and wide dynamic range. Unexpectedly, histamine and cowhage never activated the same cell. Our results demonstrate that the spinothalamic tract contains mutually exclusive populations of neurons responsive to histamine or the nonhistaminergic itch-producing agent cowhage.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are usually downregulated in developing central synapses, but underlying mechanisms and functional consequences are not well established. Using developing calyx of Held synapses in the mouse auditory brainstem, we show here that pairing presynaptic stimulation with postsynaptic depolarization results in a persistent downregulation in the summated amplitude of NMDAR-mediated EPSCs (NMDAR-EPSCs) during a train of stimuli (100/200 Hz, 100 ms) at both 22 degrees C and 35 degrees C. In contrast, the amplitude of single NMDAR-EPSCs or AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs in the same synapses is not significantly altered, implying a preferential downregulation of perisynaptic/extrasynaptic NMDARs. Induction of this downregulation is blocked by antagonists for NMDARs or group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), suggesting that coincident activation of these two receptors is required. When the postsynaptic neuron is loaded with the fast Ca2+ buffer BAPTA or depolarized to +60 mV to reduce the driving force for Ca2+ influx, downregulation of the summated NMDAR-EPSCs is abolished, indicating Ca2+ plays a critical role in the induction. The expression of this downregulation depends on ongoing synaptic activity, and is attenuated by a dynamin peptide (D15) that blocks clathrin-dependent internalization. We further demonstrated that the same induction paradigm specifically reduces NMDAR-dependent plateau potential and aberrant spike firings during repetitive activity. Together, our results suggest that coincident activation of mGluRs and NMDARs during intense synaptic activity may lead to selective endocytosis of NMDARs in the perisynaptic/extrasynaptic domain, and implicate that mGluRs are potentially important for gating development of high-fidelity neurotransmission at this synapse.
It has become widely accepted that along with its ability to directly regulate gene expression, estradiol also influences cell signaling and brain function via rapid membrane-initiated events. Many of these novel signaling processes are dependent on estrogen receptors (ERs) localized to the neuronal membrane. However, the mechanism(s) by which ERs are able to trigger cell signaling when targeted to the neuronal membrane surface has yet to be determined. In hippocampal neurons, we find that caveolin proteins are essential for the regulation of CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) phosphorylation after estradiol activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) signaling. Furthermore, caveolin-1 (CAV1) and CAV3 differentially regulate the ability of estradiol to activate two discrete signaling pathways. ER alpha activation of mGluR1a is dependent on CAV1, whereas CAV3 is necessary for ER alpha and ER beta activation of mGluR2/3. These results are consistent with previous reports in non-neuronal cells, implicating the importance of caveolin proteins in rapid estrogen signaling. In addition, the functional isolation of distinct estrogen-sensitive signaling pathways by different caveolin proteins suggests novel mechanisms through which the membrane-initiated effects of estradiol are orchestrated.
A-type K+ channels (A-channels) are crucial in controlling neuronal excitability, and their downregulation in pain-sensing neurons may increase pain sensation. To test this hypothesis, we first characterized the expression of two A-channels, Kv3.4 and Kv4.3, in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Kv3.4 was expressed mainly in the nociceptive DRG neurons, in their somata, axons, and nerve terminals innervating the dorsal horn of spinal cord. In contrast, Kv4.3 appeared selectively in the somata of a subset of nonpeptidergic nociceptive DRG neurons. Most Kv4.3(+) DRG neurons also expressed Kv3.4. In a neuropathic pain model induced by spinal nerve ligation in rats, the protein levels of Kv3.4 and Kv4.3 in the DRG neurons were greatly reduced. After Kv3.4 or Kv4.3 expression in lumbar DRG neurons was suppressed by intrathecal injections of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, mechanical but not thermal hypersensitivity developed. Together, our data suggest that reduced expression of A-channels in pain-sensing neurons may induce mechanical hypersensitivity, a major symptom of neuropathic pain.
Numerous functional neuroimaging studies reported increased activity in the middorsolateral prefrontal cortex (MDLFC) and the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) during the performance of working memory tasks. However, the role of the PPC in working memory is not understood and, although there is strong evidence that the MDLFC is involved in the monitoring of information in working memory, it is also often stated that it is involved in the manipulation of such information. This event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study compared brain activity during the performance of working memory trials in which either monitoring or manipulation of information was required. The results show that the PPC is centrally involved in manipulation processes, whereas activation of the MDLFC is related to the monitoring of the information that is being manipulated. This study provides dissociation of activation in these two regions and, thus, succeeds in further specifying their relative contribution to working memory.
Treatment with either estradiol or an estrogen receptor (ER)alpha ligand has been shown to be both antiinflammatory and neuroprotective in a variety of neurological disease models, but whether neuroprotective effects could be observed in the absence of an antiinflammatory effect has remained unknown. Here, we have contrasted effects of treatment with an ERalpha vs. an ERbeta ligand in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, the multiple sclerosis model with a known pathogenic role for both inflammation and neurodegeneration. Clinically, ERalpha ligand treatment abrogated disease at the onset and throughout the disease course. In contrast, ERbeta ligand treatment had no effect at disease onset but promoted recovery during the chronic phase of the disease. ERalpha ligand treatment was antiinflammatory in the systemic immune system, whereas ERbeta ligand treatment was not. Also, ERalpha ligand treatment reduced CNS inflammation, whereas ERbeta ligand treatment did not. Interestingly, treatment with either the ERalpha or the ERbeta ligand was neuroprotective, as evidenced by reduced demyelination and preservation of axon numbers in white matter, as well as decreased neuronal abnormalities in gray matter. Thus, by using the ERbeta selective ligand, we have dissociated the antiinflammatory effect from the neuroprotective effect of estrogen treatment and have shown that neuroprotective effects of estrogen treatment do not necessarily depend on antiinflammatory properties. Together, these findings suggest that ERbeta ligand treatment should be explored as a potential neuroprotective strategy in multiple sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases, particularly because estrogen-related toxicities such as breast and uterine cancer are mediated through ERalpha.
Several neuroendocrine complications including diabetes change the morphine antinociception and the development of tolerance to the drug. Morphine antinociception was reduced significantly in morphine tolerant diabetic rats compared to the non-diabetic animals. The exact mechanism of this effect is not known. This study was performed to determine the role of nitric oxide (NO) on morphine tolerance in diabetic state. Nociceptive responses in alloxan-induced diabetic morphine tolerated rats were measured by the hot-plate test. The urinary nitric oxide level was measured spectrophotometrically with Griess reagent. For the conversion of nitrate to nitrite, vanadium chloride was used. The results showed that experimental diabetes increased morphine analgesia. Conversely, degree of tolerance to morphine was diminished in diabetic state. The urinary nitrite content in diabetic morphine tolerated rats was higher than non-diabetic groups. L-arginine significantly increased the NO production in diabetic morphine tolerated animals, whereas aminoguanidine decreased it. Appropriately, L-arginine increased the latency time of reaction to noxious stimuli in diabetic compared to non-diabetic rats. L-arginine-treated animals also showed more tolerance to morphine analgesia. As expected, aminoguanidine deducted the level of morphine tolerance in diabetic animals. It is suggested that NO has a modulatory role in the effects of diabetes on morphine analgesia and tolerance.

The importance of observing swings above euthymic normality in patients with affective disorders has been emphasized by many research groups. The concept of mood bipolarity has not only established a Bipolar II disorder (with only hypomania, not mania, but also opened up for discussion of a Bipolar Spectrum, that would necessitate treatment with a broader range of agents, i.e., not only antidepressants. In order to understand the determinants of the patterns of mood swings in individuals with bipolar disorder we have used a computerized life-charting technique to analyze a large amount of clinical information in 100 patients with bipolar mood swings. In a cross-sectional set-up, we demonstrate clear evidence of achieving a better long-term stabilization when starting patients on mood stabilizer early after the first evidence of the mood disorder.
The neuropeptide CART (cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript) is suggested to be regulated by psychostimulant administration. We review here the localization of CART mRNA expression in the human brain and its possible relevance to human cocaine abuse. Except for strong hypothalamic expression, the CART transcript is predominately expressed in target regions of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, such as the nucleus accumbens shell, amygdala complex, extended amygdala and orbitofrontal, enthorhinal and piriform cortices. The discrete limbic localization strongly implies involvement in reward and reinforcement behaviors. We therefore examined CART mRNA expression in both Sprague Dawley rats and Rhesus monkeys that had self-administered cocaine. Cocaine self-administration in the rat (1.5 mg/kg/inj, on a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement for 1 week) and monkey (0.03 or 0.3 mg/kg/inj on a fixed 3 min interval schedule of reinforcement for 5 or 100 days) did not alter transcript levels in CART expressing nucleus accumbens (monkey not studied), amygdala nuclei or cortical areas. However, in the monkey sublenticular extended amygdala, low dose cocaine self-administration resulted in increased CART transcript levels after both 5 and 100 days of self-administration, whereas no difference was found after high dose self-administration. In conclusion, we found no substantial alterations CART mRNA expression during cocaine self-administration, but this neuropeptide has the anatomical and functional potential to modulate brain areas relevant for cocaine abuse. Further studies are needed to evaluate the involvement of CART in other components of the cocaine abuse cycle.
The exploration of physiological and molecular actions of psychoactive drugs in the brain represents a fundamental approach to the understanding of emerging psychological phenomena. The author gives a personal account of his medical training and research career at Karolinska Institutet over the past 50 years. The paper aims at illustrating how a broad medical education and the integration of basic and clinical neuroscience research is a fruitful ground for the development of new methods and knowledge in this complicated field. Important aspects for an optimal research environment are recruitment of well-educated students, a high intellectual identity of teachers and active researchers, international input and collaboration in addition to good physical resources. In depth exploration of specific signaling pathways as well as an integrative analysis of genes, molecules and systems using multivariate modeling, and bioinformatics, brain mechanisms behind mental phenomena may be understood at a basic level and will ultimately be used for the alleviation and treatment of mental disorders.
Repeated exposure to ethanol has previously been shown to induce alterations in both midbrain dopamine and dynorphin systems. The aim of this study was to investigate functional changes in the sensitivity of dynorphin/kappa-receptor systems following repeated ethanol administration, using dopamine as an indirect marker. The effects of kappa-opioid receptor ligands on dopamine release in the rat nucleus accumbens were investigated following repeated ethanol administration (2 g/kg body weight, twice daily for 7 days). The selective kappa-receptor agonist U50, 488H reduced dopamine levels in both ethanol- and saline-treated animals, although the decline had a later onset and lasted shorter in the ethanol-treated group. Nor-binaltorphimine, a kappa-antagonist, produced a significant increase of dopamine in ethanol-treated rats, but lacked effect in the saline-treated group. This change in responsiveness of dopamine neurons following repeated ethanol administration could be related to changes in the sensitivity of kappa-receptor systems and/or an increase in dynorphin tone in the nucleus accumbens.
DJ-1 (PARK7) has been implicated in early onset and familial cases of Parkinson's disease (PD). We therefore mapped cellular activity patterns of the DJ-1 gene in human and rodent brain tissue with radioactive in-situ hybridization. In all three mammals mRNA expression was restricted mainly to neurons in all regions analyzed. White matter, such as crus cerebri and capsula interna appeared negative, suggesting that glial cells express DJ-1 at levels below the detection limit of our method. We compared DJ-1 mRNA expression to the neuronal marker UCH-L1, which has also been implicated in PD, and found lower levels for DJ-1 but very similar patterns of expression. Measurement of the signal intensity revealed that human frontal cortex of control cases expressed DJ-1 mRNA more abundantly than other regions such as substantia nigra in the midbrain. Comparing DJ-1 expression in dopamine neurons on hemi-sections from controls and patients we could not detect any difference between 14 controls, 8 idiopathic Parkinson and 5 schizophrenia cases. Of note, DJ-1 is expressed in several other tissues such as the liver, gastrointestinal tract, adrenal and pituitary gland and during embryonic development, while UCH-L1 has a strictly neuronal expression also outside the CNS. We conclude that DJ-1 and UCH-L1, like other genes linked to PD, are not expressed specifically in DA neurons, but instead generally in neurons. The abundant expression of DJ-1 in certain peripheral tissues and of UCH-L1 in peripheral neurons may also be of relevance for the spectrum of symptoms in different forms of PD.
Consistent with the hypothesis that the amygdala is central to fear activation, brain imaging studies show that fear stimuli activate the amygdala, even when conscious recognition is prevented by backward masking. The bulk of the data suggest that the amygdala can be activated from potentially accessible but unattended fear stimuli. Activation of the amygdala facilitates low level visual processing. Several lines of evidence suggest that activation of the amygdala is mediated by a subcortical pathway. Thus, according to data from patients with lesions in the primary visual cortex, the amygdala can be activated in the absence of cortical processing. There is considerable support for the hypothesis that visual stimuli can access the amygdala via a pathway that includes the superior colliculus and the pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus. These data are consistent with an evolutionary argument, focusing of the role of snakes as a predator on primates.
During the last two decades attention has been focussed on the role of different neuropeptides in hypothalamic control of feeding behavior. Several hypothalamic peptides that participate in the control of ingestive behavior are produced in neuronal cell bodies of the arcuate nucleus and/or the lateral hypothalamic area. Apart from producing orexigenic or anorexigenic compounds of peptidergic nature, these neurons also produce excitatory and inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitters. The role of GABA and glutamate in regulating energy balance has received less attention in comparison to neuropeptides. The arcuate nucleus-median eminence area, a region with a weak blood-brain barrier, contains at least two neuronal cell populations that exert opposing actions on energy balance. The majority of the neurons located in the ventromedial aspect of the arcuate nucleus, which produce the orexigenic peptides neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AGRP), contain in addition the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT), thereby supporting their GABAergic nature. Some neurons producing pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)- and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), located in the ventrolateral division of the arcuate nucleus have recently been reported to contain the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2), a marker for glutamatergic neurons, and the acetylcholine (ACh) synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) as well as the vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT), supporting also a cholinergic phenotype. In the lateral hypothalamic area, hypocretin/orexin neurons express VGLUT1 or VGLUT2, but not GAD, whereas some melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) cells contain GAD. These observations support the view that several classical transmitters, relatively neglected feeding transmitters candidates, are present in key neurons that regulate body weight and consequently may represent important orexigenic/anorexigenic mediators that convey information to other neurons within the hypothalamus as well as from the hypothalamus to other brain regions that participate in regulation of energy balance.
Motor disturbances and wasting of skeletal muscles (sarcopenia) causes significant impairment of daily life activities and is a major underlying cause for hospitalization in senescence. Herein we review data and present new findings on aging-specific changes in motoneurons, skeletal muscle and the interplay between motoneurons and target muscle fibers. Although many of the changes occurring during aging may be specific to motoneurons and myofibers, respectively, evidence indicates that myofiber regeneration in sarcopenic muscle is halted at the point where reinnervation is critical for the final differentiation into mature myofibers. Combined, evidence suggests that sarcopenia to a significant extent depend on a decreased capacity among motoneurons to innervate regenerating fibers. There are also conspicuous changes in the expression of several cytokines known to play important roles in establishing and maintaining neuromuscular connectivity during development and adulthood. We also present data showing the usefulness of rodent models in studies of successful and unsuccessful patterns of aging. Finally, we show that not only dietary restriction (DR) but also activity and social environment may modulate the pattern of aging.
The neuropeptide galanin is widely distributed throughout the central nervous system with multiple and diverse biological functions mediated by different receptor subtypes. In the rat, galanin-like immunoreactivity is expressed in a population of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) neurons in the dorsal raphe with extensive projections to the forebrain areas, e.g., hippocampus. This review summarizes results from experimental studies in rodents showing that in vivo galanin is a potent modulator of brain 5-HT transmission, and in particular 5-HT1A receptor-mediated functions. Galanin, given intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.), was demonstrated to have strong inhibitory interactions with 5-HT1A receptor functions, particularly in the dorsal raphe but also in the hippocampus. Since pre- and postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in the dorsal raphe and hippocampus are implicated in the action of antidepressant drugs and in depressive disorders, it is suggested that galanin receptors may be an important target for development of novel antidepressant drugs. This view is supported by a recent study in the rat showing that the galanin antagonist M35, given i.c.v., could block the depression-like behavior in the forced swim test induced by galanin, while M35 produced an antidepressant-like effect on its own.
Dysregulation of dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in frontal-striatal circuitry has been hypothesized to underlie several neurodevelopmental disorders, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The actions of DA are mediated by five distinct receptor subtypes that belong to the G-protein-coupled receptor super-family and are divided into two major classes, D1-like (D1 and D5) and D2-like (D2, D3, and D4). Accumulating evidence implicates the D1 receptor subtype (D1R) in the regulation of motor and cognitive processes. It is generally assumed that D1R is linked to motor activity in a stimulatory fashion. However, recent findings in rodents suggest a potential role of D1R on motor inhibition, which emerges during late postnatal development. Several lines of evidence indicate that the locus of the inhibitory effects involve subregions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). These results may be relevant for understanding the neurobiology of ADHD.
The selection and execution of appropriate motor behavior result in large part from the ability of the basal ganglia to collect, integrate and feedback information coming from the cerebral cortex. The GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum represent the main receiving station of the basal ganglia. These cells are innervated by excitatory glutamatergic fibers from cortex and thalamus, and modulatory dopaminergic fibers from the midbrain. MSNs comprise two populations of projection neurons, which give rise to the direct, striatonigral pathway, and indirect, striatopallidal pathway. Changes in transmission at the level MSNs affect the activity of thalamocortical projection neurons, thereby influencing motor behavior. For instance, the cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease, such as tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia, are caused by the selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons originating in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which modulate the activity of MSNs in the dorsal striatum. The therapy for Parkinson's disease relies on the use of levodopa, but is hampered by neuroadaptive changes affecting dopaminergic and glutamatergic transmission in striatonigral neurons. MSNs are also the target of many psychoactive drugs. For example, caffeine affects motor activity by blocking adenosine receptors in the basal ganglia, thereby affecting neurotransmission in striatopallidal neurons. The present review focuses on studies performed in our laboratory, which provide a molecular framework to understand the effects on motor activity of adenosine and caffeine.
Voltage-gated ion channels are key players in fast neuronal signalling. Detailed knowledge about channel gating is essential for our understanding of channel function in general and of drug action of channels in particular. Despite a number of recent atomic channel structures, the opening of voltage-gated channels is the subject of heated debates. Here we will discuss two of the controversies: one concerning the mechanism of opening and closing the pore, and the other concerning the location and movement of the voltage sensor. The channels were originally suggested to open at a conserved proline rich sequence (PVP) at the intracellular end of the transmembrane segment 6 (S6). The crystallization of a channel in the open state instead suggested an opening involving a conserved glycine hinge located in the middle portion of S6. Based on pharmacological studies, autodocking and molecular dynamics simulations we have found support for the PVP-bend model. The voltage sensor, transmembrane segment 4 (S4), was originally suggested to be buried in the channel protein, undergoing a helical-screw-like motion to open the channel. A recent crystallographic study suggested that S4 is located in the periphery, facing lipid, and undergoing a paddle-like motion to open the channel. We have found experimental evidence for a novel helical-screw model; with the voltage sensor moving in a screw-like fashion but being located in the periphery of the channel. This model opens up for understanding how lipophilic drugs and toxins directly affect the voltage sensor.
Subspecies of the extracellular parasite, Trypanosoma brucei, which are spread by the tsetse fly in sub-Saharan Africa, cause in humans Sleeping Sickness. In experimental rodent models the parasite can at a certain stage of disease pass through the blood-brain barrier across or between the endothelial cells and the vessel basement membranes. The laminin composition of the basement membranes determines whether they are permissive to parasite penetration. One cytokine, interferon-gamma, plays an important role in regulating the trypanosome trafficking into the brain. Treatment strategies aim at developing drugs that can impede penetration of trypanosomes into the brain and/or that can eliminate trypanosomes once they are inside the brain parenchyma, but have lower toxicity than the ones presently in use.
Dysregulation of the monoaminergic systems is likely a sufficient but not a necessary cause of depression. A wealth of data indicates that neuropeptides, e.g., NPY, CRH, somatostatin, tachykinins and CGRP play a role in affective disorders and alcohol use/abuse. This paper focuses on NPY in etiology and pathophysiology of depression. Decreased peptide and mRNA NPY were found in hippocampus of both the genetic, e.g., the FSL strain, and environmental rat models of depression, e.g., chronic mild stress and early life maternal separation paradigms. Rat models of alcoholism also show altered NPY. Furthermore, NPY is also reduced in CSF of depressed patients. Antidepressive treatments tested so far (lithium, topiramate, SSRIs, ECT and ECS, wheel running) increase NPY selectively in rat hippocampus and in human CSF. Moreover, NPY given icv to rat has antidepressive effects which are antagonized by NPY-Y1 blockers. The data support our hypothesis that the NPY system dysregulation constitutes one of the biological underpinnings of depression and that one common mechanism of action of antidepressive treatment modalities may be effects on NPY and its receptors. In a novel paradigm, early life maternal separation was superimposed on &quot;depressed&quot; FSL and control rats and behavioral and brain neurochemistry changes observed in adulthood. The consequences were more deleterious in genetically vulnerable FSL. Early antidepressive treatment modulated the adult sequelae. Consequently, if these data are confirmed, the ethical and medical question that will be asked is whether it is permissible and advisable to consider prophylactically treating persons at risk.
The dopamine D1 and D2 receptors are major receptors in the regulation of striatal function and striatal adenosine A1 and A2A receptors are major modulators of their signaling. The evidence suggests the existence of antagonistic A1-D1 heteromeric receptor complexes in the basal ganglia and prefrontal cortex and especially in the direct striatonigral-striatoentopeduncular GABA pathways. The neurochemical and behavioral findings showing antagonistic A1-D1 receptor interactions can be explained by the existence of such A1-D1 heteromeric receptor complexes and of antagonistic interactions at the level of the second messengers. In contrast, A2A-D2 receptor heteromers may exist in the dorsal and ventral striato-pallidal GABA pathways, where activation of A2A receptors reduces D2 receptor recognition, coupling and signaling. As a result of the A2A receptor-induced reduction of D2 receptor signaling, the activity of these GABA neurons is increased resulting in reduced motor and reward functions mediated via the indirect pathway, causing a reduced glutamate drive to the prefrontal and motor areas of the cerebral cortex. Thus, A2A receptor antagonists and A2A receptor agonists, respectively, may offer novel treatments of Parkinson's disease (reduced D2 receptor signaling) and of schizophrenia and drug addiction (increased D2 receptor signaling).
Numerous CNS diseases of primarily non-inflammatory origin, such as idiopathic neurodegenerative diseases, contain elements of inflammation, with T cell infiltration, MHC class II expression and neuron/axon damage. Gene mapping in human clinical materials have in most cases failed to unravel discrete genes, since most genes instrumental in non-Mendelian forms of these complex diseases are likely to modestly affect risk, be evolutionary conserved in the population and vary between individuals. We here describe the exploration of susceptibility to neurodegeneration and inflammatory glial activation in response to mechanical nerve injury using experimental genetic models. The response to ventral root avulsion, which is a simple and reproducible model of nerve injury-induced neurodegeneration and inflammation, was examined in a panel of inbred rat strains. A whole genome scan subsequently performed in a F2(DAxPVG) intercross identified quantitative trait loci (QTLs) regulating different features of the nerve injury response. Fine mapping in an advanced intercross line revealed polymorphisms in the Mhc2ta gene as being responsible for strain differences in MHC class II expression. Furthermore, a polymorphism in the syntenic human gene, MHC2TA, was associated both with lower expression of MHC class II-associated genes and increased susceptibility to inflammatory diseases. These results provide important insights into the genetic regulation of fundamental physiological responses of the nervous system to damage and demonstrate relevance also for human diseases.
This paper briefly summarizes the studies of nervous mechanisms controlling the body posture, which were performed in the Department of Neuroscience of the Karolinska Institute during the last decade. Postural mechanisms were investigated in &quot;animal models&quot; of different complexity--the mollusk, lamprey, rabbit, and cat. The following problems were addressed: (1) functional organization of the postural system; (2) localization of postural functions in the mammalian CNS; (3) postural networks; (4) impairment of postural control caused by vestibular deficit. These studies have significantly expanded our knowledge of how the postural control system operates, how the stabilized body orientation can be changed, and how the postural functions are distributed within different parts of the CNS. For simpler animal models (mollusk, lamprey), the neuronal networks responsible for the control of body posture have been analyzed in considerable detail, with identification of the main cell types and their interactions. Also, alterations in the activity of postural mechanisms caused by the vestibular deficit were investigated to better understand the process of recovery of postural function.
Psychostimulants including amphetamine and cocaine induce locomotion and stereotypy and suppress eating. Although the capacity of cocaine to alter locomotion is usually viewed as related to dopamine neurotransmission, recent studies suggest that norepinephrine, acting through alpha1-adrenergic receptors (alpha1-ARs) can facilitate cocaine-stimulated locomotion. Of the three alpha1-AR subtypes (alpha(1A), alpha(1B), and alpha(1D)) identified to date, inactivation of the alpha(1B)-AR subtype diminishes cocaine-stimulated locomotion, whereas the impact of inactivation of the alpha(1A)-AR subtype on either eating or locomotion is unknown. In the present study, we assessed the relative impact of ICV administration of the alpha(1B)-AR antagonist 5-methylurapidil (5-MU) on cocaine-stimulated hyperlocomotion and hypophagia, using a concurrent method [Wellman, P.J., Ho, D.H., Davis, K.W., 2005. Concurrent measures of feeding and locomotion in rats. Physiology of Behavior 84 (5), 769-774.]. Rats were infused ICV with one of 3 doses of 5-MU (0, 3, or 30 nmol) and then injected (i.p.) with 0, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0, or 20.0 mg/kg cocaine HCl on each of five tests. Rats always received the same 5-MU dose, but a different cocaine dose on each trial. Feeding and locomotion were assessed concurrently during a 45-min postinjection period. Significant suppression of eating was noted at 2.5 mg/kg cocaine, a dose that does not alter forward locomotion in the rat. Administration of 5-MU did not alter locomotion in rats treated with saline, but did significantly increase baseline food intake. Neither cocaine-induced hypophagia nor hyperlocomotion was altered by ICV administration of 5-MU. These results suggest that the capacity of alpha1-AR agonists (e.g. phenylpropanolamine) to suppress eating may be related to activation of the alpha(1A)-AR subtype, whereas cocaine does not act through the alpha(1A)-AR subtype to suppress eating nor does this subtype modulate cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion.

AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) represents a key energy-sensing molecule in many cell types. Because astrocytes are key mediators of metabolic signaling in the brain, we have initiated studies on the expression and activation of AMPK in these cells. Treatment of cultured rat cortical astrocytes with a pharmacological AMPK activator, AICA-riboside (AICAR) resulted in a time- and concentration-dependent increase in phosphorylation of AMPK and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a direct substrate. AICAR treatment also induced a transition from epithelioid to stellate morphology in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. As stellation is indicative of actin cytoskeletal reorganization, the formation of stress fibers and focal adhesions in response to AICAR was assessed. AICAR-induced stellation correlated with F-actin disassembly and focal adhesion dispersal. Furthermore, transient transfection of an activated RhoA construct prevented AICAR-induced stellation, indicating a mechanism upstream of RhoA. Use of pharmacological inhibitor compound C prevented AICAR-induced stellation demonstrating necessity of AMPK activity for the response. Our findings suggest that AMPK mediates morphological alterations of astrocytes in response to energy depletion.
Proteasomal dysfunction has been suggested to contribute to the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease. A recent study reported that systemic treatment of rats with the proteasome inhibitor Z-lle-Glu(OtBu)-Ala-Leu-al (PSI) causes a slowly progressive degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons, the presence of inclusion bodies in dopamine neurons, and motor impairment. We examined in vitro and in vivo the effects of PSI on nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. Mass spectrometric analysis was employed to verify the authenticity of the PSI compound. PSI was non-specifically toxic to neurons in ventral mesencephalic organotypic slice cultures, indicating that impairment of proteasome function in vitro is toxic. Moreover, systemic administration of PSI transiently decreased brain proteasome activity. Systemic treatment of rats with PSI did not, however, result in any biochemical or anatomical evidence of lesions of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons, nor were any changes in locomotor activity observed. These data suggest that systemic administration of proteasome inhibitors to normal adult rats does not reliably cause an animal model of parkinsonism.
Mitochondrial dysfunction (depolarization and structural collapse), cytosolic ATP depletion, and neuritic beading are early hallmarks of neuronal toxicity induced in a variety of pathological conditions. We show that, following global exposure to glutamate, mitochondrial changes are spatially and temporally coincident with dendritic bead formation. During oxygen-glucose deprivation, mitochondrial depolarization precedes mitochondrial collapse, which in turn is followed by dendritic beading. These events travel as a wave of activity from distal dendrites toward the neuronal cell body. Despite the spatiotemporal relationship between dysfunctional mitochondria and dendritic beads, mitochondrial depolarization and cytoplasmic ATP depletion do not trigger these events. However, mitochondrial dysfunction increases neuronal vulnerability to these morphological changes during normal physiological activity. Our findings support a mechanism whereby, during glutamate excitotoxicity, Ca(2+) influx leads to mitochondrial depolarization, whereas Na(+) influx leads to an unsustainable increase in ATP demand (Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity). This leads to a drop in ATP levels, an accumulation of intracellular Na(+) ions, and the subsequent influx of water, leading to microtubule depolymerization, mitochondrial collapse, and dendritic beading. Following the removal of a glutamate challenge, dendritic recovery is dependent upon the integrity of the mitochondrial membrane potential, but not on a resumption of ATP synthesis or Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity. Thus, dendritic recovery is not a passive reversal of the events that induce dendritic beading. These findings suggest that the degree of calcium influx and mitochondrial depolarization inflicted by a neurotoxic challenge, determines the ability of the neuron to recover its normal morphology.
RIC-3 has been identified as a chaperone molecule involved in promoting the functional expression of nicotinic acetylcholine and 5-HT(3) receptors in mammalian cells. In this study, we examined the effects of RIC-3a (isoform a) and a truncated isoform (isoform d) on RIC-3 localization, mobility, and aggregation and its effect on 5-HT3 receptor composition in mammalian cells. Human RIC-3a possesses an amino-terminal signal sequence that targets it to the endoplasmic reticulum where it is distributed within the reticular network, often forming large diffuse &quot;slicks&quot; and bright &quot;halo&quot; structures. RIC-3a is highly mobile within and between these compartments. Despite the propensity for RIC-3a to aggregate, its expression enhances the level of surface 5-HT3A (homomeric) receptors. In contrast, RIC-3a exerts an inhibitory action on the surface expression of heteromeric 5-HT3A/B receptors. RIC-3d exhibits an altered subcellular distribution, being localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, large diffuse slicks, tubulo-vesicular structures, and the Golgi. Bidirectional trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi suggests that RIC-3d constitutively cycles between these two compartments. In support of the large coiled-coil domain of RIC-3a being responsible for protein aggregation, RIC-3d, lacking this cytoplasmic domain, does not aggregate or induce the formation of bright aggregates. Regardless of these differences, isoform d is still capable of enhancing homomeric, and inhibiting heteromeric, 5-HT3 receptor expression. Thus, both isoforms of RIC-3 play a role in determining 5-HT3 receptor composition.
Beclin-1, originally identified as a Bcl-2 binding protein, is an evolutionarily conserved protein required for autophagy. The direct interaction between Beclin-1 and Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL provides a potential convergence point for apoptosis and autophagy, two programmed cell death processes. Given the functional significance of the interaction between Beclin-1 and Bcl-2/Bcl-xL, we performed detailed biochemical and structural characterizations of this interaction. We demonstrated that the Bcl-xL-binding domain of Beclin-1 contains a BH3 domain. Therefore, Beclin-1 is a new member of the BH3-only family proteins. The structure of Bcl-xL in complex with the Beclin-1 BH3 domain was determined at high resolution by NMR spectroscopy. Although similar to other known BH3 domains, the Beclin-1 BH3 domain displays its own distinct features in the complex with Bcl-xL. Systematic analysis of all known Bcl-xL/BH3 domain complexes helped us to identify the molecular basis underlying the capacity of Bcl-xL to recognize diverse target sequences.

The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays an important role in motor and non-motor behavior in Parkinson's disease, but its involvement in gait functions is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of the STN on gait in a rat model of PD using the CatWalk method. Parkinsonian rats received bilateral high frequency stimulation (HFS) with different stimulation amplitudes of the STN. Rats were rendered parkinsonian by bilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the striatum. One group of 6-OHDA animals was implanted bilaterally with stimulation electrodes at the level of the STN. Stimulations were performed at 130 Hz (frequency), 60 micros (pulse width) and varying amplitudes of 0, 3, 30 and 150 microA. Rats were evaluated in an automated quantitative gait analysis method (CatWalk method). After behavioral evaluations, rats were killed and the brains processed for histological stainings to determine the impact of the dopaminergic lesion (tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry) and the localization of the electrode tip (hematoxylin-eosin histochemistry). Results show that bilateral 6-OHDA infusion significantly decreased (70%) the number of dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Due to 6-OHDA treatment, the gait parameters changed considerably. There was a general slowness. The most pronounced effects were seen at the level of the hind paws. Due to implantation of STN electrodes the step pattern changed. STN electrical stimulation improved the general slowness but induced slowing of the forelimb movement. Furthermore, we found that HFS with a medium amplitude significantly changed speed, the so-called dynamic aspect of gait. The static features of gait were only significantly influenced with low amplitude. Remarkably, STN stimulation affected predominantly the forepaws/limbs.
Adult rat sensory trigeminal ganglion neurons innervating the cornea (cTGNs) were isolated and identified following retrograde dye labeling with FM1-43. Using standard whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques, cTGNs could be subdivided by their action potential (AP) duration. Fast cTGNs had AP durations &lt;1 ms (40%) while slow cTGNs had AP durations &gt;1 ms and an inflection on the repolarization phase of the AP. With the exception of membrane input resistance, the passive membrane properties of fast cTGNs were different from those of slow cTGNs (capacitance: 61+/-4.5 pF vs. 42+/-2.6 pF, resting membrane potential: -59+/-0.7 mV vs. -53+/-0.9 mV, for fast and slow cTGNs respectively). Active membrane properties also differed between fast and slow cTGNs. Slow cTGNs had a higher AP threshold (-25+/-1.6 mV vs. -38+/-0.8 mV), a larger rheobase (14+/-1.9 pA/pF vs. 6.8+/-1.0 pA/pF), and a smaller AP undershoot (-56+/-1.7 mV vs. -67+/-2.5 mV). The AP overshoot, however was similar between the two types of neurons (46+/-3.1 mV vs. 48+/-4 mV). Slow cTGNs were depolarized by capsaicin (1 microM, 80%) and 60% of their APs were blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX) (100 nM). Fast cTGNs were unaffected by capsaicin and 100% of their APs were blocked by TTX. Similarly, cTGNs were also heterogeneous with respect to their responses to exogenous ATP and 5-HT. The current work shows that cTGNs have distinctive electrophysiological properties and chemosensitivity profiles. These characteristics may mirror the distinct properties of corneal sensory nerve terminals. The availability of isolated identified cTGNs constitutes a tractable model system to investigate the biophysical and pharmacological properties of corneal sensory nerve terminals.
ATP is co-released in significant quantities with acetylcholine from motor neurons at skeletal neuromuscular junctions (NMJ). However, the role of this neurotransmitter in muscle function remains unclear. The P2X2 ion channel receptor subunit is expressed during development of the skeletal NMJ, but not in adult muscle fibers, although it is re-expressed during muscle fiber regeneration. Using mice deficient for the P2X2 receptor subunit for ATP (P2X2(-/-)), we demonstrate a role for purinergic signaling in NMJ development. Whereas control NMJs were characterized by precise apposition of pre-synaptic motor nerve terminals and post-synaptic junctional folds rich in acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), NMJs in P2X2(-/-) mice were disorganized: misapposition of nerve terminals and post-synaptic AChR expression localization was common; the density of post-synaptic junctional folds was reduced; and there was increased end-plate fragmentation. These changes in NMJ structure were associated with muscle fiber atrophy. In addition there was an increase in the proportion of fast type muscle fibers. These findings demonstrate a role for P2X2 receptor-mediated signaling in NMJ formation and suggest that purinergic signaling may play an as yet largely unrecognized part in synapse formation.
This study investigated whether somatostatin (SST) modulates the excitability of nociceptive trigeminal ganglion (TRG) neurons that innervate the nasal mucosa and project to the upper cervical (C(1)) dorsal horn by using perforated-patch clamping, retrograde-labeling, and immunohistochemistry. Fluorogold (FG) retrograde labeling was used to identify the rat TRG neurons innervating the nasal mucosa, while microbeads (MB) were used to label neurons projected onto the superficial layer of the C(1) dorsal horn. FG-labeled small-diameter TRG neurons exhibited SST(2A) receptor immunoreactivity (19%) and half of these neurons were also labeled with MB. In whole-cell current-clamp mode, most (72%) of the dissociated FG-/MB-labeled TRG neurons were hyperpolarized by application of SST. The hyperpolarization was evoked by SST in a concentration-dependent manner (0.1-10 microM) and the responses were associated with a decrease in the cell input resistance. The minimum concentration to elicit a significant hyperpolarization was 1 microM. The repetitive firings during a depolarizing pulse were significantly reduced by SST (1 microM) application. The hyperpolarization and decreased firing evoked by SST were both blocked by the SST(2) receptor antagonist, CYN154806 (1 microM). Under voltage-clamp conditions, SST (1 microM) significantly increased the voltage-gated K(+) transient (I(A)) and sustained (I(K)) currents and these increases were abolished by coapplication of CYN154806 (1 microM). In the presence of both 4-aminopyridine (6 mM) and tetraethylammonium (10 mM), no significant changes in the membrane potential in response to SST application were found. These results suggest that modulation of trigeminal nociceptive transmission in the C(1) dorsal horn by activation of SST(2A) receptors occurs at the level of small-diameter TRG cell bodies and/or their afferent terminals, and that this may be related to regulation of protective upper-airway reflexes.
Soy phytoestrogens have been proposed as an alternative to estrogen replacement therapy and have demonstrated potential neuroprotective effects in the brain. We have shown that a high soy diet significantly reduces infarct size following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Here, we tested the hypothesis that a high soy diet would attenuate programmed cell death after stroke. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized and fed either an isoflavone-reduced diet (IFP) or a high soy diet (SP) for 2 weeks before undergoing 90 min of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) followed by 22.5 h reperfusion. Infarct size, as assessed by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining, was significantly reduced by a high soy diet (P&lt;0.05). Apoptosis in the ischemic cortex, measured by TUNEL staining, was significantly reduced by the high soy diet. The number of active caspase-3 positive cells and caspase-mediated alpha-spectrin cleavage were also significantly decreased in the ischemic cortex of SP rats. Furthermore, nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) was significantly reduced in the ischemic cortex of SP rats. Soy significantly increased bcl-x(L) mRNA and protein expression in the ischemic cortex compared with IFP rats. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased neuronal expression of bcl-2 and bcl-x(L) in the ischemic cortex of both IFP and SP rats following tMCAO. These results suggest that a high soy diet decreases both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent programmed cell death following tMCAO. Further, a high soy diet enhances expression of the cell survival factor bcl-x(L) following tMCAO, contributing to the neuroprotective effects of soy in the ischemic cortex.
Hippocampal granule cells (GCs) are continuously generated in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus (DG) and functionally incorporated to dentate neural circuits even in adulthood. This raises a question about the fate of neonatally born GCs in adult DG. Do they exist until adulthood or are they largely superseded by adult-born GCs? To investigate this question, we examined the contributions of postnatally born GCs to the adult mouse DG. C57BL/6 mice were grouped in three different postnatal (P) ages (group 1: P0, group 2: P7, and group 3: P35) and received a daily bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injection for three consecutive days (P0/1/2, P7/8/9, and P35/36/37, respectively) to label dividing cells. At 6 months old, hippocampal sections were prepared from the animals and immunostained with anti-BrdU antibody and an antibody against the homeobox prospero-like protein Prox1, a marker of GCs. We defined BrdU- and Prox1-double positive cells as newborn GCs and analyzed their density and distribution in the granule cell layer (gcl), revealing that newborn GCs of each group still existed 6 months after BrdU injections and that the density of GCs born during P0-2 (group 1) was significantly higher compared with the other groups. Although the density of newborn GCs in the each group did not differ between male and female, the radial distribution of them in gcl showed some differences, that is, male newborn GCs localized toward the molecular layer compared with female ones in group 1, while to the hilus in group 2. These results suggest that GCs born in early postnatal days numerically dominate adult DG and that there exist sex differences in GC localizations which depend on the time when they were born.
The amygdala is a medial forebrain structure with an established role in nociceptive modulation, including the expression of stress-induced hypoalgesia (SIH). Projections from the locus coeruleus increase levels of noradrenaline in the amygdala during acute stress. alpha(2)-Noradrenergic receptor agonists have significant clinical utility as analgesic agents. We therefore hypothesized that alpha(2)-noradrenergic activation of the amygdala may result in behaviorally measurable hypoalgesia. Lightly anesthetized rats underwent microinjection of the alpha(2)-noradrenergic agonist clonidine into the amygdala and intermittent measurement of thermal nociception using the tail-flick latency (TFL). Bilateral microinjection of clonidine into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) resulted in a significant, dose-dependent increase in TFL. This effect was blocked by systemic pre-treatment with the alpha(2)-antagonist yohimbine or by local pre-injection of the alpha(2)-antagonist idazoxan but not by local pre-injection of the alpha(1)-antagonist WB-4101. When injected alone, no antagonist resulted in a significant change in TFL compared with baseline. Clonidine injection into the amygdala but outside the CeA, including the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, did not significantly alter TFL. These results demonstrate that anatomically and pharmacologically specific activation of alpha(2)-receptors in the CeA in lightly anesthetized rats results in behaviorally measurable antinociception.
The mechanisms initiating post-spinal cord injury (SCI) apoptotic cell death remain incompletely understood. The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) has been shown to exert both pro-survival and pro-apoptotic effects on neural cells in vitro. While a previous study had shown that there is decreased oligodendrocyte apoptosis distal to a clean partial transection injury of the cord in mice with nonfunctional p75(NTR), most human spinal cord injuries do not involve partial transections but are rather due to compression/contusion injuries with significant perilesional ischemia. Therefore, we sought to examine the role of the p75(NTR) in a clinically relevant clip compression model of SCI in p75 null mice with an exon III mutation. Mice with a functional p75(NTR) had increased caspase-9 activation at 3 days after SCI in comparison to the functionally deficient p75(NTR) mice. However, at 7 days following SCI there was no difference in the activation of the effector caspases (caspase-3 and caspase-6) at the spinal cord lesion. Moreover, at 7 days after injury, there was increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end (TUNEL) positive cell death at the injury site in the functionally deficient p75(NTR) mice. Using double labeling with TUNEL and cell specific markers we showed that the absence of p75(NTR) function increased the extent of neuronal but not oligodendroglial cell death at the injury site. This selective loss of neuronal cells after SCI was confirmed with a decrease in levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 in the p75 null mice. Furthermore, the wild-type animals had dramatically improved survival and enhanced locomotor recovery at 8 weeks after SCI when compared with the p75(NTR) null mice. Also at 8 weeks, there were significantly more neurons present at the injury site of wild-type mice when compared with p75 null mice. We conclude that the p75(NTR) receptor is integral to neuronal cell survival and endogenous reparative mechanisms after compressive/contusive SCI.
Development of the visual callosal projection in rodents goes through an early critical period, from postnatal day (P) 4 to P6, during which retinal input specifies the blueprint for normal topographic connections, and a subsequent period of progressive pathway maturation that is largely complete by the time the eyes open, around P13. This study tests the hypothesis that these developmental stages correlate with age-related changes in the kinetics of synaptic responses mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate subclass of glutamate receptors (NMDARs). We used an in vitro slice preparation to perform whole-cell recordings from retrogradely-labeled visual callosal cells, as well from cortical cells with unknown projections. We analyzed age-related changes in the decay time constant of evoked as well as spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate subclass of glutamate receptors (NMDAR-EPSCs) in slices from normal pups and pups enucleated at different postnatal ages. In normal pups we found that the decay time constant of NMDAR-EPSCs increases starting at about P6 and decreases by about P13. In contrast, these changes were not observed in rats enucleated at birth. However, by delaying the age at which enucleation was performed we found that the presence of the eyes until P6, but not until P4, is sufficient for inducing slow NMDAR-EPSC kinetics during the second postnatal week, as observed in normal pups. These results provide evidence that the eyes exert a bidirectional effect on the kinetics of NMDARs: during a P4-P6 critical period, retinal influences induce processes that slow down the kinetics of NMDAR-EPSCs, while, near the age of eye opening, retinal input induces a sudden acceleration of NMDAR-EPSC kinetics. These findings suggest that the retinally-driven processes that specify normal callosal topography during the P4-P6 time window also induce an increase in the decay time constant of NMDAR-EPSCs. This increase in response kinetics may play an important role in the maturation of cortical topographic maps after P6. Using ifenprodil, a noncompetitive NR2B-selective blocker, we obtained evidence that although NR1/NR2B diheteromeric receptors contribute to evoked synaptic responses in both normal and enucleated animals, they are not primarily responsible for either the age-related changes in the kinetics of NMDAR-mediated responses, or the effects that bilateral enucleation has on the kinetics of NMDAR-EPSCs.
Dynorphins are endogenous opioid peptide products of the prodynorphin gene. An extensive literature suggests that dynorphins have deleterious effects on CNS injury outcome. We thus examined whether a deficiency of dynorphin would protect against tissue damage after spinal cord injury (SCI), and if individual cell types would be specifically affected. Wild-type and prodynorphin(-/-) mice received a moderate contusion injury at 10th thoracic vertebrae (T10). Caspase-3 activity at the injury site was significantly decreased in tissue homogenates from prodynorphin(-/-) mice after 4 h. We examined frozen sections at 4 h post-injury by immunostaining for active caspase-3. At 3-4 mm rostral or caudal to the injury, &gt;90% of all neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes expressed active caspase-3 in both wild-type and knockout mice. At 6-7 mm, there were fewer caspase-3(+) oligodendrocytes and astrocytes than at 3-4 mm. Importantly, caspase-3 activation was significantly lower in prodynorphin(-/-) oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, as compared with wild-type mice. In contrast, while caspase-3 expression in neurons also declined with further distance from the injury, there was no effect of genotype. Radioimmunoassay showed that dynorphin A(1-17) was regionally increased in wild-type injured versus sham-injured tissues, although levels of the prodynorphin processing product Arg(6)-Leu-enkephalin were unchanged. Our results indicate that dynorphin peptides affect the extent of post-injury caspase-3 activation, and that glia are especially sensitive to these effects. By promoting caspase-3 activation, dynorphin peptides likely increase the probability of glial apoptosis after SCI. While normally beneficial, our findings suggest that prodynorphin or its peptide products become maladaptive following SCI and contribute to secondary injury.
In the hippocampus, a brain structure critically important in the stress response, GABA controls neuronal activity not only via synaptic inhibition, but also via tonic inhibition through stimulation of extrasynaptic GABA receptors. The extracellular level of GABA may represent a major determinant for tonic inhibition and, therefore, it is surprising that its responsiveness to stress has hardly been investigated. To clarify whether hippocampal extracellular GABA levels change in response to acute stress, we conducted an in vivo microdialysis study in rats. We found that dialysate GABA levels respond to various neuropharmacological manipulations such as reuptake inhibition, elevated concentrations of K(+), tetrodotoxin and baclofen, indicating that a large proportion of hippocampal extracellular GABA depends on neuronal release and that GABA re-uptake plays a role in determining the extracellular levels of this neurotransmitter. Next, rats were exposed to a novel cage or to forced swimming in 25 degrees C water. Interestingly, these two stressors resulted in opposite effects. Novelty caused a fast increase in GABA (120% of baseline), whereas forced swimming resulted in a profound decrease (70% of baseline). To discriminate between the psychological and physical aspects (i.e. the effects on body temperature) of forced swimming, another group of animals was forced to swim at 35 degrees C. This stressor, like novelty, caused an increase in hippocampal GABA, suggesting a stimulatory effect of psychological stress. The effects of novelty could not be blocked by the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor antagonist D-Phe-CRF(12-41). These results are the first to demonstrate stressor-dependent changes in hippocampal extracellular GABA; an observation which may be of particular significance for GABAergic tonic inhibition of hippocampal neurons.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response is a measure of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in some neuropsychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia and Tourette's syndrome. Experimentally induced PPI deficits in rats are regarded as endophenotype to study the biological mechanisms and therapeutic strategies of these disorders. We have recently shown that selectively breeding rats for high and low PPI levels, respectively, leads to groups with different PPI performance that remains stable from the second generation on. We here tested whether the low PPI is accompanied by other behavioral deficits. Different spatial and operant learning paradigms were used to assess rats' learning and memory abilities as well as their behavioral flexibility. In the delayed alternation T-maze task the two groups did not differ in task acquisition and working memory. Rats with low PPI showed enhanced perseveration during switching between an egocentric and allocentric radial maze task. Enhanced perseveration was also found in an operant behavioral task, where different demands, i.e. a different number of lever presses for a pellet-reward, were assigned to and switched between two levers of a Skinner box. Rats with low PPI stayed longer at the ineffective lever before switching, thus being less able to adjust their behavior to changing reward values. Additionally, PPI low rats had a higher breakpoint value during a progressive ratio-schedule of reinforcement. Rats selectively bred for low PPI showed some cognitive deficits that are apparent in a number of psychiatric disorders with deficient information processing. Specifically in both, spatial and operant behavioral paradigms, PPI low rats are deteriorated in their ability to modulate behavior based upon new changing information. They may thus provide a non-pharmacological model that can be used to evaluate new therapeutic strategies ranging from pharmacological treatment to functional neurosurgery.
Studying the neural mechanisms underlying complex goal-directed behaviors, such as social behavior, reward seeking or punishment avoidance, has become increasingly tractable in humans, nonhuman primates and rodents. In most experiments, however, goal-directed behaviors are measured in a laboratory setting, which is vastly different from the context in which these behaviors naturally occur. This study adapted a reward assessment paradigm, previously conducted with rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) in the controlled environment of a Wisconsin General Testing Apparatus (WGTA) [Machado CJ, Bachevalier J (2007) The effects of selective amygdala, orbital frontal cortex or hippocampal formation lesions on reward assessment in nonhuman primates. Eur J Neurosci 25:2885-2904], to a more naturalistic context. We used this new paradigm to examine the effects of bilateral amygdaloid, hippocampal or orbital frontal cortex lesions on established food and nonfood preferences. Behavioral modification following reinforcer devaluation was also measured. Consistent with our previous study, none of the lesions produced changes in preference for palatable foods relative to pre-surgery, but animals with amygdala lesions displayed heightened preference for unpalatable foods that control or other operated animals typically avoided. In contrast to several previous WGTA-based experiments, nonfood preference was not affected by any of the lesions. Finally, animals with orbital frontal cortex lesions continued to select preferred foods after satiation, but those with amygdala, hippocampal or sham lesions altered their foraging behavior appropriately and selected less of the sated food. These findings parallel food devaluation results obtained with these same animals when tested in the WGTA. Overall, this study stresses the importance of testing context when measuring decision-making abilities in nonhuman primates with selective brain lesions.

The steady-state spectro-temporal tuning of auditory cortical cells has been studied using a variety of broadband stimuli that characterize neurons by their steady-state responses to long duration stimuli, lasting from about a second to several minutes. Central sensory stations are thought to adapt in their response to stimuli presented over extended periods of time. For instance, we have previously shown that auditory cortical neurons display a second order of adaptation, whereby the rate of their adaptation to the repeated presentation of fixed alternating stimuli decreases with each presentation. The auditory grating (or ripple) method of characterizing central auditory neurons, and its extensions, have proven very effective. But these stimuli are typically used with spectro-temporal content held fixed over time-scales of seconds, introducing the possibility of rapid adaptation while the receptive field is being measured, whereas the neural response used to compute a spectro-temporal receptive field (STRF) assumes stationarity in the neural input/output function. We demonstrate dynamic changes in some parameters during the measurement of the STRF over a period of seconds, even absent of a relevant behavioral task. Specifically, we find in the primary auditory cortex of the awake ferret, small but systematic changes in duration and breadth of tuning of STRFs when comparing the early (0.25-1.75 s) and late (4.5-6 s) segments of the responses to these stimuli.
High-frequency/low-energy gastric electrical stimulation (GES) is an efficient therapy to treat gastric emptying-related disorders but its mechanism of action remains poorly understood. We aimed to assess the effects of high-frequency/low-energy GES on corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), which are involved in gastric ileus induced by laparotomy. Two electrodes were implanted in the rat gastric antrum during laparotomy, then stimulation (amplitude: 2 mA; pulse duration 330 micros; frequency: 2 Hz; 1 min ON/2 min OFF) or sham stimulation (control group) were applied. Using immunohistochemistry, the number of c-Fos protein-expressing neurons (c-Fos protein-immunoreactive cells, Fos-IR) was quantified in the PVN after 1 h of stimulation. The number of neurons expressing simultaneously c-Fos protein and CRF mRNA was measured by means of immunocytochemistry combined with in situ hybridization. Finally, c-Fos and CRF mRNA levels in the hypothalamus were determined by in situ hybridization or quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Fos-IR in the PVN was significantly decreased 1 h after GES (P&lt;0.05) but was not affected by sub-diaphragmatic vagotomy. The number of neurons containing c-Fos protein and CRF mRNA was lower in the GES group compared with the control group (P&lt;0.05). In addition, c-Fos and CRF mRNA levels in the PVN were significantly decreased by GES (P&lt;or=0.05). It is concluded that acute GES reduces the number of CRF-producing neurons and decreases CRF expression in the PVN during post-operative gastric ileus.
Conditioned stimuli (CSs) associated with paced copulation induce a conditioned partner preference for males bearing the CS. Here we examined the activation of Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) following exposure to a CS previously paired with either paced or nonpaced copulation. Ovariectomized, hormone-primed rats received 10 sequential conditioning trials at 4-day intervals. In experiment 1, females in the odor-paired group learned to associate an almond odor on a male with paced copulation and an unscented male with nonpaced copulation. In the odor-unpaired group, females received the opposite association. In experiment 2, females associated two different strains of male, Long-Evans or Wistar, with paced or nonpaced copulation, respectively. A preference test indicated that females in both experiments developed a conditioned preference for the pacing-related males, as indicated by significantly more solicitations toward the male and a preference to copulate with the pacing-related male. Subsequently, females were exposed to the CS (odor or strain) alone for 1 h prior to kill and preparation of their brains for immunocytochemistry. In both experiments, the CS associated with paced copulation produced significantly more Fos-IR in the piriform cortex, medial preoptic area, and ventral tegmental area, relative to the same odor or strain cues associated with nonpaced copulation. These findings provide evidence that the state associated with paced copulation can be conditioned to environmental stimuli such as neutral odors or strain cues, which earn an incentive value via classical conditioning. The significance of the brain areas activated is discussed with regard to their role in sexual and other motivated behaviors.
Supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons receive a dense innervation from noradrenergic fibers, the activity of which stimulates vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) release, notably during homeostatic regulation of blood pressure and volume. This regulation is known to involve the co-release of norepinephrine (NE) and ATP, which act in synergy to stimulate Ca(2+) increase in SON neurons and to enhance release of VP and OT from hypothalamo-neurohypophysial explants. We here demonstrate that both ATP and NE also trigger transient intracellular Ca(2+) rise in rat SON astrocytes, the two agonists showing a synergistic action similarly to what has been reported in SON neurons. The responses to both agonists are not or are only moderately affected after blockade of neuronal activity by tetrodotoxin, or of neurotransmitter release by removal of extracellular Ca(2+), suggesting that the receptors involved are located on the astrocytes themselves. ATP acts via P2Y(1) receptors, as indicated by the pharmacological profile of Ca(2+) responses and the strong immunolabeling for this receptor in SON astrocytes. Responses to NE involve both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors, the latter showing a permissive role on the former. These results point to further implication of SON astrocytes in the regulation of VP and OT secretion, and suggest that they are potentially important elements participating in all regulatory processes of hypothalamo-neurohypophysial function that involve activation of noradrenergic pathways.
Stress and exploration of novel environments induce neural expression of immediate early gene transcription factors (IEG-TFs). However, as yet no IEG-TF has been shown to be required for the normal biological or behavioral responses to these stimuli. Here we show that mice deficient for the IEG-TF early growth response gene (Egr) 3, display accentuated behavioral responses to the mild stress of handling paralleled by increased release of the stress hormone corticosterone. Egr3-/- mice also display abnormal responses to novelty, including heightened reactivity to novel environments and failure to habituate to social cues or startling acoustic stimuli. In a Y-maze spontaneous alternation task, they perform fewer sequential arm entries than controls, suggesting defects in immediate memory. Because stress and novelty stimulate hippocampal long-term depression (LTD), and because abnormalities in habituation to novelty and Y-maze performance have been associated with LTD deficits, we examined this form of synaptic plasticity in Egr3-/- mice. We found that Egr3-/- mice fail to establish hippocampal LTD in response to low frequency stimulation and exhibit dysfunction of an ifenprodil-sensitive (NR1/NR2B) N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subclass. Long term potentiation induction was not altered. The NR2B-dependent dysfunction does not result from transcriptional regulation of this subunit by Egr3, because NR2B mRNA levels did not differ in the hippocampi of Egr3-/- and control mice. These findings are the first demonstration of the requirement for an IEG-TF in mediating the response to stress and novelty, and in the establishment of LTD.
The expression pattern of the pannexin2 protein (Px2) in healthy and ischemized brains of adult rats was investigated. A polyclonal antibody for rat Px2 was generated in chicken and purified for affinity. This antibody was used to study by Western blot, Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay, and immunohistochemistry, the expression pattern of Px2 in healthy brain of adult rats and in the hippocampus of rats submitted to bilateral clamping of carotid arteries for 20 min, followed by different times of reperfusion (I/R) (8 h, 24 h, 48 h, 72 h, 14 days and 30 days). Immunohistochemical studies visualized the wide and complex expression pattern of Px2 in the healthy brain. All Px2(+) positive cells were neurons which also showed no puncta on their cellular membranes. Both pyramidal cells and interneurons, the majority of which were positive to parvalbumin, were stained in healthy hippocampus. The number of Px2 interneurons in the hippocampus showed a progressive reduction at successive time intervals after I/R, with a negative peak of about -40% after 72 h from I/R. Interneurons which were positive for both Px2 and parvalbumin, represented about the 85% of all parvalbumin cells stained in the hippocampus. This percentage rested grossly unmodified at different time intervals after I/R in spite of the progressive neuronal depletion. Concomitantly, an intense astrogliosis occurred in the hippocampus. Most of the astroglial cells expressed de novo and for a transient time (from 24 h to 14 days from I/R), Px2. Primary co-cultures of hippocampal neurons and astrocytes were submitted to transient ischemia-like injury. This set of experiments further confirmed the in vivo results by showing that Px2 is de novo and transiently expressed in astroglial cells following a transient ischemia-like injury. These results suggested the expression of Px2 in the astrocytes may be induced either from injured neurons or by biochemical pathways internal to the astrocyte itself. In conclusion, our results showed the transient expression of Px2 in astrocytes of reactive gliosis occurring in the hippocampus following I/R injury. We hypothesize that Px2 expression in astrocytes following an ischemic insult is principally involved in the formation of hemichannels for the release of signaling molecules devoted to influence the cellular metabolism and the redox status of the surrounding environment.
Substance P is involved in nociception in both the peripheral nervous system and the CNS and has been documented to play a crucial role in the complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). So far, however, most experimental animal models are restricted to the effect of neurokinin-1 receptor blockers to inhibit substance P and do not directly evaluate its action. Thus, this study was conducted to test the hypothesis that local application of substance P causes signs and symptoms of CRPS. For this purpose rats received a continuous infusion of either substance P or saline over 24 h delivered by a mini-osmotic pump connected to an intrafemoral catheter. Animals were analyzed at either day 1 (n=6, each group) or day 4 (n=5, each group) after start of infusion. Substance P application caused a significant and long-lasting decrease in paw withdrawal thresholds upon mechanical stimulation, while animals did not present with thermal allodynia at days 1 and 4 after onset of infusion. In addition, severe s.c. edema was observed in all animals receiving substance P. In vivo fluorescence microscopy of the extensor digitorum longus muscle of the affected hind paw revealed enhanced leukocyte-endothelial cell interaction with a significant rise in the number of leukocytes both rolling along and firmly adhering to the wall of postcapillary venules, while saline-exposed animals were free of this local inflammatory response. Muscle cell apoptosis, as assessed by in vivo bisbenzimide staining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick end labeling analysis and caspase 3-cleavage, could not be observed in either of the animals. In summary, the present study indicates that substance P is responsible for neurogenic inflammation, including local cell response, edema formation and mechanical pain, while it seems not to contribute to the generation of thermal allodynia.

Substance dependence is associated with executive function deficits. However, most available studies have examined the performance of substance dependent individuals (SDI) on traditional laboratory measures of executive functions, whereas few studies have used ecologically valid assessments with SDI. Our aim was to examine the performance of 37 SDI (poly-substance users) and 37 matched controls on an ecologically valid measure of executive function (the Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome - BADS). We also administered the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) to investigate whether ecological measures were more discriminative than traditional tests in detecting SDI deficits. A related aim was to examine the ability of the BADS (and the WCST) to predict everyday executive problems. Results showed that SDI had widespread deficits on ecological measures of executive function. Conversely, we found no differences between groups on the WCST. Furthermore, the BADS (but not the WCST) predicted everyday problems related to apathy, disinhibition, and executive dysfunction.
The assembly of neuronal networks during development requires tightly controlled cell-cell interactions. Multiple cell surface receptors that control axon guidance and synapse maturation have been identified. However, the signaling mechanisms downstream of these receptors have remained unclear. Receptor signals might be transmitted through dedicated signaling lines defined by specific effector proteins. Alternatively, a single cell surface receptor might couple to multiple effectors with overlapping functions. We identified the neuronal RacGAP alpha2-chimaerin as an effector for the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA4. alpha2-Chimaerin interacts with activated EphA4 and is required for ephrin-induced growth cone collapse in cortical neurons. alpha2-Chimaerin mutant mice exhibit a rabbit-like hopping gait with synchronous hindlimb movements that phenocopies mice lacking EphA4 kinase activity. Anatomical and functional analyses of corticospinal and spinal interneuron projections reveal that loss of alpha2-chimaerin results in impairment of EphA4 signaling in vivo. These findings identify alpha2-chimaerin as an indispensable effector for EphA4 in cortical and spinal motor circuits.
Neurexins have been proposed to function as major mediators of the coordinated pre- and postsynaptic apposition. However, key evidence for this role in vivo has been lacking, particularly due to gene redundancy. Here, we have obtained null mutations in the single Drosophila neurexin gene (dnrx). dnrx loss of function prevents the normal proliferation of synaptic boutons at glutamatergic neuromuscular junctions, while dnrx gain of function in neurons has the opposite effect. DNRX mostly localizes to the active zone of presynaptic terminals. Conspicuously, dnrx null mutants display striking defects in synaptic ultrastructure, with the presence of detachments between pre- and postsynaptic membranes, abnormally long active zones, and increased number of T bars. These abnormalities result in corresponding alterations in synaptic transmission with reduced quantal content. Together, our results provide compelling evidence for an in vivo role of neurexins in the modulation of synaptic architecture and adhesive interactions between pre- and postsynaptic compartments.
In two manuscripts published in Neuron (Beg et al. and Wegmeyer et al.) and one published in Cell (Iwasato et al.), investigators have found that a particular GAP, alpha-chimaerin, is required in vivo for ephrinB3/EphA4-dependent motor circuit formation.
The present study examined dopamine-immunoreactive neuronal structures using immunohistochemistry in conjunction with an anti-dopamine antiserum, following injection of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) with or without an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (Pargyline) in the cat brain. L-DOPA injection made it possible to detect dopamine immunoreactivity in presumptive serotonergic and noradrenergic cell bodies and axons. Weak to moderate dopamine immunoreactivity was observed in non-aminergic cells (possibly so-called &quot;D&quot; cells containing aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC)) in several hypothalamic, midbrain, pontine and medullary nuclei. Intense dopamine immunoreactivity became visible in a large number of cells and axons (possibly containing AADC) with wide distribution in the brain following administration of L-DOPA with Pargyline. AADC is most likely active in cells and axons that take up L-DOPA, where it decarboxylates the L-DOPA to dopamine. However, newly synthesized dopamine in such cells is rapidly oxidized by monoamine oxidase.
Low-dose naloxone-precipitated withdrawal hyperalgesia is a reliable indicator of physical dependence after chronic morphine treatment. A remarkably similar long-lasting (&gt;3-4 h) hyperalgesia is evoked by injection of a low dose of naloxone (10 microg/kg, s.c.) in nave mice after acute pretreatment with the glycolipid, GM1 ganglioside (1 mg/kg) (measured by warm-water-immersion tail-flick assays). GM1 treatment markedly increases the efficacy of excitatory Gs-coupled opioid receptor signaling in nociceptive neurons. Co-treatment with an ultra-low-dose (0.1 ng/kg, s.c.) of the broad-spectrum opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone or the selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, blocks naloxone-evoked hyperalgesia in GM1-pretreated nave mice and unmasks prominent, long-lasting (&gt;4 h) inhibitory opioid receptor-mediated analgesia. This unmasked analgesia can be rapidly blocked by injection after 1-2 h of a high dose of naltrexone (10 mg/kg) or nor-binaltorphimine (0.1 mg/kg). Because no exogenous opioid is administered to GM1-treated mice, we suggest that naloxone may evoke hyperalgesia by inducing release of endogenous bimodally acting opioid agonists from neurons in nociceptive networks by antagonizing putative presynaptic inhibitory opioid autoreceptors that &quot;gate&quot; the release of endogenous opioids. In the absence of exogenous opioids, the specific pharmacological manipulations utilized in our tail-flick assays on GM1-treated mice provide a novel bioassay to detect the release of endogenous bimodally acting (excitatory/inhibitory) opioid agonists. Because mu excitatory opioid receptor signaling is blocked by ultra-low doses of naloxone, the higher doses of naloxone that evoke hyperalgesia in GM1-treated mice cannot be mediated by activation of mu opioid receptors. Co-treatment with ultra-low-dose naltrexone or nor-binaltorphimine may selectively block signaling by endogenous GM1-sensitized excitatory kappa opioid receptors, unmasking inhibitory kappa opioid receptor signaling, and converting endogenous opioid receptor-mediated hyperalgesia to analgesia. Co-treatment with kelatorphan stabilizes putative endogenous opioid peptide agonists released by naloxone in GM1-treated mice, so that analgesia is evoked rather than hyperalgesia. Acute treatment of chronic morphine-dependent mice with ultra-low-dose naltrexone (0.1 ng/kg) results in remarkably similar rapid blocking of naloxone (10 microg/kg)-precipitated withdrawal hyperalgesia and unmasking of prominent opioid analgesia. These studies may clarify complex mechanisms underlying opioid physical dependence and opioid addiction.

The present study assessed whether tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is involved in hemorrhage following large clot embolism-induced ischemia in New Zealand white rabbits by intracisternally administering either TNFalpha or a goat-anti-rabbit-TNFalpha antibody following a stroke. The first aim of the study showed that TNFalpha administration increased stroke-induced hemorrhage incidence to 53.3% from 18.5% (an increase of 188%) in the control group and also increased hemorrhage volume by 87% (p&lt;0.05). The second aim showed that administration of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) using a standard dose of 3.3 mg/kg increased hemorrhage incidence in rabbits to 76.5% from 18.5% (an increase of 314%) and this effect was reversed by administration of an anti-TNFalpha antibody. In the tPA-anti-TNFalpha antibody group, the absolute hemorrhage rate was 38.8% and the hemorrhage volume was 98% of control. In conclusion, following an embolic stroke, TNFalpha administration increased the incidence and volume of hemorrhage and an anti-TNFalpha antibody counteracted tPA-induced hemorrhage. The results suggest that TNFalpha may either be directly or indirectly involved in vascular damage following an embolic stroke. Moreover, TNFalpha may mediate some of the detrimental effects of tPA on the vascular compartment. Based upon our studies, TNFalpha receptor antagonists or TNFalpha processing inhibitors should be further pursued as targets for the treatment of hemorrhagic stroke as adjuvant treatment for stroke patients receiving thrombolytic treatment.
The vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated proteins (VAPs) VAPA and VAPB interact with lipid-binding proteins carrying a short motif containing two phenylalanines in an acidic tract (FFAT motif) and targets them to the cytosolic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). A genetic mutation (P56S) in the conserved major sperm protein homology domain of VAPB has been linked to motor-neuron degeneration in affected amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. We report that in the CNS, VAPB is abundant in motor neurons and that the P56S substitution causes aggregation of mutant VAPB in immobile tubular ER clusters, perturbs FFAT-motif binding, and traps endogenous VAP in mutant aggregates. Expression of mutant VAPB or reduction of VAP by short hairpin RNA in primary neurons causes Golgi dispersion and cell death. VAPA and VAPB are reduced in human ALS patients and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)-ALS-transgenic mice, suggesting that VAP family proteins may be involved in the pathogenesis of sporadic and SOD1-linked ALS. Our data support a model in which reduced levels of VAP family proteins result in decreased ER anchoring of lipid-binding proteins and cause motor neuron degeneration.
The ambiguous role of estrogen in emotional learning may result from opposing actions of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) and ERbeta. Using a fear-conditioning paradigm called the AX+, BX- discrimination, in which cue A comes to elicit fear and cue B becomes a safety signal, we examined the effect of 17beta-estradiol (E) and selective ERalpha and ERbeta agonists on excitatory and inhibitory fear learning. Gonadectomized (GDX) male and female rats implanted with E or selective ERalpha or ERbeta agonists were trained on the AX+, BX- discrimination and tested periodically to A, B, and AB. GDX sham-implanted male and female rats and GDX E-implanted males, but not GDX E-implanted females, exhibited less fear to AB than to A, suggesting that estrogen interferes with generalization of safety signals in female rats. ERalpha and ERbeta agonists disrupted discrimination learning in both sexes. ERalpha-implanted groups had higher fear responses to all cues than did ERbeta-implanted groups, suggesting that these two receptors have opposing effects in aversive discrimination learning. In contrast, neither E nor ERalpha and ERbeta agonists affected single-cue fear conditioning in either sex. These data suggest that E does not enhance fear in emotional learning but acts to disrupt the inhibition of fear in females only.
Repetitive correlated spiking can induce long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of many excitatory synapses on glutamatergic neurons, in a manner that depends on the timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic spiking. However, it is mostly unknown whether and how such spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) operates at neocortical excitatory synapses on inhibitory interneurons, which have diverse physiological and morphological characteristics. In this study, we found that these synapses exhibit target-cell-dependent STDP. In layer 2/3 of the somatosensory cortex, the pyramidal cell (PC) forms divergent synapses on fast spiking (FS) and low-threshold spiking (LTS) interneurons that exhibit short-term synaptic depression and facilitation in response to high-frequency stimulation, respectively. At PC-LTS synapses, repetitive correlated spiking induced LTP or LTD, depending on the timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic spiking. However, regardless of the timing and frequency of spiking, correlated activity induced only LTD at PC-FS synapses. This target-cell-specific STDP was not caused by the difference in the short-term plasticity between these two types of synapses. Activation of postsynaptic NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDARs) was required for LTP induction at PC-LTS synapses, whereas activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors was required for LTD induction at both PC-LTS and PC-FS synapses. Additional analysis of synaptic currents suggests that LTP and LTD of PC-LTS synapses, but not LTD of PC-FS synapses, involves presynaptic modifications. Such dependence of both the induction and expression of STDP on the type of postsynaptic interneurons may contribute to differential processing and storage of information in cortical local circuits.
Visual deprivation affects the responses of layer IV cells more prominently during early postnatal development, whereas responses in layer II/III remain modifiable until later ages. We examined whether these laminar differences correlate with changes in long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of the ascending pathways to layers IV and II/III in the mouse visual cortex. Our analysis revealed that LTP and LTD in layer IV principal cells is lost shortly after the eyes open, but persists in layers II/III beyond puberty. These results suggest that plasticity proceeds sequentially through cortical layers in a manner that parallels the flow of information during sensory processing.
The effects of attention on neuronal responses in visual cortex have been likened to a change in stimulus contrast. Attention and stimulus contrast both modulate the magnitude of neuronal responses. However, changes in stimulus contrast also affect the latency of visual responses. Although many neurophysiological studies have examined how attention affects the strength of neuronal responses, few have considered whether attention affects neuronal latencies. To compare directly the effects of stimulus contrast and attention, we recorded responses from individual neurons in area V4 of macaque monkeys while they performed a task that independently controlled spatial attention and stimulus contrast. As expected, changes in stimulus contrast affected both the magnitude and latency of neuronal responses. Although attention had the expected effects on the magnitudes of neuronal responses, we did not detect statistically reliable changes in neuronal latency. A direct comparison of the effects of contrast and attention revealed a reliable difference. When a shift in spatial attention decreased response magnitude, response latency increased much less than when the same magnitude change was caused by reducing stimulus contrast. Thus, attention is distinct from contrast in the way it affects the relationship between neuronal response magnitude and latency.
The responsiveness of cortical neurons is strongly and rapidly influenced by changes in the level of local network activity. In rodent somatosensory cortex, increases in network activity increase neuronal responsiveness to the intracellular injection of brief conductance stimuli but paradoxically decrease responsiveness to brief whisker deflections. However, whisker stimulation frequently evokes long-lasting changes in the level of local circuit activity. The ability of stimuli to successfully evoke prolonged increases in circuit activity is associated with both an increase in the amount of conductance evoked by a whisker stimulus and an increase in action potential responsiveness to whisker stimulation. In addition, brief whisker stimuli presented during periods of high network activity evoke postsynaptic potentials containing a greater proportion of inhibition, consistent with an increased efficiency in the activation of inhibitory mechanisms during the Up state. In contrast, during prolonged and variable whisker stimulation, increased network activity is associated with an increase in overall responsiveness, dynamic range, output gain, and correlation between action potential response and speed of whisker movement. We conclude that stimulus-evoked or spontaneous alterations in cortical state can influence neuronal responsiveness in a complex manner, resulting in large changes in which, and how, sensory stimuli are represented.
The Publisher regrets that this article is an accidental duplication of an article that has already been published in Ageing Research Reviews, Volume 7, Issue 1, January 2008, Pages 43-48, doi:10.1016/j.arr.2007.08.004. The duplicate article has therefore been withdrawn.
Human depression and anxiety disorders show inherited biases across generations, as do antisocial disorders characterized by aggression. Each condition is preceded in children by behavioral inhibition or aggressive behavior, respectively, and both are characterized by separation anxiety disorders. In affected families, adults and children exhibit different forms of altered autonomic nervous system regulation and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity in response to stress. Because it is difficult to determine mechanisms accounting for these associations, animal studies are useful for studying the fundamental relationships between biological and behavioral traits. Pharmacologic and behavioral studies suggest that infant rat ultrasonic vocalizations (USV) are a measure of an early anxiety-like state related to separation anxiety. However, it was not known whether or not early ultrasound emissions in infant rats are markers for genetic risk for anxiety states later in life. To address these questions, we selectively bred two lines of rats based on high and low rates of USV to isolation at postnatal (P) 10 days of age. To our knowledge, ours is the only laboratory that has ever selectively bred on the basis of an infantile trait related to anxiety. The High and Low USV lines show two distinct sets of patterns of behavior, physiology and neurochemistry from infancy through adulthood. As adults High line rats demonstrate &quot;anxious&quot;/&quot;depressed&quot; phenotypes in behavior and autonomic nervous system (ANS) regulation to standard laboratory tests. In Lows, on the other hand, behavior and autonomic regulation are consistent with an &quot;aggressive&quot; phenotype. The High and Low USV lines are the first genetic animal models implicating long-term associations of contrasting &quot;coping styles&quot; with early attachment responses. They thus present a potentially powerful model for examining gene-environment interactions in the development of life-long affective regulation.
Rodent models provide a valuable approach to elucidating the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the deleterious effects of childhood trauma and stress. Neonatal rats and mice emit ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) when separated from the dam and litter. USVs are suppressed in rat pups by exposure to the putatively infanticidal threat of an adult male. In the present study, C57BL/6J mouse pups were exposed to an anaesthetized (non-sire) adult C57BL/6J male for 3-min/day from postnatal days 2-14, and subsequently tested for anxiety-related behaviors (using the novel open field, elevated plus-maze, light/dark exploration tests) and depression-related behavior (using the forced swim test) at 11 weeks of age. In a separate cohort, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis activation was measured via plasma corticosterone levels following either a single male-exposure or separation episode. Results showed that pups exposed to an adult male emitted significantly fewer USVs than separation-only counterparts. Corticosterone levels were significantly lower following single exposure to the adult male than separation alone. Repeated neonatal male-exposure did not lead to significant alterations in anxiety- or depression-related behaviors in adulthood. Taken together, present data suggest that the form of adult male-exposure employed did not act as a significant stressor, at least in this mouse strain. Further studies will be needed to determine whether alternative mouse strains, exposure protocols or adult behavioral assays will produce a different pattern of short-term and long-term effects.
Adult rats produce two distinct types of ultrasonic vocalizations referred to as 22- and 50-kHz calls, respectively. Emission of the respective calls represents signaling a negative or positive state of the rat organism. The signaling has an adaptive value for survival and/or well-being of rats and their social groups. Literature is reviewed from studies on cats and rats, which indicates that the positive or negative states constitute a complex and integrated set of somatic, autonomic, endocrine, affective, and cognitive correlates. The basic states and their correlates are initiated, integrated, and maintained by activity of the subsets of the ascending cholinergic and dopaminergic systems originating from the reticular brainstem core. The cholinergic and dopaminergic systems interact mutually to form a dynamic balance, which is involved in a decision-making process of initiating and maintaining one or the other of these states. Activation of the relevant portion of the ascending cholinergic system invariably induces the negative state and releases 22-kHz calls while activation of the ascending dopaminergic system induces the positive state with 50-kHz calls. The 22- and 50-kHz calls have distinct and mostly non-overlapping acoustic parameters, which ensure unambiguous recognition of the calls and thus, the state of the emitter. The animal may only signal one of the states at any given time and emission of 22- or 50-kHz calls is mutually exclusive. It is postulated, therefore, that these two main types of ultrasonic calls are reliable indicator variables of two opposing states of the adult rat organism: negative or positive.
Fifty-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations have been proposed to reflect a positive appetitive affective state in rats, being consistently linked to the positive appetitive behavior. In the first study, we examined the brain substrates of 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) by using localized electrical stimulation of the brain (ESB) at various sites that are known to mediate reward. We found that the brain areas that produced ESB-induced 50-kHz calls are the areas that have previously been shown to support the most vigorous self-stimulation behavior (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum, lateral preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus, ventral tegmental area, and raphe). Importantly, all animals that showed repeatable ESB-induced 50-kHz USVs demonstrated self-stimulation behavior. In the second study, conditioned place preference was assessed following microinjection of the mu-opiate agonist Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO) directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) at a dose previously found to be rewarding. Animals that showed more 50-kHz USVs in response to drug injections compared to vehicle injections showed significant place preferences, whereas animals that did not show elevated vocalization to DAMGO did not show place preference. In experiment 3, we examined the effect of VTA electrolytic lesions, 6-OHDA lesions, and the effect of the D1/D2 dopamine antagonist flupenthixol (0 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) on 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations. We found that these manipulations all selectively reduced 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations, and that these effects could be disassociated from any side effects. These data are consistent with the proposition that 50-kHz calls are tightly linked to reward in rats and that the neural circuit of 50-kHz calls closely overlaps that of ESB self-stimulation reward, drug reward, and the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Separation and reunion responses have been used to investigate social relationships in many species, including humans. When isolated from their mothers and siblings, infant rats vocalize in the ultrasonic range. An isolated pup reduces its rate of vocalization when placed in contact with familiar stimuli, particularly social ones such as its dam or littermates. The isolated pup's vocalization is greatly increased if the pup has been in contact with its mother immediately before isolation, a phenomenon called maternal potentiation. Early experience can play a role in the acquisition of potentiation. If rat pups are reared by both dam and sire, or even reared by the dam in the presence of the sire's odor, the pups show potentiation to the sire instead of the fear-related behavioral inhibition. Littermates, home cage shavings, and other familiar stimuli from the rearing environment do not elicit increased vocalizations during a subsequent isolation. The neurobiological mechanisms by which the sire becomes capable of potentiating vocalization are unknown, but are hypothesized to depend on the processes underlying development of an odor preference. Expression of potentiation is hypothesized to be related to reward processes in part because dopamine activity plays a regulatory role. Activation of dopamine type 2 receptors in the nucleus accumbens blocks maternal potentiation without altering vocalization rate in an initial isolation. The modulation of isolation-induced vocalization by social interactions provides a paradigm for investigating the neurobehavioral mechanisms underlying acquisition and expression of early life social bonds.
Despite the evidence that ultrasonic vocalizations are a consistent component of the behavioural repertoire of female mice, only few studies have investigated this phenomenon. In this paper, we reported new data about ultrasonic vocalisations emitted during female-female mice social encounters. In particular, we first showed that the resident female utters a considerable number of 70 kHz calls and that the number of calls seems to be modulated by the motivational state of the emitter during the estrous cycle: sexually receptive females emitted fewer ultrasonic vocalizations than non-receptive ones in the presence of a female intruder. A strong positive correlation linked the number of calls and the time spent by the resident sniffing the intruder female. Moreover, the number of calls uttered during interaction with an unknown female partner significantly decreased with pregnancy and ageing. Secondly we reported that 1-year-old female mice showed a reduction of ultrasonic calls in the presence of a partner they had been exposed to, only if the re-exposure (test) occurred 30 min after the previous presentation. If the test was performed with a delay of 60 min, the number of calls emitted did not decrease. These results confirm that ultrasonic vocalizations emitted during social interaction with a female conspecific can be used as an index of social recognition and can be useful to detect age-related disruption of social memory in female mice.



Autophagy is a regulated lysosomal degradation process that involves autophagosome formation and transport. Although recent evidence indicates that basal levels of autophagy protect against neurodegeneration, the exact mechanism whereby this occurs is not known. By using conditional knockout mutant mice, we report that neuronal autophagy is particularly important for the maintenance of local homeostasis of axon terminals and protection against axonal degeneration. We show that specific ablation of an essential autophagy gene, Atg7, in Purkinje cells initially causes cell-autonomous, progressive dystrophy (manifested by axonal swellings) and degeneration of the axon terminals. Consistent with suppression of autophagy, no autophagosomes are observed in these dystrophic swellings, which is in contrast to accumulation of autophagosomes in the axonal dystrophic swellings under pathological conditions. Axonal dystrophy of mutant Purkinje cells proceeds with little sign of dendritic or spine atrophy, indicating that axon terminals are much more vulnerable to autophagy impairment than dendrites. This early pathological event in the axons is followed by cell-autonomous Purkinje cell death and mouse behavioral deficits. Furthermore, ultrastructural analyses of mutant Purkinje cells reveal an accumulation of aberrant membrane structures in the axonal dystrophic swellings. Finally, we observe double-membrane vacuole-like structures in wild-type Purkinje cell axons, whereas these structures are abolished in mutant Purkinje cell axons. Thus, we conclude that the autophagy protein Atg7 is required for membrane trafficking and turnover in the axons. Our study implicates impairment of axonal autophagy as a possible mechanism for axonopathy associated with neurodegeneration.
The hippocampal formation is believed to be critical for the encoding, consolidation, and retrieval of episodic memories. Yet, how these processes are supported by the anatomically diverse hippocampal networks is still unknown. To examine this issue, we tested rats in a hippocampus-dependent delayed spatial alternation task on a modified T maze while simultaneously recording local field potentials from dendritic and somatic layers of the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1 regions by using high-density, 96-site silicon probes. Both the power and coherence of gamma oscillations exhibited layer-specific changes during task performance. Peak increases in the gamma power and coherence were found in the CA3-CA1 interface on the maze segment approaching the T junction, independent of motor aspects of task performance. These results show that hippocampal networks can be dynamically coupled by gamma oscillations according to specific behavioral demands. Based on these findings, we propose that gamma oscillations may serve as a physiological mechanism by which CA3 output can coordinate CA1 activity to support retrieval of hippocampus-dependent memories.
The guideline covers best practice advice on the care of adults, children (aged 115 years) and infants (under one year) who present with a suspected or confirmed traumatic head injury with or without other major trauma. In certain circumstances, the age group infants and young children (that is, those aged under 5 years) is used. Cut-off points of 10 years and 12 years are also used. The guideline will offer advice on the management of patients with a suspected or confirmed head injury who may be unaware that they have sustained a head injury because of intoxication or other causes. The primary patient outcome of concern throughout the guideline is clinically important brain or cervical spine injury. For the purposes of this guideline, clinically important brain or cervical spine injury is defined as any acute condition that has been identified by imaging or by assessment of risk factors. This update covers the following: the benefits of transporting patients with head injuries to a neurosciences unit compared to an emergency department; the benefits of secondary transfer of patients; the best imaging tool for identifying patients with head and cervical spine injuries; the best clinical prediction rule for selecting patients with head and cervical spine injuries for the imaging tool selected; evidence on harm associated with radiation to the head and/or spine; identification of patients who should be referred to rehabilitation services following the initial management of a head injury.

To be a neurologist, training in cognitive/behavioral neuroscience is essential. In this review article, the author tries to emphasize the localization relationship between focal brain lesions and language dysfunction, by discussing from split-brain syndromes, hemispheric asymmetry, to pure word dumbness, pure word deafness (verbal auditory agnosia), pure agraphia, and pure word blindness (pure alexia; visual word agnosia), and finally to aphasia and aprosodia in general. Hopefully, after getting familiar with all the terms, the readers will feel free exploring language disturbances and behavioral neurology for their own interests.
Abuse of the club drugs Methamphetamine (Meth) and Ecstasy (MDMA) is an international problem. The seriousness of this problem is the result of what appears to be programmed cell death (PCD) occurring within the brain following their use. This follow up study focused on determining which cell types, neurons and/or glial cells, were affected in the brains of drug-injected rats. Two proteolytic enzyme families involved in PCD, calpains and caspases, were previously shown to be activated and to degrade the brain cytoskeletal associated protein alphaII-spectrin. Using methods employed and confirmed in traumatic brain injury (TBI) studies, rat brain tissues were examined, 24 and 48 h after Meth and MDMA exposure, for the activation of calpain-1 and caspase-3, and their subsequent alphaII-spectrin cleavage breakdown products (SBDPs), SBDP145, and SBDP120, respectively. Based upon our previous studies we know that activated calpain-1 and caspase-3 were up-regulated after drug use as were the levels of their cleaved SBDPs, SBDP145, and SBDP120, respectively, which is indicative of PCD. Here we show that activated calpain-1 and caspase-3 increases could be localized to neurons in the cortex where the products of their cleaved targets were found to be concentrated, particularly, to the axonal regions. These findings support the hypothesis that calpains and caspases mediate PCD in cortical neurons following club drug abuse and, more importantly, appear to contribute to the neuropathology suffered by abusers.




Online quizzes were introduced into a large Medical Physiology class to provide students with formative assessment before midterm and final summative examinations. Use of unsupervised online quizzes was chosen to provide a flexible supplementary learning tool for students without overwhelming a small faculty. Several quiz models were applied, which varied in the availability of course credit points for participation and performance. The aims of the study were to investigate if participation in formative assessment was associated with improved course outcomes, if offering incentives for completing quizzes affected student participation, and if quiz performance was predictive of summative examination outcomes. Results showed that students who elected to use online quizzes performed better in summative examinations. Offering course credit of between 0.5% and 2% per quiz increased student participation. However, evidence was found for widespread inappropriate use of unsupervised online quizzes when incentives for participation were applied. Predictive validity of online quizzes could be demonstrated when comparing the first of several quiz attempts with subsequent summative examination scores.
Deflazacort (DFZ) is a synthetic glucocorticoid that has few adverse effects on glucose and calcium metabolism and fewer deleterious effects on the neuronal population. Therefore, it may have a crucial role in the treatment of patients with autoimmune disorders associated with central nervous system or metabolic affectations. To date, the pharmacologic safety profile of DFZ is considered similar to that of other glucocorticoids. Nevertheless, cumulative clinical and laboratory evidence suggests that DFZ has, in fact, greater immunosuppressive activity than was previously thought. Therefore, it is possible that DFZ increases the risk of acquiring opportunistic infection compared with other synthetic glucocorticoids. Additional pharmacologic studies are needed to fully establish the immunosuppressive potency of DFZ and, consequently, to determine the appropriate ratio of bioequivalence in humans.











Under the umbrella of the burgeoning neurotransdisciplines, scholars are using the principles and research methodologies of their primary and secondary fields to examine developments in neuroimaging, neuromodulation and psychopharmacology. The path for advanced scholarship at the intersection of law and neuroscience may clear if work across the disciplines is collected and reviewed and outstanding and debated issues are identified and clarified. In this article, I organize, examine and refine a narrow class of the burgeoning neurotransdiscipline scholarship; that is, scholarship at the interface of law and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
The extended mind thesis is the claim that mental states extend beyond the skulls of the agents whose states they are. This seemingly obscure and bizarre claim has far-reaching implications for neuroethics, I argue. In the first half of this article, I sketch the extended mind thesis and defend it against criticisms. In the second half, I turn to its neuroethical implications. I argue that the extended mind thesis entails the falsity of the claim that interventions into the brain are especially problematic just because they are internal interventions, but that many objections to such interventions rely, at least in part, on this claim. Further, I argue that the thesis alters the focus of neuroethics, away from the question of whether we ought to allow interventions into the mind, and toward the question of which interventions we ought to allow and under what conditions. The extended mind thesis dramatically expands the scope of neuroethics: because interventions into the environment of agents can count as interventions into their minds, decisions concerning such interventions become questions for neuroethics.
In recent years Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, California has effectively merged a variety of programs under the auspices of a single department. While these separate programs share certain similarities in terms of procedure and technology, a problem has arisen in terms of departmental identity. The department name was becoming a misnomer in that the department's original designation, a sleep lab, did not take into account the additional neurodiagnostic testing being offered. To combat this, an effort was made to rename the department in such a way that would reflect changes in programs and services while also providing an overall sense of community within the department. Procedurally, the renaming was designed as an all-encompassing staff project. During the presentation of the project, staff discussed the mission as well as vision statement of Huntington Hospital. The staff was supplied with a list of all diagnostic procedures and programming currently being offered. Correlations between services were accented and a two-week timeline was established to allow staff time to brainstorm. Ultimately, the benefits of the naming contest were twofold: first, department members gained an understanding of all aspects of the department, and second, the combined input created an overall sense of departmental unity amongst the staff.
We recently observed an association between combinations of polymorphisms in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR 677C &gt; T or 1298A &gt; C) and reduced folate carrier (RFC-1 80G &gt; A) genes and the risk of a Down syndrome (DS) pregnancy in young Italian women. Others have observed an association between a methionine synthase (MTR 2756A &gt; G) gene polymorphism and the risk of a DS offspring in Italy. Moreover, in a separate study, we observed an increased frequency of both binucleated micronucleated cells (BNMN) and chromosome malsegregation events in peripheral lymphocytes of mothers of DS individuals aged less than 35 years at conception (MDS) in respect to controls. The aim of the present study was to evaluate chromosome damage, measured by means of the micronucleus assay, in peripheral lymphocytes of a group of women (n = 34) who had a DS child in young age (&lt;35 years) and in a control group (n = 35), and to correlate them with MTHFR 677C &gt; T and 1298A &gt; C, RFC-1 80G &gt; A and MTR 2756A &gt; G polymorphisms. We observed an increased frequency of BNMN in the MDS group compared to the control group (17.13 +/- 8.31 per thousand vs. 10.28 +/- 4.53 per thousand; P &lt; 0.001), and, in the general population, a correlation between years of age and BNMN frequency (P = 0.05). A significant correlation between the frequency of BNMN and the MTHFR 677C &gt; T polymorphism (P = 0.038) was also found. Present results indicate that MDS are more prone to chromosome damage than control mothers; moreover the contribution of folate and homocysteine metabolizing gene polymorphisms seems to have an effect on the baseline frequency of BNMN lymphocytes.

Alternative splicing of ryanodine receptor subtype 3 (RYR3) may generate a short isoform (RYR3S) without channel function and a functional full-length isoform (RYR3L). The RYR3S isoform has been shown to negatively regulate the native RYR2 subtype in smooth muscle cells as well as the RYR3L isoform when both isoforms were coexpressed in HEK-293 cells. Mouse myometrium expresses only the RYR3 subtype, but the role of RYR3 isoforms obtained by alternative splicing and their activation by cADP-ribose during pregnancy have never been investigated. Here, we show that both RYR3S and RYR3L isoforms are differentially expressed in nonpregnant and pregnant mouse myometrium. The use of antisense oligonucleotides directed against each isoform indicated that only RYR3L was activated by caffeine and cADP-ribose in nonpregnant myometrium. These RYR3L-mediated Ca(2+) releases were negatively regulated by RYR3S expression. At the end of pregnancy, the relative expression of RYR3L versus RYR3S and its ability to respond to cADP-ribose were increased. Therefore, our results suggest that physiological regulation of RYR3 alternative splicing may play an essential role at the end of pregnancy.
We examined the permeabilities of homotypic and heterotypic gap junction (GJ) channels formed of rodent connexins (Cx) 30.2, 40, 43, and 45, which are expressed in the heart and other tissues, using fluorescent dyes differing in net charge and molecular mass. Combining fluorescent imaging and electrophysiological recordings in the same cell pairs, we evaluated the single-channel permeability (P(gamma)). All homotypic channels were permeable to the anionic monovalent dye Alexa Fluor-350 (AF(350)), but mCx30.2 channels exhibited a significantly lower P(gamma) than the others. The anionic divalent dye Lucifer yellow (LY) remained permeant in Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45 channels, but transfer through mCx30.2 channels was not detected. Heterotypic channels generally exhibited P(gamma) values that were intermediate to the corresponding homotypic channels. P(gamma) values of mCx30.2/Cx40, mCx30.2/Cx43, or mCx30.2/Cx45 heterotypic channels for AF(350) were similar and approximately twofold higher than P(gamma) values of mCx30.2 homotypic channels. Permeabilities for cationic dyes were assessed only qualitatively because of their binding to nucleic acids. All homotypic and heterotypic channel configurations were permeable to ethidium bromide and 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. Permeability for propidium iodide was limited only for GJ channels that contain at least one mCx30.2 hemichannel. In summary, we have demonstrated that Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45 are permeant to all examined cationic and anionic dyes, whereas mCx30.2 demonstrates permeation restrictions for molecules with molecular mass over approximately 400 Da. The ratio of single-channel conductance to permeability for AF(350) was approximately 40- to 170-fold higher for mCx30.2 than for Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45, suggesting that mCx30.2 GJs are notably more adapted to perform electrical rather than metabolic cell-cell communication.
Clinically and experimentally male fetuses are at significantly greater risk of dying or suffering injury at birth, particularly after premature delivery. We undertook a retrospective cohort analysis of 60 female and 65 male singleton preterm fetal sheep (103-104 days, 0.7 gestation) with mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate, and carotid and femoral blood flow recordings during 25 min of umbilical cord occlusion in utero. Occlusions were stopped early if fetal MAP fell below 8 mmHg or if there was asystole for &gt;20 s. Fetuses that were able to complete the full 25-min period of occlusion showed no differences between sexes for any cardiovascular responses. Similar numbers of occlusions were stopped early in males (mean: 21 min, n = 16) and females (mean: 23 min, n = 16); however, they showed different responses. Short-occlusion males (n = 16) showed a slower initial fall in femoral vascular conductance, followed by greater bradycardia, hypotension, and associated organ hypoperfusion compared with full-occlusion fetuses. In contrast, short-occlusion females (n = 16) showed a significantly more rapid early increase in femoral vascular conductance than the full-occlusion fetuses, followed by worsening of bradycardia and hypotension that was intermediate to the full-occlusion fetuses and short-occlusion males. Among all fetuses, MAP at 15 min of occlusion, corresponding with the time of the maximal rate of fall, was correlated with postmortem weight in males (R(2) = 0.07) but not females. In conclusion, male and female fetuses showed remarkably similar chemoreflex and hemodynamic responses to severe asphyxia, but some males did show impaired hemodynamic adaptation within the normal weight range.

Prior sodium restriction cross-sensitizes rats to the psychomotor effects of amphetamines and vice versa. Repeated central injections of vasopressin (VP) induce a psychomotor sensitization similar to amphetamine sensitization and repeated sodium deficiency. Thus brain VP signaling may be a common mechanism involved in mediating these two motivational systems. In experiment 1, we tested the hypothesis that rats previously sensitized to central VP would show enhanced psychomotor responses to amphetamine. Rats were administered saline, VP (50 ng), or amphetamine (1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg) on days 1 and 2, and given saline or amphetamine on day 3. Amphetamine produced psychomotor arousal in all groups. However, amphetamine on day 3 elicited a significantly greater psychomotor response in rats that had prior injections of amphetamine or VP than in rats previously treated with saline. In experiment 2, the hypothesis that prior experience with central VP would cross-sensitize rats to drinking hypertonic sodium (NaCl) solutions was tested. Rats were administered VP (50 ng) or saline for 3 days. On the fourth day, nondeprived rats were given access to 0.3 M NaCl and water for 1 h. Control and saline-treated rats only drank 1 ml of 0.3 M NaCl, but rats previously exposed to central VP drank significantly more hypertonic saline (4 ml). These results show that prior experience with central VP cross-sensitizes rats to the psychomotor stimulant effects of amphetamine and the ingestion of concentrated NaCl solutions. This pattern of cross-sensitization links central VP signaling, amphetamine, and sodium deficiency, and therefore it may play a role in the cross-sensitization between sodium appetite and amphetamines.
5'-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling initiates adaptive changes in skeletal muscle fibers that restore homeostatic energy balance. The purpose of this investigation was to examine, in rats, the fiber-type protein expression patterns of the alpha-catalytic subunit isoforms in various skeletal muscles, and changes in their respective contents within the tibialis anterior (TA) after chronic low-frequency electrical stimulation (CLFS; 10 Hz, 10 h daily), applied for 4 +/- 1.2 or 25 +/- 4.8 days. Immunocytochemical staining of soleus (SOL) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) showed that 86 +/- 4.1 to 97 +/- 1.4% of type IIA fibers stained for both the alpha1- and alpha2-isoforms progressively decreased to 63 +/- 12.2% of type IID/X and 9 +/- 2.4% of IIB fibers. 39 +/- 11.4% of IID/X and 83 +/- 7.9% of IIB fibers expressed only the alpha2 isoform in the MG, much of which was localized within nuclei. alpha1 and alpha2 contents, assessed by immunoblot, were lowest in the white gastrocnemius [WG; 80% myosin heavy chain (MHC) IIb; 20% MHCIId/x]. Compared with the WG, alpha1 content was 1.6 +/- 0.08 (P &lt; 0.001) and 1.8 +/- 0.04 (P &lt; 0.0001)-fold greater in the red gastrocnemius (RG: 13%, MHCIIa) and SOL (21%, MHCIIa), respectively, and increased in proportion to MHCIIa content. Similarly, alpha2 content was 1.4 +/- 0.10 (P &lt; 0.02) and 1.5 +/- 0.07 (P &lt; 0.001)-fold greater in RG and SOL compared with WG. CLFS induced 1.43 +/- 0.13 (P &lt; 0.007) and 1.33 +/- 0.08 (P &lt; 0.009)-fold increases in the alpha1 and alpha2 contents of the TA and coincided with the transition of faster type IIB and IID/X fibers toward IIA fibers. These findings indicate that fiber types differ with regard to their capacity for AMPK signaling and that this potential is increased by CLFS.
John I. Lacey died on June 27, 2004. He was one of the pioneers in the integration of psychology and physiology. He worked to establish concepts that cut across disciplines -- eschewing specialization within a cross-disciplinary area. Although a guiding figure in the founding of the Society for Neuroscience, John remained very active in the American Psychological Association (APA) and the Society for Psychophysiological Research until his professional retirement. John's career was characterized by a focused search for specific mechanisms defining how psychological processes interact with physiological processes. John Lacey has left us a legacy of a scientific approach that focuses directly on the relation between psychological concepts and their realization in physiological function. His creativity and breadth of knowledge contributed mightily to the currently burgeoning fields of neuroscience and behavioral medicine. His approach reminds us to continue to include solid psychological science when venturing into these fields.
The study of protein-protein interactions involving endogenous proteins frequently relies on the immunoaffinity capture of a protein of interest followed by mass spectrometry-based identification of co-purifying interactors. A notorious problem with this approach is the difficulty of distinguishing physiological interactors from unspecific binders. Additional challenges pose the need to employ a strategy that is compatible with downstream mass spectrometry and minimizes sample losses during handling steps. Finally, the complexity of data sets demands solutions for data filtering. Here we present an update on co-immunoprecipitation procedures for sensitive interactome mapping applications. We define the relevant terminology, review methodological advances that reduce sample losses, and discuss experimental strategies that facilitate recognition of candidate interactors through a combination of informative controls and data filtering. Finally, we provide starting points for initial validation experiments and propose conventions for manuscripts which report on co-immunoprecipitation work.
The forelimb of cetaceans (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) has been radically modified during the limb-to-flipper transition. Extant cetaceans have a soft tissue flipper encasing the manus and acting as a hydrofoil to generate lift. The neuromuscular anatomy that controls flipper movement, however, is poorly understood. This study documents flipper neuromuscular anatomy and tests the hypothesis that antebrachial muscle robustness is related to body size. Data were gathered during dissections of 22 flippers, representing 15 species (7 odontocetes, 15 mysticetes). Results were compared with published descriptions of both artiodactyls and secondarily aquatic vertebrates. Results indicate muscle robustness is best predicted by taxonomic distribution and is not a function of body size. All cetaceans have atrophied triceps muscles, an immobile cubital joint, and lack most connective tissue structures and manus muscles. Forelimbs retain only three muscle groups: triceps (only the scapular head is functional as the humeral heads are vestigal), and antebrachial extensors and flexors. Well-developed flexor and extensor muscles were found in mysticetes and basal odontocetes (i.e., physeterids, kogiids, and ziphiids), whereas later diverging odontocetes (i.e., monodontids, phocoenids, and delphinids) lack or reduce these muscles. Balaenopterid mysticetes (e.g., fin and minke whales) may actively change flipper curvature, while basal odontocetes (e.g., sperm and beaked whales) probably stiffen the flipper through isometric contraction. Later diverging odontocetes lack musculature supporting digital movements and are unable to manipulate flipper curvature. Cetacean forelimbs are unique in that they have lost agility and several soft tissue structures, but retain sensory innervations.
Perhaps the greatest recent controversy in the medical management of complex neurologic and neurosurgical patients has been the defining of the optimal care arena. Despite some early skepticism and measured recognition by the ICU community, neurosciences critical care has grown into a well-recognized subspecialty. Within this environment, the diverse expertise of surgeons, neurologists, and anesthesiologists come together to define best therapeutic strategies. Two neurologic disease states that, in particular, continue to elicit expansive interdisciplinary debate are spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage and aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Opinions of patients and relatives about their experiences with health and social services were assessed in a pilot study. The study was carried out in collaboration with two patients' Associations of Neurofibromatosis, &quot;Neurofibromatosi--Onlus&quot; and &quot;LINFA--Onlus&quot;. An ad-hoc questionnaire was developed by the Italian National Centre of Rare Diseases and was sent to the Responsibles of the two aforementioned patients' Associations. The Responsibles distributed the questionnaire to their members by mail. The questionnaire investigated, using 5-level Likert scales, the following topics: quality and accessibility of health services (diagnostic exams, pharmacological therapies, rehabilitation, psychological support), quality and accessibility of social services (school, vocational training, health information, information on legal matters and rights). Finally, the questionnaire investigated also opinions about improvements of public health and social services in the last three years. Overall, 79 out 144 questionnaires were filled by patients or their relatives. The most frequent negative experiences concerned vocational training and both health and legal information. The most frequent positive opinions were reported for the human relationships with health professionals. This pilot study seems to point out a promising way to investigate systematically opinions of patients suffering from rare diseases and their relatives.
Behcet's disease (BD) is a chronic, relapsing, multisystem disease. In some patients, ocular involvement can lead to severe vision impairment despite immunosuppressive therapy. Since high levels of circulating TNF-alpha have been found both in peripheral blood and aqueous humor of patients with active BD, we evaluated the efficacy of anti-TNF-alpha therapy in seven patients with severe ocular involvement resistant to previous treatment. Seven patients with sight-threatening relapsing uveitis refractory to immunosuppressive regimens received intravenously infliximab, at a dose of 3-5 mg/kg, on week 0-2-4 and then every 6-8 weeks, in combination with low-dose prednisone and methotrexate or azathioprine. Efficacy was assessed in terms of number and severity of relapses of posterior uveitis, visual acuity, and reduction of corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs. After a mean follow-up period of 23 months, the total number of relapses dropped to 6, compared to the 21 observed in an equivalent period of time before treatment. The visual acuity improved in 4 eyes, while it remained stable in 9. Therapy with infliximab considerably reduced the required daily dose of both corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs. In our experience infliximab proved to be safe and effective in controlling both the number and intensity of cases of posterior uveitis and the extraocular manifestations of BD. It also allowed a reduction of corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs required to control the disease. However, ocular and systemic manifestations tended to recur after drug withdrawal or when the interval between infliximab courses was longer than 8 weeks. Moreover, infliximab administration is costly and requires hospital admission.
Interferons-alpha (IFN-alpha) are a group of cytokines belonging to type I IFN family, which exert multiple biological effects, including antiviral and antitumor activities in patients with defined types of cancer and viral diseases. Early studies in mouse tumor models have shown the importance of host immune mechanisms in the generation of a long-lasting antitumor response after type I IFN treatment. Recent studies have revealed new immunomodulatory effects of IFN-alpha, including activities on T cells and dendritic cells (DCs), which may explain the immune correlates frequently observed in some categories of cancer patients responding to IFN-alpha therapy. Of note, new knowledge has recently been generated on the mechanisms of action of some chemotherapeutic agents, such as cyclophosphamide (CTX), on cells of the immune system, whose effects can now be exploited for the design of more effective combination therapies. On the whole, the new strategies based on IFN-alpha include the in vivo use of these cytokines as immune adjuvants of cancer vaccines, their in vitro use to generate highly active DC-based vaccines, and the combination of certain chemotherapy regimens with IFN-alpha-adjuvanted cancer vaccines.
In primates, ventral premotor and rostral inferior parietal neurons fire during the execution of hand and mouth actions. Some cells (called mirror neurons) also fire when hand and mouth actions are just observed. Mirror neurons provide a simple neural mechanism for understanding the actions of others. In humans, posterior inferior frontal and rostral inferior parietal areas have mirror properties. These human areas are relevant to imitative learning and social behavior. Indeed, the socially isolating condition of autism is associated with a deficit in mirror neuron areas. Strategies inspired by mirror neuron research recently have been used in the treatment of autism and in motor rehabilitation after stroke.


Alien hand syndrome is a rare neurological disorder in which movements are performed without conscious will. By using functional magnetic resonance imaging in a patient with alien hand syndrome after right parietal lesion, we could identify brain regions activated during involuntary or voluntary actions with the affected left hand. Alien hand movements involved a selective activation of contralateral primary motor cortex (M1), presumably released from conscious control by intentional planning systems. By contrast, voluntary movements activated a distributed network implicating not only the contralateral right M1 and premotor cortex but also the left inferior frontal gyrus, suggesting an important role of the dominant hemisphere in organizing willed actions.
Richter fully appreciated the fundamental biological importance of sex differences, in particular the challenges of female reproductive function to the two classes of behavior that most engaged him, endogenous rhythms and &quot;self-regulatory&quot; behaviors. Indeed, his contributions in these areas justify honoring him as one of the founders of behavioral neuroendocrinology. During the 1920s Richter, together with Wang, Kinder and other students, performed elegant phenomenological and mechanistic studies of sex differences in rats' spontaneous locomotor activity, nest building, and food intake. All of these behaviors display rhythms entrained to the ovarian cycle in female rats, and Richter's analyses of them formed the bases of many current areas of behavioral neuroscience. Slightly later, Richter made fundamentally important discoveries related to nutrient self-selection in pregnant and lactating rats, including changes in micronutrient and macronutrient selection. These data played a major role in the development of his concept of behavioral regulation of homeostasis. Unfortunately, some of these discoveries are rarely recalled. This is both historically regrettable and potentially an impediment to contemporary research progress.
Leiomodins are larger homologs of tropomodulin, a tropomyosin-binding, actin-capping protein. There are several leiomodin isoforms, one of them found in smooth muscles (Lmod1) and another one found in cardiac and skeletal muscles (Lmod2). In this work, the tropomyosin-binding abilities of these two isoforms were studied. The tropomyosin-binding sites were localized in the N-terminal regions of Lmod1 and Lmod2. The affinities of the leiomodin fragments containing the tropomyosin-binding sites for tropomyosin peptides containing N-termini of different tropomyosin isoforms, alpha, gamma and delta, were determined and compared using non-denaturing gel-electrophoresis and circular dichroism. It was shown that leiomodin/tropomyosin binding is isoform-specific and differs almost 100-fold for different tropomyosin isoforms.
Tau fibrillization is a potential therapeutic target for Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. Several small-molecule inhibitors of tau aggregation have been developed for this purpose. One of them, 3,3'-bis(beta-hydroxyethyl)-9-ethyl-5,5'-dimethoxythiacarbocyanine iodide (N744), is a cationic thiacarbocyanine dye that inhibits recombinant tau filament formation when present at submicromolar concentrations. To prepare dosing regimens for testing N744 activity in biological models, its full concentration-effect relationship in the range 0.01-60muM was examined in vitro by electron microscopy and laser light scattering methods. Results revealed that N744 concentration dependence was biphasic, with fibrillization inhibitory activity appearing at submicromolar concentration, but with relief of inhibition and increases in fibrillization apparent above 10muM. Therefore, fibrillization was inhibited 50% only over a narrow concentration range, which was further reduced by filament stabilizing modifications such as tau pseudophosphorylation. N744 inhibitory activity also was paralleled by changes in its aggregation state, with dimer predominating at inhibitory concentrations and large dye aggregates appearing at high concentrations. Ligand dimerization was promoted by the presence of tau protein, which lowered the equilibrium dissociation constant for dimerization more than an order of magnitude relative to controls. The results suggest that ligand aggregation may play an important role in both inhibitory and disinhibitory phases of the concentration-effect curve, and may lead to complex dose-response relationships in model systems.

Narrative theory indicates that assessment using narratives is expectant, collaborative, and has the potential to begin a process of change. A shift from thinking exclusively about meaning (subjectivity in the child) to thinking also about shared meaning (intersubjectivity between child and clinician-examiner) seems appropriate in the clinical context. Recent knowledge from the cognitive neurosciences makes a shift of this sort compelling and has further implications. More story stem narrative research at the level of assessing individual children needs to be done so there can be explicit links to treatment.

Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a sphingolipid storage disorder characterized by progressive neurodegeneration that typically shows juvenile onset. Mutations in the Npc1 gene cause approximately 95% of NPC cases. NPC1 is a multipass transmembrane protein involved in lipid and cholesterol trafficking. Loss of function mutations in Npc1 lead to the accumulation of sphingolipids and cholesterol in late endosomes and lysosomes. In our study, we demonstrated that NPC1 deficiency results in increased basal autophagy in human fibroblasts and in mice. We further demonstrated that NPC1 deficiency activate basal autophagy through increased expression of Beclin-1, a highly conserved member of the class III PI3K complex that is critical for the formation of autophagosomes. In contrast, enhanced basal autophagy was not associated with activation of the Akt-mTORp70 S6K signaling pathway. Increased Beclin-1 levels and elevated autophagy were also observed in other sphingolipid storage diseases characterized by disrupted cholesterol and sphingolipid trafficking. We propose a model in which the disordered cholesterol trafficking that occurs in many sphingolipid storages diseases results in upregulation of Beclin-1 and enhanced levels of autophagy.
Studies on human and animal models of retinal dystrophy have suggested that apoptosis may be the common pathway of photoreceptor cell death. Autophagy, the major cellular degradation process in animal cells, is important in normal development and tissue remodeling, as well as under pathological conditions. Previously we provided evidence that genes, whose products are involved in apoptosis and autophagy, may be coexpressed in photoreceptors undergoing degeneration. Here, we investigated autophagy in oxidative stress-mediated cell death in photoreceptors, analyzing the light-damage mouse model and 661W photoreceptor cells challenged with H(2)O(2). In the in vivo model, we demonstrated a time-dependent increase in the number of TUNEL-positive cells, concomitant with the formation of autophagosomes. In vitro, oxidative stress increased mRNA levels of apoptotic and autophagic marker genes. H(2)O(2) treatment resulted in the accumulation of TUNEL-positive cells, the majority of which contain autophagosomes. To determine whether autophagy and apoptosis might precede each other or co-occur, we performed inhibitor studies. The autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA), silencing RNA (siRNA) against two genes whose products are required for autophagy (autophagy-related (ATG) gene 5 and beclin 1), as well as the pan-caspase-3 inhibitor, Zvad-fmk, were both found to partially block cell death. Blocking autophagy also significantly decreased caspase-3 activity, whereas blocking apoptosis increased the formation of autophagosomes. The survival effects of 3?MA and zVAD-fmk were not additive; rather treatment with both inhibitors lead to increased cell death by necrosis. In summary, the study first suggests that autophagy participates in photoreceptor cell death possibly by initiating apoptosis. Second, it confirms that cells that normally die by apoptosis will execute cell death by necrosis if the normal pathway is blocked. And third, these results argue that the up-stream regulators of autophagy need to be identified as potential therapeutic targets in photoreceptor degeneration.
A combination of genetic variations, epimutations and environmental factors may be involved in the etiology of complex neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia. To study such disorders, we use apomorphine-unsusceptible (APO-UNSUS) Wistar rats and their phenotypic counterpart apomorphine-susceptible (APO-SUS) rats that display a complex phenotype remarkably similar to that of schizophrenic patients. As the molecular basis of the APO-SUS/UNSUS rat model, we recently identified a genomic rearrangement of the Aph-1b gene. Here, we discovered between the two rat lines differences other than the Aph-1b gene defect, including a remarkable cluster of genetic variations, two variants corresponding to topoisomerase II-based recombination hot spots and an epigenetic (DNA methylation) difference in cerebellum and (hypo)thalamic but not hippocampal genomic DNA. Furthermore, genetic variations were found to correlate with the degree of apomorphine susceptibility in unselected Wistar rats. Together, the results show that a number of genetic and epigenetic differences exist between the APO-SUS and -UNSUS rat genomes, raising the possibility that in addition to the Aph-1b gene defect the newly identified variations may also contribute to the complex APO-SUS phenotype.

Combining an effective psychological treatment with conventional anxiolytic medication is typically not more effective than unimodal therapy for treating anxiety disorders. However, recent advances in the neuroscience of fear reduction have led to novel approaches for combining psychological therapy and pharmacological agents. Exposure-based treatments in humans partly rely on extinction to reduce the fear response in anxiety disorders. Animal studies have shown that D-cycloserine (DCS), a partial agonist at the glycine recognition site of the glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor facilitates extinction learning. Similarly, recent human trials have shown that DCS enhances fear reduction during exposure therapy of some anxiety disorders. This article discusses the biological and psychological mechanisms of extinction learning and the therapeutic value of DCS as an augmentation strategy for exposure therapy. Areas of future research will be identified.
During the intrauterine period the human brain develops in the male direction via direct action of a boy's testosterone, and in the female direction through the absence of this hormone in a girl. During this time, gender identity (the feeling of being a man or a woman), sexual orientation, and other behaviors are programmed. As sexual differentiation of the genitals takes places in the first 2 months of pregnancy, and sexual differentiation of the brain starts during the second half of pregnancy, these two processes may be influenced independently of each other, resulting in transsexuality. This also means that in the case of an ambiguous gender at birth, the degree of masculinization of the genitals may not reflect the same degree of masculinization of the brain. Differences in brain structures and brain functions have been found that are related to sexual orientation and gender.
We have previously shown that MCa (maurocalcine), a toxin from the venom of the scorpion Maurus palmatus, binds to RyR1 (type 1 ryanodine receptor) and induces strong modifications of its gating behaviour. In the present study, we investigated the ability of MCa to bind to and modify the gating process of cardiac RyR2. By performing pull-down experiments we show that MCa interacts directly with RyR2 with an apparent affinity of 150 nM. By expressing different domains of RyR2 in vitro, we show that MCa binds to two domains of RyR2, which are homologous with those previously identified on RyR1. The effect of MCa binding to RyR2 was then evaluated by three different approaches: (i) [(3)H]ryanodine binding experiments, showing a very weak effect of MCa (up to 1 muM), (ii) Ca(2+) release measurements from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles, showing that MCa up to 1 muM is unable to induce Ca(2+) release, and (iii) single-channel recordings, showing that MCa has no effect on the open probability or on the RyR2 channel conductance level. Long-lasting opening events of RyR2 were observed in the presence of MCa only when the ionic current direction was opposite to the physiological direction, i.e. from the cytoplasmic face of RyR2 to its luminal face. Therefore, despite the conserved MCa binding ability of RyR1 and RyR2, functional studies show that, in contrast with what is observed with RyR1, MCa does not affect the gating properties of RyR2. These results highlight a different role of the MCa-binding domains in the gating process of RyR1 and RyR2.
Extramural funding provides major support for biomedical research in academia, and National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants often constitute direct evaluation criteria for promotions and tenure. Therefore, NIH budget trends influence long-term scientific strategies and career decisions, as well as the progress of science itself. Our analysis of the last 37 years of NIH awards, however, reveals that the success rate of grant applications submitted for funding is negatively related to the total yearly amount of (inflation-adjusted) NIH extramural expenditure. Instead, as might be expected, the ratio between available funding and the number of submission directly predicts the probability of winning support in any given year. We purport that the considerable success rate variability can be parsimoniously explained by a proportional but delayed reaction of the number of applications to budget fluctuations. As a counterintuitive consequence, grant proposals conceived during lean periods might stand the best chance of success.


In event-related potential (ERPs) studies, emotional stimuli usually elicit an enhanced late positive potential (LPP), which is assumed to reflect motivated attention. However, whether a stimulus elicits emotional responses may depend on the individual's state, such as experiencing romantic love. It has been suggested that stimuli that are related to someone's beloved will elicit increased attention in that infatuated individual. In this study, participants who were in love viewed faces of their beloved, their friend, and of an unknown, beautiful person. The friend was included to control for familiarity, and the unknown person for perceived beauty. As expected, the LPP was larger in response to the face of the beloved than to the other two emotionally significant faces. Interpreting the LPP as reflecting motivated attention, this implies that romantic love is accompanied by increased attention for the face of one's beloved.
Estradiol and progesterone induction of the LH surge in ovariectomized female rats requires concurrent activation of brain insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) receptors. The present study determined whether brain IGF1 receptor signaling is required for estrous cyclicity in gonadally intact female rats. A selective IGF1 receptor antagonist (JB-1) or vehicle was continuously administered into the third ventricle by osmotic minipumps. Following surgical placement of the minipumps, all rats temporarily reduced food intake, lost weight, and suspended estrous cycles. Control rats resumed cycles within a few days and exhibited compensatory hyperphagia until they returned to presurgical body weight. Animals receiving JB-1 had severely delayed or absent estrous cycles, failed to show rebound feeding, and regained body weight more slowly. Vehicle-infused animals pair fed to JB-1-treated rats had even lower body weights but resumed estrous cycles sooner than those given drug alone. Chronic infusion of IGF1 alone had no effect on any of these parameters, but coinfusion of IGF1 with the antagonist completely reversed JB-1 effects on food intake and estrous cyclicity and partially reversed the effects on body weight. There were no significant differences in the expression of galanin-like peptide (Galp) or Kiss1 mRNA in the arcuate or periventricular hypothalamic area of control and JB-1-treated animals at a time point when food intake and estrous cycles were different between controls and JB-1-treated rats. These data suggest that brain IGF1 signaling is necessary for normal estrous cycles as well as compensatory hyperphagia and that IGF1 modulation of the reproductive axis is not secondary to reduced food intake.
Inkjet printing allows for the rapid and inexpensive printing of cells, materials, and protein molecules. However, the combination of inkjet printing and control of neural stem cell (NSC) multipotency and differentiation has remained unexplored. We used an inkjet printer (Canon BJC-2100) to print biologically active macromolecules on poly-acrylamide-based hydrogels (HydroGel(TM)), which were subsequently seeded with primary fetal NSCs. NSCs cultured on areas printed with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) remained undifferentiated, consistent with the effects of FGF2 when administered in solution. NSCs cultured in parallel on the same hydrogels but in areas printed with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) or fetal bovine serum (FBS) displayed a rapid induction of markers for astrocytic (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP) or smooth muscle (smooth muscle actin, SMA) differentiation, respectively. These results are consistent with known actions of CNTF and FBS on NSCs. Importantly, NSCs cultured on a printed gradient of increasing levels of CNTF showed a linear increase in numbers of cells expressing GFAP, demonstrating a functional gradient of CNTF. Lastly, genetically modified NSCs proved to respond properly to printed macromolecules, suggesting that inkjet printing can successfully be combined with gene delivery to achieve effective control of stem cell differentiation.
The major constituents from the fruits of Maclura pomifera are the prenylated isoflavones, osajin (1) and pomiferin (2). Their structures were elucidated using NMR spectroscopic techniques and mass spectrometric analysis. Compound 2 showed potential inhibitory activity in histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzyme assay. It also exhibited growth inhibitory activity on five human tumor cell lines and more sensitive inhibitory activity on the HCT-15 colon tumor cell line. Further structure-activity relationships of position 3 on ring B from aromatic ring will be reported in due course.
The in vivo occupancy of brain benzodiazepine binding sites by compounds A and B was measured using a [(3)H]Ro 15-1788 binding assay and related to plasma and brain drug concentrations. The plasma concentration associated with 50% occupancy was higher for compound A than compound B (73 and 3.7 nM, respectively), however, there was little difference in the brain concentrations required (73 and 63 nM). Both compounds showed a non-linear relationship between plasma and brain concentrations such that above brain concentrations of approximately 100 nM increasing plasma concentrations did not result in a concomitant increase in brain concentrations. This is consistent with brain concentrations being dependent on a saturable compartment which was postulated to be the benzodiazepine binding site-containing GABA(A) receptors. This hypothesis was tested in alpha1H101R mice, in which the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor is rendered insensitive to benzodiazepine binding resulting in an approximate 50% reduction in the total benzodiazepine-containing GABA(A) receptor population. It was shown that the Occ(50) brain concentrations in the alpha1H101R animals was lower (17 nM) than in wild type mice (63 nM), as was the plateau concentration in the brain (105 and 195 nM, respectively). These data suggest measured concentrations of compounds A and B in brain tissue are dependent on receptor expression with a minimal contribution from unbound and non-specifically bound compound.
This survey of experimental findings and theoretical insights of the past 25 years places the brain firmly into the conceptual framework of nonlinear dynamics, operating at the brink of criticality, which is achieved and maintained by self-organization. It is here the basis for proposing that the application of the twin concepts of scaling and universality of the theory of non-equilibrium phase transitions can serve as an informative approach for elucidating the nature of underlying neural-mechanisms, with emphasis on the dynamics of recursively reentrant activity flow in intracortical and cortico-subcortical neuronal loops.
The Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway has emerged as a key regulator in bone development and bone homeostasis. Loss-of-function mutations in the Wnt co-receptor LRP5 result in osteoporosis and &quot;activating&quot; mutations in LRP5 result in high bone mass. Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) is a secreted Wnt inhibitor that binds LRP5 and LRP6 during embryonic development, therefore it is expected that a decrease in DKK1 will result in an increase in Wnt activity and a high bone mass phenotype. Dkk1-/- knockout mice are embryonic lethal, but mice with hypomorphic Dkk1d (doubleridge) alleles that express low amounts of Dkk1 are viable. In this study we generated an allelic series by crossing Dkk1+/- and Dkk1+/d mice resulting in the following genotypes with decreasing Dkk1 expression levels: +/+, +/d, +/- and d/-. Using muCT imaging we scanned dissected left femora and calvariae from 8-week-old mice (n=60). We analyzed the distal femur to represent trabecular bone and the femur diaphysis for cortical endochondral bone. A region of the parietal bones was used to analyze intramembranous bone of the calvaria. We found that trabecular bone volume is increased in Dkk1 mutant mice in a manner that is inversely proportional to the level of Dkk1 expression. Trabeculae number and thickness were significantly higher in the low Dkk1 expressing genotypes from both female and male mice. Similar results were found in cortical bone with an increase in cortical thickness and cross sectional area of the femur diaphysis that correlated with lower Dkk1 expression. No consistent differences were found in the calvaria measurements. Our results indicate that the progressive Dkk1 reduction increases trabecular and cortical bone mass and that even a 25% reduction in Dkk1 expression could produce significant increases in trabecular bone volume fraction. Thus DKK1 is a negative regulator of normal bone homeostasis in vivo. Our study suggests that manipulation of DKK1 function or expression may have therapeutic significance for the treatment of low bone mass disorders.

Affective neuroscience addresses the brain mechanisms underlying emotional behaviour. In psychiatry, affective neuroscience finds application not only in understanding the neurobiology of mood disorders, but also by providing a framework for understanding the neural control of interpersonal and social behaviour and processes that underlie psychopathology. By providing a coherent conceptual framework, affective neuroscience is increasingly able to provide a mechanistic explanatory understanding of current therapies and is driving the development of novel therapeutic approaches.
Wilson's disease (WD) is clinically and radiologically a dynamic disorder. However, there is a paucity of studies involving sequential MRI changes in this disease with or without therapy This study looked at serial MRI changes and their clinical correlate in patients with WD The severity of MRI changes using 1.5 T MRI in 50 patients with WD was graded based on alteration in signal intensity of focal lesions and atrophy. Details of clinical manifestations, Schwab and England Activities of daily living (MSEADL) score, Neurological Symptom Score (NSS) and Chu staging were recorded. Clinical severity and disability scores were correlated with MRI scores using SPSS v10 The mean age at onset of illness and diagnosis was 12.8+/-5.6 years and 14.4+/-6.0 years, respectively. At the time of first MRI, patients had been treated for 49.0+/-77.3 months. At a follow-up of 24.2+/-12.2 months, clinically 36 patients had improved, 9 remained the same and 5 had worsened. Serial imaging revealed an improvement in MRI parameters in 35 patients, no significant changes in 10, worsening in 4 and an admixture of resolving and evolving changes in 1. The overall MRI score improved from 8.2+/-5.7 to 5.9+/-6.6. There was an improvement in measures of disability and impairment in all: Chu stage, 11.5+/-0.7 to 1.3+/-0.6; MSEADL score (%), 79.7+/-27.6 to 88.0+/-25.4; NSS, 10.6+/-11.2 to 8.0+/-11.6, with good clinico-radiological correlation. Patients with extensive changes, white-matter involvement and severe diffuse atrophy had a poor prognosis In conclusion, the majority of patients with WD showed variable improvement in clinical and MRI features when treated.
The response of mammalian cells to ionizing radiation can be directly influenced by genetics, and mouse strains can be identified that differ in their cellular radiosensitivity. The C57BL/6 radiation resistant and DBA/2 radiation susceptible mouse strains were utilized to aid the elucidation of the mechanisms involved in the early response to ionizing radiation. Investigation of the p53 pathway revealed differences in the expression and activity of p53 and its downstream targets between these mouse strains. The radiation resistant C57BL/6 strain showed an early p53 response and preferentially upregulated pro-apoptotic Bax, whereas the radiation sensitive DBA/2 strain exhibited a later, more prolonged p53 response and a greater expression of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p21. These two mouse strains also showed significantly different levels of splenic radiation-induced apoptosis, the radiation resistant C57BL/6 scoring twofold more apoptotic cells than its radiation sensitive counterpart. These data provided a quantitative endpoint for an apoptosis genetic linkage analysis. The preliminary results of the linkage analysis indicated that three distinct loci may be involved in driving the different apoptosis phenotypes exhibited by the mouse strains. Moreover, we ascertained whether the mechanisms involved in the response to ionizing radiation may work in a tissue-specific fashion. In the linkage analysis, comparison of apoptosis scores in the colon and small intestine with data from the spleen showed little correlation suggesting that levels of apoptosis are tissue-specific. Tissue-specificity in the colon and small intestine was further illustrated by work with a 2D gel electrophoresis system. This revealed different patterns of p53 phosphorylation between the intestinal tissues both before and after exposure to ionizing radiation. The data discussed here will aid our understanding of the genes and mechanisms involved in radiation responses.

Premature return to play after concussion may have debilitating or even fatal consequences. Computerised neuropsychological test batteries are widely used to monitor recovery, but none meet all specified criteria. One possible alternative is to measure saccadic reaction time or latency. Latency reflects the operation of cerebral decision mechanisms, and is strongly influenced by many agents that impair cortical function. A portable, micro-miniature device (saccadometer) was used to record the eye movements of amateur boxers before and after competitive bouts. Individual latency distributions were significantly affected after blows to the head, though the effects seemed to be reversible, with recovery over a few days. This quantitative, objective and easy to use technique should perhaps be deployed more widely to evaluate its potential in monitoring the effects of sports-related head injuries.


The pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus is massively interconnected to cortical areas which translate spatial visual information into coordinate systems defined by multiple reference frames [Grieve et al. (The primate pulvinar nuclei: vision and action. Trends in Neurosciences 2000; 23(1): 35-39)]. Here we report the first evidence that spatial coding in the pulvinar is defined by an object-based frame. We evaluated the efficiency of spatial coding in two patients with damage to spatial maps within the pulvinar. Patients located targets within a 2 x 2 (up/down x left/right) search array, which was itself located within a 2 x 2 retinotopic space. For both patients, spatial deficits were defined in both a retinotopic and an object-based frame. For example, targets in the contralesional side of the array were poorly localized whether the array appeared in contra or ipsilesional retinotopic space. We conclude that spatial processing bias following pulvinar damage can be defined by coordinate systems based on both object-based and retinotopic spaces.
We tested biological motion perception in a large group of unilateral stroke patients (N = 60). Both right and left hemisphere lesioned patients were significantly impaired compared with age-matched controls. Voxel-based lesion analyses revealed that lesions in superior temporal and premotor frontal areas had the greatest effect on biological motion perception. Moreover, the effect in each region was independent, and not attributable to indirect effects of lesions in the other area. When we explored functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data collected from neurologically healthy controls in a separate experiment in relation to the lesion maps, we found that the two methods converged on their findings. We thus establish that superior temporal and premotor areas are not only involved in biological motion perception, but also have causal relationships to deficits in biological motion perception. While the precise functional roles of each region remain to be identified, this network has been implicated in the perception of action stimuli in many studies and as such patients' deficits may reflect an inability to effectively engage the action observation system.
Epilepsy surgery requires precise localization of the epileptic source. EEG-correlated functional MRI (EEG-fMRI) is a new technique showing the haemodynamic effects of interictal epileptiform activity. This study assesses its potential added value in the presurgical evaluation of patients with complex source localization. Adult surgical candidates considered ineligible because of an unclear focus and/or presumed multifocality on the basis of EEG underwent EEG-fMRI. Interictal epileptic discharges (IEDs) in the EEG during fMRI were identified by consensus between two observers. Topographically distinct IED sets were analysed separately. Only patients with significant, positive blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses that were topographically related to the EEG were re-evaluated for surgery. Forty-six IED sets from 29 patients were analysed. In eight patients, at least one BOLD response was significant, positive and topographically related to the IEDs. These patients were rejected for surgery because of an unclear focus (n = 3), presumed multifocality (n = 2) or a combination of both (n = 3). EEG-fMRI improved localization in four out of six unclear foci. In patients with presumed multifocality, EEG-fMRI advocated one of the foci in one patient and confirmed multifocality in four out of five patients. In four patients EEG-fMRI opened new prospects for surgery and in two of these patients intracranial EEG supported the EEG-fMRI results. In these complex cases, EEG-fMRI either improved source localization or corroborated a negative decision regarding surgical candidacy. It is thus a valuable tool in the presurgical evaluation of patients. Guidelines for the use of EEG-fMRI in clinical practice are proposed.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is an acute inflammatory disorder of the peripheral nervous system thought to be due to autoimmunity for which immunotherapy is usually prescribed. To provide the best evidence on which to base clinical practice, we systematically reviewed the results of randomized trials of immunotherapy for GBS. We searched the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE and EMBASE in July 2006 and used the methods of the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group to extract and synthesize data. Almost all trials used a 7-point disability grade scale. In four trials with altogether 585 severely affected adult participants, those treated with plasma exchange (PE) improved significantly more on this scale 4 weeks after randomization than those who did not, weighted mean difference (WMD) -0.89 (95% confidence interval (CI) -1.14 to -0.63). In five trials with altogether 582 participants, the improvement on the disability grade scale with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) was very similar to that with PE, WMD -0.02 (95% CI -0.25 to 0.20). There was also no significant difference between IVIg and PE for any of the other outcome measures. In one trial with 148 participants, following PE with IVIg did not produce significant extra benefit. Limited evidence from three open trials in children suggested that IVIg hastens recovery compared with supportive care alone. Corticosteroids were compared with placebo or supportive treatment in six trials with altogether 587 participants. There was significant heterogeneity in the analysis of these trials which could be accounted for by analysing separately four small trials of oral corticosteroids with altogether 120 participants, in which there was significantly less improvement after 4 weeks with corticosteroids than without, WMD -0.82 (95% CI -0.17 to -1.47), and two large trials of intravenous methylprednisolone with altogether 467 participants, in which there was no significant difference between corticosteroids and placebo WMD -0.17 (95% CI 0.06 to -0.39). None of the treatments significantly reduced mortality. Since approximately 20% of patients die or have persistent disability despite immunotherapy, more research is needed to identify better treatment regimens and new therapeutic strategies.
In order to investigate epileptogenesis in hereditary dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), we immunohistochemically examined the expression of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, calcium-binding proteins and/or glutamate transporters in the brainstem and cerebral cortex in autopsy cases. The subjects comprised 14 cases of clinicopathologically confirmed DRPLA, including 7 cases of juvenile and 2 cases of early adult types with progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME), 5 cases of late adult type without PME, and 10 age-matched controls. Serial sections of the brainstem and cerebral cortex were treated with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase, tryptophan hydroxylase, substance P, methionine-enkephalin, parvalbumin, calbindin-D28K, calretinin, and excitatory amino acid transporters. Although the size of the tegmentum was small, we failed to find any PME-specific brainstem changes in the expression of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and calcium-binding proteins. The number of interneurons immunoreactive for calbindin-D28K and parvalbumin, markers of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons, were reduced throughout the cerebral cortex, but there was no significant difference in the density of immunoreactive neurons between DRPLA patients of each type. The expression of glutamate transporters was comparatively spared. The current study revealed an absence of PME-specific brainstem lesions and indicated a possible involvement of the reduced GABAergic interneurons in the cerebral cortex in formation of PME in DRPLA.
Many studies reveal effects of verb type on verb retrieval, mainly in agrammatic aphasic speakers. In the current study, two factors that might play a role in action naming in anomic aphasic speakers were considered: the conceptual factor instrumentality and the lexical factor name relation to a noun. Instrumental verbs were shown to be better preserved than non-instrumental verbs in a group of anomic aphasic speakers but not in a group of Broca's aphasic speakers. Name relation to a noun improved the performance of the anomic aphasic speakers as well. Again, no effect was found in the group of Broca's aphasic speakers. Verbs with a name relation to a noun were better retrieved in action naming than verbs without a name relation. These findings are discussed in terms of the spreading activation theory of Dell. (Dell, G. S. (1986). A spreading activation theory of retrieval in sentence production. Psychological Review 93, 283-321.).
Neural pathway for visual information processing involves retina, lateral geniculate body, primary visual cortex, and higher visual cortical areas, all of which have been reported to be disordered either functionally or pathologically in Parkinson disease (PD). As elementary visual disorders, there have been studies that reported reduced contrast sensitivity for middle to high spatial frequencies and impaired blue color perception. Most of those studies suggested retina as the damaged cite that is responsible for the impairments, whereas some studies pointed to the possible cortical involvement. Impairments of higher visual functions also have been reported. In the dorsal stream, impairments of object localization, depth perception, and mental rotation have been reported. In the ventral stream, object perception and visual integration of objects have been found to be impaired. A meta-analysis study, however, concluded that although there may be impairments in higher order functions like attention and problem solving capacity there is no firm evidence for the impairments of higher visual functions. Neuroimaging studies have found a relationship between reduced metabolism centered in the parietal lobe and impaired performance in higher visual functions. Impaired identification of overlapping figures has been reported in dementia with Lewy bodies a disease that is akin to PD. Capacity to discriminate textured areas has been found to be damaged in PD. We conducted a FDG-PET study to explore the relationship between brain metabolism and perception of overlapping figures, perception of shapes defined by texture differences and perception of subjective contours in PD. It revealed that there is a correlation between reduced activation in lateral occipital complex and impaired performance for these tasks, suggesting some compromised ventral rout functions.
Synaptic circuits bind together functional modules of the neocortex. We aim to clarify in a rodent model how intra- and transcolumnar microcircuits in the barrel cortex are laid out to segregate and also integrate sensory information. The primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex of rodents is the ideal model system to study these issues because there, the tactile information derived from the large facial whiskers on the snout is mapped onto so called barrel-related columns which altogether form an isomorphic map of the sensory periphery. This allows to functionally interpret the synaptic microcircuits we have been analyzing in barrel-related columns by means of whole-cell recordings, biocytin filling and mapping of intracortical functional connectivity with sublaminar specificity by computer-controlled flash-release of glutamate. We find that excitatory spiny neurons (spiny stellate, star pyramidal, and pyramidal cells) show a layer-specific connectivity pattern on top of which further cell type-specific circuits can be distinguished. The main features are: (a) strong intralaminar, intracolumnar connections are established by all types of excitatory neurons with both, excitatory and (except for layer Vb- intrinsically burst-spiking-pyramidal cells) inhibitory cells; (b) effective translaminar, intracolumnar connections become more abundant along the three main layer compartments of the canonical microcircuit, and (c) extensive transcolumnar connectivity is preferentially found in specific cell types in each of the layer compartments of a barrel-related column. These multiple sequential and parallel circuits are likely to be suitable for specific cortical processing of &quot;what&quot; &quot;where&quot; and &quot;when&quot; aspects of tactile information acquired by the whiskers on the snout.
We present an overview of a new multidisciplinary research program that focuses on haptic processing of human facial identity and facial expressions of emotion. A series of perceptual and neuroscience experiments with live faces and/or rigid three-dimensional facemasks is outlined. To date, several converging methodologies have been adopted: behavioural experimental studies with neurologically intact participants, neuropsychological behavioural research with prosopagnosic individuals, and neuroimaging studies using fMRI techniques. In each case, we have asked what would happen if the hands were substituted for the eyes. We confirm that humans can haptically determine both identity and facial expressions of emotion in facial displays at levels well above chance. Clearly, face processing is a bimodal phenomenon. The processes and representations that underlie such patterns of behaviour are also considered.

Proteolytic cleavage of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) by calpains impairs calcium homeostasis, leading to a delayed calcium overload and excitotoxic cell death. However, it is not known whether reversal of the exchanger contributes to activate calpains and trigger neuronal death. We investigated the role of the reversal of the NCX in Ca(2+) dynamics, calpain activation and cell viability, in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor-stimulated hippocampal neurons. Selective overactivation of AMPA receptors caused the reversal of the NCX, which accounted for approximately 30% of the rise in intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). The NCX reverse-mode inhibitor, 2-[2-[4-(4-nitrobenzyloxy)phenyl]ethyl]isothiourea (KB-R7943), partially inhibited the initial increase in [Ca(2+)](i), and prevented a delayed increase in [Ca(2+)](i). In parallel, overactivation of AMPA receptors strongly activated calpains and led to the proteolysis of NCX3. KB-R7943 prevented calpain activation, cleavage of NCX3 and was neuroprotective. Silencing of NCX3 reduced Ca(2+) uptake, calpain activation and was neuroprotective. Our data show for the first time that NCX reversal is an early event following AMPA receptor stimulation and is linked to the activation of calpains. Since calpain activation subsequently inactivates NCX, causing a secondary Ca(2+) entry, NCX may be viewed as a new suicide substrate operating in a Ca(2+)-dependent loop that triggers cell death and as a target for neuroprotection.
alpha-Synuclein belongs to a small group of natively unfolded proteins that can transiently bind to lipid membranes and acquire a partial alpha-helical conformation. Under certain pathogenic conditions, alpha-synuclein aggregates to form oligomers and insoluble fibrils with increased ss-sheet configuration. Although genetic mutations and multiplications of the gene have been found in familial cases, the mechanism by which this protein aggregates in sporadic cases of Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and multisystem atrophy is not fully understood. Here we review the function of alpha-synuclein and recent insight into the mechanisms by which it aggregates.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by an accumulation in the brain of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta). The production of Abeta requires two sequential cleavages induced by beta- and gamma-secretases on the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). Altered activity of these secretases is involved in the pathogenesis of AD. The expression and activity of beta-secretase (BACE1) is augmented in the brain in late-onset sporadic AD. Mutant presenilin 1 (PS1), the major genetic defect of early-onset familial AD (FAD), alters the activity of gamma-secretase, leading to increased production of Abeta42. Here we review the role of oxidative stress as a molecular link between the beta- and the gamma-secretase activities, and provide a mechanistic explanation of the pathogenesis of sporadic late-onset AD. We also discuss evidence for a role of the same mechanism in the pathogenesis of familial AD carrying PS1 mutations.
Neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus occurs constitutively throughout postnatal life, and the rate of neurogenesis within the DG can be altered under various physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Adult neurogenesis includes the process in which the division of a precursor cell takes place and the multi-step process (proliferation, differentiation, migration, targeting, and synaptic integration) that ends with the formation of a postmitotic functionally integrated new neuron. During specific time-frames of adult neurogenesis, various markers are expressed that correlate with the differentiation steps along the pathway from early progenitor cells to newly generated postmitotic neurons within the DG. Markers that are currently widely used for the investigation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis are: glial fibrillary acidic protein, nestin, Pax6, NeuroD, PSA-NCAM, doublecortin, TUC-4, Tuj-1, and calretinin. The discovery and development of specific markers that allow the time-course and fate of neurons to be followed during adult neurogenesis in a detailed and precise fashion are not only helpful for gaining further insights into the genesis of new neurons in the hippocampus, but also might be applicable to the development of strategies for therapeutic interventions.
Enterochromaffin (EC) cells regulate gut motility and secretion in response to luminal stimuli, via the release of serotonin (5-HT). Inflammatory bowel disease and other gastrointestinal disorders are associated with increased numbers of EC cells and 5-HT availability. Our aim was to determine whether proliferation of EC cells contributed to the hyperplasia associated with intestinal inflammation. Ileitis was induced in guinea-pigs by intraluminal injection of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS). A single pulse of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected 1 or 24 h before the collection of tissue, 6 or 7 days after TNBS treatment. In the controls, the labelling index (percentage of BrdU-labelled EC cells) was less than 1%. Despite a significant increase in EC cells in the inflamed ileum, the labelling index was similar in the TNBS-treated animals to that of controls. An increased occurrence of EC cells in the BrdU-labelled zone accounted for the increase in EC cells in the inflamed ileum. Goblet cell numbers were also significantly increased in the inflamed ileum, indicating that cell hyperplasia was not limited to the enteroendocrine cell lineage. This study demonstrates that a small portion of EC cells retain some proliferative capacity; however, hyperplasia associated with ileitis is not attributable to the increased proliferation of EC cells and is not limited to one cell lineage. Therefore, EC cell hyperplasia most probably occurs at the level of the stem cell or recruitment from the progenitor pool.
Intolerance to smell is often reported by migraine patients. This study evaluates osmophobia in connection with the diagnosis of migraine and episodic tension-type headache (ETTH). The characteristics of this symptom are also investigated. We recruited from our Headache Centre 1005 patients (772 female, 233 male; age 37 +/- 11 years), of whom 677 were migraine without aura (MoA), 130 migraine with aura (MA) and 198 TTH. Patients with two or more forms of primary headache were excluded. Among migraine patients, 43.9% with MoA and 38.5% with MA reported osmophobia during the attacks; none of the 198 TTH patients suffered this symptom. Most frequently offending odours were scents (63.9%), food (55.2%) and cigarette smoke (54.8%). Osmophobia appears structurally integrated into the migraine history of the patient. It seems to be a peculiar symptom favouring the diagnosis of migraine (MoA and MA) in the differential diagnosis with ETTH.

The ability to retain multiple items in short-term memory is fundamental for intelligent behavior, yet little is known about its neural basis. To explore the mechanisms underlying this ability, we trained 2 monkeys to remember a sequence of 2 objects across a short delay. We then recorded the activity of neurons from the lateral prefrontal cortex during task performance and found that most neurons had activity that depended on the identity of both objects while a minority reflected just one object. Further, the activity driven by a particular combination of objects was not a simple addition of the activity elicited by individual objects. Instead, the representation of the first object was altered by the addition of the second object to memory, and the form of this change was not systematically predictable. These results indicate that multiple objects are not stored in separate groups of prefrontal neurons. Rather, they are represented by a single population of neurons in a complex fashion. We also found that the strength of the memory trace associated with each object decayed over time, leading to a relatively stronger representation of more recently seen objects. This is a potential mechanism for representing the temporal order of objects.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is innervated by the monoamines, dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA), and serotonin, as well as acetylcholine, and the marked influence of these neurochemical systems on prefrontal working memory processes has been widely described. However, their potentially, differential contribution to prefrontal functioning is less well understood. This paper reviews evidence to support the hypothesis that these neurochemical systems recruit distinct fronto-executive operations. Direct comparison of the effects of manipulations of these neuromodulators within PFC on performance of an attentional set-shifting paradigm reveals their differential contribution to distinct task stages. Depletion of prefrontal serotonin selectively disrupts reversal learning but not attentional set formation or set shifting. In contrast, depletion of prefrontal DA disrupts set formation but not reversal learning. NA depletion on the other hand specifically impairs set-shifting, whereas its effects on reversal learning remain unclear. Finally, depletion of prefrontal acetylcholine has no effect on either set formation or set shifting but impairs serial reversal learning. Because these neurochemical systems are known to represent distinct states of stress, arousal, attention, and affect, it is postulated that they augment the different types of executive operation that are recruited and performed within these states via a synergistic interaction with the PFC.
Attention-dependent modulation of neural activity in visual association cortex (VAC) is thought to depend on top-down modulatory control signals emanating from the prefrontal cortex (PFC). In a previous functional magnetic resonance imaging study utilizing a working memory task, we demonstrated that activity levels in scene-selective VAC (ssVAC) regions can be enhanced above or suppressed below a passive viewing baseline level depending on whether scene stimuli were attended or ignored (Gazzaley, Cooney, McEvoy, et al. 2005). Here, we use functional connectivity analysis to identify possible sources of these modulatory influences by examining how network interactions with VAC are influenced by attentional goals at the time of encoding. Our findings reveal a network of regions that exhibit strong positive correlations with a ssVAC seed during all task conditions, including foci in the left middle frontal gyrus (MFG). This PFC region is more correlated with the VAC seed when scenes were remembered and less correlated when scenes were ignored, relative to passive viewing. Moreover, the strength of MFG-VAC coupling correlates with the magnitude of attentional enhancement and suppression of VAC activity. Although our correlation analyses do not permit assessment of directionality, these findings suggest that PFC biases activity levels in VAC by adjusting the strength of functional coupling in accordance with stimulus relevance.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) appears to be important for processing both cognitive and motivational context information. Primate lateral PFC (LPFC) neurons are involved in cognitive context-dependent stimulus coding by responding differently to an identical stimulus according to the task situation. Such context-dependent LPFC activity appears to be supported by context-representing activity, observed also in LPFC neurons, in which the baseline activity differs as a function of the task. In LPFC, there are also neurons that code stimulus on the basis of motivational context. This motivational context is represented in differential baseline activity as a function of the reward context. In the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), there are neurons that code stimuli depending on the motivational context as well as neurons that represent motivational context information. Furthermore, we found LPFC neurons that coded the stimulus depending on both the cognitive and motivational context, as well as LPFC neurons that represented both the cognitive and motivational context. For adaptive behavior, it is important to code the meaning of the environmental situation based on the context. While OFC is predominantly concerned with processing motivational context information, LPFC seems to play important roles in integrating the cognitive and motivational context for adaptive goal-directed behavior.
This study explores the cortical cell dynamics of unimodal and cross-modal working memory (WM). Neuronal activity was recorded from parietal areas of monkeys performing delayed match-to-sample tasks with tactile or visual samples. Tactile memoranda (haptic samples) consisted of rods with differing surface features (texture or orientation of ridges) perceived by active touch. Visual memoranda (icons) consisted of striped patterns of differing orientation. In a haptic-haptic task, the animal had to retain through a period of delay the surface feature of the sample rod to select a rod that matched it. In a visual-haptic task, the animal had to retain the icon for the haptic choice of a rod with ridges of the same orientation as the icon's stripes. Units in all areas responded with firing change to one or more task events. Also in all areas, cells responded differently to different sample memoranda. Differential sample coherent firing was present in most areas during the memory period (delay). It is concluded that neurons in somatosensory and association areas of parietal cortex participate in broad networks that represent various task events and stimuli (auditory, motor, proprioceptive, tactile, and visual). Neurons in the same networks take part in retaining in WM the memorandum for each trial, whether it is encoded haptically or visually. The VH association by parietal cells in WM is analogous to the auditory-visual association previously observed in prefrontal cortex. Both illustrate the capacity of cortical neurons to associate sensory information across time and across modalities in accord with the rules of a behavioral task.
Both dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) have powerful, inverted U influences on prefrontal cortical (PFC) cognitive function. Optimal NE levels engage alpha2A-adrenoceptors and increase &quot;signals&quot; via inhibition of cAMP-HCN (cAMP-hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel) signaling near preferred inputs, whereas optimal levels of DA D1 receptor stimulation decrease &quot;noise&quot; by increasing cAMP signaling near nonpreferred inputs. Excessive levels of catecholamine release during stress impair working memory 1) by very high levels of cAMP-HCN signaling diminishing preferred as well as nonpreferred inputs and 2) by high levels of NE engaging alpha1 stimulation of phosphotidyl inositol (PI) signaling that suppresses cell firing. Common mental illnesses are associated with extracellular changes in these pathways: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is linked to genetic changes that reduce catecholamine transmission to suboptimal levels and is treated with agents that increase catecholamine transmission, whereas Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is associated with amplified noradrenergic transmission that impairs PFC but strengthens amygdala function. PTSD is now treated with agents that block alpha1 or beta adrenoceptors. In contrast, the more severe mental illnesses, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, are associated with genetic changes in molecules regulating intracellular signaling pathways activated by stress. Specifically, DISC1 inhibits cAMP signaling whereas regulator of G-protein signaling 4 inhibits PI signaling. Loss of function in these genes may render patients vulnerable to profound stress-induced PFC dysfunction including symptoms of thought disorder.
A hallmark of categorical perception is better discrimination of stimulus tokens from 2 different categories compared with token pairs that are equally dissimilar but drawn from the same category. This effect is well studied in speech perception and represents an important characteristic of how the phonetic form of speech is processed. We investigated the brain mechanisms of categorical perception of stop consonants using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a passive short-interval habituation trial design (Zevin and McCandliss 2005). The paradigm takes advantage of neural adaptation effects to identify specific regions sensitive to an oddball stimulus presented in the context of a repeated item. These effects were compared for changes in stimulus characteristics that result in either a between-category (phonetic and acoustic) or a within-category (acoustic only) stimulus shift. Significantly greater activation for between-category than within-category stimuli was observed in left superior sulcus and middle temporal gyrus as well as in inferior parietal cortex. In contrast, only a subcortical region specifically responded to within-category changes. The data suggest that these habituation effects are due to the unattended detection of a phonetic stimulus feature.
Neuroimaging evidence has shown that a network including cingulate cortex and bilateral insula responds to both felt and seen pain. Of these, dorsal anterior cingulate and midcingulate areas are involved in preparing context-appropriate motor responses to painful situations, but it is unclear whether the same holds for observed pain. Participants in this functional magnetic resonance imaging study viewed short animations depicting a noxious implement (e.g., a sharp knife) or an innocuous implement (e.g., a butter knife) striking a person's hand. Participants were required to execute or suppress button-press responses depending on whether the implements hit or missed the hand. The combination of the implement's noxiousness and whether it contacted the hand strongly affected reaction times, with the fastest responses to noxious-hit trials. Blood oxygen level-dependent signal changes mirrored this behavioral interaction with increased activation during noxious-hit trials only in midcingulate, dorsal anterior, and dorsal posterior cingulate regions. Crucially, the activation in these cingulate regions also depended on whether the subject made an overt motor response to the event, linking their role in pain observation to their role in motor processing. This study also suggests a functional topography in medial premotor regions implicated in &quot;pain empathy,&quot; with adjacent activations relating to pain-selective and motor-selective components, and their interaction.
Prior knowledge regarding the possible identity of an object facilitates its recognition from a degraded visual input, though the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Previous work implicated ventral visual cortex but did not disambiguate whether activity-changes in these regions are causal to or merely reflect an effect of facilitated recognition. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study top-down influences on processing of gradually revealed objects, by preceding each object with a name that was congruent or incongruent with the object. Congruently primed objects were recognized earlier than incongruently primed, and this was paralleled by shifts in activation profiles for ventral visual, parietal, and prefrontal cortices. Prior to recognition, defined on a trial-by-trial basis, activity in ventral visual cortex rose gradually but equivalently for congruently and incongruently primed objects. In contrast, prerecognition activity was greater with congruent priming in lateral parietal, retrosplenial, and lateral prefrontal cortices, whereas functional coupling between parietal and ventral visual (and also left lateral prefrontal and parietal) cortices was enhanced in the same context. Thus, when controlling for recognition point and stimulus information, activity in ventral visual cortex mirrors recognition success, independent of condition. Facilitation by top-down cues involves lateral parietal cortex interacting with ventral visual areas, potentially explaining why parietal lesions can lead to deficits in recognizing degraded objects even in the context of top-down knowledge.
Laying down a new memory involves activity in a number of brain regions. Here, it is shown that the particular regions associated with successful encoding depend on the way in which memory is probed. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging signals were acquired while subjects performed an incidental encoding task on a series of visually presented words denoting objects. A recognition memory test using the Remember/Know procedure to separate responses based on recollection and familiarity followed 1 day later. Critically, half of the studied objects were cued with a corresponding spoken word, and half with a corresponding picture. Regardless of cue, activity in prefrontal and hippocampal regions predicted subsequent recollection of a word. Type of retrieval cue modulated activity in prefrontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. Words subsequently recognized on the basis of a sense of familiarity were at study also associated with differential activity in a number of brain regions, some of which were probe dependent. Thus, observed neural correlates of successful encoding are constrained by type of retrieval cue, and are only fragments of all encoding-related neural activity. Regions exhibiting cue-specific effects may be sites that support memory through the degree of overlap between the processes engaged during encoding and those engaged during retrieval.
Sensory receptors often receive strongly dynamic, or time varying, inputs in their natural environments. Characterizing their dynamic properties requires control and measurement of the stimulus over a frequency range that equals or exceeds the receptor response. Techniques for dynamic stimulation of olfactory receptors have lagged behind other major sensory modalities because of difficulties in controlling and measuring the concentration of odorants at the receptor. We present a new method for delivering olfactory stimulation that gives linear, low-noise, wide frequency range control of odorant concentration. A servo-controlled moving bead of silicone elastomer occludes the tip of a Pasteur pipette that releases odorant plus tracer gas into a flow tube. Tracer gas serves as a surrogate indicator of odorant concentration and is measured by a photoionization detector. The system has well-defined time-dependent behavior (frequency response and impulse response functions) and gives predictable control of odorant over a significant volume surrounding the animal. The frequency range of the system is about 0-100 Hz. System characterization was based on random (white noise) stimulation, which allows more rapid and accurate estimation of dynamic behavior than deterministic signals such as sinusoids or step functions. Frequency response functions of Drosophila electroantennograms stimulated by fruit odors were used to demonstrate a typical application of the system.
Olfactory sexual dimorphism has mainly been described in the vomeronasal system, in relation to reproductive behavior, while evidence of sexual dimorphism in the main olfactory bulb (OB) remains scarce. There are no data indicating sex-related differences in the neurochemistry of intrinsic olfactory elements. Neurocalcin (NC) is a calcium-binding protein that is expressed in specific neuronal populations of the central nervous system. Here we analyzed by immunohistochemistry the NC-containing neurons in the mouse main OB, comparing both their quantities and their locations between male and female animals. NC cell density was higher in males than in females in specific locations of the glomerular layer, the external plexiform layer, the mitral cell layer, and the internal plexiform layer. This divergence in the numbers of NC cells was especially patent in central rostrocaudal levels. The NC-containing neurons exhibiting sexual divergence were identified as both juxtaglomerular and short-axon cells. This is the first description of sexual dimorphism regarding neurons belonging to the mouse main OB. According to their distribution in the OB, neurocalcin-immunoreactive interneurons could reflect a sexually dimorphic regulation of specific odorants.
High dose glucocorticoid (GC) treatment has been demonstrated to have a short-term beneficial effect on functional recovery in relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS) patients but the exact mechanism of action of GCs in MS is unclear. We found that high dose intravenous GCs strongly reduced T-bet and pSTAT1 expression in CD4+, CD8+, CD14+ circulating cells in RRMS patients in relapse. pSTAT1and T-bet reduction was associated with the decline of IFNgamma production by PBMCs. A significant increase of AV-positive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was detectable after GC treatment without any variation in the percentage of annexin V-positive monocytes. By in vitro analysis, patients during relapse, either before or after GC treatment, exhibited a lower proportion of apoptotic lymphocytes than remitting patients and controls. Our study suggests that GCs can modulate T-bet and STAT1 expression and that IFNgamma signalling inhibition contributes to anti-inflammatory action of GCs in the treatment of relapses of MS patients.

Eleven postmenopausal women with Parkinson disease and levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias underwent a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. The active treatment consisted of estrogen replacement therapy for 12 weeks, followed by medroxyprogesterone acetate for 2 weeks. Estrogen replacement therapy-medroxyprogesterone acetate administration significantly improved peak-dose dyskinesia without worsening motor disability, thus suggesting a possible benefit on dyskinesias in postmenopausal women with Parkinson disease.



The ways in which visual categories are learned, and in which well-established categories are represented and retrieved, are fundamental issues of cognitive neuroscience. Researchers have typically studied these issues separately, and the transition from the initial phase of category learning to expertise is poorly characterized. The acquisition of novel categories has been shown to depend on the striatum, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex, whereas visual category expertise has been shown to involve changes in inferior temporal cortex. The goal of the present experiment is to understand the respective roles of these brain regions in the transition from initial learning to expertise when category judgments are being made. Subjects were explicitly trained, over 2 days, to classify realistic faces. Subjects then performed the categorization task during fMRI scanning, as well as a perceptual matching task, in order to characterize how brain regions respond to these faces when not explicitly categorizing them. We found that, during face categorization, face-selective inferotemporal cortex, lateral prefrontal cortex, and dorsal striatum are more responsive to faces near the category boundary, which are most difficult to categorize. In contrast, the hippocampus and left superior frontal sulcus responded most to faces farthest from the category boundary. These dissociable effects suggest that there are several distinct neural mechanisms involved in categorization, and provide a framework for understanding the contribution of each of these brain regions in categorization.
The origins and functional significance of theta phase precession in the hippocampus remain obscure, in part, because of the difficulty of reproducing hippocampal place cell firing in experimental settings where the biophysical underpinnings can be examined in detail. The present study concerns a neurobiologically based computational model of the emergence of theta phase precession in which the responses of a single model CA3 pyramidal cell are examined in the context of stimulation by realistic afferent spike trains including those of place cells in entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus, and other CA3 pyramidal cells. Spike-timing dependent plasticity in the model CA3 pyramidal cell leads to a spatially correlated associational synaptic drive that subsequently creates a spatially asymmetric expansion of the model cell's place field. Following an initial training period, theta phase precession can be seen in the firing patterns of the model CA3 pyramidal cell. Through selective manipulations of the model it is possible to decompose theta phase precession in CA3 into the separate contributing factors of inheritance from upstream afferents in the dentate gyrus and entorhinal cortex, the interaction of synaptically controlled increasing afferent drive with phasic inhibition, and the theta phase difference between dentate gyrus granule cell and CA3 pyramidal cell activity. In the context of a single CA3 pyramidal cell, the model shows that each of these factors plays a role in theta phase precession within CA3 and suggests that no one single factor offers a complete explanation of the phenomenon. The model also shows parallels between theta phase encoding and pattern completion within the CA3 autoassociative network.
Several different sources of evidence support the idea that visuo-spatial working memory can be segregated into separate cognitive subsystems. However, the nature of these systems remains unclear. Recently we reported data from neurological patients suggesting that information about visual appearance is retained in a different subsystem from information about spatial location. In this paper we report latency data from neurologically intact participants showing an experimental double dissociation between memory for appearance and memory for location. This was achieved by use of a selective dual task interference technique. This pattern provides evidence supporting the segregation of visuo-spatial memory between two systems, one of which supports memory for stimulus appearance and the other which supports memory for spatial location.



Despite the subjective experience of a continuous and coherent external world, we will argue that the perception and categorisation of visual space is constrained by the spatial resolution of the sensory systems but also and above all, by the pre-reflective representations of the body in action. Recent empirical data in cognitive neurosciences will be presented that suggest that multidimensional categorisation of perceptual space depends on body representations at both an experiential and a functional level. Results will also be resumed that show that representations of the body in action are pre-reflective in nature as only some aspects of the pre-reflective states can be consciously experienced. Finally, a neuro-cognitive model based on the integration of afferent and efferent information will be described, which suggests that action simulation and associated predicted sensory consequences may represent the underlying principle that enables pre-reflective representations of the body for space categorisation and selection for action.
The recent distinction between sense of agency and sense of body-ownership has attracted considerable empirical and theoretical interest. The respective contributions of central motor signals and peripheral afferent signals to these two varieties of body experience remain unknown. In the present review, we consider the methodological problems encountered in the empirical study of agency and body-ownership, and we then present a series of experiments that study the interplay between motor and sensory information. In particular, we focus on how multisensory signals interact with body representations to generate the sense of body-ownership, and how the sense of agency modulates the sense of body-ownership. Finally, we consider the respective roles of efferent and afferent signals for the experience of one's own body and actions, in relation to self-recognition and the recognition of other people's actions. We suggest that the coherent experience of the body depends on the integration of efferent information with afferent information in action contexts. Overall, whereas afferent signals provide the distinctive content of one's own body experience, efferent signals seem to structure the experience of one's own body in an integrative and coherent way.
In the first part of this paper I characterize a minimal form of self-consciousness, namely pre-reflective self-consciousness. It is a constant structural feature of conscious experience, and corresponds to the consciousness of the self-as-subject that is not taken as an intentional object. In the second part, I argue that contemporary cognitive neuroscience has by and large missed this fundamental form of self-consciousness in its investigation of various forms of self-experience. In the third part, I exemplify how the notion of pre-reflective self-awareness can be of relevance for empirical research. In particular, I propose to interpret processes of sensorimotor integration in light of the phenomenological approach that allows the definition of pre-reflective self-consciousness.
INTRODUCTIONThe behavioral approach to solving neuroscience questions, unlike cellular and molecular approaches, is difficult to define and is therefore sometimes considered a less-disciplined approach. Methods describing behavioral procedures are often thought to be crude when compared to the precision of physiological or molecular methods. This apparent lack of precision results from the problems inherent in the study of behavior--deciding what to measure among the large number of variables, understanding that behavior is the final output of a vast array of neurochemical and electrophysiological changes, designing reproducible experiments that have appropriate controls, and most importantly, interpreting results. Conflicting results from similar protocols have led to prolonged debates and controversies in interpretation of behavioral data; therefore, it is necessary to strive for a high degree of precision through the cultivation of excellent handling and observational skills and thorough documentation strategies. This article is an introduction to several methods used to measure and assess normal behavior in a rat, including suggestions about how to make objective behavioral observations. Behavioral tests can be used to establish a &quot;behavioral baseline&quot; for a normal animal, to assess the effects of drugs or a lesion on behavior, and to determine whether transgenic animals have a normal behavioral repertoire. It should be kept in mind that, along with the intended effect, experimental manipulations often have unintended side effects, and behavioral tests can also be used to determine some of the less obvious changes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is linked to cholinergic deficiency and the overactivation of glutamate receptors. The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition treatment approach has produced the most encouraging results in clinical practice, and memantine, a moderate antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, has been approved for treating AD. However, AChE inhibitors have limited success as they only improve memory in mild dementia but cannot stop the process of neurodegeneration; while memantine possesses neuroprotective effects only with a little ability in memory enhancement. There has been a major rush among neuroscience research institutions and pharmaceutical firms worldwide to search for safer and more effective therapeutic agents for AD. The novel dimers, derived from tacrine and the fragment of huperzine A (HA'), have been demonstrated to be potent and selective reversible inhibitors of AChE. Bis(7)-tacrine, bis(12)-hupyridone (E12E) and HA'(10)-tacrine, are representatives of three series of novel dimers. According to the preclinical studies, these compounds have been shown to have low toxicity and high efficacy for improving cognitive deficits in several animal models. More interestingly, bis(7)-tacrine, similar to memantine, prevents glutamate-induced neurotoxicity by moderately blocking glutamate receptor NMDA subtype. Furthermore, bis(7)-tacrine, as well as E12E, possesses multiple neuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo. Taking together, these dimeric AChE inhibitors, especially bis(7)-tacrine, E12E and HA'(10)-tacrine, may provide beneficial effects in AD and other neurodegenerative diseases.
As the average ages of North Americans and Europeans continue to rise; similarly the incidence of &quot;old age&quot; associated illnesses likewise increases. Most notably among these ailments are conditions linked to dementia-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and stroke. While in the early stages, these conditions are associated with cellular dysfunction in distinctly different brain regions, thus affecting different neuronal cell types; it is most likely that the final stages share similar cellular and molecular processes leading to neuronal death and ultimately overt clinical symptoms. In this regard, different environmental and genetic triggers ranging from head trauma to protein mutations and toxicological exposure may instigate a cascade of intracellular events that ultimately lead to neuronal death. One strong candidate trigger protein, and thus a potential target for therapeutic manipulation is the potent pro-inflammatory / pro-apoptotic cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). TNF-alpha is secreted by the brain resident marcophage (the microglial cell) in response to various stimuli. It has been demonstrated to play a major role in central nervous system (CNS) neuroinflammation-mediated cell death in AD, PD and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) as well as several other CNS complications. Recently, agents that modulate the levels of circulating peripheral TNF-alpha protein have been shown to be worthwhile therapeutic agents with the use of Enbrel (Etanercept) and Remicade (Infliximab), both of which display beneficial properties against rheumatoid arthritis and other peripheral inflammatory diseases. Unfortunately, these agents are largely unable to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, which severely limits their use in the setting of neuroinflammation in the CNS. However, thalidomide, a small molecule drug, can inhibit TNF-alpha protein synthesis and, unlike larger molecules, is readily capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier. Thus thalidomide and its analogs are excellent candidate agents for use in determining the potential value of anti-TNF-alpha therapies in a variety of diseases underpinned by inflammation within the nervous system. Consequently, we have chosen to discuss the relevance of unregulated TNF-alpha expression in illnesses of the CNS and, to an extent, the peripheral nervous system. Additionally, we consider the utilization of thalidomide-derived agents as anti-TNF-alpha therapeutics in the setting of neuroinflammation.
Pain is a frequent and disabling symptom among multiple sclerosis (MS) and it is estimated to occur in 55% to 65% of patients. The mechanism of pain in MS has not yet been defined, because it can result from somatic, visceral, emotional, or neurologic impairment. The importance of this classification is related to different medical approaches to treat the pain in MS patients. In the management of symptomatic pain, new therapeutic strategies are now available to represent a great opportunity improving the quality of life. The availability of newer drugs for symptomatic treatment of pain in MS indicates a need to pay attention to this problem.
The clinical disorders associated with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) are increasingly recognized as an important cause of early-onset dementia. Patients usually present with progressive changes in personality, behavior, or language, progressing to general cognitive impairment and ultimately death. In the past decade, improved clinical and histopathologic characterization uncovered extensive heterogeneity, and multiple clinical and pathologic FTLD subtypes were defined. Simultaneously, the discovery of four causal FTLD genes emphasized the genetic complexity associated with FTLD. More recently, the field of FTLD has gained increased attention as a result of two major findings. First, mutations in the progranulin gene (PGRN) were recognized as a major cause of FTLD with ubiquitin-positive and tau-negative inclusions (FTLD-U), and subsequently the TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) was identified as a key protein within the ubiquitinated inclusions in FTLD-U and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this report, we outline the progress made in the study of the genetic etiologies and neuropathologic substrates in FTLD.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor family comprises eight subtypes (mGlu1-8) of G-protein coupled receptors. mGlu receptors have a large extracellular domain which acts as recognition domain for the natural agonist glutamate. In contrast to the ionotropic glutamate receptors which mediate the fast excitatory neurotransmission, mGlu receptors have been shown to play a more modulatory role and have been proposed as alternative targets for pharmacological interventions. The potential use of mGluRs as drug targets for various nervous system pathologies such as anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, pain or Parkinson's disease has triggered an intense search for subtype selective modulators and resulted in the identification of numerous novel pharmacological agents capable to modulate the receptor activity through an interaction at an allosteric site located in the transmembrane domain. The present review presents the most recent developments in the identification and the characterization of allosteric modulators for the mGlu receptors.
Ion channels link environmental stimuli to intracellular signaling pathways. Channel proteins often occur in macromolecular complexes in association with auxiliary subunits that control channel trafficking, gating and pharmacology. A large number of drugs exert their therapeutic effects by regulating ion channel activity and downstream signaling. These drugs can target either the principle ion channel or the associated auxiliary subunits. Sulfonylurea-type antidiabetics and gabapentin-type anticonvulsants exemplify important therapeutics that bind to ion channel auxiliary subunits. The recent molecular characterization of neuronal glutamate receptor ion channel complexes identified auxiliary subunits and associated proteins that may provide new targets for treating psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases.

Mouse genetic studies have identified several genes involved in cerebellar development. The mouse mutants staggerer and lurcher are functionally deficient for the retinoid-related orphan receptor alpha (ROR alpha) and glutamate receptor delta2 (Grid2) genes, respectively, and they show similar functional and developmental abnormalities in the cerebellum. Here, we report the cloning and expression pattern of zebrafish ROR alpha orthologues rora1 and rora2, and compare their expression pattern with that of grid2. Expression of rora1 and rora2 is initiated at late gastrula and pharyngula stages, respectively. Both rora1 and rora2 are spatially expressed in the retina and tectum. Expression of rora2 was further observed in the cerebellum, as reported for mammalian ROR alpha. In the adult brain, rora2 and grid2 are coexpressed in brain regions, designated as cerebellar-like structures. These observations suggest an evolutionarily conserved function of ROR alpha orthologues in the vertebrate brain.
Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) is a sporadic disorder characterized by naevus (port wine stain), a pial angioma, and glaucoma. The angioma comprises abnormal tortuous vessels on the leptomeninges with underlying brain gliosis, calcification, and atrophy. The cerebral angioma is commonly unilateral but may be bilateral. Hemiplegia usually follows recurrent hemiconvulsions and may be related to venous stasis. The hemiplegia can be static, progressive, or fluctuating. Transient worsening of the hemiplegia can be seen with seizures and episodes resembling hemiplegic migraine. We report five patients (four females, one male) with SWS who have had transient worsening of hemiplegia following minor head injuries, occurring between the ages of 10 months and 12 years (median age 4y 6mo). An additional pilot survey suggests that this may affect up to 20% of patients.
The ability of gonadal steroid hormones to augment axonal regeneration after peripheral nerve injury has been well established in rat and hamster motoneuron systems, and provides a foundation for the use of these agents as neurotherapeutics. With the advent of mouse genetics and the availability of transgenic and knockout mice, the use of mice in studies of neuroprotection is growing. It has recently been demonstrated that both androgens and estrogens rescue motoneurons (MN) from injury in mouse-derived motoneuron hybrid cells in vitro and mouse facial motoneurons (FMN) in vivo (Tetzlaff et al. [2006] J Mol Neurosci 28:53-64). To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of these effects, the present study examined the cellular localization of androgen and estrogen receptors in mouse MN in vitro and in vivo. Immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry studies established the presence of androgen receptor (AR) and estrogen receptor alpha/beta in immortalized mouse motoneuron hybrid cells and AR and estrogen receptor alpha in mouse FMN.
The trace biogenic amines tyramine and octopamine are found in the nervous systems of animals ranging in complexity from nematodes to mammals. In insects such as Drosophila melanogaster, the trace amine octopamine is a well-established neuromodulator that mediates a diverse range of physiological processes, but an independent role for tyramine is less clear. Tyramine is synthesized from tyrosine by the enzyme tyrosine decarboxylase (TDC). We previously reported the identification of two Tdc genes in Drosophila: the peripherally-expressed Tdc1 and the neurally-expressed Tdc2. To further clarify the neural functions of the trace amines in Drosophila, we examined normal and cocaine-induced locomotor activity in flies that lack both neural tyramine and octopamine because of mutation in Tdc2 (Tdc2(RO54)). Tdc2(RO54) flies have dramatically reduced basal locomotor activity levels and are hypersensitive to an initial dose of cocaine. Tdc2-targeted expression of the constitutively active inward rectifying potassium channel Kir2.1 replicates these phenotypes, and Tdc2-driven expression of Tdc1 rescues the phenotypes. However, flies that contain no measurable neural octopamine and an excess of tyramine due to a null mutation in the tyramine beta-hydroxylase gene (TbetaH(nM18)) exhibit normal locomotor activity and cocaine responses in spite of showing female sterility due to loss of octopamine. The ability of elevated levels of neural tyramine in TbetaH(nM18) flies to supplant the role of octopamine in adult locomotor and cocaine-induced behaviors, but not in functions related to female fertility, indicates mechanistic differences in the roles of trace amines in these processes.
The sodium channel beta1 subunit affects sodium channel gating and surface density, but little is known about the factors that regulate beta1 expression or its participation in the fine control of cellular excitability. In this study we examined whether graded expression of the beta1 subunit contributes to the gradient in sodium current inactivation, which is tightly controlled and directly related to a social behavior, the electric organ discharge (EOD), in a weakly electric fish Sternopygus macrurus. We found the mRNA and protein levels of beta1 in the electric organ both correlate with EOD frequency. We identified a novel mRNA splice form of this gene and found the splicing preference for this novel splice form also correlates with EOD frequency. Androgen implants lowered EOD frequency and decreased the beta1 mRNA level but did not affect splicing. Coexpression of each splice form in Xenopus oocytes with either the human muscle sodium channel gene, hNav1.4, or a Sternopygus ortholog, smNav1.4b, sped the rate of inactivation of the sodium current and shifted the steady-state inactivation toward less negative membrane potentials. The translational product of the novel mRNA splice form lacks a previously identified important tyrosine residue but still functions normally. The properties of the fish alpha and coexpressed beta1 subunits in the oocyte replicate those of the electric organ's endogenous sodium current. These data highlight the role of ion channel beta subunits in regulating cellular excitability.
The medial temporal lobe memory system matures relatively early and supports rudimentary declarative memory in young infants. There is considerable development, however, in the memory processes that underlie declarative memory performance during infancy. Here we consider age-related changes in encoding, retention, and retrieval in the context of current knowledge about the brain systems that may underlie these memory processes. While changes in infants' encoding may be attributed to rapid myelination during the first year of life, improvements in long-term retention and flexible retrieval are likely due to the prolonged development of the dentate gyrus. Future studies combining measures of brain and behavior are critical in improving our understanding of how brain development drives memory development during infancy and early childhood.
The ability to interpret emotions in facial expressions is crucial for social functioning across the lifespan. Facial expression recognition develops rapidly during infancy and improves with age during the preschool years. However, the developmental trajectory from late childhood to adulthood is less clear. We tested older children, adolescents and adults on a two-alternative forced-choice discrimination task using morphed faces that varied in emotional content. Actors appeared to pose expressions that changed incrementally along three progressions: neutral-to-fear, neutral-to-anger, and fear-to-anger. Across all three morph types, adults displayed more sensitivity to subtle changes in emotional expression than children and adolescents. Fear morphs and fear-to-anger blends showed a linear developmental trajectory, whereas anger morphs showed a quadratic trend, increasing sharply from adolescents to adults. The results provide evidence for late developmental changes in emotional expression recognition with some specificity in the time course for distinct emotions.




Postoperative ileus (POI) is a major cause of postoperative complications and prolonged hospitalization. Ghrelin, which is the endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor, has been found to stimulate gastric motility and accelerate gastric emptying. The present study investigates whether TZP-101 (0.03-1 mg/kg i.v.), a synthetic ghrelin-receptor agonist, could improve gastrointestinal transit in rats with POI. Since the main factors for the development of POI are the surgical manipulation and the gastrointestinal effects of opioid-receptor agonists used for pain management, the effect of TZP-101 was investigated in rats subjected to surgery, to morphine treatment (3 mg/kg s.c.), or to a combination of both. The results showed that TZP-101 is equally effective against the delayed gastrointestinal transit induced by surgery, by morphine, or by the combination of both interventions. The prokinetic action of TZP-101 was more pronounced in the stomach compared to the small intestine.


Females and males typically play different roles in survival of the species and would be expected to respond differently to food scarcity or excess. To elucidate the physiological basis of sex differences in responses to energy intake, we maintained groups of male and female rats for 6 months on diets with usual, reduced [20% and 40% caloric restriction (CR), and intermittent fasting (IF)], or elevated (high-fat/high-glucose) energy levels and measured multiple physiological variables related to reproduction, energy metabolism, and behavior. In response to 40% CR, females became emaciated, ceased cycling, underwent endocrine masculinization, exhibited a heightened stress response, increased their spontaneous activity, improved their learning and memory, and maintained elevated levels of circulating brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In contrast, males on 40% CR maintained a higher body weight than the 40% CR females and did not change their activity levels as significantly as the 40% CR females. Additionally, there was no significant change in the cognitive ability of the males on the 40% CR diet. Males and females exhibited similar responses of circulating lipids (cholesterols/triglycerides) and energy-regulating hormones (insulin, leptin, adiponectin, ghrelin) to energy restriction, with the changes being quantitatively greater in males. The high-fat/high-glucose diet had no significant effects on most variables measured but adversely affected the reproductive cycle in females. Heightened cognition and motor activity, combined with reproductive shutdown, in females may maximize the probability of their survival during periods of energy scarcity and may be an evolutionary basis for the vulnerability of women to anorexia nervosa.
Excess weight gain during the early postnatal period increases the risk of persistent obesity into adulthood and impacts on the subsequent risk for metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. The current study investigated the long-term effect of early excess weight gain, through reduced nursing litter size, on body weight regulation and its relation to brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis. Animals raised in a small litter (SL, three pups per litter) were compared with those raised in a normal litter size (NL, eight pups per litter). BAT from young adult NL and SL rats, maintained under either ambient or cold conditions, were used for gene expression, morphological, and functional analysis. Compared with NL, SL rats showed excess weight gain, and adult SL animals had a reduced thermogenic capacity as displayed by lower levels of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1). When exposed to cold, BAT from SL rats was less active and demonstrated reduced responsiveness to cold. Furthermore, reduction in transcript abundance of several lipid lipases and transcriptional regulators was observed in SL rats either at ambient temperature or under cold conditions. Finally, the expression of sympathetic beta 3-adrenergic receptor and the response to the sympathetic receptor agonist isoproterenol were decreased in SL rats. Overall, these observations provide the first evidence that postnatal excess weight gain results in abnormalities in BAT thermogenesis and sympathetic outflow, which likely increases susceptibility to obesity in adulthood.
There is ongoing debate regarding the most appropriate definition of status epilepticus. This depends upon the research question being asked. Based on the most widely used &quot;30 min definition,&quot; the incidence of childhood convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) in developed countries is approximately 20/100,000/year, but will vary depending, among others, on socioeconomic and ethnic characteristics of the population. Age is a main determinant of the epidemiology of CSE and, even within the pediatric population there are substantial differences between older and younger children in terms of incidence, etiology, and frequency of prior neurological abnormalities or prior seizures. Overall, incidence is highest during the first year of life, febrile CSE is the single most common cause, around 40% of children will have previous neurological abnormalities and less than 15% will have a prior history of epilepsy. Outcome is mainly a function of etiology. However, the causative role of CSE itself on mesial temporal sclerosis and subsequent epilepsy or the influence of age, duration, or treatment on outcome of CSE remains largely unknown. Future studies should aim at clarifying these issues and identifying specific ethnic, genetic, or socioeconomic factors associated with CSE to pinpoint potential targets for its primary and secondary prevention.

Focal seizures often secondarily generalize but the reverse is much less frequently documented. The idiopathic generalized epilepsies have the EEG signature of generalized, or bilaterally synchronous spike wave activity and although focal features can be seen, seizures are usually generalized once they commence. Although focal seizures can be seen in some syndromes, it is not well recognized that generalized seizures can become focal during the attack. Here we describe two cases of idiopathic epilepsy with a genetic basis; both cases falling within the spectrum of generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). One patient has a family history consistent with the family epilepsy syndrome diagnosis of GEFS+, whilst the second has a de novo SCN1A mutation in the setting of &quot;severe&quot; Febrile Seizures. In both patients, seizures began with generalized spike wave activity and then a focal ictal rhythm emerged. This is a further example of the increasingly blurred distinction between generalized and focal categories of specific genetically determined epilepsies. [Published with video sequences].
Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) is a disorder characterized by the occurrence of complex visual hallucinations in patients with acquired impairment of vision and without psychiatric disorders. In spite of the high incidence of visual field defects following antero-mesial temporal lobectomy for refractory temporal lobe epilepsy, reports of CBS in patients who underwent this surgical procedure are surprisingly rare. We describe a patient operated on for drug-resistant epilepsy. As a result of left antero-mesial temporal resection, she presented right homonymous hemianopia. A few days after surgery, she started complaining of visual hallucinations, such as static or moving &quot;Lilliputian&quot; human figures, or countryside scenes, restricted to the hemianopic field. The patient was fully aware of their fictitious nature. These disturbances disappeared progressively over a few weeks. The incidence of CBS associated with visual field defects following epilepsy surgery might be underestimated. Patients with post-surgical CBS should be reassured that it is not an epileptic phenomenon, and that it has a benign, self-limiting, course which does not usually require treatment.
Phospholipases A2 (PLA2) are a family of key enzymes in the metabolism of membrane phospholipids. Several studies reported on increased blood and brain PLA2 activity in schizophrenia, which suggest a disordered phospholipid metabolism in the disease. In addition, a genetic variant of a cytosolic PLA2 gene has been reported to be associated with schizophrenia. These data indicate that variants of PLA2 encoding genes are plausible candidates for increasing the susceptibility for schizophrenia. In this study, we investigated a possible association between PLA2 activity in platelets and a polymorphic site for BanI in the PLA2 (group 4A) gene on chromosome 1q25. Seventy-five schizophrenic patients (DSM-IV) and 68 healthy controls were recruited and the PCR assays were performed. A radioenzymatic assay for the cytosolic PLA2 activity in platelets was used. The allele A2 and the genotype A2A2 were more frequent in schizophrenic patients than in controls (p&lt;0.005 and p&lt;0.05 respectively). When we assorted the subjects according to their genotypes, we found that PLA2 activity was significantly higher in patients with the A2A2 genotype (29.6+/-5.1 pMol/mg protein/min) than in those with the A1A2 (20.8+/-3.6 pMol/mg protein/min, p&lt;0.001) or A1A1 genotype (15.9+/-5.1 pMol/mg protein/min, p&lt;0.001). Also in controls, carriers of the A2 allele (A1A2 and A2A2) had higher PLA2 activity than the A1A1 group (p=0.004 for both). Our data suggest an association between BanI genotype and PLA2G4A activity in platelets and that the presence of the allele A2 may increase risk for schizophrenia through an increment of PLA2 activity.
Expression, spatial distribution and specific roles of different Ca(2+) channels in stimulus-secretion coupling of chromaffin cells are intriguing issues still open to discussion. Most of the evidence supports a role of high-voltage activated (HVA) Ca(2+) channels (L-, N-, P/Q- and R-types) in the control of exocytosis: some suggesting a preferential coupling of specific Ca(2+) channel subunits with the secretory apparatus, others favoring the idea of a contribution to secretion proportional to the expression density and gating properties of Ca(2+) channels. In this work we review recent findings and bring new evidence in favor of the hypothesis that also the LVA (low-voltage-activated, T-type) Ca(2+) channels effectively control fast exocytosis near resting potential in adrenal chromaffin cells of adult rats. T-type channels recruited after long-term treatments with pCPT-cAMP (or chronic hypoxia) are shown to control exocytosis with the same efficacy of L-type channels, which are the dominant Ca(2+) channel types expressed in rodent chromaffin cells. A rigorous comparison of T- and L-type channel properties shows that, although operating at different potentials and with different voltage-sensitivity, the two channels possess otherwise similar Ca(2+)-dependence of exocytosis, size and kinetics of depletion of the immediately releasable pool and mobilize vesicles of the same quantal size. Thus, T- and L-type channels are coupled with the same Ca(2+)-efficiency to the secretory apparatus and deplete the same number of vesicles ready for release. The major difference of the secretory signals controlled by the two channels appear to be the voltage range of operation, suggesting the idea that stressful conditions (hypoxia and persistent beta-adrenergic stimulation) can lower the threshold of cell excitability by recruiting new Ca(2+) channels and activate an additional source of catecholamine secretion.
In the present study changes in social competence were examined in a clinic sample of 127 children aged 4-8. The children were recruited to a controlled treatment study because of conduct problems at home and were randomised to the Incredible Years parent training (PT), combined PT and child therapy (CT) or a waiting-list control-group. Assessments were conducted pre- and post-treatment and at a one-year follow-up by multiple informants (mother, father, teacher and child). Parent training combined with child treatment showed most improvement in child social competence based on mother, father and child reports, however, father reports showed positive results for children treated with PT only. Treated mothers and fathers showed a decrease in correlations in their reports of social competence in the child after treatment as compared to parents in the waiting-list condition. No generalisation effects to peer-relationships in day-care/school were found, neither on teacher or child reports. A broad perspective using multiple informants from different settings is needed when effects of treatment of young children with conduct problems are evaluated and should include various aspects of social competence.

This review discusses brain temperature as a physiological parameter, which is determined primarily by neural metabolism, regulated by cerebral blood flow, and affected by various environmental factors and drugs. First, we consider normal fluctuations in brain temperature that are induced by salient environmental stimuli and occur during motivated behavior at stable normothermic conditions. Second, we analyze changes in brain temperature induced by various drugs that affect brain and body metabolism and heat dissipation. Third, we consider how these physiological and drug-induced changes in brain temperature are modulated by environmental conditions that diminish heat dissipation. Our focus is psychomotor stimulant drugs and brain hyperthermia as a factor inducing or potentiating neurotoxicity. Finally, we discuss how brain temperature is regulated, what changes in brain temperature reflect, and how these changes may affect neural functions under normal and pathological conditions. Although most discussed data were obtained in animals and several important aspects of brain temperature regulation in humans remain unknown, our focus is on the relevance of these data for human physiology and pathology.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1 has recently been shown to promote tumour progression. Since angiogenesis is an essential requirement for tumour growth, we examined whether PARP inhibition/deletion might affect endothelial cell functions. To this end, the influence of PARP inhibitors on endothelial cell proliferation, migration, tube formation and angiogenesis in PARP-1 knock-out mice, using an in vivo matrigel plug assay, was investigated. The results indicated that the PARP inhibitor GPI 15427 (IC50 on endothelial PARP: 237 +/- 27 nM), at concentrations devoid of cytotoxic effects (0.5-1 microM), abrogated migration in response to vascular endothelial growth factor or placenta growth factor, hampered formation of tubule-like networks and impaired angiogenesis in vivo. The anti-angiogenic effect of the PARP inhibitor was confirmed in PARP-1 knock-out mice that displayed a defect of angiogenesis induced by growth factors. These results provide evidence for targeting PARP for anti-angiogenesis, adding novel therapeutic implications to the use of PARP inhibitors in cancer treatment.
NR3B is a modulatory subunit of the NMDA receptor, abundantly expressed in both cranial and spinal somatic motoneurons and at lower levels in other regions of the brain as well. Recently, we found the human NR3B gene (GRIN3B) to be highly genetically heterogeneous, and that approximately 10% of the normal European-American population lacks NR3B due to homozygous occurrence of a null allele in the gene. Therefore, it is especially important to understand the phenotypic consequences of the genetic loss of NR3B in both humans and animal models. We here provide results of behavioral analysis of mice genetically lacking NR3B, which is an ideal animal model due to homogeneity in genetic and environmental background. The NR3B(-/-) mice are viable and fertile. Consistent with the expression of NR3B in somatic motoneurons, the NR3B(-/-) mice showed a moderate but significant impairment in motor learning or coordination, and decreased activity in their home cages. Remarkably, the NR3B(-/-) mice showed a highly increased social interaction with their familiar cage mates in their home cage but moderately increased anxiety-like behaviour and decreased social interaction in a novel environment, consistent with the inhibitory role of NR3B on the functions of NMDA receptors. This work is the first reporting of the functional significance of NR3B in vivo and may give insight into the contribution of genetic variability of NR3B in the phenotypic heterogeneity among human population.
High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-HFS) is a powerful approach for treating the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). It results in clinical improvement in patients with PD, further reducing the l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) requirement and thus L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. However, it remains unclear how STN-HFS modifies the response to L-DOPA. We investigated the effect of STN-HFS on striatal extracellular concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites following acute L-DOPA administration in intact or partially dopaminergic denervated (DA-PL) rats. L-DOPA treatment significantly increased striatal dopamine levels in intact and DA-PL animals, with the maximal effect observed 1 h after L-DOPA injection. This increase was more pronounced in DA-PL rats (ipsilateral to the lesion) than in intact animals. It remained fairly stable 1 h after the maximal effect of L-DOPA and then decreased towards basal values. STN-HFS in intact rats had no effect on the maximal L-DOPA-induced increase in striatal extracellular dopamine concentration or the return to basal values, the profiles observed being similar to those for non-stimulated intact animals. Conversely, STN-HFS amplified the L-DOPA-induced increase in striatal dopamine levels during the stimulation period (1 h) in DA-PL rats and this increase was sustained throughout the post-stimulation period (2.5 h), without the return to basal levels observed in stimulated intact and non-stimulated rats. These new neurochemical data suggest that STN-HFS interferes with L-DOPA effects, probably synergically, by stabilizing dopamine levels in the striatum and shed light on the mechanisms of STN-HFS in PD.
Connections between human temporal and frontal cortices were investigated by intracranial electroencephalographic responses to electrical stimulation with 1-ms single pulses in 51 patients assessed for surgery for treatment of epilepsy. The areas studied were medial temporal, entorhinal, lateral temporal, medial frontal, lateral frontal and orbital frontal cortices. Findings were assumed to be representative of human brain as no differences were found between epileptogenic and non-epileptogenic hemispheres. Connections between intralobar temporal and frontal regions were common (43-95%). Connections from temporal to ipsilateral frontal regions were relatively uncommon (seen in 0-25% of hemispheres). Connections from frontal to ipsilateral temporal cortices were more common, particularly from orbital to ipsilateral medial temporal regions (40%). Contralateral temporal connections were rare (&lt; 9%) whereas contralateral frontal connections were frequent and faster, particularly from medial frontal to contralateral medial frontal (61%) and orbital frontal cortices (57%), and between both orbital cortices (67%). Orbital cortex receives profuse connections from the ipsilateral medial (78%) and lateral (88%) frontal cortices, and from the contralateral medial (57%) and orbital (67%) frontal cortices. The high incidence of intralobar temporal connections supports the presence of temporal reverberating circuits. Frontal cortex projects within the lobe and beyond, to ipsilateral and contralateral structures.
Memory for context information (source memory) has been reported to rely on structures in the medial temporal lobe (MTL). Perirhinal cortex (anterior MTL) and parahippocampal cortex (posterior MTL) have distinct connectivity patterns with sensory neocortex, suggesting a possible modality-dependent organization of memory processes. The present study investigated the neural substrates of two different types of source information of newly encoded material using functional magnetic resonance imaging: auditory (speaker voice) and visual (texture and colour). Source judgements during retrieval were reliably above chance level for both modalities and performance did not differ between the auditory and visual condition. During encoding, activity predictive of subsequent source recollection was observed in the anterior hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus, irrespective of source modality. During retrieval, on the other hand, a regional dissociation emerged: bilateral parahippocampal cortex discriminated between correct and incorrect auditory but not visual source judgements, whereas left perirhinal/entorhinal cortex showed the reverse pattern. These findings are consistent with recent lesion evidence of disrupted auditory but intact visual source memory following damage to the parahippocampal cortex. Results are discussed with respect to anatomical models of corticoparahippocampal connectivity and the functional organization of the MTL.
To clarify the role of brain temperature in permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), rats were injected with methamphetamine (METH 9 mg/kg) at normal (23 degrees C) and warm (29 degrees C) environmental conditions and internal temperatures were monitored both centrally (nucleus accumbens, NAcc) and peripherally (skin and nonlocomotor muscle). Once NAcc temperatures peaked or reached 41.5 degrees C (a level suggesting possible lethality), animals were administered Evans blue dye (protein tracer that does not normally cross the BBB), rapidly anaesthetized, perfused and had their brains removed. All METH-treated animals showed brain and body hyperthermia associated with relative skin hypothermia, suggesting metabolic activation coupled with peripheral vasoconstriction. While METH-induced NAcc temperature elevation varied from 37.60 to 42.46 degrees C (or 1.2-5.1 degrees C above baseline), it was stronger at 29 degrees C (+4.13 degrees C) than 23 degrees C (+2.31 degrees C). Relative to control, METH-treated animals had significantly higher brain levels of water, Na(+), K(+) and Cl(-), suggesting brain edema, and intense immunostaining for albumin, indicating breakdown of the BBB. METH-treated animals also showed strong immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), possibly suggesting acute abnormality or damage of astrocytes. METH-induced changes in brain water, albumin and GFAP correlated linearly with NAcc temperature (r = 0.93, 0.98 and 0.98, respectively), suggesting a key role of brain hyperthermia in BBB permeability, development of brain edema and subsequent functional and structural neural abnormalities. Therefore, along with a direct destructive action on neural cells and functions, brain hyperthermia, via breakdown of the BBB, may be crucial for both decompensation of brain functions and cell injury following acute METH intoxication, possibly contributing to neurodegeneration resulting from chronic drug use.
The activity of GABAergic inhibitory interneurones located in lamina II of the spinal cord is of fundamental importance for the processing of peripheral nociceptive messages. We have recently shown that 3alpha-hydroxy ring A-reduced pregnane neurosteroids [3alpha5alpha-neurosteroids (3alpha5alphaNS)], potent allosteric modulators of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs), are synthesized in the spinal cord and limit thermal hyperalgesia during inflammatory pain. Because changes in the expression of calcium-dependent protein kinases [protein kinase C (PKC)] are observed during pathological pain in the spinal cord, we examined the possible interactions between PKC and 3alpha5alphaNS at synaptic GABA(A)Rs. Using patch-clamp recordings of lamina II interneurones in the spinal cord of 15-20-day-old rats, we showed that synaptic inhibition mediated by GABA(A)Rs and its modulation by 3alpha5alphaNS in lamina II of the spinal cord largely depend on activation of PKC. Our experimental results suggested that activation of PKC locks synaptic GABA(A)Rs in a functional state precluding further positive allosteric modulation by endogenous and exogenous 3alpha5alphaNS. This effect was fully prevented by coadministration of chelerythrin, an inhibitor of PKC. Furthermore, application of chelerythrin alone rendered synaptic GABA(A)Rs hypersensitive to endogenously produced or exogenously applied 3alpha5alphaNS. These findings confirmed that there was a significant production of endogenous 3alpha5alphaNS in lamina II of the spinal cord but also indicated that PKC-dependent phosphorylation processes were tonically activated to control GABA(A)R-mediated inhibition under resting conditions. We therefore can conclude that PKC activation sets an upper limit to the functional plasticity of GABAergic transmission induced by endogenous neurosteroids.
Co-transmission is a common means of neuronal communication, but its consequences for neuronal signaling within a defined neuronal circuit remain unknown in most systems. We are addressing this issue in the crab stomatogastric nervous system by characterizing how the identified modulatory commissural neuron (MCN)1 uses its co-transmitters to activate the gastric mill (chewing) rhythm in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). MCN1 contains gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plus the peptides proctolin and Cancer borealis tachykinin-related peptide Ia (CabTRP Ia), which it co-releases during the retractor phase of the gastric mill rhythm to influence both retractor and protractor neurons. By focally applying each MCN1 co-transmitter and pharmacologically manipulating each co-transmitter action during MCN1 stimulation, we found that MCN1 has divergent co-transmitter actions on the gastric mill central pattern generator (CPG), which includes the neurons lateral gastric (LG) and interneuron 1 (Int1), plus the STG terminals of MCN1 (MCN1(STG)). MCN1 used only CabTRP Ia to influence LG, while it used only GABA to influence Int1 and the contralateral MCN1(STG). These MCN1 actions caused a slow excitation of LG, a fast excitation of Int1 and a fast inhibition of MCN1(STG). MCN1-released proctolin had no direct influence on the gastric mill CPG, although it likely indirectly regulates this CPG via its influence on the pyloric rhythm. MCN1 appeared to have no ionotropic actions on the gastric mill follower motor neurons, but it did use proctolin and/or CabTRP Ia to excite them. Thus, a modulatory projection neuron can elicit rhythmic motor activity by using distinct co-transmitters, with different time courses of action, to simultaneously influence different CPG neurons.
Bovine adrenal medulla 22 (BAM22), one of the cleavage products of proenkephalin A, possesses high affinity for opioid receptors and sensory neuron-specific receptor (SNSR). The present study was designed to examine the expression of BAM22 in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of naive rats as well as in a model of inflammation. BAM22-like immunoreactivity (BAM22-IR) was expressed in fibers in the spinal cord, with high density seen in lamina I in nave rats. The expression of BAM22-IR in the superficial laminae was greatly reduced following dorsal rhizotomy. BAM22-IR was also located in 19% of DRG cells, mainly in the small- and medium-sized subpopulations. Following injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the hindpaw, the expression of BAM22-IR in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord and small-sized DRG neurons on the ipsilateral side was markedly increased. Double labeling showed that the Fos-positive nucleus was surrounded by BAM22-IR cytoplasm in the spinal dorsal horn neurons or closely associated with BAM22-IR fibers in the superficial laminae. Furthermore, CFA-induced mechanical allodynia in the inflamed paw was potentiated by intrathecal administration of anti-BAM22 antibody. Together, these results demonstrate for the first time that BAM22-like peptide is mainly located in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord and mostly originates from nociceptive DRG neurons. BAM22 could thus act as a ligand for presynaptic opioid receptors and SNSR. Our study also provides evidence suggesting that BAM22 plays a role in the modulation of nociceptive processing at the spinal level under normal and inflammatory conditions.
Inflammation is a common characteristic of spinal cord injury. The nature of this response, whether it is beneficial or detrimental, has been the subject of debate. It has been reported that susceptibility to autoimmunity is correlated with increased functional impairment following spinal cord injury. As the ability to mount an autoimmune response has most consistently been associated with certain haplotypes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), we analysed the possible effects of the MHC haplotype on functional impairment and recovery following spinal cord injury. A contusion injury was induced in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-susceptible and -resistant rats [Dark Agouti, Lewis and Piebald Viral Glaxo (PVG), respectively]. We found that locomotion recovered significantly better in Dark Agouti rats compared with PVG and Lewis rats but an F2 intercross (PVG x PVG-RT1(av1)) excluded the possibility that this difference was MHC haplotype-dependent. Thus, we conclude that recovery following spinal cord injury is subject to considerable genetic heterogeneity that is not coupled to the MHC haplotype region. Continued research of genetic variants regulating recovery following spinal cord injury is warranted.
Neural progenitor cells reside in the hippocampus of adult rodents and humans and generate granule neurons throughout life. Knowledge about the molecular processes regulating these neurogenic cells is fragmentary. In order to identify genes with a role in the proliferation of adult neural progenitor cells, a protocol was elaborated to enable the staining and isolation of such cells under RNA-preserving conditions with a combination of immunohistochemistry and laser capture microdissection. We increased proliferation of neural progenitor cells by electroconvulsive treatment, one of the most effective antidepressant treatments, and isolated Ki-67-positive cells using this new protocol. RNA amplification via in vitro transcription and subsequent microarray analysis revealed over 100 genes that were differentially expressed in neural progenitor cells due to electroconvulsive treatment compared to untreated control animals. Some of these genes have already been implicated in the functioning of neural progenitor cells or have been induced by electroconvulsive treatment; these include brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf), PDZ-binding kinase (Pbk) and abnormal spindle-like microcephaly-associated (Aspm). In addition, genes were identified for which no role in the proliferation of neurogenic progenitors has been described so far, such as enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (Ezh2).
In rodents, section of the taste nerve results in degeneration of the taste buds. Following regeneration of the cut taste nerve, however, the taste buds reappear. This phenomenon can be used to study the functional reformation of the peripheral neural system responsible for sweet taste. In this study we examined the recovery of sweet responses by the chorda tympani (CT) nerve after nerve crush as well as inhibition of these responses by gurmarin (Gur), a sweet response inhibitor. After about 2 weeks of CT nerve regeneration, no significant response to any taste stimuli could be observed. At 3 weeks, responses to sweet stimuli reappeared but were not significantly inhibited by Gur. At 4 weeks, Gur inhibition of sweet responses reached statistically significant levels. Thus, the Gur-sensitive (GS) component of the sweet response reappeared about 1 week later than the Gur-insensitive (GI) component. Moreover, single CT fibers responsive to sucrose could be classified into distinct GS and GI groups at 4 weeks. After 5 weeks or more, responses to sweet compounds before and after treatment with Gur became indistinguishable from responses in the intact group. During regeneration, the GS and GI components of the sucrose response could be distinguished based on their concentration-dependent responses to sucrose. These results suggest that mice have two different sweet-reception systems, distinguishable by their sensitivity to Gur (the GS and GI systems). These two sweet-reception systems may be reconstituted independently during regeneration of the mouse CT nerve.
This is the first study contrasting regional glucose metabolic rate (rCMRglu) responses to a serotonergic challenge in major depressive disorder (MDD) with and without comorbid alcohol dependence. In a university hospital, patients with MDD without a history of alcohol dependence (MDD only) and patients with MDD and comorbid alcohol dependence (MDD/ALC) were enrolled in this study. Subjects with comorbid borderline personality disorder were excluded. A bolus injection of approximately 5 mCi of (18)fluorodeoxyglucose was administered 3 h after the administration of placebo or fenfluramine. We found an anterior medial prefrontal cortical area where MDD/ALC subjects had more severe hypofrontality than MDD only patients. This area encompassed the left medial frontal and left and right anterior cingulate gyri. This group difference disappeared after fenfluramine administration. The fact that the observed group difference disappeared after the fenfluramine challenge suggests that serotonergic mechanisms play a role in the observed differences between the groups.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist NAS-181 ((R)-(+)-2-(3-morpholinomethyl-2H-chromen-8-yl) oxymethyl-morpholine methanesulfonate) on cholinergic, glutamatergic and GABA-ergic neurotransmission in the rat brain in vivo. Extracellular levels of acetylcholine, glutamate and GABA were monitored by microdialysis in the frontal cortex (FC) and ventral hippocampus (VHipp) in separate groups of freely moving rats. NAS-181 (1, 5 or 10 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a dose-dependent increase in ACh levels, reaching the maximal values of 500% (FC) and 230% (VHipp) of controls at 80 min post-injection. On the contrary, NAS-181 injected at doses of 10 or 20 mg/kg s.c. had no effect on basal extracellular levels of Glu and GABA in these areas. The present data suggest that ACh neurotransmission in the FC and VHipp, the brain structures strongly implicated in cognitive function, is under tonic inhibitory control of 5-HT(1B) heteroreceptors localized at the cholinergic terminals in these areas.

Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the human motor cortex at an intensity of 1 mA has been shown to be efficacious in increasing (via anodal tDCS) or decreasing (via cathodal tDCS) the excitability of corticospinal projections to muscles of the hand. In this study, we examined whether tDCS at currents of 2 mA could effect similar changes in the excitability of deeper cortical structures that innervate muscles of the lower leg. Similar to the hand area, 10 min of stimulation with the anode over the leg area of the motor cortex increased the excitability of corticospinal tract projections to the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle, as reflected by an increase in the amplitude of the motor evoked potentials (MEPs) evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation. MEP amplitudes recorded at rest and during a background contraction were increased following anodal tDCS and remained elevated at 60 min compared to baseline values by 59 and 35%, respectively. However, in contrast to the hand, hyperpolarizing cathodal stimulation at equivalent currents had minimal effect on the amplitude of the MEPs recorded at rest or during background contraction of the TA muscle. These results suggest that it is more difficult to suppress the excitability of the leg motor cortex with cathodal tDCS than the hand area of the motor cortex.
The preparation of motor responses during the delay period of an instructed delay task is associated with sustained neural firing in the primate premotor cortex. It remains unclear how and when such preparation-related premotor activity influences the motor output system. In this study, we tested modulation of corticospinal excitability using single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during a delayed-response task. At the beginning of the delay interval participants were either provided with no information, spatial attentional information concerning location but not identity of an upcoming imperative stimulus, or information regarding the upcoming response. Behavioral data indicate that participants used all information available to them. Only when information concerning the upcoming response was provided did corticospinal excitability show differential modulation for the effector muscle compared to other task-unrelated muscles. We conclude that modulation of corticospinal excitability reflects specific response preparation, rather than non-specific event preparation.
Switching between two tasks results in switch costs, which are increased error rates and response times in comparison to repeating a task. Switch costs are attributed to a change in task set, which is the internalized rule of how to respond to a stimulus. However, it is not clear if this is because the instruction about which task to perform has changed, or because a programmed response has changed. We examined this question by changing the instruction about whether to perform a pro or an antisaccade to a stimulus, before or after the stimulus was presented. As a saccade response is specified by instruction plus stimulus position, changing the instruction after the stimulus was present resulted in a change in the specified response, whereas changing the instruction beforehand did not. Three experiments investigated; (i) if changing instruction alone or changing the specified response produced switch costs; (ii) if predictability of switching instruction influenced switch costs; and (iii) if predictability of stimulus position influenced switch costs. Regardless of instruction or stimulus predictability, switch costs for both pro and antisaccades consistently resulted if the specified response switched. This suggests that a pro or antisaccade motor program was automatically programmed based on a presented instruction and stimulus position. Therefore, the given physical information drove switch costs, even if subjects could predict a change in task. This study demonstrates that switch costs result if changing an instruction changes a programmed response.
The discoveries of gene variants associated with macular diseases have provided valuable insight into their molecular mechanisms, but they have not clarified why the macula is particularly vulnerable to degenerative disease. Its predisposition may be attributable to specialized structural features and/or functional properties of the underlying macular RPE/choroid. To examine the molecular basis for the macula's disease susceptibility, we compared the gene expression profile of the human RPE/choroid in the macula with the profile in the extramacular region using DNA microarrays. Seventy-five candidate genes with differences in macular:extramacular expression levels were identified by microarray analysis, of which 29 were selected for further analysis. Quantitative PCR confirmed that 21 showed statistically significant differences in expression. Five genes were expressed at higher levels in the macula. Two showed significant changes in the macular:extramacular expression ratio; another two exhibited changes in absolute expression level, as a function of age or AMD. Several of the differentially expressed genes have potential relevance to AMD pathobiology. One is an RPE cell growth factor (TFPI2), five are extracellular matrix components (DCN, MYOC, OGN, SMOC2, TFPI2), and six are related to inflammation (CCL19, CCL26, CXCL14, SLIT2) and/or angiogenesis (CXCL14, SLIT2, TFPI2, WFDC1). The identification of regional differences in gene expression in the RPE/choroid is a first step in clarifying the macula's propensity for degeneration. These findings lay the groundwork for further studies into the roles of the corresponding gene products in the normal, aged, and diseased macula.

Treatments for spontaneous intracerebral, thrombolytic-induced and intraventricular hemorrhages (IVH) are still at the preclinical or early clinical investigational stages. There has been some renewed interest in the use of surgical evacuation surgery or thrombolytics to remove hematomas, but these techniques can be used only for specific types of brain bleeding. The STICH (Surgical Trial in Intracerebral Haemorrhage) clinical trials should provide some insight into the potential for such techniques to counteract hematoma-induced damage and subsequently, morbidity and mortality. More recently, clinical trials (ATACH [Antihypertensive Treatment in Acute Cerebral Hemorrhage] and INTERACT [Intensive Blood Pressure Reduction in Acute Cerebral Hemorrhage Trial]) have begun testing whether or not regulating blood pressure affects the well-being of hemorrhage patients, but the findings thus far have not conclusively demonstrated a positive result. More promising trials, such as the early stage CHANT (Cerebral Hemorrhagic And NXY-059 Treatment) and the late stage FAST (Factor VIIa for Acute Hemorrhagic Stroke Treatment), have addressed whether or not manipulating oxidative stress and components of the blood coagulation cascade can achieve an improved prognosis following spontaneous hemorrhages. However, CHANT was halted prematurely because although it showed that the spin trap agent NXY-059 was safe, it also demonstrated that the drug was ineffective in treating acute ischemic stroke. In addition, the recombinant activated factor VII FAST trial recently concluded with only modestly positive results. Despite a beneficial effect on the primary end point of reducing hemorrhage volume, controlling the coagulation cascade with recombinant factor VIIa did not decrease the mortality rate. Consequently, Novo Nordisk has abandoned further development of the drug for the treatment of intracerebral hemorrhaging. Even though progress in hemorrhage therapy that successfully reduces the escalating morbidity and mortality rate associated with brain bleeding is slow, perseverance and applied translational drug development will eventually be productive. The urgent need for such therapy becomes more evident in light of concerns related to uncontrolled high blood pressure in the general population, increased use of blood thinners by the elderly (e.g., warfarin) and thrombolytics by acute ischemic stroke patients, respectively. The future of drug development for hemorrhage may require a multifaceted approach, such as combining drugs with diverse mechanisms of action. Because of the substantial benefit of factor VIIa in reducing hemorrhage volume, it should be considered as a prime drug candidate included in combination therapy as an off-label use if the FAST trial proves that the risk of thromboembolic events is not increased with drug administration. Other promising drugs that may be considered in combination include uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists (such as memantine), antioxidants, metalloprotease inhibitors, statins and erythropoietin analogs, all of which have been shown to reduce hemorrhage and behavioral deficits in one or more animal models.
A mathematical model of a target area for deep brain stimulation was used to investigate the effects of electrical stimulation on pathologically synchronized clusters of neurons. In total, three newly developed stimulation techniques based on multisite coordinated reset and delayed feedback were tested and compared with a high-frequency stimulation method that is currently used as a standard stimulation protocol for deep brain stimulation. By modeling both excitatory and inhibitory actions of the electrical stimulation, we revealed the desynchronization impacts of the novel stimulation techniques. This contrasts with standard high-frequency stimulation, which failed to desynchronize the target population and whose inhibitory effects blocked all neuronal activity. We also explored the demand-controlled character of the proposed methods, and demonstrated that the amount of stimulation current required was considerably smaller than that for high-frequency stimulation. These novel stimulation methods appear to be superior to standard high-frequency stimulation techniques, and we propose the methods now be used for deep brain stimulation.
The mismatch between the extensive clinical use of deep brain stimulation (DBS), which is being used to treat an increasing number of neurological disorders, and the lack of understanding of the underlying mechanisms is confounded by the difficulty of measuring the spread of electric current in the brain in vivo. In this article we present a brief review of the recent computational models that simulate the electric current and field distribution in 3D space and, consequently, make estimations of the brain volume being modulated by therapeutic DBS. Such structural modeling work can be categorized into three main approaches: target-specific modeling, models of instrumentation and modeling the electrode-brain interface. Comments are made for each of these approaches with emphasis on our electrode-brain interface modeling, since the stimulating current must travel across the electrode-brain interface in order to reach the surrounding brain tissue and modulate the pathological neural activity. For future modeling work, a combined approach needs to be taken to reveal the underlying mechanisms, and both structural and dynamic models need to be clinically validated to make reliable predictions about the therapeutic effect of DBS in order to assist clinical practice.

The causes of mental illness remain obscure in spite of rapid progress in the neurosciences. This is due in part to the fact that contemporary biomedical psychiatry rests on philosophically and scientifically ambiguous ground. In Western medicine paradigms, theories from physics, chemistry, and biology form the basis of an explanatory model of illness, including mental illness. Symptoms are conceptualized as subjective descriptions of effects caused by factors characterized in empirical terms. Conventional biomedicine asserts that all causes of illness, and by extension, mechanisms of action underlying legitimate treatment approaches, rest on biological processes that can be described in the reductionist language of Western science. However, in contemporary Western psychiatry, there is no single adequate explanatory model of the causes of mental illness. What remains are competing psychodynamic, genetic, endocrinologic, and neurobiological models of symptom formation reflecting disparate ideological positions and diverse clinical training backgrounds of mental health professionals. There is no unifying theory in psychiatry because no single explanatory model has been confirmed as more valid than any other. I hypothesize in this article that the synthesis of ideas and clinical approaches from Western biomedicine and non-Western systems of medicine based on understandings of human consciousness, the neurosciences, complexity theory, and quantum field theory, will lead to rapid evolution of conventional Western biomedical psychiatry toward truly integrative mental healthcare. The result will be the emergence of an integrative mental healthcare model that will more adequately address the disparate causes, conditions, and meanings of symptoms combining multimodal approaches from Western biomedicine and non-Western systems of medicine.

We previously reported that up to 50% of messenger RNAs (mRNA) are oxidatively damaged in the affected area of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. The role of RNA oxidation in the cell death process is unknown. In the present study, we used cortical primary dissociated cultures to investigate the relationship between RNA oxidation and neuron degeneration induced by various insults, including hydrogen peroxide, glutamate, and amyloid beta peptide. These insults mediate the production of reactive oxygen species and thus induce oxidative stress. The results showed that RNA oxidation was an early event far preceding cell death, not merely a consequence of dying cells. RNA oxidation occurred primarily in a distinct group of neurons that died later. Identification of oxidized RNA species revealed that significant amounts of mRNAs were oxidized and that some mRNA species were more susceptible to oxidative damage, consistent with findings in the AD brain. The level of protein corresponding to the oxidized mRNA species was significantly decreased. Polyribosome analysis indicated that oxidized bases in mRNAs caused ribosome stalling on the transcripts, which led to a decrease of protein expression. These results suggest that RNA oxidation may be directly associated with neuronal deterioration, rather than harmless epiphenomena, during the process of neurodegeneration.
The major defining pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the accumulation of amyloid beta protein (Abeta), a small peptide derived from beta- and gamma-secretase cleavages of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Recent studies have shown that beta- and gamma-secretase activities of BACE1 and presenilin, respectively, are concentrated in intracellular lipid raft microdomains. However, the manner in which APP normally traffics to lipid rafts is unknown. In this study, using transient transfection and immuno-precipitation assays, we show that the cytoplasmic domain of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) interacts with APP and increases Abeta secretion and APP beta-CTF (C-terminal fragment) generation by promoting BACE1-APP interaction. We also employed discontinuous sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation to show that the LRP cytoplasmic domain-mediated effect was accompanied by greatly increased localization of APP and BACE1 to lipid raft membranes, where beta- and gamma-secretase activities are highly enriched. Moreover, we provide evidence that endogenous LRP is required for the normal delivery of APP to lipid rafts and Abeta generation primarily in the endocytic but not secretory pathway. These results may provide novel insights to block Abeta generation by targeting LRP-mediated delivery of APP to raft microdomains.
The Sgs1 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a member of the RecQ helicases. Defects in RecQ helicases result in premature aging phenotypes in both yeasts and humans, which appear to be promoted by replicative stress. Yeast rad27 mutants also suffer from premature aging. As the human Rad27p and Sgs1p homologs interact, a similar interaction between the yeast proteins could be important for promoting longevity in S. cerevisiae. We tested the contribution of a potential interaction between Rad27p and Sgs1p to longevity by analyzing lifespan and parameters associated with longevity in rad27 and sgs1 mutants. The carbon source supporting growth also modulated longevity as evaluated by replicative and chronological lifespan measurements. Growth on glycerol promoted chronological lifespan, while maximum replicative lifespan was obtained with glucose-supported growth. In comparison to the individual mutants, the sgs1 rad27 double mutant displayed a shortened replicative lifespan and was also more sensitive to DNA-damaging agents. In addition to promoting replicative lifespan, the activity of Rad27p was critical for achieving full chronological lifespan. The rad27 mutants exhibited increased oxidative stress levels along with an elevated spontaneous mutation rate. Removal of Sgs1p activity additionally increased the oxidative stress and spontaneous mutation rate in rad27 mutants without affecting the chronological lifespan.

With the exception of predominant heartburn, the management of upper abdominal symptoms not caused by an organic disorder remains a challenge. Systematic reviews of large trials show that suppressing acid secretion and eradicating Helicobacter pylori, prokinetics, and antidepressants have inconsistent effects on the treatment of functional dyspepsia. This inconsistent therapeutic efficacy has been attributed to the heterogeneity of patients, and the contribution of multiple mechanisms to development of symptoms. To achieve greater therapeutic efficacy, it may be necessary to target the therapeutic approach to a specific pathophysiology, such as impaired gastric emptying.



A 41-year-old woman with breast cancer developed a manic episode while being treated with a 5-fluorouracil-epirubicin-cyclophosphamide combination (most likely caused by the first drug). Chemotherapy was discontinued, and antipsychotic treatment with haloperidol and olanzapine was instituted. She recovered after 10 days. Normal computerized tomography (CT) scans and neurological examinations were consistent with the absence of neurological symptoms on physical exam.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) is a metallopeptidase that converts angiotensin I into angiotensin II. ACE is crucial in the control of cardiovascular and renal homeostasis and fertility in mammals. In vertebrates, both transmembrane and soluble ACE, containing one or two active sites, have been characterized. So far, only soluble, single domain ACEs from invertebrates have been cloned, and these have been implicated in reproduction in insects. Furthermore, an ACE-related carboxypeptidase was recently characterized in Leishmania, a unicellular eukaryote, suggesting the existence of ACE in more distant organisms. Interestingly, in silico databank analysis revealed that bacterial DNA sequences could encode putative ACE-like proteins, strikingly similar to vertebrates' enzymes. To gain more insight into the bacterial enzymes, we cloned the putative ACE from the phytopathogenic bacterium, Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri, named XcACE. The 2 kb open reading frame encodes a 672-amino-acid soluble protein containing a single active site. In vitro expression and biochemical characterization revealed that XcACE is a functional 72 kDa dipeptidyl-carboxypeptidase. As in mammals, this metalloprotease hydrolyses angiotensin I into angiotensin II. XcACE is sensitive to ACE inhibitors and chloride ions concentration. Variations in the active site residues, highlighted by structural modelling, can account for the different substrate selectivity and inhibition profile compared to human ACE. XcACE characterization demonstrates that ACE is an ancestral enzyme, provoking questions about its appearance and structure/activity specialisation during the course of evolution.
Using murine models, we have previously demonstrated that recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated microdystrophin gene transfer is a promising approach to treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). To examine further therapeutic effects and the safety issue of rAAV-mediated microdystrophin gene transfer using larger animal models, such as dystrophic dog models, we first investigated transduction efficiency of rAAV in wild-type canine muscle cells, and found that rAAV2 encoding beta-galactosidase effectively transduces canine primary myotubes in vitro. Subsequent rAAV2 transfer into skeletal muscles of normal dogs, however, resulted in low and transient expression of beta-galactosidase together with intense cellular infiltrations in vivo, where cellular and humoral immune responses were remarkably activated. In contrast, rAAV2 expressing no transgene elicited no cellular infiltrations. Co-administration of immunosuppressants, cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil could partially improve rAAV2 transduction. Collectively, these results suggest that immune responses against the transgene product caused cellular infiltration and eliminated transduced myofibers in dogs. Furthermore, in vitro interferon-gamma release assay showed that canine splenocytes respond to immunogens or mitogens more susceptibly than murine ones. Our results emphasize the importance to scrutinize the immune responses to AAV vectors in larger animal models before applying rAAV-mediated gene therapy to DMD patients.
The mammalian cerebral cortex develops from proliferative neuroepithelial cells that exhibit a cell cycle-dependent nuclear movement (interkinetic nuclear migration; INM). Pax6 transcription factor plays pivotal roles in various aspects of corticogenesis. From live observation using cultured cortical slices from the Pax6 mutant rat, we identified the premature descent of S phase cells, the unsteady ascent or descent of G2 phase cells, and ectopic cell division within the basal side of the ventricular zone (VZ). The centrosome normally stayed at the most apical side, apart from the nucleus, in the neuroepithelial cell during the S to G2 phase, while the Pax6 mutant showed unstable movement of the centrosome associated with an abnormal INM. Our results suggest the possibility that Pax6 regulates the INM by stabilizing the centrosome at the apical side.

The ability of rats to detect the presence of sinusoidal amplitude modulation (AM) of a broadband noise carrier was determined before and after bilateral ablation of auditory cortex. The rats were trained to withdraw from a drinking spout to avoid a shock when they detected a modulation of the sound. Sensitivity was evaluated by testing the rats at progressively smaller depths of modulation. Psychophysical curves were produced to describe the limits of detection at modulation rates of 10, 100 and 1000Hz. Performance scores were based on the probability of withdrawal from the spout during AM (warning periods) relative to withdrawal during the un-modulated noise (safe periods). A threshold was defined as the depth of modulation that produced a score halfway between perfect avoidance and no avoidance (performance score=0.5). Bilateral auditory cortical lesions resulted in significant elevations in threshold for detection of AM at rates of 100 and 1000Hz. No significant shift was found at a modulation rate of 10Hz. The magnitude of the deficit for AM rates of 100 and 1000Hz was positively correlated with the size of the cortical lesion. Substantial deficits were found only in animals with lesions that included secondary as well as primary auditory cortical areas. The results show that the rat's auditory cortex is important for processing sinusoidal AM and that its contribution is most apparent at high modulation rates. The data suggest that the auditory cortex is a crucial structure for maintaining normal sensitivity to temporal modulation of an auditory stimulus.
Although segregation of both simultaneous and sequential speech items may be involved in the reception of speech in noisy environments, research on the latter is relatively sparse. Further, previous studies examining the ability of hearing-impaired listeners to form distinct auditory streams have produced mixed results. Finally, there is little work investigating streaming in cochlear implant recipients, who also have poor frequency resolution. The present study focused on the mechanisms involved in the segregation of vowel sequences and potential limitations to segregation associated with poor frequency resolution. An objective temporal-order paradigm was employed in which listeners reported the order of constituent vowels within a sequence. In Experiment 1, it was found that fundamental frequency based mechanisms contribute to segregation. In Experiment 2, reduced frequency tuning often associated with hearing impairment was simulated in normal-hearing listeners. In that experiment, it was found that spectral smearing of the vowels increased accurate identification of their order, presumably by reducing the tendency to form separate auditory streams. These experiments suggest that a reduction in spectral resolution may result in a reduced ability to form separate auditory streams, which may contribute to the difficulties of hearing-impaired listeners, and probably cochlear implant recipients as well, in multi-talker cocktail-party situations.
In animal models of deafness, administration of an aminoglycoside in combination with a loop diuretic is often applied to produce a rapid loss of cochlear hair cells. However, the extent to which surviving hair cells remain functional after such a deafening procedure varies. In a longitudinal electrocochleographical study, we investigated the variability of cochlear function between and within guinea pigs after combined administration of kanamycin and furosemide. Concurrently, histological data were obtained at 1, 2, 4 and 8 weeks after deafening treatment. The main measures in our study were compound action potential (CAP) thresholds, percentage of surviving hair cells and packing density of spiral ganglion cells (SGCs). One day after deafening treatment, we found threshold shifts widely varying among animals from 0 to 100dB. The variability decreased after 2 days, and in 18 out of 20 animals threshold shifts greater than 55dB were found 4-7 days after deafening. Remarkably, in the majority of animals, thresholds decreased by up to 25dB after 7 days indicating functional recovery. As expected, final thresholds were negatively correlated to the percentage of surviving hair cells. Notably, the percentage of surviving hair cells might be predicted on the basis of thresholds observed one day after deafening. SGC packing density, which rapidly decreased with the period after deafening treatment and correlated to the percentage of surviving inner hair cells, was not a determining factor for the CAP thresholds.
Kraepelin's works are made more accessible in English by the publication in 2002 of a 5-volume book of reprints of original translations. Together with his Memoirs (Kraepelin, 1987) and the translations of several of his papers published in History of Psychiatry, they present a fair, though still incomplete picture of Kraepelin's lifetime work. This paper draws on those publications to assess Kraepelin's legacy and his influence on contemporary psychiatric theory and practice.
Estrogen limits in vitro neuron death induced by application of beta-amyloid, the cytotoxic peptide linked to Alzheimer's disease. However, the ability of estrogen to protect neurons and preserve cognitive function in vivo following exposure to beta-amyloid has not been demonstrated. Our objective was to evaluate the potential of estrogen to reduce spatial working memory deficits in female rats induced by administration of a neurotoxic form of beta-amyloid in combination with the excitotoxin, ibotenic acid. The interaction of beta-amyloid with excitotoxic factors may underlie cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, to create an experimental model typical of early Alzheimer's disease a low dose of ibotenic acid was administered with beta-amyloid into the dorsal hippocampus. Ovariectomized rats were implanted subcutaneously with Silastic capsules that produce physiological levels of 17beta-estradiol 10 days before bilateral intrahippocampal injections of aggregated beta-amyloid (1-42) and ibotenic acid. Capsules remained in situ throughout behavioral testing. When tested 3-10 weeks after neurotoxin treatment, females without estrogen capsules exhibited delay-dependent impairments in working memory performance on a water maze and a radial arm maze. Females treated with estrogen and combined neurotoxins displayed working memory performance comparable to unlesioned females on both tasks. Neurotoxin treatment increased immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein but this measure was unaffected by estradiol treatment indicating that estrogen did not limit glial proliferation. Results indicate that estrogen prevented deficits in spatial working memory induced by neurotoxin treatments intended to mimic the pathology of early Alzheimer's disease.
Speakers use external auditory feedback to monitor their own speech. Feedback distortion has been found to increase activity in the superior temporal areas. Using fMRI, the present study investigates the neural correlates of processing verbal feedback without distortion. In a blocked design, the following conditions were presented: (1) overt picture-naming, (2) overt picture-naming while pink noise was presented to mask external feedback, (3) covert picture-naming, (4) listening to the picture names (previously recorded from participants' own voices), and (5) listening to pink noise. The results show that auditory feedback processing involves a network of different areas related to general performance monitoring and speech-motor control. These include the cingulate cortex and the bilateral insula, supplementary motor area, bilateral motor areas, cerebellum, thalamus and basal ganglia. Our findings suggest that the anterior cingulate cortex, which is often implicated in error-processing and conflict-monitoring, is also engaged in ongoing speech monitoring. Furthermore, in the superior temporal gyrus, we found a reduced response to speaking under normal feedback conditions. This finding is interpreted in the framework of a forward model according to which, during speech production, the sensory consequence of the speech-motor act is predicted to attenuate the sensitivity of the auditory cortex.
The magnitude and shape of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses in functional MRI (fMRI) studies vary across brain regions, subjects, and populations. This variability may be secondary to neural activity or vasculature differences, thus complicating interpretations of BOLD signal changes in fMRI experiments. We compare the BOLD responses to neural activity and a vascular challenge and test a method to dissociate these influences in 26 younger subjects (ages 18-36) and 24 older subjects (ages 51-78). Each subject performed a visuomotor saccade task (a vascular response to neural activity) and a breathholding task (vascular dilation induced by hypercapnia) during separate runs in the same scanning session. For the saccade task, signal magnitude showed a significant decrease with aging in FEF, SEF, and V1, and a delayed time-to-peak with aging in V1. The signal magnitudes from the saccade and hypercapnia tasks showed significant linear regressions within subjects and across individuals and populations. These two tasks had weaker, but sometimes significant linear regressions for time-to-peak and coherence phase measures. The significant magnitude decrease with aging in V1 remained after dividing the saccade task magnitude by the hypercapnia task magnitude, implying that the signal decrease is neural in origin. These findings may lead to a method to identify vascular reactivity-induced differences in the BOLD response across populations and the development of methods to account for the influence of these vasculature differences in a simple, noninvasive manner.
Passive immunization is an important parameter of post exposure rabies prophylaxis. Two types of rabies immunoglobulin (RIGs) are currently available for Passive immunization against rabies i.e., human rabies immunoglobulin (HRIG) and equine rabies immunoglobulin (ERIG). The former is very expensive and not easily available and the latter causes side effects because of which its utility is limited. In the present study we have produced murine monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) to rabies glycoprotein (G) and studied their utility in passive immunization against rabies using animal models. Their efficacy was compared to commercially available ERIG both in terms of neutralizing titer and effective protein concentration. The neutralizing titers of these Mabs ranged from 1650-75,000 IU/mL by RFFIT. They belonged to the IgG 2 a subclass. The Mabs were able to protect 70-100% of mice and guinea pigs inoculated with rabies viruses, depending on the strain of the virus. These Mabs were found to be 2,000 times more potent than commercial ERIG in terms of effective protein concentration and neutralizing titer. Further studies are required to study their utility in humans exposed to rabies.
Reduced energy intake, or caloric restriction (CR), is known to extend life-span and to retard age-related health decline in a myriad of species, including nematode worms, flies, fish, mice and rats. The exact mechanism whereby CR exerts its life-extending and health-extending effects is unclear. CR however has been shown to improve insulin sensitivity, reduce oxidative stress and alter neuroendocrine responses and central nervous system (CNS) function in animals. In this review article we provide a comprehensive overview of the effects of CR on animal physiology and we discuss some of the potential molecular mechanisms and pathways whereby reduced energy intake can increase health-span and life-span. A better understanding of how energy intake can influence the aging process could lead to new strategies and therapeutics to reduce age-related decline and increase health-span.
Heterotrimeric G(i) proteins play a role in signalling activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), Staphylococcus aureus (SA) and group B streptococci (GBS), leading to production of inflammatory mediators. We hypothesized that genetic deletion of G(i) proteins would alter cytokine and chemokine production induced by LPS, SA and GBS stimulation. LPS-induced, heat-killed SA-induced and heat-killed GBS-induced cytokine and chemokine production in peritoneal macrophages from wild-type (WT), Galpha(i2) (-/-) or Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice were investigated. LPS induced production of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-10 and interferon-gamma-inducible protein-10 (IP-10); SA induced TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta production; and GBS induced TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) and keratinocyte chemoattract (KC) production were all decreased (P &lt; 0.05) in Galpha(i2) (-/-) or Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice compared with WT mice. In contrast to the role of G(i) proteins as a positive regulator of mediators, LPS-induced production of MIP-1alpha and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) were increased in macrophages from Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice, and SA-induced MIP-1alpha production was increased in both groups of Galpha(i) protein-depleted mice. LPS-induced production of KC and IL-1beta, SA-induced production of GM-CSF, KC and IP-10, and GBS-induced production of IL-10, GM-CSF and IP-10 were unchanged in macrophages from Galpha(i2) (-/-) or Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice compared with WT mice. These data suggest that G(i2) and G(i1/3) proteins are both involved and differentially regulate murine inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production in response to both LPS and Gram-positive microbial stimuli.
Src homology region 2-domain-containing phosphatase-1 (SHP-1) plays an important role in the regulation of signaling from various receptors in hematopoietic cells. In mast cells, SHP-1 has been shown to negatively regulate the initial signaling triggered by high-affinity receptor for IgE (FcepsilonRI) and positively regulate downstream outputs. To clarify the molecular mechanisms of SHP-1 in mast cells, we determined substrates for SHP-1 by using the substrate-trapping approach. When phosphatase-inactive SHP-1 was over-expressed in rat basophilic leukemia (RBL)-2H3 cells, tyrosine phosphorylation of a 68-kDa protein was enhanced before and after FcepsilonRI aggregation. Immunoprecipitation and western blot analyses revealed that this protein is SHP-1, either endogenous or ectopically expressed. FcepsilonRI-induced activation of Lyn and Syk was comparable between cells expressing wild-type (wt) and phosphatase-inactive SHP-1. In vitro phosphatase assay and combined transfection, immunoprecipitation and immunoblot analyses showed that tyrosine 536 of SHP-1 was potent phosphorylation site and that SHP-1 could dephosphorylate this site that had been phosphorylated by Lyn. Furthermore, the phosphatase activity of SHP-1 immunoprecipitated from cells expressing a phosphatase-inactive SHP-1 was increased compared with that from vector-transfected or wt SHP-1-expressing cells. Finally, expression of phosphatase-inactive SHP-1 resulted in decreased activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and suppressed transcription of cytokine genes, whereas wt SHP-1 enhanced these processes. Taken collectively, these results suggest that SHP-1 may be a physiological substrate of SHP-1 in RBL-2H3 cells and that dephosphorylation of SHP-1 leads to a decrease in its catalytic activity and an enhancement of downstream signaling. A negative autoregulatory circuit of SHP-1 may contribute to mast cell regulation.
Speech-evoked auditory brainstem responses (speech-ABR) provide a reliable marker of learning disability in a substantial subgroup of individuals with language-based learning problems (LDs). Here we review work describing the properties of the speech-ABR in typically developing children and in children with LD. We also review studies on the relationships between speech-ABR and the commonly used click-ABR, and between speech-ABR and auditory processing at the level of the cortex. In a critical examination of previously published data, we conclude that as many as 40% of LDs have abnormal speech-ABRs and that these individuals are also likely to exhibit abnormal cortical processing. Yet, the profile of learning problems these individuals exhibit is unspecific. Leaving open the question of causality, these data suggest that speech-ABR can be used to identify a large sub-population of LDs, those with abnormal auditory physiological function. Further studies are required to determine the functional relationships among abnormal speech-ABR, speech perception, and the pattern of literacy-related and cognitive deficits in LD.
Congenital auditory deprivation leads to deficits in the auditory cortex. The present review focuses on central aspects of auditory deprivation: development, plasticity, corticocortical interactions, and cross-modal reorganization. We compile imaging data from human subjects, electroencephalographic data from cochlear implanted children, and animal research on congenital deafness. Behavioral, electroencephalographic, and imaging data in humans correspond well to data behavioral and neurophysiological data obtained from congenitally deaf cats. The available data indicate that auditory deprivation leads to 'decoupling' of the primary auditory cortex from cognitive modulation of higher-order auditory areas. Higher-order auditory areas undergo a strong cross-modal reorganization and take-over new functions. Due to these and other deficits of intrinsic microcircuitry, the cortical column can not integrate bottom-up and top-down influences in deaf auditory cortex. In the ultimate consequence perceptual learning is compromised, resulting in sensitive periods.
In the 1960s, serotonin (5HT) was associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) caused by certain diet pills, but has recently been the subject of renewed interest in the field of PAH. Serotonin can be synthesised in the pulmonary endothelium with the rate-limiting step being the activity of tryptophan hydroxylase1 (Tph1). The serotonin is released and can then: (i) pass into the underlying pulmonary smooth muscle cells through the serotonin transporter (SERT) to initiate proliferation and/or (ii) activate serotonin receptors on pulmonary smooth muscle cells to evoke proliferation and/or contraction. Serotonin may also mediate pulmonary fibroblast proliferation via the SERT and/or serotonin receptors. Here we will unravel, discuss and update the 'serotonin hypothesis' of PAH in light of recent advances in the field. In conclusion, the activity of serotonin receptors, the SERT and Tph1 can all be elevated in clinical and experimental PAH and each offers a potentially unique therapeutic target.





The authors studied inclusion formation in vitro using transiently transfected PC12 cells, with epitope-tagged and untagged full-length and truncated wild-type and expanded ataxins -1, -2, -3, and -7. At 72 hours, no inclusions were seen with wild-type full-length or truncated ataxins -2, -3, or -7, and only one with ataxin-1. Truncation abolished nuclear localization of ataxins -1 and -7, and allowed nuclear entry of ataxin-2. Of the expanded ataxins, only -1 and -2 formed inclusions, and those of ataxin-2 were rare and exclusively cytoplasmic. Truncation resulted in inclusion formation by ataxins -3 and -7, increased ataxin-1 inclusions, and enabled formation of nuclear ataxin-2 inclusions. There was no recruitment of wild-type ataxin-1 to expanded ataxin-1 inclusions.
Motor Unit Number Estimation (MUNE), a technique allowing to estimate the number of functioning Motor Units (MU) in single muscles, was used to score the disease's severity and progression rate in a group of 58 patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). All patients underwent MUNE in the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscle during the diagnostic work-up (T0), after three (T1) and six (T2) months. A significant loss [p &lt; .001] of MU and a decrease [p &lt; .001] of the maximal M wave area at T0 was found, whereas mean step area was increased [p &lt; .001]. During the follow-up (T1 and T2), MU loss continued, maximal M wave decreased, and mean step area increased significantly. The results confirm that MUNE is a suitable tool to quantify the pathological changes in MU in patients with ALS.

The concept of a specific memory network that drives addictive behavior has often been discussed in relation to the phenomenon of sudden relapse into addiction after years of abstinence. But there is still a lack of data that shows a link between drug-related cue processing and specific changes of behavior in addicts. In the present study we investigated the relationship between smoking-related picture processing, performance in a color matching task, and ERP topographies. Fifteen smokers and 19 non-smoking participants performed a color matching task including monochromic pictures with smoking-related and neutral content. Smokers and non-smokers showed remarkable differences between stimulus category-related ERP topographies. Furthermore, both smokers and non-smokers showed increased reaction times during color matching when the picture contents were related to smoking behavior. The results are discussed with respect to different drug-cue-related patterns of information processing in smokers and non-smokers.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between pain extent, severity of depressive symptoms and recommended rehabilitation measures in long-term sick-listed patients. In this cross-sectional study, the medical records of 228 long-term sick-listed patients consecutively referred to a multidisciplinary setting were examined retrospectively. Three specialists in psychiatry, orthopaedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine had made joint rehabilitation recommendations into the four different groups: (i) back to work without rehabilitation; (ii) vocational rehabilitation or adjusted work; (iii) medical rehabilitation and (iv) sick pension. Each patient filled in a pain drawing as a measure of pain extent and the self-administered Montgomery-Asberg-Depression-Rating Scale for evaluating the severity of depressive symptoms. Ninety-five percent of the patients had ongoing pain and 53% had depression. No statistically significant difference was seen between the outcome groups regarding the pain extent. A statistically significant difference was seen between the back to work without any rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation or adjusted work groups in Montgomery-Asberg-Depression-Rating Scale score versus the medical-rehabilitation and sick-pension groups [P&lt;0.001 between groups (chi(2) test); P&lt;0.05 within groups (Tukey-Kramer Honestly Significant Difference test)]. In conclusion, two-thirds of the patients were assessed to need medical rehabilitation. These patient groups could be separated from the ones who were assessed to be able to go back to work without medical rehabilitation by the severity of the ongoing depression, but not by the pain extent alone. It was found that the combination of severity of depression and pain extent provided more information than the severity of depression alone.
Self-efficacy is increasingly being recognized as an important factor to consider in medical research, especially in different pain conditions such as whiplash-associated disorders (WAD). When pain is not effectively treated or relieved, it may negatively affect patients' life situation and cause a decline in perceived self-efficacy. Knowledge of what level of self-efficacy can be considered an actual deficit in patients with WAD is, however, sparse. The purpose of this study is to analyze whether subacute WAD has an impact on self-efficacy beliefs. A cohort study was designed to identify the impact of WAD on self-efficacy beliefs. The exposed group consisted of 47 patients with subacute WAD following a whiplash trauma. The control group representing the general population consisted of 212 participants, and was randomly selected to match the distribution of age and sex in the exposed group. The Self-Efficacy Scale was used to assess the individuals' confidence in their ability to successfully carry out activities of daily living. In the exposed group, 47 responded (100%), and in the control group, 113 (53%) responded. The results show that the total scores on the Self-Efficacy Scale were significantly lower in the exposed group compared with the control group, concerning both the mean (P&lt;0.001) and median (P&lt;0.001) scores. In conclusion, patients with subacute WAD experience a decline in functional self-efficacy, which stresses the importance of incorporating these beliefs in clinical practice and research.

Summary: Evolution and natural history of cerebral aneurysms is a dynamic process. Spontaneous regression in size or complete disappearance of an aneurysm is a known phenomenon, more commonly noted in giant intracranial aneurysms. However, reappearance or regrowth of such aneurysms is rare with few anecdotal reports. We report a series of four cases including one giant aneurysm, which either disappeared or regressed on sequential angiograms. Regrowth or reappearance of two of these previously disappeared or regressed aneurysms was noted and endovascularly treated while the other two cases are being followed up. The decision to follow up was crucial considering the nature of the aneurysms to change in morphology under the influence of various hemodynamic factors.
Summary: A concise historical review of the endovascular, endosaccular treatment of intracranial aneurysms is reported. The transition from detachable balloons to detachable coils is described. The development of microcatheters for intracranial endovascular navigation is also reported.

Hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of tau into tangles is a feature of disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and other Tauopathies. To model these disorders in Drosophila melanogaster, human tau has been over-expressed and a variety of phenotypes have been observed including neurotoxicity, disrupted neuronal and synaptic function and locomotor impairments. Neuronal dysfunction has been seen prior to neuronal death and in the absence of tangle formation. The Drosophila tau protein shares a large degree of homology with human tau but differs in the crucial microtubule binding domains. Although like human tau Drosophila tau can induce neurotoxicity, little is known about its ability to disrupt neuronal function. In this study we demonstrate that like human tau, over-expression of Drosophila tau results in disrupted axonal transport, altered neuromuscular junction morphology and locomotor impairments. This indicates that like human tau, over-expression of Drosophila tau compromises neuronal function despite significant differences in microtubule binding regions.


In this study, we evaluated the effect of lipoic acid (LA) and N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) on oxidative [4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine and heme oxygenase-1] and apoptotic (caspase 9 and Bax) markers in fibroblasts from patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and age-matched and young controls. AD fibroblasts showed the highest levels of oxidative stress, and the antioxidants, lipoic acid (1 mM) and/or N-acetyl cysteine (100 microM) exerted a protective effect as evidenced by decreases in oxidative stress and apoptotic markers. Furthermore, we observed that the protective effect of LA and NAC was more pronounced when both agents were present simultaneously. AD-type changes could be generated in control fibroblasts using N-methylprotoporphyrin to inhibit cytochrome oxidase assembly indicating that the the oxidative damage observed was associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. The effects of N-methylprotoporphyrine were reversed or attenuated by both lipoic acid and N-acetyl cysteine. These data suggest mitochondria are important in oxidative damage that occurs in AD. As such, antioxidant therapies based on lipoic acid and N-acetyl cysteine supplementation may be promising.
As an important molecule in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid-beta (Abeta) interferes with multiple aspects of mitochondrial function, including energy metabolism failure, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and permeability transition pore formation. Recent studies have demonstrated that Abeta progressively accumulates within mitochondrial matrix, providing a direct link to mitochondrial toxicity. Abeta-binding alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD) is localized to the mitochondrial matrix and binds to mitochondrial Abeta. Interaction of ABAD with Abeta exaggerates Abeta-mediated mitochondrial and neuronal perturbation, leading to impaired synaptic function, and dysfunctional spatial learning/memory. Thus, blockade of ABAD/Abeta interaction may be a potential therapeutic strategy for AD.
Last year 2006, we commemorated two important events in the history of Neuroscience. One hundred years ago, on November 3, Alois Alzheimer (1864-1915) presented the first case of a patient with symptoms of a disease that later would be called Alzheimer's disease. One month later, on December 10, Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934) and Camilo Golgi (1843-1926) received the Nobel Prize &quot;in recognition of their work on the structure of the Nervous System&quot;. These facts seem not to be related, but working in the Museum Cajal we found 37 histological preparations of material from patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease, revealing that Cajal also studied this disease. This paper deals with Cajal's contribution to the study of Alzheimer's disease and it is fully illustrated by original pictures of Cajal's slides preserved in the Cajal Museum, Madrid.

Optical brain imaging has seen 30 years of intense development, and has grown into a rich and diverse field. In-vivo imaging using light provides unprecedented sensitivity to functional changes through intrinsic contrast, and is rapidly exploiting the growing availability of exogenous optical contrast agents. Light can be used to image microscopic structure and function in vivo in exposed animal brain, while also allowing noninvasive imaging of hemodynamics and metabolism in a clinical setting. This work presents an overview of the wide range of approaches currently being applied to in-vivo optical brain imaging, from animal to man. Techniques include multispectral optical imaging, voltage sensitive dye imaging and speckle-flow imaging of exposed cortex, in-vivo two-photon microscopy of the living brain, and the broad range of noninvasive topography and tomography approaches to near-infrared imaging of the human brain. The basic principles of each technique are described, followed by examples of current applications to cutting-edge neuroscience research. In summary, it is shown that optical brain imaging continues to grow and evolve, embracing new technologies and advancing to address ever more complex and important neuroscience questions.
Regulated mRnAs during differentiation of rat neural stem cells were analyzed using the ABi1700 microarray platform. This microarray, while technically advanced, suffers from the difficulty of integrating hybridization results into public databases for systems-level analysis. This is particularly true for the rat array, since many of the probes were designed for transcripts based on predicted human and mouse homologs. using several strategies, we increased the public annotation of the 27,531 probes from 43% to over 65%. To increase the dynamic range of annotation, probes were mapped to numerous public keys from several data sources. consensus annotation from multiple sources was determined for well-scoring alignments, and a confidence-based ranking system established for probes with less agreement across multiple data sources. previous attempts at genomic interpretation using the celera annotation model resulted in poor overlap with expected genomic sequences. since the public keys are more precisely mapped to the genome, we could now analyze the relationships between predicted transcription-factor binding sites and expression clusters. Results collected from a differentiation time course of two neural stem cell clones were clustered using a model-based algorithm. Transcription-factor binding sites were predicted from upstream regions of mapped transcripts using position weight matrices from either JAspAR or TRAnsFAc, and the resulting scores were used to discriminate between observed expression clusters. A classification and regression tree analysis was conducted using cluster numbers as gene identifiers and TFBs scores as predictors, pruning back to obtain a tree with the lowest gene class prediction error rate. Results identify several transcription factors, the presence or absence of which are sufficient to describe clusters of mRnAs changing over time-those that are static, as well as clusters describing cell line differences. public annotation of the AB1700 rat genome array will be valuable for integrating results into future systems-level analyses.

The phenotypic description of deletion 13q syndrome is dependent on the location and size of the deleted segment. At present, the syndrome is divided into 3 groups based on the deletion's location relative to chromosomal band 13q32. Groups 1 (proximal to q32) and 2 (including q32) have shown distinctive phenotypes including mental retardation and growth deficiency, whereas group 3 (q33-34 deletion) is defined by the presence of mental retardation but usually the absence of major malformations. The authors report an 8-year-old Hispanic female with dysmorphic facial features, microcephaly, moderate to severe mental retardation, and uncontrolled epilepsy associated with a terminal 13q33.3 deletion. These features expand the characterization of the phenotype associated with group 3 of the 13q deletion syndrome to include major clinical manifestations. This case report will contribute to more accurate genetic counseling as well as may help identify more individuals with this syndrome.
