Intraventricular hamartomas are extremely uncommon lesions outside of a setting of tuberous sclerosis. The second case of its kind in medical literature is presented and its possible aetiopathogenesis, imaging characteristics, pathognomonic magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and histopathology are discussed. An 11-year-old male presented with a seizure disorder for one year, with headache and vomiting for 15 days. Computerized tomography (CT) revealed a non-enhancing, heterogeneous, left-sided, trigonal lesion with areas of calcification trapping the left frontal horn. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicated that the lesion was iso to hypointense on T1 weighted images (T1WI) and iso to hyperintense on T2 weighted images (T2WI). A pathognomonic neurochemical signature was elicited on (1)H MRS showing low N-acetylaspartate resonance and normal creatine:choline ratios. Radical decompression of the tumor resulted in an excellent outcome. The diagnosis was established by positive immunohistochemical reactivity for synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and myelin basic protein. This is the first case report in existing medical literature in which a histopathological correlation is available for a hamartoma with an unequivocal MRS signal. The authors advocate the use of MRS in patients with tuberous sclerosis or neurofibromatosis with suspected hamartomas to distinguish these benign lesions from gliomas prior to a surgical exploration.
Gliomas represent the most frequent type of human brain tumor, and their strong invasiveness is a significant clinical problem. Microglia, the immunocompetent cells of the brain, contribute significantly to the tumor and are potential interaction partners of the glioma cells. We studied the impact of the presence of microglia on tumor cell invasion in cultured brain slices. To selectively deplete microglia, the slices were treated with clodronate-filled liposomes. When glioma cells were injected into slices devoid of endogenous microglia, the invasiveness of the tumors was significantly decreased as compared with controls. Inoculation of exogenous microglia together with glioma cells into cultured brain slices increased the infiltrative behavior of the tumor depending on the microglia/glioma cell ratio. Cell culture experiments revealed that soluble factors released from glioma cells strongly stimulate metalloprotease-2 activity in microglia. In the brain slices inoculated with glioma cells, increased activity of metalloprotease-2 was directly correlated with the abundance of microglia. Our data indicate that glioma cells stimulate microglial cells to increase breakdown of extracellular matrix and thereby promote tumor invasiveness.
Prior work has shown that coincident inputs became co-represented in somatic sensory cortex. In this study, the hypothesis that the co-representation of digits required synchronous inputs was tested, and the daily development of two-digit receptive fields was observed with cortical implants. Two adult primates detected temporal differences in tap pairs delivered to two adjacent digits. With stimulus onset asynchronies of &gt; or = 100 ms, representations changed to include two-digit receptive fields across the first 4 wk of training. In addition, receptive fields at sites responsive to the taps enlarged more than twofold, and receptive fields at sites not responsive to the taps had no significant areal change. Further training did not increase the expression of two-digit receptive fields. Cortical responses to the taps were not dependent on the interval length. Stimuli preceding a hit, miss, false positives, and true negatives differed in the ongoing cortical rate from 50 to 100 ms after the stimulus but did not differ in the initial, principal, response to the taps. Response latencies to the emergent responses averaged 4.3 ms longer than old responses, which occurs if plasticity is cortical in origin. New response correlations developed in parallel with the new receptive fields. These data show co-representation can be caused by presentation of stimuli across a longer time window than predicted by spike-timing-dependent plasticity and suggest that increased cortical excitability accompanies new task learning.
The rhinal cortices play a critical role in high-order perceptual/mnemonic functions and constitute the main route for impulse traffic to and from the hippocampus. However, previous work has revealed that neocortical stimuli that activate a large proportion of perirhinal neurons are unable to discharge entorhinal cells. In search of mechanisms that might facilitate impulse transfer from the neocortex to the entorhinal cortex, we have examined changes in excitability produced by activation of the lateral amygdala (LA) in isoflurane-anesthetized animals. LA stimulation activated a large proportion of peri- and entorhinal neurons. However, conditioning LA stimuli did not increase the ability of neocortical inputs to activate entorhinal cells even though such pairing produced marked increases in neocortically evoked field potentials and orthodromic firing in the perirhinal cortex. Moreover, increased neocortically evoked perirhinal field potentials and unit responses persisted when the conditioning LA shock was replaced by another neocortical stimulus at the same or at a different site as the testing shock. This perirhinal paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) was maximal with interstimulus intervals of approximately 100 ms. Intracellular recordings of perirhinal neurons revealed that the PPF was generally associated with a rapid shift in the balance between inhibition and excitation, leading to an overall increase in perirhinal responsiveness. The significance of these findings for the role of the perirhinal cortex is discussed.
In this study, contributions of left-right reciprocal coupling mediated by commissural interneurons in spinal locomotor networks to rhythmogenesis were examined in larval lamprey that had longitudinal midline lesions in the rostral spinal cord [8 --&gt; 30% body length (BL), relative distance from the head] or caudal spinal cord (30 --&gt; 50% BL). Motor activity was initiated from brain locomotor command systems in whole animals or in vitro brain/spinal cord preparations. After midline lesions in the caudal spinal cord in whole animals and in vitro preparations, left-right alternating burst activity could be initiated in rostral and usually caudal regions of spinal motor networks. In in vitro preparations, blocking synaptic transmission in the rostral cord abolished burst activity in caudal hemi-spinal cords. After midline lesions in the rostral spinal cord in whole animals, left-right alternating muscle burst activity was present in the caudal and sometimes the rostral body. After spinal cord transections at 30% BL, rhythmic burst activity usually was no longer generated by rostral hemi-spinal cords. For in vitro preparations, very slow burst activity was sometimes present in isolated right and left rostral hemi-spinal cords, but the rhythmicity for this activity appeared to originate from the brain, and the parameters of the activity were significantly different from those for normal locomotor activity. In summary, in larval lamprey under these experimental conditions, left and right hemi-spinal cords did not generate rhythmic locomotor activity in response to descending inputs from the brain, suggesting that left-right reciprocal coupling contributes to both phase control and rhythmogenesis.
Cells in the rat barrel cortex exhibit stimulus-specific response properties. To understand the network mechanism of direction selectivity in response to facial whisker deflection, we examined direction selectivity of neuronal responses to single- and multi-whisker stimulations. In the case of regular-spiking units, i.e., putative excitatory cells, direction preferences were quite similar between responses to single-whisker stimulation of the principal and adjacent whiskers. In multi-whisker stimulation at short (&lt; or = 5 ms) interstimulus intervals (ISIs), response facilitation was evoked only when the whiskers were deflected to the preferred direction of the response to the single whisker stimulation. These results suggest that there are neuronal networks among cells with different whisker preferences but with a common direction preference that could be the neuronal basis of the direction-selective facilitation of the response to multi-whisker stimulation. In contrast, multi-whisker stimulation at long (&gt; or = 6 ms) ISIs caused non-direction-selective suppression of the response to the second stimulus. In the case of fast-spiking units, i.e., putative inhibitory cells, poor direction selectivity was exhibited. Thus stimulus direction is represented as the direction-selective responses to the single- and multi-whisker stimulations of putative excitatory cells rather than those of putative inhibitory cells.
We have previously demonstrated that Drosophila synapses possess two vesicle populations-a small active zone population replenished by &quot;fast&quot; recycling and a much larger reserve population replenished by a slower recycling mechanism that includes endosomal intermediates. In this paper, we demonstrate that the synapses onto the tergotrochanteral muscle (TTM) are very unusual in that they possess only the active zone vesicle population but not the reserve population. The depression characteristics to repetitive stimulation of the TTM were compared with those of the dorsal longitudinal muscle (DLM), the synapses of which possess both an active zone and a reserve population. It was observed that the TTM response depressed more quickly than that of the DLM. To further explore the possible contribution of the reserve population to release, using the shibire mutant, DLM synapses were experimentally constructed that possess only the active zone population, and their depression characteristics were compared with those of the same synapses possessing both populations. It was observed that responses from DLM synapses possessing only the active zone population depressed more quickly than the same synapses possessing both populations. These experiments were conducted under conditions of blocked recycling so that the difference in stimulation tolerance represents the contribution of the reserve population to release. Furthermore, the depression curve of the DLM synapses lacking a reserve population now closely approximated that of the TTM synapses. These data suggest that the reserve vesicle population of DLM synapses may contribute to transmitter release during repetitive firing at physiological frequencies (5-10 Hz).
The latency and variability of latency of single-unit responses to identical visual stimulation were measured in the frontal eye field (FEF), supplementary eye field (SEF), and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of macaque monkeys performing visually guided saccades. The mean visual response latency was significantly shorter in FEF (64 ms) than in SEF (81 ms) or ACC (100 ms), and latency values determined by four methods agreed. The latency variability of the visual response was respectively less in FEF (21 ms) than in SEF (37 ms) or ACC (41 ms). Latency, variability of latency, and magnitude of the visual responses were correlated within FEF and SEF but not ACC. These characteristics of the visual response are consistent with the degree of convergence of visual afferents to these areas and constrain hypotheses about visual processing in the frontal lobe.
The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD) is an identified neuron in the locust visual system that responds preferentially to objects approaching on a collision course with the animal. For such looming stimuli, the LGMD firing rate gradually increases, peaks, and decays toward the end of approach. The LGMD receives both excitatory and feed-forward inhibitory inputs on distinct branches of its dendritic tree, but little is known about the contribution of feed-forward inhibition to its response properties. We used picrotoxin, a chloride channel blocker, to selectively block feed-forward inhibition to the LGMD. We then computed differences in firing rate and membrane potential between control and picrotoxin conditions to study the activation of feed-forward inhibition. For looming stimuli, a significant activation of inhibition was observed early, as objects exceeded on average approximately 23 degrees in angular extent at the retina. Inhibition then increased in parallel with excitation over the remainder of approach trials. Experiments in which the final angular size of the approaching objects was systematically varied revealed that the relative activation of excitation and inhibition remains well balanced over most of the course of looming trials. Feed-forward inhibition actively contributed to the termination of the response to approaching objects and was particularly effective for large or slowly moving objects. Suddenly appearing and receding objects activated excitation and feed-forward inhibition nearly simultaneously, in contrast to looming stimuli. Under these conditions, the activation of excitation and feed-forward inhibition was weaker than for approaching objects, suggesting that both are preferentially tuned to approaching objects. These results support a phenomenological model of multiplication within the LGMD and provide new constraints for biophysical models of its responses to looming and receding stimuli.
In the perirhinal cortex of seizure prone (SP) rats, GABA(A)-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) are smaller in amplitude but have longer deactivation phases than mIPSCs recorded in normal control (NC; outbred) rats. These differences in mIPSCs are correlated to the relatively higher alpha1 subunit expression in the NC rat strains and the higher alpha2, alpha3, and alpha5 subunit expression in the SP strain. Using patch-clamp recording, we investigated how the neurosteroids tetrahydrodeoxcorticosterone (THDOC) and allopregnanolone at physiological and pharmacological concentrations may differentially affect the mIPSCs in the perirhinal cortex of brain slices isolated from SP and NC rats. We found that 100 nM THDOC prolonged the time course and increased the amplitude of both the mono- and biphasic mIPSCs in the SP rats, but these effects were smaller in the NC rats. By comparison, allopregnanolone (100 nM) had small effects in both the NC and SP rats. At 1.0 microM, THDOC enhanced mIPSCs in both strains, but this effect was not greater in the SP rat than it was at 100 nM. By contrast, allopregnanolone (500 nM) enhanced the time course of the mIPSCs in both strains but it reduced mIPSC amplitudes as well. THDOC (100 nM) was much more effective than 100 nM allopregnanolone in inducing a tonic current in SP and NC rats. These data show that neurosteroids modulate synaptic activity at synapses having different biophysical behaviors. As differing GABA(A) receptors are targeted by subsets of interneurons, these data suggest these neurosteroids may selectively modulate one inhibitory input over another.
The neural mechanisms underlying the sense of joint position and movement remain controversial. While cutaneous receptors are known to contribute to kinesthesia for the fingers, the present experiments test the hypothesis that they contribute at other major joints. Illusory movements were evoked at the interphalangeal (IP) joints of the index finger, the elbow, and the knee by stimulation of populations of cutaneous and muscle spindle receptors, both separately and together. Subjects matched perceived movements with voluntary movements of homologous joints on the contralateral side. Cutaneous receptors were activated by stretch of the skin (using 2 intensities of stretch) and vibration activated muscle spindle receptors. Stimuli were designed to activate receptors that discharge during joint flexion. For the index finger, vibration was applied over the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the hand, to evoke illusory metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint flexion, and skin stretch was delivered around the IP joints. The strong skin stretch evoked the illusion of flexion of the proximal IP joint in 6/8 subjects (12 +/- 5 degrees, mean +/- SE). For the group, strong skin stretch delivered during vibration increased the perceived flexion of the proximal IP joint by eight times with a concomitant decrease in perceived flexion of the MCP joint compared with vibration alone (P &lt; 0.05). For the elbow, vibration was applied over the distal tendon of triceps brachii and skin stretch over the dorsal forearm. When delivered alone, strong skin stretch evoked illusory elbow flexion in 5/10 subjects (9 +/- 4 degrees). Simultaneous strong skin stretch and vibration increased the illusory elbow flexion for the group by 1.5 times compared with vibration (P &lt; 0.05). For the knee, vibration was applied over the patellar tendon and skin stretch over the thigh. Skin stretch alone evoked illusory knee flexion in 3/10 subjects (8 +/- 4 degrees) and when delivered during vibration, perceived knee flexion increased for the group by 1.4 times compared with vibration (P &lt; 0.05). Hence inputs from cutaneous receptors, muscle receptors, and combined inputs from both receptors likely subserve kinesthesia at joints throughout the body.
Inhibitory synaptic inputs to Renshaw cells are concentrated on the soma and the juxtasomatic dendrites. In the present study, we investigated whether this proximal bias leads to more effective inhibition under different neuronal operating conditions. Using compartmental models based on detailed anatomical measurements of intracellularly stained Renshaw cells, we compared the inhibition produced by glycine/gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A)) synapses when distributed with a proximal bias to the inhibition produced when the same synapses were distributed uniformly (i.e., with no regional bias). The comparison was conducted in subthreshold and suprathreshold conditions. The latter were mimicked by voltage clamping the soma to -55 mV. The voltage clamp reduces nonlinear interactions between excitatory and inhibitory synapses. We hypothesized that for electrotonically compact cells such as Renshaw cells, the strength of the inhibition would become much less dependent on synaptic location in suprathreshold conditions. This hypothesis was not confirmed. The inhibition produced when inhibitory inputs were proximally distributed was always stronger than when the same inputs were uniformly distributed. In fact, the relative effectiveness of proximally distributed inhibitory inputs over uniformly distributed synapses was greater in suprathreshold conditions than that in subthreshold conditions. The somatic voltage clamp minimized saturation of inhibitory driving potentials. Because this effect was greatest near the soma, the current produced by more distal synapses suffered a greater loss because of saturation. Conversely, in subthreshold conditions, the effectiveness of proximal synapses was substantially reduced at high levels of background synaptic activity because of saturation. Our results suggest glycine/GABA(A) synapses on Renshaw cells are strategically distributed to block the powerful excitatory drive produced by recurrent collaterals from motoneurons.
EEG oscillations are hypothesized to reflect cyclical variations in the neuronal excitability, with particular frequency bands reflecting differing spatial scales of brain operation. However, despite decades of clinical and scientific investigation, there is no unifying theory of EEG organization, and the role of ongoing activity in sensory processing remains controversial. This study analyzed laminar profiles of synaptic activity [current source density CSD] and multiunit activity (MUA), both spontaneous and stimulus-driven, in primary auditory cortex of awake macaque monkeys. Our results reveal that the EEG is hierarchically organized; delta (1-4 Hz) phase modulates theta (4-10 Hz) amplitude, and theta phase modulates gamma (30-50 Hz) amplitude. This oscillatory hierarchy controls baseline excitability and thus stimulus-related responses in a neuronal ensemble. We propose that the hierarchical organization of ambient oscillatory activity allows auditory cortex to structure its temporal activity pattern so as to optimize the processing of rhythmic inputs.
AP180 plays an important role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles (SVs) and has also been implicated in retrieving SV proteins. In Drosophila, deletion of its homologue, Like-AP180 (LAP), has been shown to increase the size of SVs but decrease the number of SVs and transmitter release. However, it remains elusive whether a reduction in the total vesicle pool directly affects transmitter release. Further, it is unknown whether the lap mutation also affects vesicle protein retrieval and synaptic protein localization and, if so, how it might affect exocytosis. Using a combination of electrophysiology, optical imaging, electron microscopy, and immunocytochemistry, we have further characterized the lap mutant and hereby show that LAP plays additional roles in maintaining both normal synaptic transmission and protein distribution at synapses. While increasing the rate of spontaneous vesicle fusion, the lap mutation dramatically reduces impulse-evoked transmitter release at steps downstream of calcium entry and vesicle docking. Notably, lap mutations disrupt calcium coupling to exocytosis and reduce calcium cooperativity. These results suggest a primary defect in calcium sensors on the vesicles or on the release machinery. Consistent with this hypothesis, three vesicle proteins critical for calcium-mediated exocytosis, synaptotagmin I, cysteine-string protein, and neuronal synaptobrevin, are all mislocalized to the extrasynaptic axonal regions along with Dap160, an active zone marker (nc82), and glutamate receptors in the mutant. These results suggest that AP180 is required for either recycling vesicle proteins and/or maintaining the distribution of both vesicle and synaptic proteins in the nerve terminal.
Spatiotemporal patterns of dorsal root-evoked potentials were studied in transverse slices of the rat spinal cord by monitoring optical signals from a voltage-sensitive dye with multiple-photodiode optic camera. Typically, dorsal root stimulation generated two basic waveforms of voltage images: dual-component images consisting of fast, spike-like signal followed by a slow signal in the dorsal horn, and small, slow signals in the ventral horn. To qualitatively relate the optical signals to membrane potentials, whole cell recordings were combined with measurements of light absorption in the area around the soma. The slow optical signals correlated closely with subthreshold postsynaptic potentials in all regions of the cord. The spike-like component was not associated with postsynaptic action potentials, suggesting that the fast signal was generated by presynaptic action potentials. Firing in a single neuron could not be detected optically, implying that local voltage images originated from synchronously activated neuronal ensembles. Blocking glutamatergic synaptic transmission inhibited excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and significantly reduced the slow optical signals, indicating that they were mediated by glutamatergic synapses. Suppressing glycine-mediated inhibition increased the amplitude of both optical signals and EPSPs, while blocking GABA(A) receptor-mediated synapses, increased the amplitude and time course of EPSPs and prolonged the duration of voltage images in larger areas of the slice. The close correlation between evoked EPSPs and their respective local voltage images shows the advantage of the high temporal resolution optical system in measuring both the spatiotemporal dynamics of segmental network excitation and integrated potentials of neuronal ensembles at identified sites.
Physiological activation of kainate receptors and GABA(B) receptors within the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) is involved in regulation of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep. Because these two types of receptors may also directly and/or indirectly activate the intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway, we hypothesized that this signaling pathway may be involved in the PPT to regulate spontaneous REM sleep. To test this hypothesis, four different doses (0.25, 0.50, 0.75, and 1.0 nmol) of a specific adenylyl cyclase (AC) inhibitor, 9-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-9H-purin-6-amine (SQ22536), were microinjected bilaterally (100 nl/site) into the PPT, and the effects on REM sleep in freely moving chronically instrumented rats were quantified. By comparing alterations in the patterns of REM sleep after control injections of vehicle or one of the four different doses of SQ22536, the contributions made by each dose of SQ22536 to REM sleep were evaluated. The results demonstrated that the local microinjection of AC inhibitor SQ22536 into the PPT decreased the total amount of REM sleep for 3 h and increased slow-wave sleep (SWS) for 2 h in a dose-dependent manner. This reduction in REM sleep was due to increased latency and decreased frequency of REM sleep episodes. These results provide evidence that inhibition of AC within the PPT can successfully reduce REM sleep. These findings suggest that activation of the cAMP-signaling pathway within the cholinergic cell compartment of the PPT is an intracellular biochemical/molecular step for generating REM sleep in the freely moving rat.
We studied the effects of 1-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on the excitability of interhemispheric connections in 13 right-handed healthy volunteers. TMS was performed using figure-eight coils, and surface electromyography (EMG) was recorded from both first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscles. A paired-pulse method with a conditioning stimulus (CS) to the motor cortex (M1) followed by a test stimulus to the opposite M1 was used to study the interhemispheric inhibition (ppIHI). Both CS and TS were adjusted to produce motor-evoked potentials of approximately 1 mV in the contralateral FDI muscles. After baseline measurement of right-to-left IHI (pre-RIHI) and left-to-right IHI (pre-LIHI), rTMS was applied over left M1 at 1 Hz with 900 stimuli at 115% of resting motor threshold. After rTMS, ppIHI was studied using both the pre-rTMS CS (post-RIHI and post-LIHI) and an adjusted post-rTMS CS set to produce 1-mV motor evoked potentials (MEPs; post-RIHI(adj) and post-LIHI(adj)). The TS was set to produce 1-mV MEPs. There was a significant reduction in post-LIHI (P = 0.0049) and post-LIHI(adj) (P = 0.0169) compared with pre-LIHI at both interstimulus intervals of 10 and 40 ms. Post-RIHI was significantly reduced compared with pre-RIHI (P = 0.0015) but pre-RIHI and post-RIHI(adj) were not significantly different. We conclude that 1-Hz rTMS reduces IHI in both directions but is predominantly from the stimulated to the unstimulated hemisphere. Low-frequency rTMS may be used to modulate the excitability of IHI circuits. Treatment protocols using low-frequency rTMS to reduce cortical excitability in neurological and psychiatric conditions need to take into account their effects on IHI.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common fatal motor neuron disease. It has been generally accepted that the proapoptotic property of the familial ALS (FALS)-linked mutant SOD1 genes plays an important role in the pathogenesis of some FALS cases. We found here that expression of N19S-SOD1, a novel SOD1 mutant originally found in a sporadic ALS patient, induces lower grade death in NSC34 cells than FALS-linked mutant SOD1. In agreement, intracytoplasmic aggregate formation and SOD1 polymerization are less prominently induced by ectopic expression of N19S-SOD1 than FALS-linked mutant SOD1. We further found that additional cell stresses, such as inhibition of proteasomal activity or up-regulation of intracellular oxidative stress, enhance N19S-SOD1-induced aggregate formation and polymerization of N19S-SOD1. Such analysis of the intracellular polymerization and the ubiquitination of N19S-SOD1 have further suggested that it is recognized as a misfolded protein, like FALS-linked mutant SOD1, whereas wild-type SOD1 is not. Altogether, it is speculated that the N19S mutation of SOD1 in cooperation with associated cell stresses contributes to the onset of ALS as a risk factor.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), aside from its classic neurotrophic role in development and survival of neurons, has been shown to be involved in modification and plasticity of central synapses. In mice with BDNF gene deletion (BDNF+/-), deficits in synaptic transmission are often observed but are reversed readily by administration of BDNF, suggesting its acute effect. In support, blockade of BDNF signaling in wild-type hippocampal slices by TrkB-IgG closely reproduces synaptic alterations observed in BDNF+/- mice. We demonstrate that in BDNF+/- mice, lateral olfactory tract (LOT) synapses exhibit decreased release probability of glutamate, suggested by increased paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs), as well as by slower blocking rate of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) by MK-801 in the pyramidal neurons of the piriform cortex. The changes in PPF were not mimicked in wild-type mice by acute blockade of BDNF signaling by TkrB-IgG. These data imply that BDNF deficit during development might lead to chronic changes of excitatory transmission in LOT synapses. Modification of the LOT synapses in BDNF+/- mice was associated with altered inhibitory drive onto the mitral cells from the granule and glomerular neurons, which in turn exhibited decreased renewal rate compared to that in wild-type mice. Taken together, these data suggest that BDNF deficiency can have both acute and more permanent effects on synaptic function, particularly when BDNF signaling is compromised during the early stages of brain development. In the latter case, altered synaptic properties in BDNF+/- mice could be secondary to other complex changes in the brain, e.g., cell survival/proliferation.
Exposure of the developing nervous system to ethanol (EtOH) produces neurological aberrations associated with fetal alcohol syndrome. During a well-defined period, cerebellar neurons are highly susceptible to EtOH-induced death, primarily through apoptosis. Neonatal rodent cerebellum is exquisitely sensitive to EtOH on postnatal days 4-6 (P4-6); however, at slightly later developmental ages (P7 and later), EtOH effects are minimal. We have previously shown that EtOH differentially influences expression of apoptosis-related proteins of the Bcl-2 survival-regulatory gene family in P4 and P7 cerebellum. In the present study, the effects of EtOH on multiple functional mechanisms of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Bax were investigated to characterize further the processes underlying these disparate EtOH sensitivities. For these analyses, we addressed the following questions, by using P4 and P7 cerebellar tissue following in vivo exposure: 1) Are there differential patterns of expression of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 or proapoptotic Bax in EtOH-vulnerable Purkinje cells that could contribute to the different degrees of temporal EtOH vulnerability? 2) How does EtOH affect intracellular localization of apoptosis-related proteins? 3) Does cleavage of Bax contribute to EtOH sensitivity? 4) Does EtOH differentially modulate cerebellar protein-protein interactions of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Bax at the vulnerable vs. the resistant ages? Overall, we show that, at P4, the EtOH-mediated effects on Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Bax favor a prodeath response, whereas most of the intracellular responses to EtOH exposure at P7 promote survival. Such differential responsiveness likely plays a major role in the disparate ethanol vulnerability at these two postnatal ages.
Oligodendrocyte function is central to the maintenance of the normal nervous system in health and disease. In particular, process formation and the generation of large sheets of myelin are important components of their biological properties. We have investigated the role of Mayven, a recently identified member of the kelch family of proteins, in process extension in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells. The kelch superfamily consists of a large number of structurally diverse proteins characterized by the presence of a kelch-repeat domain. Other members of this family associate with the actin cytoskeleton and regulate process length. Mayven is expressed predominantly in the CNS, has six kelch repeats, and is an actin-binding protein, associating with actin through its kelch-repeat domain. We have cloned rat Mayven and examined its role in the oligodendrocyte lineage by using RT-PCR, RNA interference, and a truncated, dominant-negative myc-tagged Mayven. Oligodendrocyte precursors treated with siRNA directed to Mayven have reduced process length, but there was no change in migration or expression of differentiation markers. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that Mayven associated with F-actin at cell tips. Finally, overexpression of truncated Mayven lacking the SH3 ligand binding domain in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells resulted in shorter process formation, which was augmented when the cells were plated on laminin and fibronectin. These data suggest a role for Mayven in oligodendrocyte precursor cell process formation.
The reorganization of circuitry in the immature forebrain resulting from controlled cortical impact was examined with viral transneuronal tracing. Animals injured on postnatal day (PND) 17 and sham controls from the same litters received an intracerebral injection of a recombinant strain of pseudorabies virus (PRV) into the entorhinal cortex on PND 45. Fifty hours following injection of virus the animals were perfused and infected neurons were localized immunohistochemically with antisera specific for PRV. Prior studies have demonstrated that the PRV recombinant used in this analysis moves exclusively in the retrograde direction through synaptically linked neurons. CCI induced a necrotic loss of cortex at the site of impact and variable damage to the underlying corpus callosum and rostral (dorsal) hippocampus that was not present in sham controls. Analysis of viral transport in sham controls revealed retrograde transport of virus through hippocampal and neocortical circuitry in a pattern consistent with established patterns of connectivity and topography. Injured animals exhibited preservation of topographically organized connections in both the hippocampus and neocortex. However, the magnitude of labeling in the injured hemisphere was significantly increased relative to control animals and correlated with the magnitude of the injury. The distribution of infected neurons in the contralateral uninjured hemisphere also conformed to known connections. However differences in the involvement of the corpus callosum in the injury resulted in greater variability in the number of infected neurons among cases. These data provide novel insights into trauma induced reorganization of the developing brain and add to the experimental tools that can be used to assess the basis for functional recovery in animal models of developmental traumatic brain injury.

We describe a 3-year-old boy with Lowe syndrome who previously underwent bilateral cataract surgery with intraocular lens implantation and strabismus surgery and developed an inferior corneal keloid. The lesion was resected. We report the results of immunohistochemistry analysis of the specimen, as well as alternative treatment modalities for this rare condition.
A dermal substitute, Integra (Integra Neurosciences Implants SA, Sophia Antipolis, France) artificial skin, was used for wound management on three children with lower limb injuries in our institutions. In one case this biosynthetic material was applied directly to a bony surface (patella). This technique allows an early wound coverage and provides a satisfactory preparation for autograft. It can be a useful adjunct in the treatment of severe tissue defects in child limb injuries.
This is a multicenter study on peroneal mononeuropathy (PM), in which a multidimensional protocol was performed to evaluate (1) the predisposing factors and their occurrence; (2) the relationships between the etiological, clinical, and neurophysiologic findings; and (3) disability and quality of life (QoL) in a wide sample with PM. Clinical and neurophysiologic evaluation was performed in all patients; moreover, the group adopted validated disability and QoL measurements to obtain more comprehensive and reliable data on PM. From November 2002 to January 2004, 69 patients were enrolled consecutively in 11 Italian centers. Our data showed that PM involves men more frequently than women (male : female = 4.1:1). PM was idiopathic (16%) or due to prolonged posture (23.1%), surgery (20.3%), weight loss (14.5%), trauma (11.6%), bedridden condition (7.3%), external compression from cast (5.8%), and arthrogenic cyst at the fibula (1.4%). Unexpectedly, peroneal nerve lesions were not only due to surgical operation close to the peroneal region but were also associated with thoracic-abdominal surgery. We observed conduction block in about 50-70% of postural and weight loss PM; in perioperative and idiopathic PM, conduction block or mixed damage was equally present; in PM due to trauma, we observed an exclusive axonal damage in about 60% of cases. Only in three cases (one postural PM, one idiopathic PM, and one weight loss PM), we observed a slowing of conduction velocity in the popliteal fossa-fibular head segment without conduction block. The comparison between QoL in patients with PM and in healthy subjects showed a significant involvement of physical and mental aspects. With regard to disability, 68% of patients walked with difficulty. Our data show that (1) most of the cases of PM are due to an identifiable predisposing factor; (2) there is a good correlation between predisposing factors and clinical-neurophysiologic findings; and (3) PM causes disability and deterioration of the physical and emotional aspects of QoL.
Recent data has suggested that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptor is involved in cognitive processing. A novel 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, 4-cyano-N-{2R-[4-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]-dioxin-5-yl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-N-pyridin-2-yl-benzamide HCl (lecozotan), which has been characterized in multiple in vitro and in vivo pharmacological assays as a drug to treat cognitive dysfunction, is reported. In vitro binding and intrinsic activity determinations demonstrated that lecozotan is a potent and selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist. Using in vivo microdialysis, lecozotan (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) antagonized the decrease in hippocampal extracellular 5-HT induced by a challenge dose (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) of 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and had no effects alone at doses 10-fold higher. Lecozotan significantly potentiated the potassium chloride-stimulated release of glutamate and acetylcholine in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Chronic administration of lecozotan did not induce 5-HT(1A) receptor tolerance or desensitization in a behavioral model indicative of 5-HT(1A) receptor function. In drug discrimination studies, lecozotan (0.01-1 mg/kg i.m.) did not substitute for 8-OH-DPAT and produced a dose-related blockade of the 5-HT(1A) agonist discriminative stimulus cue. In aged rhesus monkeys, lecozotan produced a significant improvement in task performance efficiency at an optimal dose (1 mg/kg p.o.). Learning deficits induced by the glutamatergic antagonist MK-801 [(-)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate] (assessed by perceptually complex and visual spatial discrimination) and by specific cholinergic lesions of the hippocampus (assessed by visual spatial discrimination) were reversed by lecozotan (2 mg/kg i.m.) in marmosets. The heterosynaptic nature of the effects of lecozotan imbues this compound with a novel mechanism of action directed at the biochemical pathologies underlying cognitive loss in Alzheimer's disease.
Unlike other N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists, clinical trials have shown that memantine is clinically tolerated and effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The mechanism for memantine tolerability, however, remains contentious but may be partly explained by its uncompetitive antagonism. The specific site of memantine block in the NMDAR channel interacts with magnesium and is assumed to be at or near a narrow constriction representing the channel selectivity filter. A second, very low-affinity site of memantine action has also been reported. Here, using mutational analysis and substituted cysteine accessibility methods on recombinant NR1/NR2A NMDARs expressed in Xenopus oocytes, we precisely localize both the specific and second memantine-blocking sites. Intriguingly, memantine interacts with its specific blocking site in the same fashion as intracellular rather than extracellular Mg(2+). Thus, the N-site asparagine (N) in the M2 region of the NR1 subunit represents the dominant site for uncompetitive antagonism by memantine. The N and N + 1 site asparagines in NR2A produce strong electrostatic interactions with memantine. In contrast, the second (superficial) memantine-blocking site, located at the extracellular vestibule of the channel, appears to be nonspecific and overlaps the site occupied by the nonspecific pore blocker hexamethonium. Residues in the post-M3 segment of the NR1 subunit are not directly involved in memantine binding. The distinct patterns of interaction and the relative degree of affinity of memantine for these two binding sites contribute to the drug's excellent pharmacological profile of clinical tolerability. In the future, these parameters should be considered in searching for improved neuroprotective agents in this class.
Learning and memory is an essential component of human intelligence. To understand its underlying molecular and neuronal mechanisms is currently an extensive focus in the field of cognitive neuroscience. We have employed advanced mouse genetic approaches to analyze the molecular and neuronal bases for learning and memory, and our results showed that brain region-specific genetic manipulations (including transgenic and knockout), inducible/reversible knockout, genetic/chemical kinase inactivation, and neuronal-based genetic approach are very powerful tools for studying the involvements of various molecules or neuronal substrates in the processes of learning and memory. Studies using these techniques may eventually lead to the understanding of how new information is acquired and how learned information is memorized in the brain.

The vestibular organs can feed perceptual processes that build a picture of our route as we move about in the world. However, raw vestibular signals do not define the path taken because, during travel, the head can undergo accelerations unrelated to the route and also be orientated in any direction to vary the signal. This study investigated the computational process by which the brain transforms raw vestibular signals for the purpose of route reconstruction. We electrically stimulated the vestibular nerves of human subjects to evoke a virtual head rotation fixed in skull co-ordinates and measure its perceptual effect. The virtual head rotation caused subjects to perceive an illusory whole-body rotation that was a cyclic function of head-pitch angle. They perceived whole-body yaw rotation in one direction with the head pitched forwards, the opposite direction with the head pitched backwards, and no rotation with the head in an intermediate position. A model based on vector operations and the anatomy and firing properties of semicircular canals precisely predicted these perceptions. In effect, a neural process computes the vector dot product between the craniocentric vestibular vector of head rotation and the gravitational unit vector. This computation yields the signal of body rotation in the horizontal plane that feeds our perception of the route travelled.
This study investigated the neuromuscular mechanisms underlying the initial stage of adaptation to novel dynamics. A destabilizing velocity-dependent force field (VF) was introduced for sets of three consecutive trials. Between sets a random number of 4-8 null field trials were interposed, where the VF was inactivated. This prevented subjects from learning the novel dynamics, making it possible to repeatedly recreate the initial adaptive response. We were able to investigate detailed changes in neural control between the first, second and third VF trials. We identified two feedforward control mechanisms, which were initiated on the second VF trial and resulted in a 50% reduction in the hand path error. Responses to disturbances encountered on the first VF trial were feedback in nature, i.e. reflexes and voluntary correction of errors. However, on the second VF trial, muscle activation patterns were modified in anticipation of the effects of the force field. Feedforward cocontraction of all muscles was used to increase the viscoelastic impedance of the arm. While stiffening the arm, subjects also exerted a lateral force to counteract the perturbing effect of the force field. These anticipatory actions indicate that the central nervous system responds rapidly to counteract hitherto unfamiliar disturbances by a combination of increased viscoelastic impedance and formation of a crude internal dynamics model.

Imbalances in the corticosteroid milieu result in reductions in hippocampal volume in humans and experimental rodents. The functional correlates of these changes include deficits in cognitive performance and regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Since other limbic structures which are intricately connected with the hippocampal formation, also play an important role in behavioural and neuroendocrine functions, we here used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to analyse how two of these areas, the anterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex, respond to chronic alterations of adrenocortical status: hypocortisolism (induced by adrenalectomy, ADX), normocortisolism (ADX with low-dose corticosterone replacement), and hypercortisolism (ADX with high-dose dexamethasone supplementation). Hypercortisolism was associated with a significant reduction in the volume (absolute and normalized) of the left anterior cingulate gyrus as measured by MRI and confirmed using classical histological methods; a similar trend was observed in the right anterior cingulate region. In contrast, hypercortisolism did not influence the volume of the adjacent retrosplenial cortex. The volumes of the anterior cingulate gyrus and retrosplenial cortex were unaffected by the absence of adrenocortical hormones. These findings are the first to suggest that corticosteroid influences on the structure of the limbic system extend beyond the hippocampal formation, i.e., to fronto-limbic areas also.
We investigated the efficacy of mirtazapine in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Forty-four adult outpatients with GAD were treated openly with a fixed dose of mirtazapine (30 mg) for 12 weeks. The primary outcome measure was the change from baseline in total score on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A). The Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) was rated at the endpoint. Patients with a reduction of 50% or more on the HAM-A total score and a CGI-I score of 1 or 2 at endpoint were considered responders to treatment; remission was defined as a HAM-A score &lt;or=7. At 12 weeks, response was achieved by 79.5% of the patients (n=35) and remission by 36.4% of patients (n=16). This study supports the notion that mirtazapine is an efficacious and well tolerated treatment for GAD. Limitations of the present study must be considered and further placebo-controlled trials are needed.
The efficacy and safety of risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI) was investigated in patients in the early phases of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorders (&lt; or = 3 years). Patients who required a treatment change received RLAI (2-weekly gluteal injections of 25, 37.5 or 50 mg, per clinical judgement), without an oral risperidone run-in phase.A total of 382 patients were included in this 6-month open-label study; 73% of patients completed the study. A total of 84% had schizophrenia with a median duration of 1.0 year since diagnosis. Previous medications were mainly atypical antipsychotics (70%) and depot neuroleptics (24%). The main reasons for treatment change were non-compliance (42%) and insufficient efficacy (31%) of previous medication. The total Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and all its subscale scores improved significantly (p &lt; or = 0.0001), with 40% of patients showing a 20% improvement on total PANSS. Global Assessment of Functioning, quality of life, patient satisfaction and movement disorders also improved significantly. Tolerability of RLAI was generally good and no unexpected adverse events were reported. The ensured delivery of medication with RLAI resulted in significant symptom improvement in this patient population. Direct initiation of RLAI is well accepted by patients. RLAI might represent a novel option for patients in the early phases of psychosis.
The increased tendency to fall asleep during the daytime together with increased wakefulness during the night has been demonstrated in patients with advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to assess daytime sleep propensity in a cohort of patients with mild/moderate AD and to correlate it with cognitive impairment. Twenty drug-free AD patients meeting the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable AD were evaluated. According to their Clinical Dementia Rating scores, subjects were classified into mild (CDR1; n=11) and moderate (CDR2; n=9) dementia patients. A group of 12 healthy subjects was taken as controls. The subjects were evaluated by the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) after their nocturnal sleep pattern had been assessed by a polysomnographic recording throughout the night before. Both groups of AD patients showed a higher level of daytime sleepiness, which was statistically significant for mean daytime sleep latency (MDSL) (controls versus CDR1 and versus CDR2, CDR1 versus CDR2) and for 10:00 and 12:00 hour naps (controls versus CDR1, controls versus CDR2). In the entire group of AD patients, MDSL was significantly related with MMSE, De Renzi's Token test, verbal fluency, verbal digit span, story recall, Raven's Progressive Matrices, Weigl test and Benton's three-dimensional test. These data indicate that an increased sleep propensity during daytime occurs also in patients with mild/moderate AD detected by objective neurophysiological techniques.
Stimulants may provide short-term performance and alertness enhancement during sleep loss. Caffeine 600 mg, d-amphetamine 20 mg, and modafinil 400 mg were compared during 85 h of total sleep deprivation to determine the extent to which the three agents restored performance on simple psychomotor tasks, objective alertness and tasks of executive functions. Forty-eight healthy young adults remained awake for 85 h. Performance and alertness tests were administered bi-hourly from 8:00 hours day 2 to 19:00 hours day 5. At 23:50 hours on day 4 (after 64 h awake), subjects ingested placebo, caffeine 600 mg, dextroamphetamine 20 mg, or modafinil 400 mg (n=12 per group). Performance and alertness testing continued, and probe tasks of executive function were administered intermittently until the recovery sleep period (20:00 hours day 5 to 8:00 hours day 5). Bi-hourly postrecovery sleep testing occurred from 10:00 hours to 16:00 hours day 6. All three agents improved psychomotor vigilance speed and objectively measured alertness relative to placebo. Drugs did not affect recovery sleep, and postrecovery sleep performance for all drug groups was at presleep deprivation levels. Effects on executive function tasks were mixed, with improvement on some tasks with caffeine and modafinil, and apparent decrements with dextroamphetamine on others. At the doses tested, caffeine, dextroamphetamine, and modafinil are equally effective for approximately 2-4 h in restoring simple psychomotor performance and objective alertness. The duration of these benefits vary in accordance with the different elimination rates of the drugs. Whether caffeine, dextroamphetamine, and modafinil differentially restore executive functions during sleep deprivation remains unclear.
There are compelling reasons for teaching a philosophy of science course to undergraduate life science students. The main reason is to help them understand that modern science is not based upon a single, consistent philosophical system; nor is it based upon common sense, or a method, set of rules or formulas that can be used to make unerring predictions. Rather, science is a dynamic process that is constantly being modified and refined to reflect and encompass an ever-expanding set of hypotheses, observations, and theories. To illustrate these points, we developed a course that examined the history and philosophical underpinnings of modern science, and we discussed famous experiments that challenged the prevailing norm and led to Kuhnian revolutions in scientific thought. Building upon this knowledge, students investigated how different philosophical systems address controversial social issues in the biological sciences. They examined the teaching of intelligent design and creationism in public schools, the implications of legalized abortion and physician-assisted suicide, the potential impact of DNA fingerprinting on human rights and racism, the promise and pitfalls of stem cell research, and the neurobiological basis of consciousness and its relevance to mental health therapies and the animal rights movement. We believe undergraduate life science students should be exposed to these issues and have an opportunity to develop informed opinions about them before they graduate from college. Exploration of such topics will help them become better prepared for the inevitable public debates that they will face as science educators, researchers, and leaders of society.
The 3'-terminal end of the respiratory syncytial virus genomic RNA contains a 44-nucleotide leader (Le) region adjoining the gene start signal of the first gene. Previous mapping studies demonstrated that there is a promoter located at the 3' end of Le, which can signal initiation of antigenome synthesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the 3' terminus of the RNA template in (i) promoter recognition and (ii) determining the initiation site for antigenome synthesis. A panel of minigenomes containing additional sequence at the 3' end of the Le were analyzed for their ability to direct antigenome and mRNA synthesis. Minigenomes containing heterologous extensions of 6 nucleotides or more were unable to support efficient RNA synthesis. However, the activity of a minigenome with a 56-nucleotide extension could be restored by insertion of Le nucleotides 1 to 11 or 1 to 13 at the 3' end, indicating that these nucleotides, in conjunction with the 3' terminus, are sufficient to recruit polymerase to the template. Northern blot and 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends analysis of antigenome RNA indicated that antigenome initiation occurred at the first position of Le, irrespective of the terminal extension. This finding demonstrates that the 3' terminus of the RNA is not necessary for determining the antigenome initiation site. Data are presented which suggest that following recruitment to a promoter at the 3' end of Le, the polymerase is able to scan and respond to a promoter signal embedded within the RNA template.

Cognitive disorders, vacuolar myelopathy, and sensory neuropathies associated with HIV are the most common disorders in patients with HIV AIDS, and are the focus of this review. These disorders are treatable and of those associated with HIV AIDS the pathogenic mechanisms are the most understood. Although triggered by productive HIV macrophage infections, aberrant immune activation plays a major role in inducing the CNS disorders. Novel therapies aimed at these inflammatory mechanisms can be effective. The sensory neuropathies associated with HIV infection are a major cause of morbidity; incidence may be increased by the toxic effects of specific antiretroviral drugs within the peripheral nervous system.

Information storage in the brain is a temporally graded process involving different memory phases as well as different structures in the mammalian brain. Cortical plasticity seems to be essential to store stable long-term memories, although little information is available at the moment regarding molecular and cellular events supporting memory consolidation in the neocortex. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates both short-term synaptic function and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in hippocampal and cortical neurons. We have recently demonstrated that endogenous BDNF in the hippocampus is involved in memory formation. Here we examined the role of BDNF in the parietal cortex (PCx) in short-term (STM) and long-term memory (LTM) formation of a one-trial fear-motivated learning task in rats. Bilateral infusions of function-blocking anti-BDNF antibody into the PCx impaired both STM and LTM retention scores and decreased the phosphorylation state of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). In contrast, intracortical administration of recombinant human BDNF facilitated LTM and increased CREB activation. Moreover, inhibitory avoidance training is associated with a rapid and transient increase in phospho-CREB/total CREB ratio in the PCx. Thus, our results indicate that endogenous BDNF is required for both STM and LTM formation of inhibitory avoidance learning, possibly involving CREB activation-dependent mechanisms. The present data support the idea that early sensory areas constitute important components of the networks subserving memory formation and that information processing in neocortex plays an important role in memory formation.
There is considerable evidence that encoding and consolidation of memory are modulated by emotion, but the retrieval of emotional memories is not well characterized. Here we manipulated the emotional context with which affectively neutral stimuli were associated during encoding, allowing us to examine neural activity associated with retrieval of emotional memories without confounding the emotional attributes of cue items and the retrieved context. Using a source memory procedure we were also able to compare how retrieval processing was modulated when the emotional encoding context was recollected or not. An interaction between emotional encoding context and accuracy of source memory revealed that successful retrieval of emotional context was associated with activity in left amygdala, and a left frontotemporal network including anterior insula, prefrontal cortex and cingulate. In contrast, when contextual retrieval was unsuccessful, items encoded in emotional contexts elicited enhanced activity in right amygdala and a right-lateralized network that included extrastriate visual areas. These findings indicate distinct effects of emotion on successful and unsuccessful retrieval of source information, including lateralization of amygdala responses.
We report that post-training inactivation of basolateral amygdala region (BLA) with muscimol impaired memory for contextual-fear conditioning (as measured by freezing) and intra-BLA norepinephrine enhanced this memory. However, pre-exposure to the context eliminated both of these effects. These findings provide a likely explanation of why an earler study failed to observe that the BLA modulates contextual fear conditioning-they pre-exposed their rats to the context. These results also suggest that the amygdala modulates the storage of the context fear memory and may do so by influencing the storage of the representation of the context in which the shock occurred.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are known to play a role in synaptic plasticity and learning. We have previously shown that mGluR7 deletion in mice produces a selective working memory (WM) impairment, while other types of memory such as reference memory remain unaffected. Since WM has been associated with Theta activity (6-12 Hz) in EEGs, and since EEG abnormalities have been observed in these mice before, we studied the effect of mGluR7 gene ablation on EEG activity in the hippocampus, in particular in the Theta range, during performance of a WM task. In an eight-arm maze with four arms baited, mGluR7 knock-out (KO) and wild-type mice committed the same number of reference memory errors, whereas KOs committed more WM errors. While performing the task, KO mice showed substantially higher Theta amplitudes, and the ratio of Theta to overall EEG power was much increased. No change was seen in the Delta (0-5 Hz), or Gamma (30-40 Hz) EEG bands compared with controls. When recording EEGs during periods of rest in the home cages, no difference was seen between groups. These findings suggest that mGluR7 is important for modulation and control of Theta activity. Since only WM was affected, and only the Theta range of EEG activity was altered, these results show a correlation between Theta rhythm and WM performance, and therefore support the concept that Theta activity in the hippocampus is involved in WM storage.

The impact of a previously successful or unsuccessful experience on the subsequent acquisition of a related task is not well understood. The nature of past experience may have even greater impact in individuals with learning deficits, as their cognitive processes can be easily disrupted. Mice with a targeted disruption of the alpha and delta isoforms of the cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) gene (CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice) have a genetic vulnerability to impaired learning and memory that is highly influenced by experimental conditions. Thus, we studied the impact of prior successful and unsuccessful experiences on the degree to which CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice exhibit impaired spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze (MWM). In Experiment 1, we replicated the cognitive deficit of CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice when given two trials per day with a 1-min intertrial interval (MWM2), and labeled this experience as a &quot;failure.&quot; We rescued the deficit using four trials per day with a 3- to 5-min intertrial interval (MWM4) and labeled this experience a &quot;success.&quot; In Experiment 2, a new, naive set of wild-type (WT) and CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice were randomly assigned to one of two sequence protocols to assess the influence of a success or a failure on subsequent performance. In Group 1, mice were first exposed to the MWM4 condition, followed by the more difficult MWM2 task. As expected, CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice performed well in the MWM4; they also performed well during reversal testing (MWM4R) where the goal location is changed. With this initial successful learning experience, the CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice then performed as well as WT mice in the MWM2, the condition in which they are known to be impaired. In contrast, CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice in Group 2 had an unsuccessful experience when first exposed to the MWM2 condition, and then also showed impairment in the MWM4, the condition in which they would normally perform well. This deficit was amplified when CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice were then tested in the reversal test. Sex differences in learning among CREB(alphadelta-)-deficient mice were amplified upon exposure to an unsuccessful learning experience. These data indicate that, under conditions of cognitive impairment, past experience can-depending on its nature-significantly facilitate or hinder future performance.
Although an important role for the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) has been established for memory consolidation in a variety of learning paradigms, it is not known if this pathway is also involved in appetitive classical conditioning. We address this question by using a single-trial food-reward conditioning paradigm in the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis. This learning paradigm induces protein synthesis-dependent long-term memory formation. Inhibition of MAPK phosphorylation blocked long-term memory consolidation without affecting the sensory and motor abilities of the snails. Thirty minutes after conditioning, levels of MAPK phosphorylation were increased in extracts from the buccal and cerebral ganglia. These ganglia are involved in the generation, modulation, and plasticity of the feeding behavior. We also detected an increase in levels of MAPK phosphorylation in the peripheral tissue around the mouth of the snails where chemoreceptors are located. Although an increase in MAPK phosphorylation was shown to be essential for food-reward conditioning, it was also detected in snails that were exposed to the conditioned stimulus (CS) or the unconditioned stimulus (US) alone, suggesting that phosphorylation of MAPK is necessary but not sufficient for learning to occur.
Computation of digitally reconstructed radiograph (DRR) images is the rate-limiting step in most current intensity-based algorithms for the registration of three-dimensional (3D) images to two-dimensional (2D) projection images. This paper introduces and evaluates the progressive attenuation field (PAF), which is a new method to speed up DRR computation. A PAF is closely related to an attenuation field (AF). A major difference is that a PAF is constructed on the fly as the registration proceeds; it does not require any precomputation time, nor does it make any prior assumptions of the patient pose or limit the permissible range of patient motion. A PAF effectively acts as a cache memory for projection values once they are computed, rather than as a lookup table for precomputed projections like standard AFs. We use a cylindrical attenuation field parametrization, which is better suited for many medical applications of 2D-3D registration than the usual two-plane parametrization. The computed attenuation values are stored in a hash table for time-efficient storage and access. Using clinical gold-standard spine image data sets from five patients, we demonstrate consistent speedups of intensity-based 2D-3D image registration using PAF DRRs by a factor of 10 over conventional ray casting DRRs with no decrease of registration accuracy or robustness.

Glucocorticoids and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) have been proposed to inhibit counterregulatory responses to recurrent hypoglycemia. We used the CRH knockout (CRH KO) mouse to test the hypothesis that combined CRH and glucocorticoid deficiency would prevent development of counterregulatory deficits after repeated hypoglycemia. To develop a mouse model of recurrent hypoglycemia, we first tested the effects of daily lente insulin injection on counterregulatory responses to acute hypoglycemia in male C57BL/6 mice. Treatment with up to 250 U/kg per day lente insulin resulted in significantly greater decreases in plasma glucose, suggestive of impaired counterregulation, after hypoglycemia induced by acute insulin injection. Plasma catecholamine responses to hypoglycemia in repeatedly hypoglycemic C57BL/6 mice were unexpectedly higher than in naive mice, which we interpreted as a compensatory response to the greater decreases in plasma glucose. Lente insulin doses had to be reduced (50-75 U/kg per day) for CRH KO mice to survive repeated hypoglycemia. Wild-type (WT) mice treated with 50 to 75 U/kg per day lente insulin exhibited enhanced sympathetic activity after hypoglycemia, resembling the compensatory responses associated with impaired glucose homeostasis in C57BL/6 mice treated with 250 U/kg per day lente insulin. During acute hypoglycemia, CRH KO mice maintained higher plasma glucose levels that correlated with higher plasma norepinephrine and greater glycogen mobilization. Recurrent hypoglycemia did not enhance liver glycogen depletion or the markedly impaired glucocorticoid and epinephrine responses to hypoglycemia in CRH KO mice. Previously hypoglycemic CRH KO mice also did not display the further increases in sympathetic activity that in WT mice were suggestive of compensation for impaired counterregulation. Despite the apparent resistance of CRH KO mice to the counterregulatory effects of repeated hypoglycemia, their greater mortality after hypoglycemia tolerated by WT mice indicates that combined CRH and glucocorticoid deficiency does not significantly improve counterregulation after repeated hypoglycemia.
The indications to the positioning of central venous catheters (CVCs) are various: parenteral nutrition, chemotherapy, infusion of large amount of fluids or blood products, chronic access for hemodialysis, invasive measurement of hemodynamic variables. Infection is the most important clinical complication associated with the use of CVC, both in terms of incidence and of gravity. Despite the efforts for the optimization of the materials that are more and more biocompatible, the presence of a foreign body in the organism is an ideal substratum for the microbial colonization. The Catheter-Related-Bloodstream-Infections (CRBI) involve a pro-longation of recovery stay, the increase in costs of hospitalization and an increase in morbidity and mortality. The infections are caused by: Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis (60%), other bacteria (Enterococ-cus faecalis and Faecium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa; 25%) and among fungi by Candida albicans and Parapsilosis (15%). In order to prevent the CRBI it's important to follow some behavioural norms, both during the positioning of the catheter and in the subsequent assistance to the patient. In case of CRBI it is fundamental to make a sure diagnosis with the positivity for the same pathogen of 2 hemocultures obtained from CVC and from a peripheral vein and then with the microbiological analysis of the tip of the catheter, in order to carry out the specific antibiotic therapy.
According to the &quot;stop-and-go&quot; hypothesis of slow axonal transport, cytoskeletal and cytosolic proteins are transported along axons at fast rates but the average velocity is slow because the movements are infrequent and bidirectional. To test whether this hypothesis can explain the kinetics of slow axonal transport in vivo, we have developed a stochastic model of neurofilament transport in axons. We propose that neurofilaments move in both anterograde and retrograde directions along cytoskeletal tracks, alternating between short bouts of rapid movement and short &quot;on-track&quot; pauses, and that they can also temporarily disengage from these tracks, resulting in more prolonged &quot;off-track&quot; pauses. We derive the kinetic parameters of the model from a detailed analysis of the moving and pausing behavior of single neurofilaments in axons of cultured neurons. We show that the model can match the shape, velocity, and spreading of the neurofilament transport waves obtained by radioisotopic pulse labeling in vivo. The model predicts that axonal neurofilaments spend approximately 8% of their time on track and approximately 97% of their time pausing during their journey along the axon.
Neurofascin (NF) is a neural cell adhesion molecule in the L1-family containing six Ig domains and multiple fibronectin type III (FnIII) repeats in its extracellular region. NF has many splicing variants and two of these are exemplars that have different cellular patterns of expression during development. NF186, which is expressed on neurons, contains an unusual mucin-like region and NF155, which is expressed on glia, contains a unique FnIII repeat with an RGD motif. Analysis of Fc fusion proteins representing different extracellular regions of NF indicate that NF186 inhibits cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth, and the inhibition is associated with the region containing the mucin-like domain. NF155 promotes neural cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth, and the RGD motif in its third FnIII repeat is critical for cell spreading and neurite outgrowth. The results suggest that different splicing variants of NF expressed on neurons and glia play distinct roles during neural development.
The cell adhesion molecule L1 is important for peripheral nerve development. Mice lacking the 6th Ig domain of L1 (L1-6D mice) lose L1 homophilic binding and RGD dependent L1-integrin binding [Itoh, K., Cheng, L., Kamei, Y., Fushiki, S., Kamiguchi, H., Gutwein, P., Stoeck, A., Arnold, B., Altevogt, P., Lemmon, V., 2004. Brain development in mice lacking L1-L1 homophilic adhesion. J. Cell Biol. 165, 145-154]. We examined the ultrastructure of sciatic nerves from L1-6D at postnatal day 7 and 8 weeks. Unmyelinated axons frequently detached at the edge of Schwann cells, and naked axons were observed. Myelin was thinner in L1-6D and abnormal, multiple axons wrapped in a single myelin sheath were routinely observed. Previous work has shown that L1 on axons interacts with a heterophilic binding partner on Schwann cells to facilitate normal peripheral nerve formation. Taken together, it is likely that L1 on axons binds integrins on Schwann cells, resulting in interactions between axons and Schwann cells that are essential for ensheathment and myelination.
The olfactory epithelium has the unusual ability to replace its neurons. We forced replacement of mouse olfactory sensory neurons by bulbectomy. Microarray, bioinformatics, and in situ hybridization techniques detected a rapid shift in favor of pro-apoptotic proteins, a progressive immune response by macrophages and dendritic cells, and identified or predicted 439 mRNAs enriched in olfactory sensory neurons, including gene silencing factors and sperm flagellar proteins. Transcripts encoding cell cycle regulators, axonogenesis proteins, and transcription factors and signaling proteins that promote proliferation and differentiation were increased at 5--7 days after bulbectomy and were expressed by basal progenitor cells or immature neurons. The transcription factors included Nhlh 1, Hes 6, Lmyc 1, c-Myc, Mxd 4, Id 1, Nmyc 1, Cited 2, c-Myb, Mybl 1, Tead 2, Dp 1, Gata 2, Lmo 1, and Sox1 1. The data reveal significant similarities with embryonic neurogenesis and make several mechanistic predictions, including the roles of the transcription factors in the olfactory sensory neuron lineage.
Cell replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease depends on a reliable source of purified dopamine (DA) neurons (PDN) and the identification of factors relevant to their survival. Our goal was to genetically tag and purify by flow cytometry embryonic midbrain DA neurons from a transgenic mouse line carrying 11 kb of human tyrosine hydroxylase promoter driving expression of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) for studies in vivo and in vitro. A 99% purification of GFP(+) cells was achieved. When transplanted into 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rat striatum, PDN survived, became well-integrated and produced recovery from amphetamine-induced motor behaviors. However, when grown in culture, PDN died within days of plating. No known growth factors prevented PDN death as did incubation with novel factors in glia/glial-conditioned media. We conclude that GFP-tagged DA neurons can be purified to homogeneity and can survive and function when grown with glial factors in vitro or after transplantation in vivo.

This is a personal perspective on bipolar disorder, entirely written by a well-informed patient who is a successful mental heath professional. The patient prefers to remain anonymous; therefore, I am listed here as the contact person to whom queries to the author can be referred. We believe that her insights are particularly important for those working in the field. As we investigate the molecular substrates of psychiatric disorders, it is crucial to keep in mind the clinical entities that are addressed in our research. The patient's words provide a deep understanding of real suffering that is overcome by effective treatment in the context of a highly supportive social structure. In her own words, 'I was terrified that I could feel so wrecked inside, terrified that something was horribly wrong with me and terrified that I didn't know how to tell anyone that I was slipping into a dark place. My struggle with bipolar disorder forced me to leave an Ivy League university and endure six hospitalizations during my early adulthood. After countless medication trials, I was successful on clozapine and graduated from college and then graduate school. My medications remind me each day of my struggle with mental illness but also of my recovery. I am relishing my life as a happily married woman, a beloved daughter and sister, and as a psychologist.' One important item illustrated in this narrative is that clinical symptoms can be worsened by some treatments and positively affected by others. While some in the field erroneously believe that better treatment approaches depend exclusively on new drugs, this perspective shows how important it is to optimize the use of existing compounds. For some diseases like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) of childhood, rates of remission and cure have been constantly advancing through better use of existing compounds. In the last 20 years, without the advent of new drugs for that disease, new protocols for ALL have solely optimized the use of existing drugs. It is likewise crucial to advance the optimization of psychiatric treatments by identifying predictors of treatment response, possibly by pharmacogenomic approaches, which have the potential to individualize the use of existing treatments. This could rapidly decrease the enormous burden of psychiatric disorders, which is eloquently described in this perspective article.
The search for susceptibility genes for bipolar disorder (BD) depends on appropriate definitions of the phenotype. In this paper, we review data on diagnosis and clinical features of BD that could be used in genetic studies to better characterize patients or to define homogeneous subgroups. Clinical symptoms, long-term course, comorbid conditions, and response to prophylactic treatment may define groups associated with more or less specific loci. One such group is characterized by symptoms of psychosis and linkage to 13q and 22q. A second group includes mainly bipolar II patients with comorbid panic disorder, rapid mood switching, and evidence of chromosome 18 linkage. A third group comprises typical BD with an episodic course and favourable response to lithium prophylaxis. Reproducibility of cognitive deficits across studies raises the possibility of using cognitive profiles as endophenotypes of BD, with deficits in verbal explicit memory and executive function commonly reported. Brain imaging provides a more ambiguous data set consistent with heterogeneity of the illness.
SCA6 is a slowly progressive, late-onset cerebellar ataxia due to a trinucleotide expansion in the CACNA1A gene. We describe two unrelated cases that presented with Parkinsonism and cerebellar ataxia. One case was L-dopa-responsive with a pattern of (18)F-dopa uptake similar to Parkinson's disease, and the second case was not L-dopa-responsive and had an atypical pattern of nigrostriatal dysfunction. We suggest that SCA6, in common with SCA2 and SCA3, may be associated with Parkinsonism attributable to nigral loss and dopaminergic dysfunction. Moreover, isolated cases may be confused with multiple system atrophy.
We evaluated rest effects on restless legs syndrome (RLS) sensory and motor symptoms. During two 60-minute Suggested Immobilization Tests (SIT) subject's signals of RLS leg sensations and periodic leg movements while awake (PLMW) were recorded. Sensations, PLMW, sensations preceding or after PLMW, sensations occurring without following PLMW, and PLMW occurring without preceding sensation were determined. The RLS patients were divided into equal-sized high and low PLMW groups for further analysis. Data from 46 subjects (28 RLS and 18 controls) revealed sensations increased linearly with rest in RLS patients and controls. Movement rate increased linearly with rest for controls but increased rapidly for the first 45 minutes for all RLS patients. PLMW/hour increased with further rest for low but not high PLMW patients. Sensations followed by PLMW and PLMW without preceding sensations followed similar patterns. Sensations without subsequent PLMW increased dramatically in the last 15 minutes of the SITs. Whereas both sensory and motor signs of RLS increase with rest, there is minimal increase for controls. Patients with higher but not lower PLMW rates reached a ceiling for PLMW after 35 to 40 minutes. The temporal dissociation between sensory and motor events supports viewing these motor and sensory events as separate but loosely linked manifestations of RLS.
An appreciation of the comparative functions of the corticospinal tract is of direct relevance to the understanding of how results from animal models can advance knowledge of the human motor system and its disorders. Two critical functions of the corticospinal tract are discussed: first, the role of descending projections to the dorsal horn in the control of sensory afferent input, and second, the capacity of direct cortico-motoneuronal projections to support voluntary execution of skilled hand and finger movements. We stress that there are some important differences in corticospinal projections from different cortical regions within a particular species and that these projections support different functions. Therefore, any differences in the organization of corticospinal projections across species may well reflect differences in their functional roles. Such differences most likely reflect features of the sensorimotor behavior that are characteristic of that species. Insights into corticospinal function in different animal models are of direct relevance to understanding the human motor system, providing they are interpreted in relation to the functions they underpin in a given model. Studies in non-human primates will continue to be needed for understanding special features of the human motor system, including feed-forward control of skilled hand movements. These movements are often particularly vulnerable to neurological disease, including stroke, cerebral palsy, movement disorders, spinal injury, and motor neuron disease.

Neurovascular dysfunction substantially contributes to Alzheimer disease. Here, we show that transcriptional profiling of human brain endothelial cells (BECs) defines a subset of genes whose expression is age-independent but is considerably altered in Alzheimer disease, including the homeobox gene MEOX2 (also known as GAX), a regulator of vascular differentiation, whose expression is low in Alzheimer disease. By using viral-mediated MEOX2 gene silencing and transfer, we show that restoring expression of the protein it encodes, GAX, in BECs from individuals with Alzheimer disease stimulates angiogenesis, transcriptionally suppresses AFX1 forkhead transcription factor-mediated apoptosis and increases the levels of a major amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) clearance receptor, the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP), at the blood-brain barrier. In mice, deletion of Meox2 (also known as Gax) results in reductions in brain capillary density and resting cerebral blood flow, loss of the angiogenic response to hypoxia in the brain and an impaired Abeta efflux from brain caused by reduced LRP levels. The link of MEOX2 to neurovascular dysfunction in Alzheimer disease provides new mechanistic and therapeutic insights into this illness.
Temporally precise, noninvasive control of activity in well-defined neuronal populations is a long-sought goal of systems neuroscience. We adapted for this purpose the naturally occurring algal protein Channelrhodopsin-2, a rapidly gated light-sensitive cation channel, by using lentiviral gene delivery in combination with high-speed optical switching to photostimulate mammalian neurons. We demonstrate reliable, millisecond-timescale control of neuronal spiking, as well as control of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission. This technology allows the use of light to alter neural processing at the level of single spikes and synaptic events, yielding a widely applicable tool for neuroscientists and biomedical engineers.
Termination of a painful or unpleasant event can be rewarding. However, whether the brain treats relief in a similar way as it treats natural reward is unclear, and the neural processes that underlie its representation as a motivational goal remain poorly understood. We used fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) to investigate how humans learn to generate expectations of pain relief. Using a pavlovian conditioning procedure, we show that subjects experiencing prolonged experimentally induced pain can be conditioned to predict pain relief. This proceeds in a manner consistent with contemporary reward-learning theory (average reward/loss reinforcement learning), reflected by neural activity in the amygdala and midbrain. Furthermore, these reward-like learning signals are mirrored by opposite aversion-like signals in lateral orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex. This dual coding has parallels to 'opponent process' theories in psychology and promotes a formal account of prediction and expectation during pain.
By binding multisensory signals, we get robust percepts and respond to our surroundings more correctly and quickly. How and where does the brain link cross-modal sensory information to produce such behavioral advantages? The classical role of sensory thalamus is to relay modality-specific information to the cortex. Here we find that, in the rat thalamus, visual cues influence auditory responses, which have two distinct components: an early phasic one followed by a late gradual buildup that peaks before reward. Although both bimodal presentation and reward value had similar effects on behavioral performance, the cross-modal effect on neural activity showed unique temporal dynamics: it affected the amplitude of the early component and starting level of the late component, whereas reward value affected only the slope of the late component. These results demonstrate that cross-modal cueing modulates gain in the sensory thalamus, potentially providing a priming influence on the choice of an optimal behavior.
Exocytosis proceeds by either full fusion or 'kiss-and-run' between vesicle and plasma membrane. Switching between these two modes permits the cell to regulate the kinetics and amount of secretion. Here we show that ATP receptor activation reduces secretion downstream from cytosolic Ca2+ elevation in rat adrenal chromaffin cells. This reduction is mediated by activation of a pertussis toxin-sensitive G(i/o) protein, leading to activation of G(betagamma) subunits, which promote the 'kiss-and-run' mode by reducing the total open time of the fusion pore during a vesicle fusion event. Furthermore, parallel activation of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor removes the inhibitory effects of ATP on secretion. This is mediated by a G(q) pathway through protein kinase C activation. The inhibitory effects of ATP and its reversal by protein kinase C activation are also shared by opioids and somatostatin. Thus, a variety of G protein pathways exist to modulate Ca2+-evoked secretion at specific steps in fusion pore formation.
Repetition priming is a nonconscious form of memory that is accompanied by reductions in neural activity when an experience is repeated. To date, however, there is no direct evidence that these neural reductions underlie the behavioral advantage afforded to repeated material. Here we demonstrate a causal linkage between neural and behavioral priming in humans. fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) was used in combination with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to target and disrupt activity in the left frontal cortex during repeated classification of objects. Left-frontal TMS disrupted both the neural and behavioral markers of priming. Neural priming in early sensory regions was unaffected by left-frontal TMS--a finding that provides evidence for separable conceptual and perceptual components of priming.
Psychiatry has proven to be among the least penetrable clinical disciplines for the development of satisfactory in vivo model systems for evaluating novel treatment approaches. However, mood and anxiety disorders remain poorly understood and inadequately treated. With the explosion in the use of genetically modified mice, enormous research efforts have been focused on developing mouse models of psychiatric disorders. The success of this approach is largely contingent on the usefulness of available behavioural models of depression- and anxiety-related behaviours in mice. Here, we assess the current status of research into developing appropriate tests for assessing such behaviours.
The evolution of complex nervous systems in vertebrates has been accompanied by, and probably dependent on, the acquisition of the myelin sheath. Although there has been substantial progress in our understanding of the factors that determine glial cell fate, much less is known about the cellular mechanisms that determine how the myelin sheath is extended and stabilized around axons. This review highlights four crucial stages of myelination, namely, the selection of axons and initiation of cell-cell interactions between them and glial cells, the establishment of stable intercellular contact and assembly of the nodes of Ranvier, regulation of myelin thickness and, finally, longitudinal extension of myelin segments in response to the lengthening of axons during postnatal growth.
People have always been fascinated by the exquisite precision and flexibility of the human hand. When hand meets object, we confront the overlapping worlds of sensorimotor and cognitive functions. We reach for objects, grasp and lift them, manipulate them and use them to act on other objects. This review examines one of these actions--grasping. Recent research in behavioural neuroscience, neuroimaging and electrophysiology has the potential to reveal where in the brain the process of grasping is organized, but has yet to address several questions about the sensorimotor transformations that relate to the control of the hands.
Diverse animals can detect magnetic fields but little is known about how they do so. Three main hypotheses of magnetic field perception have been proposed. Electrosensitive marine fish might detect the Earth's field through electromagnetic induction, but direct evidence that induction underlies magnetoreception in such fish has not been obtained. Studies in other animals have provided evidence that is consistent with two other mechanisms: biogenic magnetite and chemical reactions that are modulated by weak magnetic fields. Despite recent advances, however, magnetoreceptors have not been identified with certainty in any animal, and the mode of transduction for the magnetic sense remains unknown.

Up to 50-60% of patients with epilepsy may develop psychiatric complications, in particular depression, anxiety, and psychotic disorders. Although this comorbidity has received a great deal of attention in recent years, the anxiety spectrum of psychiatric disturbances in epilepsy patients has not been extensively studied, although this comorbidity has a significant effect on the medical management and quality of life. The etiology is multifactorial, including neurobiological and shared pathophysiological mechanisms as well as psychosocial and iatrogenic factors (e.g., influence of antiepileptic drugs, epilepsy surgery). Despite the high prevalence of comorbid anxiety in epilepsy, very little is known about optimal treatment strategies. This article reviews the complex interrelationships between anxiety disorders and epilepsy from a clinical point of view. The evaluation of anxiety relative to ictal, peri-ictal, and postictal states is described, and medical treatment options for anxiety disorders in patients with epilepsy are discussed, illustrating that their treatment extends far beyond seizure control.
Analyzing the dependencies between spike trains is an important step in understanding how neurons work in concert to represent biological signals. Usually this is done for pairs of neurons at a time using correlation-based techniques. Chornoboy, Schramm, and Karr (1988) proposed maximum likelihood methods for the simultaneous analysis of multiple pair-wise interactions among an ensemble of neurons. One of these methods is an iterative, continuous-time estimation algorithm for a network likelihood model formulated in terms of multiplicative conditional intensity functions. We devised a discrete-time version of this algorithm that includes a new, efficient computational strategy, a principled method to compute starting values, and a principled stopping criterion. In an analysis of simulated neural spike trains from ensembles of interacting neurons, the algorithm recovered the correct connectivity matrices and interaction parameters. In the analysis of spike trains from an ensemble of rat hippocampal place cells, the algorithm identified a connectivity matrix and interaction parameters consistent with the pattern of conjoined firing predicted by the overlap of the neurons' spatial receptive fields. These results suggest that the network likelihood model can be an efficient tool for the analysis of ensemble spiking activity.
Conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) of the rabbit's nictitating membrane response (NMR) involves changes in responding to an unconditioned stimulus (US) when the US is tested in the absence of the conditioned stimulus. Previous experiments have shown that CRM is a function of the type and intensity of the aversive US used during classical conditioning. As a result, it has been suggested that CRM may be mediated, at least in part, by the aversiveness of the US. Here, we show that by using a moderately intense electrical pulse to the skin as a US, CRM of the rabbit NMR is accompanied by an increase in heart rate. The largest changes in heart rate occur at US intensities that produce the strongest levels of CRM. The heart rate data show that there may be an increased emotional/arousal component to the US that is correlated with CRM and support the use of CRM as a potential model for posttraumatic stress disorder.
The acetylcholine-binding site in vesicular acetylcholine transporter faces predominantly toward the outside of the vesicle when resting but predominantly toward the inside when transporting. Transport-related reorientation is detected by an ATP-induced decrease in the ability of saturating substrate to displace allosterically bound [(3)H]vesamicol. The assay was used here to determine whether structurally diverse compounds are transported by rat VAChT expressed in PC12(A123.7) cells. Competition by ethidium, tetraphenylphosphonium and other monovalent organic cations with [(3)H]vesamicol is decreased when ATP is added, and the effect depends on proton-motive force. The results indicate that many organic molecules carrying +1 charge are transported, even though the compounds do not resemble acetylcholine in structural details.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a mood disorder with a significant heritable component. Structural neuronal impairment has been considered to be implicated in MDD, as it leads to brain morphological alterations such as hippocampal atrophy. The Gem interacting protein, GMIP, is a novel Rho GTPase-activating protein known to play important roles in neurite growth and axonal guidance. We examined the GMIP gene for possible association in a Japanese sample of 164 patients with MDD and 164 controls matched for sex. We found a significant association with MDD for one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (-525G/A) located on the 5'-upstream region of the GMIP gene (p=0.039, odds ratio 1.66, 95% CI 1.05-2.69) and stronger evidence for association in a multimarker haplotype analysis (p=0.004). We then performed a promoter-luciferase reporter assay; the promoter activity for -525A allele, which was in excess in the MDD patients, was significantly decreased compared with the -525G allele in transient transfection experiments using three types of cell lines. Our results suggest that genetic variations in the GMIP gene can confer susceptibility to MDD, and the associated promoter SNP might play a role in the transcriptional regulation of the GMIP gene. Further study needs to be undertaken to validate the association between the GMIP gene and MDD.
The ability to detect an error in one's own performance and then to improve ongoing performance based on this error processing is critical for effective behaviour. In our event-related fMRI experiment, we show that explicit awareness of a response inhibition commission error and subsequent post-error behaviour were associated with bilateral prefrontal and parietal brain activation. Activity in the anterior cingulate region, typically associated with error detection, was equivalent for both errors subjects were aware of and those they were not aware of making. While anterior cingulate activation has repeatedly been associated with error-related processing, these results suggest that, in isolation, it is not sufficient for conscious awareness of errors or post-error adaptation of response strategies. Instead, it appears, irrespective of awareness, to detect information about stimuli/responses that requires interpretation in other brain regions for strategic implementation of post-error adjustments of behaviour.
The ability to dynamically modulate the intensity of sustained attention (i.e., alertness) is an essential component of the human executive control system, allowing us to function purposefully in accordance with our goals. In this study we examine high-density ERP markers of alert responding during the fixed sequence sustained attention to response task (SART(fixed)). This paradigm has proven to be a sensitive clinical metric in patient populations with deficits in their ability to sustain attention (e.g., attention deficit hyperactivity disorder). In this task subjects withhold a button press to an infrequent no-go target ('3') embedded within a predictable sequence of numbers ('1' to '9'). Our data reveal a complex pattern of effects across the trial sequence of the SART, with clear contributions from frontal and parietal cortices to sustained attentional performance. Over occipito-parietal regions, early visual attention processes were increased during trial 2 (i.e., trial in which the digit '2' was presented) and trial 3, giving rise to the so-called selection negativity (SN). Two prominent late components were manifest during trial 2: LP1 (550-800 ms) and LP2 (850-1150 ms) over occipito-parietal and central sites. We interpret the LP1 component on trial 2 as reflecting retrieval of the task goal and the subsequent LP2 as reflecting competition between the currently relevant go response and the subsequent no-go response. On trial 3, an enhanced &quot;no-go N2&quot; (250-450 ms) was seen fronto-centrally in the absence of the &quot;no-go P3&quot; that typically follows. Fronto-polar activity was also seen across all trials and may be indicative of subgoal processes to integrate the association between stimulus and goal. Prior to a lapse of attention (i.e., failure to inhibit a response to &quot;3&quot;) the LP1 was significantly attenuated on the preceding trial 2 indicating a failure of anticipatory goal-directed processing. The results are discussed in terms of models of sustained attention involving frontal and parietal cortices.
The aim of this study was to identify grey matter density abnormalities in children with temporal lobe epilepsy and mesial temporal sclerosis. Magnetic resonance T1 weighted 3D datasets were obtained in children with temporal lobe epilepsy (20 left and 10 right sided, mean age 11.9 years, range 6.6-17.5) and compared to scans obtained from age-matched controls (n = 22, mean age 12.8 years, range 7.1-17.5) using voxel-based morphometry. This method detected reduced grey matter ipsilateral to the seizure focus not only in the hippocampus, but also in the lateral temporal lobe and in extra-temporal regions including the thalamus, posterior cingulate cortex and cerebellum. Bilateral differences were present in the frontal and parietal opercular cortices and lateral temporal regions. These grey matter density reductions broadly reflect the pattern of hippocampal connections and may be caused by the disruption of cortical development by the recurrent seizures, as well as by loss of functional input from the sclerotic hippocampus.
Modern non-invasive imaging techniques utilize the coupling between neural activity and changes in blood flow, volume and oxygenation to map the functional architecture of the human brain. An understanding of how the hemodynamic response is influenced by pre-stimulus baseline perfusion is important for the interpretation of imaging data. To address this issue, the present study measured hemodynamics with optical imaging spectroscopy and laser Doppler flowmetry, while multi-channel electrophysiology was used to record local field potentials (LFP) and multi-unit activity (MUA). The response to whisker stimulation in rodent barrel cortex was recorded during baseline (normocapnia) and elevated perfusion rates produced by two levels of hypercapnia (5 and 10%). With the exception of the 'washout' of deoxyhemoglobin, which was attenuated, all aspects of the neural and hemodynamic response to whisker stimulation were similar during 5% hypercapnia to those evoked during normocapnia. In contrast, 10% hypercapnia produced cortical arousal and a reduction in both the current sink and MUA elicited by stimulation. Blood flow and volume responses were reduced by a similar magnitude to that observed in the current sink. The deoxyhemoglobin 'washout', however, was attenuated to a greater degree than could be expected from the neural activity. These data suggest that imaging techniques based on perfusion or blood volume changes may be more robust to shifts in baseline than those based on the dilution of deoxyhemoglobin, such as conventional BOLD fMRI.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies can provide insight into the neural correlates of hallucinations. Commonly, such studies require self-reports about the timing of the hallucination events. While many studies have found activity in higher-order sensory cortical areas, only a few have demonstrated activity of the primary auditory cortex during auditory verbal hallucinations. In this case, using self-reports as a model of brain activity may not be sensitive enough to capture all neurophysiological signals related to hallucinations. We used spatial independent component analysis (sICA) to extract the activity patterns associated with auditory verbal hallucinations in six schizophrenia patients. SICA decomposes the functional data set into a set of spatial maps without the use of any input function. The resulting activity patterns from auditory and sensorimotor components were further analyzed in a single-subject fashion using a visualization tool that allows for easy inspection of the variability of regional brain responses. We found bilateral auditory cortex activity, including Heschl's gyrus, during hallucinations of one patient, and unilateral auditory cortex activity in two more patients. The associated time courses showed a large variability in the shape, amplitude, and time of onset relative to the self-reports. However, the average of the time courses during hallucinations showed a clear association with this clinical phenomenon. We suggest that detection of this activity may be facilitated by examining hallucination epochs of sufficient length, in combination with a data-driven approach.
We present a general method for automatic meta-analyses in neuroscience and apply it on text data from published functional imaging studies to extract main functions associated with a brain area-the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). Abstracts from PubMed are downloaded, words extracted and converted to a bag-of-words matrix representation. The combined data are analyzed with hierarchical non-negative matrix factorization. We find that the prominent themes in the PCC corpus are episodic memory retrieval and pain. We further characterize the distribution in PCC of the Talairach coordinates available in some of the articles. This shows a tendency to functional segregation between memory and pain components where memory activations are predominantly in the caudal part and pain in the rostral part of PCC.

Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is more identified for its cutaneous features but its neurological manifestations have not received the focused attention. Four patients of Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) with neurological manifestations were evaluated for phenotypic data. These four men were from three families and two had consanguineous parentage. The mean age at onset and presentation of neurological symptoms were 10.5 years and 19 years respectively. Patient 1 presented with bilateral optic atrophy, sensorineural deafness, cerebellar ataxia and neuropathy. Patient 2 had marfanoid habitus, chorea and cerebellar ataxia. Patient 3 had action and percussion myotonia, wasting and weakness of sternocleidomastoid and distal limb muscles. Patient 4 had action myotonia, mirror movements of both hands and neuropathy. MRI of brain showed right parietal polymicrogyria. Neuroaxis involvement at multiple levels in EDS may have prognostic significance.
This is report on four cases of giant pituitary tumors that developed postoperative pituitary apoplexy after they had undergone a partial tumor resection. Three patients had undergone surgery by a transsphenoid route and one patient underwent surgery by transcranial route. Postoperative CT scan showed hemorrhagic expansion of residual tumor mass. All the four patients were re-explored transcranially and hemorrhagic swelling of the tumor was observed. In three cases, the tumor had swollen to a size greater than twice the original tumor. All the four patients had a fatal outcome.
Declarative memory permits an organism to recognize stimuli that have been previously encountered, discriminating them from those that are novel. One basis for recognition is item memory strength, which may support the perception of stimulus familiarity. Though the medial temporal lobes are known to be critical for declarative memory, at present the neural mechanisms supporting perceived differences in memory strength remain poorly specified. Here, functional MRI (fMRI) and anatomically constrained magnetoencephalography (MEG) indexed correlates of graded memory strength in the human brain, focusing on medial temporal cortex. fMRI revealed a decrease in medial temporal cortical activation that tracked parametric levels of perceived memory strength. Anatomically constrained MEG current estimates revealed that strength-dependent signal reductions onset within 150-300 ms. Memory strength appears to be rapidly signaled by medial temporal cortex through repetition suppression (activation reductions), providing a basis for the subjective perception of stimulus familiarity or novelty.
Modification of AMPA receptor function is a major mechanism for the regulation of synaptic transmission and underlies several forms of synaptic plasticity. Post-translational palmitoylation is a reversible modification that regulates localization of many proteins. Here, we report that palmitoylation of the AMPA receptor regulates receptor trafficking. All AMPA receptor subunits are palmitoylated on two cysteine residues in their transmembrane domain (TMD) 2 and in their C-terminal region. Palmitoylation on TMD 2 is upregulated by the palmitoyl acyl transferase GODZ and leads to an accumulation of the receptor in the Golgi and a reduction of receptor surface expression. C-terminal palmitoylation decreases interaction of the AMPA receptor with the 4.1N protein and regulates AMPA- and NMDA-induced AMPA receptor internalization. Moreover, depalmitoylation of the receptor is regulated by activation of glutamate receptors. These data suggest that regulated palmitoylation of AMPA receptor subunits modulates receptor trafficking and may be important for synaptic plasticity.
The mechanisms of recognition involve reductions of activity in the medial temporal lobe. This preview discusses recent fMRI and MEG data from Gonsalves et al. (this issue of Neuron) that provide some of the strongest evidence to date demonstrating that reduced medial temporal activity is correlated with stronger recognition of items in humans. This result provides an important test of theories of recognition memory function based on previous neuroimaging and unit recording data.
Neurons adapt their synaptic responses to the activity of the underlying network. In this issue of Neuron, Thiagarajan and colleagues report on specific subcellular mechanisms of homeostasis after prolonged neuronal inactivity. The results have important implications not only for neuronal homeostasis but also for further understanding of metaplasticity.
Abused drugs (alcohol, heroin, cocaine, tetrahydrocannabinol and nicotine) elicit a variety of chronically relapsing disorders by interacting with brain reward systems. All of these drugs increase dopamine levels in the shell of nucleus accumbens, a structure that has been involved in their hedonic and reinforcing properties. Dopamine D(3) receptors (DRD3) are predominantly expressed in the nucleus accumbens, but also in the ventral tegmental area and in the amygdala, brain structures implicated in drug dependence. Moreover, converging pharmacological, human post-mortem and genetic studies have suggested the involvement of the DRD3 in drug dependence. Based on early studies using non-selective DRD3 ligands, the DRD3 was proposed as having a direct role in the rewarding effects of psychostimulants. However, recent studies using highly selective DRD3 ligands and the DRD3-deficient mice have revealed that the DRD3 is not implicated in the direct reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. In contrast, the DRD3 appears to be implicated in the motivation to self-administer drugs under schedules where the response requirements are high. This is consistent with a behavioral economic analysis, with the effects of DRD3 ligands revealed only in situations with high prices for drug. Drug-self administration and relapse are strongly controlled by environmental stimuli. The DRD3 strongly modulates the influence of these environmental stimuli on drug-seeking behavior. DRD3 blockade disrupts the reactivity to drug-associated stimuli in various paradigms, such as second-order schedules of drug-self administration, conditioned place preference and Pavlovian conditioning procedures. In several paradigms, the involvement of the DRD3 has been confirmed by using DRD3-deficient mice. On the contrary, reactivity to stimuli associated with natural reinforcers, such as food, appears unaffected by modulation of the DRD3. All these findings suggest that DRD3 ligands may represent a useful strategy for decreasing relapse in abstinent drug-abusers.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and TRH analogues have been reported to be neuroprotective in experimental models of spinal cord injury and head injury. We have previously shown that a diketopiperazine structurally related to the TRH metabolite cyclo-his-pro reduces neuronal cell death in vitro and in vivo. Here we report the neuroprotective activity of other cyclic dipeptides in multiple in vitro models of neuronal injury and after controlled cortical impact (CCI) in mice. Using primary neuronal cultures, three novel dipeptides were compared to the previously reported diketopiperazine as well as to vehicle controls; each of the compounds reduced cell death after direct physical trauma or trophic withdrawal. Two of these peptides also protected against glutamate toxicity and beta-amyloid-induced injury; the latter also strongly inhibited glutamate-induced increases in intracellular calcium. Treatment with each of the test compounds resulted in highly significant improvement of motor and cognitive recovery after CCI, as well as markedly reducing lesion volumes as shown by high field magnetic resonance imaging. DNA microarray studies following fluid percussion induced traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats showed that treatment with one of these dipeptides after injury significantly down-regulated expression of mRNAs for cell cycle proteins, aquaporins, cathepsins and calpain in ipsilateral cortex and/or hippocampus, while up-regulating expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, hypoxia-inducible factor and several heat-shock proteins. Many of these mRNA expression changes were paralleled at the protein level. The fact that these small peptides modulate multiple mechanisms favoring neuronal cell survival, as well as their ability to improve functional outcome and reduce posttraumatic lesion size, suggests that they may have potential utility in clinical head injury.
The role of glutamatergic dysfunction in the pathophysiology of OCD has hardly been explored despite recent reports implicating glutamatergic dysfunction in OCD. We decided to investigate CSF glutamate levels in adult OCD probands compared to psychiatrically normal controls. In total, 21 consenting psychotropic drug-nave adult OCD patients, diagnosed using SCID-IV-CV, and 18 consenting psychiatrically normal controls with age within 10 years of age of the patients, who did not have any history of head injury or neurological illness, were included into the study. Aseptically collected and stored CSF samples obtained from the patients and control subjects were used for glutamate estimation, which was carried out by a modification of the procedure described by Lund (1986). CSF glutamate (micromol/l) level was found to be significantly higher [F(1,31)=6.846, p=0.014] in OCD patients (47.12+/-4.25) compared to control subjects (41.36+/-3.63) on analysis of covariance. There was no effect of gender, age, duration of illness, Y-BOCS score, or CGI-S score on CSF glutamate levels. Our study provides preliminary evidence implicating glutamatergic excess in the pathophysiology of OCD, which needs to be further explored by studies from other centers involving larger sample sets from different age groups.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) decreases anxiety-related behaviors in various animal models of anxiety. The purpose of the present study was to examine the role of the amygdalar NPY system in anxiety-related responses in the elevated plus maze. The first experiment determined if herpes virus-mediated alterations in amygdalar NPY levels would alter anxiety-related behaviors in the elevated plus maze. Viral vectors encoding NPY, NPY antisense, or LacZ (control virus) were bilaterally injected into the amygdala, and 4 days postinjection, rats were tested in the elevated plus maze test. NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-ir) was measured in the amygdala of these rats. In rats injected with the viral vector encoding NPY, reduced anxiety-related behaviors in the elevated plus maze accompanied by moderate increases in NPY-ir were detected compared to NPY-antisense viral vector-treated subjects. Elevated plus maze behavior did not differ compared to LacZ-treated controls. NPY overexpression at this time point was also suggested by enhanced NPY mRNA expression seen in the amygdala 4 days postinjection using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. Experiment 2 was conducted to provide further evidence for a role of amygdalar NPY in regulating anxiety-related behaviors in the elevated plus maze test. The nonpeptide NPY Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP 3226 (1.5 microg/microl), was bilaterally injected into the amygdala and rats were tested in the elevated plus maze test. Rats receiving BIBP 3226 exhibited increased anxiety-related behaviors in this test. The results of these experiments provide further support for the role of amygdalar NPY in anxiety-related behaviors.



While there is a long-standing tradition of using behavioral methods to study the effects of manufactured drugs and environmental chemicals, comparatively little attention has focused until recently on the behavioral effects of marine or freshwater toxins. A vast array of microorganisms, found in a variety of waters, are known to occasionally &quot;bloom&quot; and produce toxins that can cause either blatant toxicity (i.e., lethality) or damage to a number of organ systems. The nervous system is a known target for many of the toxins. Considerable research has in the past been carried out to determine toxin effects on the survivability of laboratory rodents (typically mice) following acute exposures. Newer research has shown, however, prominent toxin-induced alterations in motor, sensory, autonomic and cognitive functions at sublethal exposure concentrations. Future toxin research can capitalize upon a wealth of behavioral paradigms already available in toxicology, pharmacology and neuroscience.
Subjects were 626 patients reporting vertigo or dizziness seen at the University Hospital Department of Otolaryngology from April 2001 to September 2003. Patients were diagnosed based on diagnostic criteria prescribed by the Japan Society for Equilibrium Research. The most common peripheral vestibular disorder was benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (32%), followed by Meniere's disease (12%). All peripheral vestibular disorders accounted for 65%. Central vestibular disorder accounted for 7%, of which space-occupying lesions in the posterior fossa accounted for 1.0% and cerebral infarction 1.9%. Dizziness due to orthostatic hypotension accounted for 4.0%. Among past reports on clinical statistics of vertigo, the incidence of vertigo and dizziness disorders differed greatly, but our research and the past 2 reports based on diagnostic criteria prescribed by the Japan Society for Equilibrium Research showed almost the same incidence, i.e., BPPV of 30-40%, Meniere's disease of 7-10%, other peripheral vestibular disorders of 15-20%, and central vestibular disorder of 6-8%. Unified diagnostic criteria are thus important in the statistical analysis of vertigo disorders.



Genetic variation in the human angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) gene has been associated with many heritable traits, including obesity. Herein, we report the results of a study of obesity-related phenotypes and lifestyle in 1016 teen-aged Greeks. We show that there is a strong association (p = 0.001) between subcutaneous fat and the ACE insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism in females, possession of genotypes containing the D allele being associated with increased fat thickness. This association is strongest in females who participate in no extra exercise and accounts for 6.5% of the phenotypic variance in fat thickness by ANOVA. The association is additive, with the mean phenotypic values in heterozygotes intermediate between the means of the two homozygotes, and the association acts at both extremes of the fat thickness distribution in a classical polygenic manner. Other ACE polymorphisms (rs4424958, rs4311) that define major haplotypes in European populations fail to provide stronger associations with the subcutaneous fat phenotype. Because ACE I/D is the polymorphism most strongly associated with circulating ACE levels in European populations, we propose that the functional allelic differences that influence circulating ACE levels also mediate the associations with the obesity-related phenotypes studied here.
Radiation retinopathy can present many years after the application of either brachytherapy or teletherapy to the head or neck. If severe, it drastically reduces visual acuity due to macular ischemia or edema. This is the first article, to the author's knowledge, to document the use of optical coherence tomography in the assessment of radiation-induced maculopathy.
Acid Sensing Ion Channels (ASICs) are a group of sodium-selective ion channels that are activated by low extracellular pH. The role of ASIC in disease states remains unclear partly due to the lack of selective pharmacological agents. In this report, we describe the effects of A-317567, a novel non-amiloride blocker, on three distinct types of native ASIC currents evoked in acutely dissociated adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. A-317567 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of all pH 4.5-evoked ASIC currents with an IC50 ranging between 2 and 30muM, depending upon the type of ASIC current activated. Unlike amiloride, A-317567 equipotently blocked the sustained phase of ASIC3-like current, a biphasic current akin to cloned ASIC3, which is predominant in DRG. When evaluated in the rat Complete Freud's Adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia model, A-317567 was fully efficacious at a dose 10-fold lower than amiloride. A-317567 was also potent and fully efficacious when tested in the skin incision model of post-operative pain. A-317567 was entirely devoid of any diuresis or natriuresis activity and showed minimal brain penetration. In summary, A-317567 is the first reported small molecule non-amiloride blocker of ASIC that is peripherally active and is more potent than amiloride in vitro and in vivo pain models. The discovery of A-317567 will greatly help to enhance our understanding of the physiological and pathophysiological role of ASICs.
We report a patient with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) who developed a recurrence of major depression with psychotic features after bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) dramatically improved the depression without shifting electrode position or damaging the DBS hardware. This case suggests that ECT can be a safe and effective option for severe depression in PD patients treated with STN DBS.
Effects of extracellular adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP) on ionic currents were investigated using the perforated-patch whole-cell recording technique on isolated terminals of the Hypothalamic Neurohypophysial System (HNS). ATP induced a current response in 70% of these isolated terminals. This inwardly-rectifying, inactivating current had an apparent reversal near 0 mV and was dose-dependent on ATP with an EC50=9.6+/-1.0 microM. In addition, current amplitudes measured at maximal ATP concentrations and optimum holding potentials had a current density of 70.8 pA pF(-1) and were greatly inhibited by suramin and PPADS. Different purinergic receptor agonists were tested, with the following efficacy: ATP &gt; or = 2-methylthioATP &gt; ATP-gamma-S &gt; Bz-Bz-ATP &gt; alpha,beta-methylene-ATP &gt; beta,gamma-methylene-ATP. However, UTP and ADP were ineffective. These data suggest the involvement of a P2X purinergic receptor in the ATP-induced responses. Immunocytochemical labeling in vasopressinergic terminals indicates the existence of P2X(2,3,4, and 7), but not P2X6 receptors. Additionally, P2X(2 and 3) were not found in terminals which labeled for oxytocin. In summary, the EC50, decay, inactivation, and pharmacology indicate that a functional mixture of P2X(2 and 3) homomeric receptors mediate the majority of the ATP responses in vasopressinergic HNS terminals. We speculate that the characteristics of these types of receptors reflect the function of co-released ATP in the terminal compartment of these and other CNS neurons.
Acute 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;ecstasy&quot;) treatment induces learning deficits in different animal models. In a passive avoidance learning task in rats, previous studies suggested a role for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the acute learning impairment. As cognitive deficits by &quot;ecstasy&quot; in humans have been only reported in frequent recreational users, we examined whether a repeated MDMA treatment could induce in rats lasting molecular changes related to memory consolidation of passive avoidance. In rats with a pronounced 5-HT depletion by MDMA, the effect of another drug challenge was also examined. The surface expression in the hippocampus of NMDA receptor subunits, the scaffolding postsynaptic density protein PSD-95, phosphorylated CaMKII and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) was measured. In rats repeatedly treated with MDMA (10 mg/kg) twice daily for 4 consecutive days, hippocampal 5-HT levels were markedly reduced 1 week later. At this time, neither learning performance was affected nor changes in membrane levels of NMDA receptor subunits, PSD-95, CaMKII and PP1 were found. In these rats, however, another drug challenge produced a rapid reduction in PSD-95 immunoreactivity and prevented the learning-specific increase in the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit and phosphorylated CaMKII. The results show no lasting change in learning-associated molecular events after a neurotoxic MDMA treatment. This drug only produces transient effects on early molecular events involved in memory consolidation, which do not appear to depend on endogenous 5-HT levels.
The recent development of a highly selective dopamine D4 receptor agonist, A-412997 (2-(3',4',5',6'-tetrahydro-2'H-[2,4'] bipyridinyl-1'-yl)-N-m-tolyl-acetamide), has provided a pharmacological tool with which to conduct systematic investigations into the putative role for dopamine D4 receptors in the central nervous system. These present studies evaluated the potential cognitive enhancing properties of A-412997 in rat models of ADHD (5-trial repeated acquisition inhibitory avoidance in Spontaneous Hypertensive Rat pups) and short-term memory (Social Recognition), in comparison with the less selective dopamine D4 receptor agonists PD168077 and CP226269. A-412997 showed significant dose-dependent efficacy in both models. PD168077 repeatedly improved acquisition in the 5-trial inhibitory avoidance model but failed to reach significance at any dose tested, although significantly improved social recognition was observed (albeit less potent than A-412997). CP226269 showed a significant enhancement in the 5-trial inhibitory avoidance model. These results support a role for the dopamine D4 receptor subtype in cognition.
A-412997 (2-(3',4',5',6'-tetrahydro-2'H-[2,4'] bipyridinyl-1'-yl)-N-m-tolyl-acetamide) is a highly selective dopamine D4 receptor agonist that binds with high affinity to rat dopamine D4 and human dopamine D4.4 receptors (Ki=12.1 and 7.9 nM, respectively). In contrast to the dopamine D4 receptor agonists PD168077 and CP226269, A-412997 showed a better selectivity profile and no affinity &lt;1000 nM for other dopamine receptors or any other proteins in a panel of seventy different receptors and channels. In functional assays using calcium flux, A-412997 was a potent full agonist at rat dopamine D4 receptors (28.4 nM, intrinsic activity=0.83) and did not activate rat dopamine D2L receptors, unlike CP226269. Dopamine D4 receptor selective agonists have been shown to induce penile erection in rats by central mechanisms. A-412997 induces penile erection in a conscious rat model (effective dose=0.1 micromol/kg, s.c.) with comparable efficacy as the nonselective D2-like agonist, apomorphine. When dosed systemically, A-412997 crossed the blood brain barrier rapidly and achieved significantly higher levels than PD168077. A-412997 is a highly selective dopamine D4 receptor agonist and a useful tool to understand the role of dopamine D4 receptors in rat models of central nervous system processes and disease.
The results of two previous studies on the effects of modafinil, a selective wakefulness-promoting agent, in healthy university students were combined in a retrospective analysis. This allowed determination of whether the effects of modafinil were dependent on IQ and whether the larger sample size (n=89) would reveal more cognitive benefits. A battery of cognitive tests was completed 2-3 h after dosing. In the whole sample, modafinil (200 mg) significantly reduced the number of missed targets in a test of sustained attention (RVIP). However, interestingly, several interactions between modafinil and IQ emerged. Modafinil (100 and 200 mg) significantly improved target sensitivity in the RVIP test, but only in the group of 'lower' IQ (mean+/-sem=106+/-0.6), not in the 'higher' IQ group (mean+/-sem=115.5+/-0.5). Furthermore, there were significant modafinil x IQ interactions in two further tests. Modafinil significantly reduced speed of responding in a colour naming of dots, and in clock drawing, but only in the 'lower' IQ group. Thus, the cognitive benefits of modafinil seem particularly marked in tests of vigilance and speed, in which sleepiness would be an important factor. Furthermore, the results indicate that high IQ may limit detection of modafinil's positive effects.
The stimulant effects of cocaine and methamphetamine are mediated by changes in synaptic concentrations of brain monoamines; however, the drugs alter monoamine levels via different mechanisms. This study examined the subjective and cardiovascular responses produced by investigational administration of cocaine or methamphetamine, in order to examine the onset and patterns of subjective and cardiovascular responses. Subjects included 14 non-treatment seeking cocaine-dependent and 11 non-treatment seeking methamphetamine-dependent volunteers. As part of ongoing research studies, cocaine and methamphetamine subjects received cocaine (40 mg, IV) or methamphetamine (30 mg, IV), respectively. Subjective and cardiovascular responses were assessed for 30 min and 60 min, respectively. The data reveal significant within groups differences for all subjective effects and cardiovascular effects (p&lt;0.05). Significant between group differences in subjective effects were observed for &quot;Any Drug Effect&quot; (p&lt;.008 for group, and p&lt;.029 for group x time), for &quot;High&quot; (p&lt;.002 for group, and p&lt;.0001 for group x time) and for &quot;Stimulated&quot; (p&lt;.001 for group, and p&lt;.006 for group x time). Significant between group differences in cardiovascular effects were observed for Systolic blood pressure (p&lt;.0001 for group, and p&lt;.002 for group x time), Diastolic blood pressure (p&lt;.0001 for group, though p=NS for group x time), and for Heart Rate (p&lt;.0001 for group, and p&lt;.0001 for group x time). The only difference between the groups for placebo was for heart rate, where there was a significant group x time effect (p&lt;.005). Taken together, the data reveal that the subjective effects of cocaine tended to peak and then decline more rapidly than those produced by methamphetamine. The subjective effects of methamphetamine tended to rise more slowly, and remain elevated longer. Cardiovascular effects of cocaine and methamphetamine had similar onset, but effects of cocaine tended to decline more rapidly. Overall, the results reveal differences in the onset, pattern, and duration of subjective and cardiovascular responses following cocaine or methamphetamine administration in stimulant addicted patients. We predict that these differences may impact drug use and relapse patterns, and may have implications in medications development for these addictive disorders.
Estrogen effects on cocaine-induced reinstatement of lever responding were examined in sham-operated, vehicle-treated (SH+VEH), ovariectomized (OVX+VEH), and OVX female Wistar rats with estrogen replacement (OVX+EB). The effect of long- (64+/-1.56 days) and short-term (9 days) EB treatment on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior was compared in Experiment 1 and 2, respectively, in order to compare the effect of EB when it was present during the development vs. expression of reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Rats were trained to self-administer 0.4 mg/kg/inf cocaine. After the acquisition criteria were met, rats continued to respond for cocaine for 2 h/day for a 14-day maintenance period. Cocaine was then replaced with saline and the 21-day extinction period commenced. Subsequently, rats were tested for reinstatement of lever responding on the previously drug-paired lever after alternating daily injections of saline or cocaine. In both experiments, there were no differences between groups in self-administration behavior during training, maintenance, or extinction. In Experiment 1, SH+VEH and chronically treated OVX+EB rats had greater cocaine-induced reinstatement than OVX+VEH rats. In Experiment 2, short-term treated OVX+EB rats also showed enhanced cocaine-induced reinstatement compared to OVX+VEH rats. The results indicate that EB-mediated enhancement of cocaine-induced reinstatement is dependent on EB presence during the expression of reinstatement but not during the formation of stimulus-reward associations during the development of cocaine-reinforced behavior.
It has been shown that nifedipine, as a calcium channel blocker can potentiate the antinociceptive effect of morphine; however, the role of Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis on this action has not been elucidated. We examined the effect of nifedipine on morphine-induced analgesia in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) rats and on HPA activity induced by morphine. To determine the effect of nifedipine on morphine analgesia, nifedipine (2 mg/kg i.p.) that had no antinociceptive effect, was injected concomitant with sub-effective dose of morphine (1 and 2 mg/kg). The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold, before and 15, 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 min after drug administration. Our results showed that, nifedipine could potentiate the antinociceptive effect of morphine and this effect of nifedipine in ADX was greater than sham operated rats which, was reversed by corticosterone replacement. Nifedipine has an inhibitory effect on morphine -induced corticosterone secretion. Thus, the data indicate that the mechanism underlying the potentiation of morphine analgesia by nifedipine involves mediation, at least in part, by attenuating the effect of morphine on HPA axis.
L-glutamate serves as the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS, where it can contribute to either neuronal communication or neuropathological damage through the activation of a wide variety of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors. By regulating the levels of extracellular L-glutamate that have access to these receptors, glutamate uptake systems hold the potential to effect both normal synaptic signaling and the abnormal over-activation of the receptors that can trigger excitotoxic pathology. Among the various membrane transporters that are capable of translocating this dicarboxylic amino acid, the majority of glutamate transport in the CNS, particularly as related to excitatory transmission, is mediated by the high-affinity, sodium-dependent, excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). At least 5 subtypes of EAATs have been identified, each of which exhibits a distinct distribution and pharmacology. Our growing appreciation for the functional significance of the EAATs is closely linked to our understanding of their pharmacology and the consequent development of inhibitors and substrates with which to delineate their activity. As was the case with EAA receptors, conformationally constrained glutamate mimics have been especially valuable in this effort. The success of these compounds is based upon the concept that restricting the spatial positions that can be occupied by required functional groups can serve to enhance both the potency and selectivity of the analogues. In the instance of the transporters, useful pharmacological probes have emerged through the introduction of additional functional groups (e.g., methyl, hydroxyl, benzyloxy) onto the acyclic backbone of glutamate and aspartate, as well as through the exploitation of novel ring systems (e.g., pyrrolidine-, cyclopropyl-, azole-, oxazole-, and oxazoline-based analogues) to conformationally lock the position of the amino and carboxyl groups. The focus of the present review is on the pharmacology of the EAATs and, in particular, the potential to identify those chemical properties that differentiate the processes of binding and translocation (i.e., substrates from non-substrate inhibitors), as well as strategies to develop glutamate analogues that act selectively among the various EAAT subtypes.
The problem of diffusion with absorption and trapping sites arises in the theory of molecular signaling inside and on the membranes of biological cells. In particular, this problem arises in the case of spine-dendrite communication, where the number of calcium ions, modeled as random particles, is regulated across the spine microstructure by pumps, which play the role of killing sites, while the end of the dendritic shaft is an absorbing boundary. We develop a general mathematical framework for diffusion in the presence of absorption and killing sites and apply it to the computation of the time-dependent survival probability of ions. We also compute the ratio of the number of absorbed particles at a specific location to the number of killed particles. We show that the ratio depends on the distribution of killing sites. The biological consequence is that the position of the pumps regulates the fraction of calcium ions that reach the dendrite.
Serotonin is widely believed to exert inhibitory control over aggressive behavior and intent. In addition, a number of studies of fish, reptiles, and mammals, including the lizard Anolis carolinensis, have demonstrated that serotonergic activity is stimulated by aggressive social interaction in both dominant and subordinate males. As serotonergic activity does not appear to inhibit agonistic behavior during combative social interaction, we investigated the possibility that the negative correlation between serotonergic activity and aggression exists before aggressive behavior begins. To do this, putatively dominant and more aggressive males were determined by their speed overcoming stress (latency to feeding after capture) and their celerity to court females. Serotonergic activities before aggression are differentiated by social rank in a region-specific manner. Among aggressive males baseline serotonergic activity is lower in the septum, nucleus accumbens, striatum, medial amygdala, anterior hypothalamus, raphe, and locus ceruleus but not in the hippocampus, lateral amygdala, preoptic area, substantia nigra, or ventral tegmental area. However, in regions such as the nucleus accumbens, where low serotonergic activity may help promote aggression, agonistic behavior also stimulates the greatest rise in serotonergic activity among the most aggressive males, most likely as a result of the stress associated with social interaction.
A new memory is initially labile and becomes stabilized through a process of consolidation, which depends on gene expression. Stable memories, however, can again become labile if reactivated by recall and require another phase of protein synthesis in order to be maintained. This process is known as reconsolidation. The functional significance of the labile phase of reconsolidation is unknown; one hypothesis proposes that it is required to link new information with reactivated memories. Reconsolidation is distinct from the initial consolidation, and one distinction is that the requirement for specific proteins or general protein synthesis during the two processes occurs in different brain areas. Here, we identified an anatomically distinctive molecular requirement that doubly dissociates consolidation from reconsolidation of an inhibitory avoidance memory. We then used this requirement to investigate whether reconsolidation and consolidation are involved in linking new information with reactivated memories. In contrast to what the hypothesis predicted, we found that reconsolidation does not contribute to the formation of an association between new and reactivated information. Instead, it recruits mechanisms similar to those underlying consolidation of a new memory. Thus, linking new information to a reactivated memory is mediated by consolidation and not reconsolidation mechanisms.

Multivariate time series analysis is extensively used in neurophysiology with the aim of studying the relationship between simultaneously recorded signals. Recently, advances on information theory and nonlinear dynamical systems theory have allowed the study of various types of synchronization from time series. In this work, we first describe the multivariate linear methods most commonly used in neurophysiology and show that they can be extended to assess the existence of nonlinear interdependence between signals. We then review the concepts of entropy and mutual information followed by a detailed description of nonlinear methods based on the concepts of phase synchronization, generalized synchronization and event synchronization. In all cases, we show how to apply these methods to study different kinds of neurophysiological data. Finally, we illustrate the use of multivariate surrogate data test for the assessment of the strength (strong or weak) and the type (linear or nonlinear) of interdependence between neurophysiological signals.
Axons within the adult mammalian central nervous system do not regenerate spontaneously after injury. Upon injury, the balance between growth promoting and growth inhibitory factors in the central nervous system dramatically changes resulting in the absence of regeneration. Axonal responses to injury vary considerably. In central nervous system regeneration studies, the spinal cord has received a lot of attention because of its relatively easy accessibility and its clinical relevance. The present review discusses the axon-tract-specific requirements for regeneration in the rat. This knowledge is very important for the development and optimalization of therapies to repair the injured spinal cord.
Schizophrenic patients generally appear to have a disturbed single-carbon metabolism. Methionine and homocysteine are intermediary metabolites in this metabolic system. In a case-control study of the cerebrospinal fluid, a majority of the patients had elevated methionine and a smaller subgroup had elevated homocysteine. Elevated homocysteine is often explained by folate dependency due to mutations in the gene for methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR). A most encouraging feature of single-carbon metabolism is its potential modification by natural means, such as B-vitamins and antioxidants. The findings point to a new area of schizophrenia research: the role of nutrients and antioxidants for rational prevention and treatment.
This manuscript reviews and updates radiolabel-based enzyme assays designed to distinguish the activity of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) types in biological samples. This approach should be useful in lipidomics studies. The assays were originally designed to differentiate between Group IVA cytosolic PLA2 (GIVA cPLA2), Group VIA calcium-independent PLA2 (GVIA iPLA2), Group IIA secreted PLA2 (GIIA sPLA2) and Group V secreted PLA2 (GV sPLA2). The specificity of these assays has now been confirmed using purified, recombinant human PLA2s and the utility of these assays is demonstrated with rat spinal cord homogenate as an example of a biological tissue sample of interest to the neuroscience community. Modifications to the original assays by the addition of group-specific inhibitors are presented to ensure the specificity of the assays and to further differentiate between recently identified PLA2s. Specific tests are suggested to confirm the specificity of each assay. Additionally, it was discovered that one commonly used GIVA cPLA2/GVIA iPLA2 inhibitor, methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (MAFP) from one commercial source, was found to inhibit GIIA sPLA2 and GV sPLA2, but not GIVA cPLA2, presumably due to oxidation of the compound during shipment, resulting in a different molecule with altered specificity.

Contemporaneously with genomics and proteomics technologies, lipidomics may be recognized as the next important emerging technology. The emergence of this important area of &quot;omics&quot; could very well mark the beginning of &quot;the decade of the lipids.&quot; A workshop on lipidomics was held in Washington, DC, by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) in April 2004. The goal of the workshop was to bring together scientists working at the frontier of lipid research, to discuss their findings in this area and to promote &quot;lipidomics,&quot; in general, but also with a special focus on its application to drug abuse research and development of therapies to treat addiction.
Increasing evidence indicates that bioactive lipids participate in the regulation of synaptic function and dysfunction. We have demonstrated that signaling mediated by platelet-activating factor (PAF) and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-synthesized PGE2 is involved in synaptic plasticity, memory, and neuronal protection [Clark GD, Happel LT, Zorumski CF, Bazan NG. Enhancement of hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission by platelet-activating factor. Neuron 1992; 9:1211; Kato K, Clark GD, Bazan NG, Zorumski CF. Platelet-activating factor as a potential retrograde messenger in CA1 hippocampal long-term potentiation. Nature 1994; 367:175; Izquierdo I, Fin C, Schmitz PK, et al. Memory enhancement by intrahippocampal, intraamygdala or intraentorhinal infusion of platelet-activating factor measured in an inhibitory avoidance. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1995; 92:5047; Chen C, Magee CJ, Bazan NG. Cyclooxygenase-2 regulates prostaglandin E2 signaling in hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity. J Neurophysiol 2002; 87:2851]. Recently, we found that prolonged continuous wakefulness (primarily rapid eye movement (REM)-sleep deprivation, SD) causes impairments in hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent memory formation [McDermott CM, LaHoste GJ, Chen C, Musto A, Bazan NG, Magee JC. Sleep deprivation causes behavioral, synaptic, and membrane excitability alterations in hippocampal neurons. J Neurosci 2003; 23:9687]. To explore the mechanisms underlying SD-induced impairments, we have studied several bioactive lipids in the hippocampus following SD. It appears that SD causes increases in prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) and 2-arachidonylglycerol (2-AG), and a decrease in PGE2, suggesting that these lipid messengers participate in memory consolidation during REM sleep. We have also explored the formation of endogenous neuroprotective lipids. Toward this aim, we have used ischemia-reperfusion damage and LC-PDA-ESI-MS-MS-based lipidomic analysis and identified docosanoids derived from synaptic phospholipid-enriched docosahexaenoic acid. Some of the docosanoids exert potent neuroprotective bioactivity [Marcheselli VL, Hong S, Lukiw WJ, et al. Novel docosanoids inhibit brain ischemia-reperfusion-mediated leukocyte infiltration and pro-inflammatory gene expression. J Biol Chem 2003; 278:43807; Mukherjee PK, Marcheselli VL, Serhan CN, Bazan, NG. Neuroprotectin D1: A docosahexaenoic acid-derived docosatriene protects human retinal pigment epithelial cells from oxidative stress. Proc Nat Acad Sci USA 2004; 101:8491). Taken together, these observations that signaling lipids participate in synaptic plasticity, cognition, and survival indicate that lipid signaling is closely associated with several functions (e.g; learning and memory, sleep, and experimental stroke) and pathologic events. Alterations in endogenous signaling lipids or their receptors resulting from drug abuse lead to changes in synaptic circuitry and induce profound effects on these important functions. In the present article, we will briefly review bioactive lipids involved in sleep, synaptic transmission and plasticity, and neuroprotection, focusing mainly on our experimental studies and how these signaling molecules are related to functions and implicated in some neurologic disorders.
After many years backstage, lipids have made a come back in the limelight of neuroscience. This renewed excitement was sparked by a series of convergent discoveries in the fields of neural development, synaptic physiology and receptor pharmacology, which have begun to reveal the roles played by lipid messengers and their receptors in brain function. Such roles extend from the development of the neocortex to the processing of complex behaviors, encompassing a territory as vast as those traditionally assigned to growth factors, neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Along with these basic discoveries, technical advances have simplified the identification and quantification of neural lipids, achieving a degree of sensitivity and selectivity that was unthinkable only 10 years ago. Thanks to this progress, we can now resolve complex mixtures of lipid molecules and quantify each of their components, which are often present in tissues at vanishingly low concentrations. In this review, I outline several key features of brain lipid signaling and discuss the opportunities and challenges that such features impose on future lipidomic approaches.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are involved in mediating excitatory synaptic transmissions in the brain and have been implicated in numerous neurologic disorders. The proximal amino-terminal domains (ATDs) of NMDA receptors constitute many modulatory binding sites that may serve as potential drug targets. There are few biochemical and structural data on the ATDs of NMDA receptors, as it is difficult to produce the functional proteins. Here an optimized method was established to reconstitute the insoluble recombinant ATD of NMDA receptor NR2B subunit (ATD2B) through productive refolding of 6xHis-ATD2B protein from inclusion bodies. Circular dichroism and dynamic light scattering characterizations revealed that the solubilized and refolded 6xHis-ATD2B adopted well-defined secondary structures and monodispersity. More significantly, the soluble 6xHis-ATD2B specifically bound ifenprodil to saturation. Ifenprodil bound to 6xHis-ATD2B with a dissociation constant (KD) of 127.5+/-45 nM, which was within the range of the IC50 determined electrophysiologically. This is the first report on a functional recombinant ATD2B with a characterized KD.
Given the pervasive nature of executive deficit, assessment of executive functions is of crucial importance in neuropsychiatry, child and adolescent psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, and other related areas. A number of neuropsychologic tests of executive function commonly are used in assessing several clinical disorders, including but not limited to traumatic brain injury, schizophrenia, depression, attention deficit disorder/attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and dementia. Because the concept of executive control in its current form constitutes an over arching construct, a construct that is based on the cognitive symptoms of the frontal lobe disorder caused by many disparate underlying conditions, no single measure of executive function can adequately tap the construct in its entirety.Therefore, it is necessary to administer several tests of executive function,each assessing a particular aspect of the executive function. An appropriate combination of such neuropsychologic tests and batteries, including the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Tower test, Stroop test, the D-KEFS, and the ECB, provides an adequate but relatively crude mechanism for assessing executive systems dysfunction. Neuroscientists continue to refine their understanding of the nature of executive control, and additional innovative procedures that reflect state-of-the-art insights of cognitive neuroscience have been introduced recently. Among a few first steps in that direction are nonveridical, actor-centered procedures such as the CBT and the Iowa Gambling Test.
Genetic factors play a role in the vulnerability to cocaine dependence. The reinforcing properties of cocaine are related to the dopaminergic system, and, in particular, the dopamine receptors have been linked to the reward mechanisms. The present study examines the role of the variants TaqI A of the dopamine D2 receptor gene and BalI of the dopamine D3 receptor gene in a Brazilian sample consisting of 730 cocaine dependents and 782 healthy controls. The studied polymorphisms did not show any difference in allelic frequencies or genotypic distribution between the groups. Our data do not support a role for the dopamine D2 receptor gene TaqI A and dopamine D3 receptor gene BalI gene polymorphisms in the susceptibility to cocaine dependence in a Brazilian sample.
Background: The authors reviewed the types and phases of validity of psychiatric diagnosis. In 1970, Robins and Guze proposed five phases to achieve valid classification of mental disorders: clinical description, laboratory study, exclusion of other disorders, follow-up study, and family study. Objectives: The objectives of this paper are to review what has been learned since Robins and Guze's influential article as well as examine the impact of the new discoveries in neurosciences and neuroimaging on the practicing clinician. Method: The authors reviewed the literature on the concept of validity in psychiatry with emphasis on the role of clinical training, the use of structured interviews and rating scales, and the importance of the new discoveries in neurosciences. Results: Robins and Guze's phases have been the cornerstone of construct validity in psychiatry at the level of researchers. In the absence of the gold standard of psychiatric diagnosis, Spitzer proposed the &quot;LEAD,&quot; which is an acronym for longitudinal evaluation, and is done by expert clinicians utilizing all the data available. The LEAD standard is construct validity at the level of experts; however, guidelines are lacking to improve the validity skills of the practicing clinicians. Conclusions: The authors propose the acronym DR.SEE, which stands for data, reference definitions, rating scales, clinical experience, and external validators. The authors recommend that clinicians use the DR.SEE paradigm to improve the validity of psychiatric diagnoses.

The French psychiatrist Henri Ey developed his organo-dynamic theory of the mind function and consciousness 50 years ago incorporating Hughling Jackson's thinking, along with psychiatric and philosophical theorizations by Janet and Bergson. This model has not received the attention it deserved, but recent advances in neuroscience rekindled interest for Ey's theory. By overcoming the Cartesian mind-body dualism and treating the mind-body unit as an inseparable whole, this model opens the way for the integrated treatment of mental disorders. Ey's conceptualization of consciousness as being simultaneously both synchronous and diachronic anticipates current theories of consciousness (Damasio, Edelman, Mesulam).












We report a 45-year-old woman admitted to our hospital due to fever, consciousness disturbance, and severe seizures. Based on her signs and symptoms and clinical course, a diagnosis of non-herpetic acute encephalitis was made. She received antibiotic drugs, acyclovir, gamma-globulin, and steroid pulse therapy (methylprednisolone 1 g/day, 3 days). The patient's signs, symptoms and severe seizure showed marked improvement, but she still showed monthly seizure attacks and both anterograde and retrograde amnesia Viral infection and autoimmune response after viral infection may have been involved in non-herpetic acute encephalitis in our patient. Recently, autoantibodies to GluRepsilon2 and VGKC were reported in cases of non-herpetic acute limbic encephalitis (NHALE). In our patient, we detected IgM type autoantibody to GluRdelta2 and epsilon2 in both the CSF and serum, and these antibodies normalized in the CSF with the clinical course. Autoantibodies to GluRdelta2 and epsilon2 may be involved in the clinical symptoms and pathogenesis of non herpetic acute limbic encephalitis. This is the first report of MRI-positive non-herpetic acute encephalitis with autoantibodies to GluRdelta2 and epsilon2.

The aim of this audit was to ascertain outcomes for people who had taken or who were still taking three &quot;new generation&quot; broad-spectrum antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), namely lamotrigine, levetiracetam and topiramate. Thirteen percent of people became seizure free and approximately, one-third had a reduction of greater than 50% in their seizures. Two-thirds of people were still taking their audit AED. In addition, approximately one-third of people with a learning disability derived substantial benefit, although the rate of seizure freedom was lower. All three AEDs were most successful at treating primary generalised epilepsy and least successful with symptomatic generalised epilepsy. With some reservations the data suggests that levetiracetam and topiramate are the most efficacious AEDs, but topiramate is the least well tolerated. These results mean consideration of a &quot;general prescribing policy&quot; is important when using and choosing these AEDs. We conclude that lamotrigine, levetiracetam and topiramate are useful additions to the armamentarium of AEDs.
Similar to northern developed countries, cerebrovascular disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in tropical countries. The epidemiology of stroke in the tropics is different from one tropical region to another and from the tropics to northern latitudes. In tropical regions, stroke is due to the conventional mechanisms encountered in other latitudes, as well as unusual causative mechanisms unique to the tropics. In tropical regions, infectious causes of stroke and nonatherosclerotic mechanisms are more common than in nontropical areas. Our current knowledge of stroke in the tropics is limited by the financial restrictions existing in such regions limiting health care delivery and epidemiological research.


Rats move their whiskers actively during tactile exploration of their environment. The whiskers emanate from densely innervated whisker follicles that are moved individually by intrinsic facial muscles and as a group by extrinsic muscles. Several descriptions of whisker movements in normal adult rats during unrestrained exploration indicate that rats move their whiskers in the 6-9 Hz range when exploring a new environment. The rate can be elevated to nearly 20 Hz for brief episodes just prior to making a behavioural decision. The present studies were undertaken to compare whisker dynamics in head-restrained and freely moving rats with symmetrical or asymmetrical numbers of whiskers on the two sides of their face and to provide a description of differences in whisker use in exploring rats after trimming all but two whiskers on one side of the face, a condition that has been shown to induce robust cortical plasticity. Head-fixed rats were trained to protract their whiskers against a contact detector with sufficient force to trigger a chocolate milk reward. Whisker movements were analyzed, and the results from head-fixed animals were compared with free-running animals using trials taken during their initial exploration of novel objects that blocked the rat's progress down an elevated runway. The results show that symmetrical whisker movements are modulated both by the nature of the task and the number of whiskers available for exploration. Rats can change their whisker movements when the sensitivity (threshold) of a contact detector is raised or lowered, or when the nature of the task requires bilateral input from the whiskers. We show that trimming some, but not all whiskers on one side of the face modifies the synchrony of whisker movement compared to untrimmed or symmetrically trimmed whiskers.

Exposure to stress is associated with susceptibility to disease and one stress mediator, norepinephrine, has been reported to enhance the adherence of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 (EHEC) to the colonic mucosa. We tested the hypothesis that adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and other stress-related hormones may act in a similar fashion. Explants of distal colonic mucosa from young pigs were mounted in Ussing chambers and their luminal aspect was exposed to EHEC strain 700728 for 30-90 min. When added to the contraluminal, but not luminal bathing medium, ACTH increased EHEC adherence within 90 min in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50 = 1.2 nM), but did not alter tissue electrical conductance. ACTH had no effect on the adherence of a pig-adapted non-O157 E. coli strain. The effect of 0.1 microM ACTH on luminal EHEC adherence was prevented in tissues pretreated contraluminally with the type 2 melanocortin receptor antagonist ACTH7-38, the neuronal conduction blocker saxitoxin, or the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist atropine. Moreover, ACTH7-38 decreased EHEC adherence in the absence of ACTH. These results suggest that ACTH acts via melanocortin receptors located on enteric nerves to enhance mucosal adherence of EHEC.






In mice administered chronic stress--repeated overnight restraint stress for 7 days--there was a prolonged enhancement of dopamine (DA) uptake into synaptosomes. The mRNA for the DA transporter (DAT) was found to be concomitantly increased in the midbrain, as was the binding of the transporter ligand mazindol to DAT in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. Kinetic analysis showed an increase in Vmax for DA, with little change in Km. No changes in tyrosine hydroxylase activity and tissue DA or 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content were observed. However, homovanillic acid (HVA) was found to be increased in the striatum of the stressed animals. Enhanced DAT activity attributable to chronic stress was still observed in animals treated with the DA D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol or the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone. Modulation of DAT activity may be a physiological mechanism for regulating the concentration of DA that reaches receptors, following periods of stress.
The Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases and their partner ligands, the ephrins, mediate cell-cell interactions in the developing nervous system. Signaling events between Eph receptors and ephrin ligands on interacting cells affect the growth, maturation, migration and connectivity of individual neurons and neural networks. Here we review the known roles of Eph-ephrin signaling in the development of the thalamus and its connections, and pose new questions for experimental study.
Monoaminergic systems, and in particular serotoninergic neurons of the raphe system, have been involved in the physiopathology and treatment of major depression in a great number of studies. One of the most reproducible effects of antidepressant treatment is the increase of central 5-HT (serotonin) tone. However, the identification of novel potential therapeutic targets (neurohormones, neuropeptides) for treating depression has led to elaborating novel cellular and molecular concepts accounting for stress-related mood disorders. In particular, recent studies have demonstrated that chronic administration of all classes of antidepressants up-regulates neurogenesis in adult rodent hippocampus. The possibility that structural remodelling may contribute to the physiopathology of mood disorders provides new avenues of research toward understanding the cellular basis of mood disorders.
We report on the uptake of MeHg in astrocytes and neurons, as well as specific indicators of neurotoxicity. Cerebellar granule neurons and astrocytes separately and in co-culture were cultured in the presence of MeHg and changes in 3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT)-reduction, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage, and cellular content of glutathione and amino acids were used as indicators of MeHg toxicity. Mitochondria in cortical astrocytes were slightly more sensitive than those in cerebellar astrocytes to the toxic effects of MeHg; furthermore, cellular integrity was better preserved in cerebellar astrocytes. When neurons and astrocytes from cerebellum were incubated in separable co-cultures using inserts, the astrocytes showed cellular damage at lower exposure to MeHg while neurons showed less changes compared to respective cell types in mono-cultures. Mercury uptake studies at 25 microM MeHg (10% serum present) showed that for neurons in co-culture the uptake was 1/3 compared to mono-cultures. In contrast, for astrocytes in co-culture, uptake was increased by 75%. A MeHg concentration-dependent increase of glutamate content in mono-cultures was noted. When MeHg concentration was increased to 10, 25, or 50 microM, neurons in co-cultures decreased their glutamate content, whereas astrocytes showed an increase. Other amino acids, such as glutamine, serine, valine, isoleucine, taurine, and phenylalanine were unaffected by MeHg. Glutathione content showed MeHg concentration-dependent changes in astrocytes and was increased in neurons in co-culture incubated with 5 microM MeHg. In conclusion, astrocytes appear to increase neuronal resistance, indicating a possible protective role for astrocytes in MeHg neurotoxicity.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is an adult-onset disorder characterized by progressive eyelid drooping, swallowing difficulties and proximal limb weakness. The autosomal dominant form of this disease is caused by a polyalanine expansion from 10 to 12-17 residues, located at the N-terminus of the poly(A)-binding protein nuclear 1 (PABPN1). A distinct pathological hallmark of OPMD is the presence of filamentous intranuclear aggregates in patients' skeletal muscle cells. Wildtype PABPN1 protein is expressed ubiquitously and was shown to be mostly concentrated in discrete nuclear domains called 'speckles'. Using an established cell- culture model, we show that most mutant PABPN1- positive (alanine expanded form) intranuclear aggregates are structures distinct from intranuclear speckles. In contrast, the promyelocytic leukaemia protein, a major component of nuclear bodies, strongly colocalized to intranuclear aggregates of mutant PABPN1. Wildtype PABPN1 can freely shuttle between the nucleus and cytoplasm. We determined whether the nuclear environment is necessary for mutant PABPN1 inclusion formation and cellular toxicity. This was achieved by inactivating the mutant PABPN1 nuclear localization signal and by generating full-length mutant PABPN1 fused to a strong nuclear export sequence. A green fluorescence protein tag inserted at the N-terminus of both wildtype PABPN1 (ala10) and mutant PABPN1 (ala17) proteins allowed us to visualize their subcellular localization. Targeting mutant PABPN1 to the cytoplasm resulted in a significant suppression of both intranuclear aggregates formation and cellular toxicity, two histological consequences of OPMD. Our results indicate that the nuclear localization of mutant PABPN1 is crucial to OPMD pathogenesis.
Although the parietal lobe is not traditionally thought to support declarative memory, recent event-related fMRI studies of episodic retrieval have consistently revealed a range of memory-related influences on activation in lateral posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and precuneus extending into posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. This article surveys the fMRI literature on PPC activation during remembering, a literature that complements earlier electroencephalography data. We consider these recent memory-related fMRI responses within the context of classical ideas about parietal function that emphasize space-based attention and motor intention. We conclude by proposing three hypotheses concerning how parietal cortex might contribute to memory.
In this paper we argue that the interaction between neurosciences and philosophy of the mind is on the way to understand consciousness, and to solve the mind-body or mind-brain problem. Naturalism is the view that mental processes are just brain processes and that consciousness is a natural phenomenon. It is possible to construct a theory about its nature by blending insights from neuroscience, philosophy of the mind, phenomenology, psychology and evolutionary biology.
The responses of cells in the visual cortex to stimulation of the two eyes changes dramatically following a period of monocular visual deprivation (MD) during a critical period in early life. This phenomenon, referred to as ocular dominance (OD) plasticity, is a widespread model for understanding cortical plasticity. In this study, we designed stimulus patterns and quantification methods to analyze OD in the mouse visual cortex using optical imaging of intrinsic signals. Using periodically drifting bars restricted to the binocular portion of the visual field, we obtained cortical maps for both contralateral (C) and ipsilateral (I) eyes and computed OD maps as (C - I)/(C + I). We defined the OD index (ODI) for individual animals as the mean of the OD map. The ODI obtained from an imaging session of less than 30 min gives reliable measures of OD for both normal and monocularly deprived mice under Nembutal anesthesia. Surprisingly, urethane anesthesia, which yields excellent topographic maps, did not produce consistent OD findings. Normal Nembutal-anesthetized mice have positive ODI (0.22 +/- 0.01), confirming a contralateral bias in the binocular zone. For mice monocularly deprived during the critical period, the ODI of the cortex contralateral to the deprived eye shifted negatively towards the nondeprived, ipsilateral eye (ODI after 2-day MD: 0.12 +/- 0.02, 4-day: 0.03 +/- 0.03, and 6- to 7-day MD: -0.01 +/- 0.04). The ODI shift induced by 4-day MD appeared to be near maximal, consistent with previous findings using single-unit recordings. We have thus established optical imaging of intrinsic signals as a fast and reliable screening method to study OD plasticity in the mouse.
The present investigation has sought to determine whether the population of retinal horizontal cells undergoes an increase in the precision of its mosaic patterning during postnatal development, and if so, whether this increase is compatible with three different mechanistic accounts of retinal mosaic formation. Horizontal cells were labeled with antibodies to neurofilaments or calbindin at different developmental stages, and then visualized in retinal wholemounts. Multiple fields were sampled from each retina to determine horizontal cell density, while the X-Y coordinates of each cell in a field were determined. An estimate of total horizontal cell number was calculated for each retina, while the Voronoi domain regularity index and the packing factor were computed for each field. Two strains of mice showing a two-fold difference in the size of their horizontal cell population in maturity were sampled, C57BL/6J and A/J. Horizontal cell number in C57BL/6J was approximately twice that observed in A/J at all postnatal stages, with neither strain showing an effect of age on horizontal cell number. In both strains, however, the Voronoi domain regularity index and the packing factor were significantly lower at P-1 relative to later developmental stages. These results show that accounts of mosaic formation proposing the selective death of irregularly positioned cells, or the periodic occurrence of fate-determining events, are insufficient to establish the final patterning achieved by horizontal cells. Rather, they support the hypothesis that tangential dispersion enhances mosaic patterning during postnatal development.
Voltage-gated channels in a retinal ganglion cell are necessary for spike generation. However, they also add noise to the graded potential and spike train of the ganglion cell, which may degrade its contrast sensitivity, and they may also amplify the graded potential signal. We studied the effect of blocking Na+ channels in a ganglion cell on its signal and noise amplitudes and its contrast sensitivity. A spot was flashed at 1-4 Hz over the receptive field center of a brisk transient ganglion cell in an intact mammalian retina maintained in vitro. We measured signal and noise amplitudes from its intracellularly recorded graded potential light response and measured its contrast detection thresholds with an &quot;ideal observer.&quot; When Na+ channels in the ganglion cell were blocked with intracellular lidocaine N-ethyl bromide (QX-314), the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) decreased (p &lt; 0.05) at all tested contrasts (2-100%). Likewise, bath application of tetrodotoxin (TTX) reduced the SNR and contrast sensitivity but only at lower contrasts (&lt; or = 50%), whereas at higher contrasts, it increased the SNR and sensitivity. The opposite effect of TTX at high contrasts suggested involvement of an inhibitory surround mechanism in the inner retina. To test this hypothesis, we blocked glycinergic and GABAergic inputs with strychnine and picrotoxin and found that TTX in this case had the same effect as QX-314: a reduction in the SNR at all contrasts. Noise analysis suggested that blocking Na+ channels with QX-314 or TTX attenuates the amplitude of quantal synaptic voltages. These results demonstrate that Na+ channels in a ganglion cell amplify the synaptic voltage, enhancing the SNR and contrast sensitivity.
Benzodiazepine enhancement of GABA(A) receptor current requires a gamma subunit, and replacement of the gamma subunit by the delta subunit abolishes benzodiazepine enhancement. Although it has been demonstrated that benzodiazepines bind to GABA(A) receptors at the junction between alpha and gamma subunits, the structural basis for the coupling of benzodiazepine binding to allosteric enhancement of the GABA(A) receptor current is unclear. To determine the structural basis for this coupling, the present study used a chimera strategy, using gamma2L-delta GABA(A) receptor subunit chimeras coexpressed with alpha1 and beta3 subunits in human embryonic kidney 293T cells. Different domains of the gamma2L subunit were replaced by delta subunit sequence, and diazepam sensitivity was determined. Chimeric subunits revealed two areas of interest: domain 1 in transmembrane domain 1 (M1) and domain 2 in the C-terminal portion of transmembrane domain 2 (M2) and the M2-M3 extracellular loop. In those domains, site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that the following two groups of residues were involved in benzodiazepine transduction of current enhancement: residues Y235, F236, T237 in M1; and S280, T281, I282 in M2 as well as the entire M2-M3 loop. These results suggest that a pocket of residues may transduce benzodiazepine binding to increased gating. Benzodiazepine transduction involves a group of residues that connects the N terminus and M1, and another group of residues that may facilitate an interaction between the N terminus and the M2 and M2-M3 loop domains.
Ethanol exposure during fetal development is a leading cause of learning disabilities. Studies suggest that it alters learning and memory by permanently damaging the hippocampus. It is generally assumed that this is mediated, in part, via alterations in glutamatergic transmission. Although NMDA receptors are presumed to be the most sensitive targets of ethanol in immature neurons, this issue has not been explored in the developing hippocampus. We performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in hippocampal slices from neonatal rats. Unexpectedly, we found that acute ethanol (10-50 mM) exposure depresses inward currents elicited by local application of exogenous AMPA, but not NMDA, in CA3 pyramidal neurons. These findings revealed a direct effect of ethanol on postsynaptic AMPA receptors. Ethanol significantly decreased the amplitude of both AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs evoked by electrical stimulation. This effect was associated with an increase in the paired-pulse ratio and a decrease in the frequency of miniature EPSCs driven by depolarization of axonal terminals. These findings demonstrate that ethanol also acts at the presynaptic level. Omega-conotoxin-GVIA occluded the effect of ethanol on NMDA EPSCs, indicating that ethanol decreases glutamate release via inhibition of N-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. In more mature rats, ethanol did not affect the probability of glutamate release or postsynaptic AMPA receptor-mediated currents, but it did inhibit NMDA-mediated currents. We conclude that the mechanism by which ethanol inhibits glutamatergic transmission is age dependent and challenge the view that postsynaptic NMDA receptors are the primary targets of ethanol early in development.
We have cloned and characterized mouse and human variants of MONaKA, a novel protein that interacts with and modulates the plasma membrane Na,K-ATPase. MONaKA was cloned based on its sequence homology to the Drosophila Slowpoke channel-binding protein dSlob, but mouse and human MONaKA do not bind to mammalian Slowpoke channels. At least two splice variants of MONaKA exist; the splicing is conserved perfectly between mouse and human, suggesting that it serves some important function. Both splice variants of MONaKA are expressed widely throughout the CNS and peripheral nervous system, with different splice variant expression ratios in neurons and glia. A yeast two-hybrid screen with MONaKA as bait revealed that it binds tightly to the beta1 and beta3 subunits of the Na,K-ATPase. The association between MONaKA and Na,K-ATPase beta subunits was confirmed further by coimmunoprecipitation from transfected cells, mouse brain, and cultured mouse astrocytes. A glutathione S-transferase-MONaKA fusion protein inhibits Na,K-ATPase activity from whole brain or cultured astrocytes. Furthermore, transfection of MONaKA inhibits 86Rb+ uptake via the Na,K-ATPase in intact cells. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that MONaKA modulates brain Na,K-ATPase and may thereby participate in the regulation of electrical excitability and synaptic transmission.
In mammals, principal neurons of the medial superior olive (MSO) exhibit biophysical specializations that enable them to detect sound localization cues with microsecond precision. In the present study, we used whole-cell patch recordings to examine the development of the intrinsic electrical properties of these neurons in brainstem slices from postnatal day 14 (P14) to P38 gerbils. In the week after hearing onset (P14-P21), we observed dramatic reductions in somatic EPSP duration, input resistance, and membrane time constant. Surprisingly, somatically recorded action potentials also dramatically declined in amplitude over a similar period (38 +/- 3 to 17 +/- 2 mV; tau = 5.2 d). Simultaneous somatic and dendritic patch recordings revealed that these action potentials were initiated in the axon, which primarily emerged from the soma. In older gerbils, the rapid speed of membrane voltage changes and the attenuation of action potential amplitudes were mediated extensively by low voltage-activated potassium channels containing the Kv1.1 subunit. In addition, whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings revealed that these potassium channels increase nearly fourfold from P14 to P23 and are thus a major component of developmental changes in excitability. Finally, the electrophysiological features of principal neurons of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body did not change after P14, indicating that posthearing regulation of intrinsic membrane properties is not a general feature of all time-coding auditory neurons. We suggest that the striking electrical segregation of the axon from the soma and dendrites of MSO principal neurons minimizes spike-induced distortion of synaptic potentials and thus preserves the accuracy of binaural comparisons.
We performed a phenotype study of 35 individuals (19 males, 16 females) with ring chromosome 22 or r(22) with a mean age of 10 years. In common with other studies, a phenotype of moderate-to-profound learning difficulties and delay or absence of speech affected all individuals with the exception of the case with the smallest deletion. Autistic traits were significantly associated with r(22), as shown by an autism screening questionnaire. Mild and variable dysmorphic features, predominantly craniofacial and distal limb, were observed. Internal organ involvement was uncommon. Even though ring chromosomes are reportedly associated with growth abnormalities, only 2 out of 24 individuals showed evidence of growth failure, while 2 showed accelerated growth. Chromosome 22 long arm deletions, as determined by hemizygosity for informative microsatellite markers, varied from &lt;67 kb to 10.2 Mb in size (or &lt;0.15 to 21% of total chromosome length), with no significant differences in the parental origin of the ring chromosome. Few phenotypic features correlated with deletion size suggesting a critical gene, or genes, of major effect lies close to the telomere. Loss of the SHANK3/PROSAP2 gene has been proposed to be responsible for the main neurological developmental deficits observed in 22q13 monosomies. This study supports this candidate gene by identifying a phenotypically normal r(22) individual whose ring chromosome does not disrupt SHANK3. All other r(22) individuals were hemizygous for SHANK3, and we propose it to be a candidate gene for autism or abnormal brain development.
Prolonged sleep deprivation in rats produces a characteristic syndrome consisting of an increase in food intake yet a decrease in weight. Moreover, the increase in food intake generally precedes the weight loss, suggesting that sleep deprivation may affect appetitive behaviors. Using the multiple platform method to produce rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation, we investigated the effect of REM sleep deprivation (REMSD) on motivation for food reward utilizing food-reinforced operant tasks. In acquisition or maintenance of an operant task, REM sleep-deprived rats, with or without simultaneous food restriction, decreased responding for sucrose pellet reward in comparison to controls, despite the fact that all REM sleep-deprived rats lost weight. Furthermore, the overall response deficit of the REM sleep-deprived rats was due to a within-session decline in responding. REM sleep-deprived rats showed evidence of understanding the contingency of the task comparable to controls throughout deprivation period, suggesting that the decrements in responding were not primarily related to deficits in learning or memory. Rather, REM sleep deprivation appears to alter systems involved in motivational processes, reward, and/or attention.
Granular cell proliferation in the adult hippocampus decreases during aging and after chronic stress, while it can be increased by physical activity or treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine. We investigated whether the physical and cognitive stimulation accompanied by stress in the commonly used Morris water maze affects the rate of proliferation and whether the induced changes can be influenced by antidepressant treatment with fluoxetine. Proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus were labeled by three injections of BrdU during the 24h preceding sacrifice. Early differentiation to neuronal progeny was studied by immunohistochemical staining for doublecortin (DCX), a microtubule binding protein expressed in newborn neurons. Acquisition learning in the water maze for 15 days caused a significant decrease in granular cell proliferation in the granular cell layer of the hippocampus. The decrease in the number of BrdU- and DCX-positive cells was reversed to control levels by the use of fluoxetine during the water maze training. Fluoxetine treatment alone increased the number of BrdU-positive cells, but did not increase the number of DCX-positive cells. We conclude that the exposure of adult male rats to water maze acquisition trials is a stressful experience that significantly suppresses the production of new granular cells and that this stressful effect can be blocked by the concomitant administration of the antidepressant fluoxetine.
Chicks hatched from eggs incubated in the dark (D-chicks) or from eggs exposed to light during the last 3 days before hatching (L-chicks) were trained on day 4 to peck at small cones for food reinforcement. The cones had different patterns (checked or striped) and were located in different positions (either on the left or on the right of a rectangular arena) so as both object-specific (pattern) and position-specific cues could be used to discriminate cones that contained or that did not contain food. After learning, the position of the cones was reversed so that object- and position-specific cues provided contradictory information. No effect of light incubation was observed in binocular chicks that chose cones on the basis of object-specific cues. Monocular D-chicks also tended to approach and peck the cones with the correct pattern in the wrong position, whereas monocular L-chicks did not show any clear choice. Initial choices for one side or other of the arena were mostly determined by the first side visible through the non-occluded eye in D-chicks, particularly when using their left eye. These results suggest that light exposure of the embryo makes neural mechanisms that do not receive direct visual input (i.e., those of the occluded side) more available to be used in assessment of novelty.
Several protein cascades are proposed to be involved in the formation of synaptic plasticity and have been linked to neuronal information processing and storage. Although modified expression of specific proteins following behavioral testing has been shown, no systematic approach for their concomitant determination has been reported. We therefore determined hippocampal expression of signaling proteins, transcription factors and synaptosomal-associated proteins representing key elements of neuronal plasticity in mice following behavioral training. Male FVB/N mice, 12 weeks of age, were used for behavioral testing. After completion of tests mice were sacrificed and hippocampi were dissected. Levels of total and autophosphorylated (T286) alphacalcium-calmodulin dependent kinase II (CaMKII, pCaMKII), total and phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK, pMAPK), total and phosphorylated calcium-responsive element binding (creb, pcreb), early-growth response protein 1 (egr-1), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), tyrosine kinase receptor B (trk B), drebrin and postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) were quantified in hippocampi of behavior trained animals (n=7) and nave caged controls (n=7). Expression of pCaMKII, BDNF, PSD-95 and egr-1 was significantly increased in the behavior-trained group. Expression of total CaMKII, total and pMAPK, total and pcreb, trk B and drebrin was comparable between groups. Detection of significantly increased pCaMKII, BDNF, PSD-95 and egr-1 induced by behavioral training at the protein level per se is intriguing and supports the proposed importance of these molecules for neuronal information storage.
Reduced frequency of theta activity is thought to compromise hippocampal function and so behavioural inhibition. The anxiolytic benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (CDP) reduces theta frequency when injected into the medial supramammillary nucleus (mSuM), posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH). These hypothalamic effects on theta could underlie at least some behavioural effects of benzodiazepines. We have previously shown that in a fixed interval 60-s schedule (FI60), CDP injected into mSuM reduced both theta frequency and behavioural inhibition. The present experiments test the effect of injections into PH and DMH on theta and hippocampal-sensitive behaviour (FI60 and open field ambulation). Systemic CDP (5mg/kg i.p.) released, but PH/CDP (20microg in 0.5microl vehicle) suppressed FI responding, though they both reduced FI theta frequency. In the open field, both CDP i.p. and PH/CDP reduced ambulation, but only the systemic injection reduced ambulation theta frequency. Taken together with previous research, these results support a role for PH in the control of voluntary behaviour. They imply that this function may be suppressed, independently of theta, by benzodiazepines. An anxiolytic effect of PH/CDP in FI60 may, therefore, have been masked by a concurrent action of CDP on the PH motor system. DMH/CDP did not affect behaviour or theta in either experiment, despite the fact that this nucleus is involved in benzodiazepine mediation of risk assessment and the flight response. This suggests that, like the control of theta frequency by the hypothalamus, the neural mechanisms underlying anxiety are distributed in complex networks.
Prompted by the theoretical prediction that damage to the hippocampus should abolish exploratory behavior, the present study examined exploratory movements in control rats and rats with hippocampal lesions produced with the neurotoxin N-methyl d-aspartate (NMDA). In four daily 30-min sessions, control and hippocampal rats were exposed to an open circular table under room lighting. Both control and hippocampal rats spent a majority of time near, and organized trips away from, a portion of the table (home base) near a large cue placed proximal to the table. On Day 1, control and HPC rats made equal numbers of head orientations and a comparable number of trips, featuring equal travel distance and numbers of stops. By Day 4, dwell times near the home base increased and other movements decreased in the control rats but the activity profile of Day 1 persisted in the hippocampal rats. The high degree of similarity in behavior between hippocampal and control rats on Day 1 and the persistence of this behavior in hippocampal rats on Day 4 suggests that the hippocampus is not necessary for the display of normal exploratory movements per se. The absence of habituation of exploration in hippocampal rats is discussed in relation to contemporary theories of hippocampal function.
Inferring phylogeny is a difficult computational problem. For example, for only 13 taxa, there are more then 13 billion possible unrooted phylogenetic trees. Heuristics are necessary to minimize the time spent evaluating non-optimal trees. We describe here an approach for heuristic searching, using a genetic algorithm, that can reduce the time required for weighted maximum parsimony phylogenetic inference, especially for data sets involving a large number of taxa. It is the first implementation of a weighted maximum parsimony criterion using amino acid sequences. To validate the weighted criterion, we used an artificial data set and compared it to a number of other phylogenetic methods. Genetic algorithms mimic the natural selection's ability to solve complex problems. We have identified several parameters affecting the genetic algorithm. Methods were developed to validate these parameters, ensuring optimal performance. This approach allows the construction of phylogenetic trees with over 200 taxa in practical time on a regular PC.
Daily rhythms in behavior and physiology are under control of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the main mammalian circadian pacemaker located in the hypothalamus. The SCN communicates with the rest of the brain via various output systems. The aim of the present study was to determine the neuroanatomical and temporal relationship between two output systems, arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha), in the mouse SCN. TGFalpha-positive cells were found throughout the SCN, but more abundantly in the core than the shell area, while AVP was predominantly found in the shell. Fluorescent double labeling revealed a total lack of co-expression for the two proteins in SCN cells. The circadian profile, studied by way of optical density in immunostaining at 3 h intervals, showed peak values for AVP shortly after the LD transitions. Immunoreactivity for TGFalpha was highly variable, especially at time points before the LD transitions. In addition, strong lateralization in TGFalpha immunostaining in the SCN was found in some individuals. Daily fluctuations in the paraventricular nucleus were absent for TGFalpha, and only weakly present for AVP. The main conclusion derived from this study is that these two output systems of the biological clock are anatomically separated with different daily profiles in expression.
Protection against chemical insult is essential for normal development of the fetus, however many detoxification enzymes are poorly expressed during fetal development. A major exception is the sulfotransferase (SULT) family, which appears to be widely expressed in the developing human. These enzymes also play a key role in biosynthesis and homeostasis of a number of hormones, including estrogens and iodothyronines. We therefore examined the enzyme activity, protein and mRNA expression of SULT 1A, 1B, 1C, 1E and 2A families in a variety of human fetal and adult tissues. Our results show that these SULTs are expressed in the human fetus, with most present at levels equivalent to or higher than the adult. As there are no isoform-selective substrates for SULTs 1B1 and 1C2 we used immunoblot analysis to show for the first time expression of SULT1B1 at high levels in fetal small intestine, and expression of SULT1C2 in fetal liver, kidney and small intestine. SULT1C2 was not expressed in adult liver or colon. Sulfotransferase expression in the developing fetus is therefore more widespread than in the adult, and this has significant implication for our understanding of human developmental physiology.
Understanding modulation of memory, as well as the mechanisms underlying memory formation, has become a key issue in neuroscience research. Previously, we found that the formation of long-term, but not short-term, memory for a nonassociative form of learning, sensitization, was modulated by the circadian clock in the diurnal Aplysia californica. To define the scope of circadian modulation of memory, we examined an associative operant learning paradigm, learning that food is inedible (LFI). Significantly greater long-term memory of LFI occurred when A. californica were trained and tested during the subjective day, compared with animals trained and tested in the subjective night. In contrast, animals displayed similar levels of short-term memory for LFI when trained in either the subjective day or night. Circadian modulation of long-term memory for LFI was dependent on the time of training, rather than the time of testing. To broaden our investigation of circadian modulation of memory, we extended our studies to a nocturnal species, Aplysia fasciata. Contrary to the significant memory observed during the day with the diurnal A. californica, A. fasciata showed no long-term memory for LFI when trained during the day. However, A. fasciata demonstrated significant long-term memory when trained and tested during the night. Thus, the circadian clock modulates memory formation in phase with the animals' activity period. The results from our studies of circadian modulation of long-term sensitization and LFI suggest that circadian modulation of memory formation may be a general phenomenon with potentially widespread implications for many types of long-term learning.
Although several studies have examined the effects of estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on neural activity associated with tasks of learning and memory, no study has examined such effects on a sustained attention task. This study examined the effect of low-dose estrogen replacement therapy on hemodynamic activity elicited by a visual three-stimulus oddball task recorded using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Participants included 16 women between the ages of 73 and 84 who were part of a randomized controlled double-blind study to evaluate the effect of an ultralow dose micronized estradiol on bone. No significant differences in behavioral performance were found with ERT. However, there was evidence that ERT group participants had both reductions and increases in the amplitude of hemodynamic response in a variety of subcortical and cortical brain regions. These included regions involved in perception and attention such as the occipital and parietal lobes, motor cortex, anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that estrogen may facilitate the efficiency of brain function during the performance of sustained attention tasks in post-menopausal elderly women.
Recent evidence indicates that cell-cycle regulating proteins are involved in apoptotic process in post-mitotic neurons. In this study, we examined cell-cycle regulators for G1/S cell-cycle progression after a transient focal cerebral ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. In the cerebral frontoparietal cortex, we observed a marked induction of Cyclin D1 (a coactivator of Cdks), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), together with upregulated Cdk kinase activities. This process is accompanied with multiple phosphorylation of retinoblastoma (Rb) protein at Cdk phosphorylation sites in neurons from the ischemic cortex. We further examined DNA synthesis by the incorporation of BrdU, a nucleotide analog that incorporates into newly synthesized DNA. Within 24-h of reperfusion after 60-min occlusion, substantial BrdU-positive neurons were observed in the ischemic cortex. Inhibition of Cdk4 activity during this ischemia/reperfusion is highly neuroprotective. These results suggest that ischemia/reperfusion cerebral damage induces signalings at the G1/S cell-cycle transition, and may constitute a critical step in the neuronal apoptotic pathway in ischemia/reperfusion induced neuronal damage.
The localization of the neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) Y2 receptor (Y2R) protein was studied in mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and spinal cord, by using a recently developed rabbit anti-Y2R antibody and a sensitive immunohistochemical method. Y2R-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was observed in about 10% of the small/medium-sized lumbar DRG neurons. Among these, about 44% were calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive, and about 38% bound isolectin B4. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, an intense Y2R-LI was seen in the most superficial layers, mostly restricted to laminae I-II. This immunoreactivity was completely abolished by dorsal rhizotomy. Y2R-L1 was also detected on the skin, more abundantly in hairy than glabrous skin. Specificity experiments showed complete disappearance of the Y2R-LI described above after incubation with antibody preadsorbed with the immunogenic peptide. Furthermore, Y2R-LI was also absent in a Y2R knockout mouse. These results demonstrate that the NPY Y2R is associated mainly with both peptidergic and nonpeptidergic small, presumably nociceptive, neurons projecting to the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. The results also support a role for this receptor and NPY in pain mechanisms.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common, progressive, incurable disabling condition. The cause is unknown but over the past few years tremendous progress in our understanding of the genetic bases of this condition has been made. To date, this has almost exclusively come from the study of relatively rare Mendelian forms of the disease and there are no currently, widely accepted common variants known to increase susceptibility. The role that the &quot;Mendelian&quot; genes play in common sporadic forms of PD is unknown. Moreover, most studies in PD can really be described as candidate polymorphism studies rather than true and complete assessments of the genes themselves. We provide a model of how one might tackle some of these issues using Parkinson's disease as an illustration. One of the emerging hypotheses of gene environment interaction in Parkinson's disease is based on drug metabolizing (or xenobiotic) enzymes and their interaction with putative environmental toxins. This motivated us to describe a tagging approach for an extensive but not exhaustive list of 55 drug metabolizing enzyme genes. We use these data to illustrate the power, and some of the limitations of a haplotype tagging approach. We show that haplotype tagging is extremely efficient and works well with only a modest increase in effort through different populations. The tagging approach works much less well if the minor allele frequency is below 5%. However, it will now be possible using these tags to evaluate these genes comprehensively in PD and other neurodegenerative conditions.
Opioid and tachykinin systems are involved in modulation of pain transmission in the spinal cord. Regulation of surface opioid receptors on nociceptive afferents is critical for opioid analgesia. Plasma-membrane insertion of delta-opioid receptors (DORs) is induced by stimulus-triggered exocytosis of DOR-containing large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs), but how DORs become sorted into the regulated secretory pathway is unknown. Here we report that direct interaction between protachykinin and DOR is responsible for sorting of DORs into LDCVs, allowing stimulus-induced surface insertion of DORs and DOR-mediated spinal analgesia. This interaction is mediated by the substance P domain of protachykinin and the third luminal domain of DOR. Furthermore, deletion of the preprotachykinin A gene reduced stimulus-induced surface insertion of DORs and abolished DOR-mediated spinal analgesia and morphine tolerance. Thus, protachykinin is essential for modulation of the sensitivity of nociceptive afferents to opioids, and the opioid and tachykinin systems are directly linked by protachykinin/DOR interaction.
In vivo experiments addressing the role of released glutamate in damage caused by neurotrauma seldom administer glutamate itself because it usually produces relatively little damage when administered into central nervous system (CNS) tissue in vivo. However, because of recent observations that glutamate administered into the spinal cord at the levels attained following spinal cord injury (SCI) kills neurons and oligodendrocytes, we tested the effects of administering glutamate at those concentrations on locomotor function. The Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) test and activity box measures demonstrated that those glutamate concentrations produce lasting functional impairments. Several parameters provided by the activity box provided sensitive measures of the degree of post-SCI impairment, demonstrating their substantial potential for evaluating outcomes of SCI. Results obtained also enhance evidence that glutamate toxicity contributes to secondary damage following SCI and suggest that damage to white matter is an important contributor to such damage.


Calcium buffers are important for shaping and localizing cytoplasmic Ca2+ transients in neurons. We measured the concentrations of the four main calcium-buffering proteins (calbindin-D28k, calretinin, parvalbumin-alpha, and parvalbumin-beta) in rat cochlear hair cells in which Ca2+ signaling is a central element of fast transduction and synaptic transmission. The proteins were quantified by calibrating immunogold tissue counts against gels containing known amounts of each protein, and the method was verified by application to Purkinje cells in which independent estimates exist for some of the protein concentrations. The results showed that, in animals with fully developed hearing, inner hair cells had 110 of the proteinaceous calcium buffer of outer hair cells in which the cell body contained parvalbumin-beta (oncomodulin) and calbindin-D28k at levels equivalent to 5 mm calcium-binding sites. Both proteins were partially excluded from the hair bundles, which may permit fast unbuffered Ca2+ regulation of the mechanotransducer channels. The sum of the calcium buffer concentrations decreased in inner hair cells and increased in outer hair cells as the cells developed their adult properties during cochlear maturation. The results suggest that Ca2+ has distinct roles in the two types of hair cell, reflecting their different functions in auditory transduction. Ca2+ is used in inner hair cells primarily for fast phase-locked synaptic transmission, whereas Ca2+ may be involved in regulating the motor capability underlying cochlear amplification of the outer hair cell. The high concentration of calcium buffer in outer hair cells, similar only to skeletal muscle, may protect against deleterious consequences of Ca2+ loading after acoustic overstimulation.
In the first step in auditory transduction, sound-induced vibrations of the stereociliary bundles on the sensory hair cells are converted into electrical signals by opening of mechanotransducer channels. Faithful transduction and hence auditory performance will be limited by the kinetic properties of these channels. We have measured the time course of mechanotransducer currents in turtle and rat auditory hair cells during rapid deflections of the hair bundle. Current activation in the turtle had a time constant that decreased 10-fold with stimulus amplitude to a limiting value of approximately 50 micros. Lowering the external Ca2+ concentration slowed both activation and adaptation time constants. Similar effects were seen in hair cells tuned to low and high frequencies, but the overall kinetics was slower in low-frequency cells. In rat outer hair cells, the time courses of both activation and adaptation were at least 10-fold faster. Although activation kinetics was too fast to characterize accurately, the adaptation time constants in the rat, like the turtle, were Ca2+ dependent and faster in hair cells tuned to higher frequencies. The results imply that mechanotransducer channels operate similarly in turtle and rat but are faster in the mammal to accommodate its higher frequency range of hearing. We suggest that the kinetics of channel activation and adaptation imposes a bandpass filter on transduction, with a center frequency matched to the frequencies detected by the hair cell, which may improve the signal-to-noise ratio near threshold.
Oscillations in local field potentials in the beta-frequency band (13-35 Hz) are a pervasive feature of human and nonhuman primate motor cortical areas. However, the function of such synchronous activity across populations of neurons remains unknown. Here, we test the hypothesis that beta activity may promote existing motor set and posture while compromising processing related to new movements. Three experiments were performed. First, healthy subjects were instructed to make reaction time movements of the outstretched index finger in response to imperative cues triggered by transient increases in corticospinal synchrony, as evidenced by phasic elevations of beta-frequency band microtremor and intermuscular synchrony. Second, healthy subjects were instructed to resist a stretch to the index finger triggered in the same way. Finger acceleration in the reaction time task and transcortical components of the stretch reflex were measured and compared with those elicited by random cue or stretch presentation. Finally, we sought a correlation between finger acceleration in the reaction time task and cortical synchrony directly measured from the electrocorticogram in two patients undergoing functional neurosurgery. We demonstrate that movements are slowed and transcortical responses to stretch are potentiated during periods of elevated beta-band cortical synchrony. The results suggest that physiological periods of beta synchrony are associated with a cortical state in which postural set is reinforced, but the speed of new movements impaired. The findings are of relevance to Parkinson's disease, in which subcortical and cortical beta-band synchronization is exaggerated in the setting of increased tone and slowed movements.
Transient global or forebrain ischemia induced experimentally in animals can cause selective, delayed neuronal death of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. A striking feature is a delayed rise in intracellular free Zn(2+) in CA1 neurons just before the onset of histologically detectable cell death. Here we show that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) at Schaffer collateral to CA1 synapses in postischemic hippocampus exhibit properties of Ca(2+)/Zn(2+)-permeable, Glu receptor 2 (GluR2)-lacking AMPARs before the rise in Zn(2+) and cell death. At 42 h after ischemia, AMPA excitatory postsynaptic currents exhibited pronounced inward rectification and marked sensitivity to 1-naphthyl acetyl spermine (Naspm), a selective channel blocker of GluR2-lacking AMPARs. In control hippocampus, AMPA excitatory postsynaptic currents were electrically linear and relatively insensitive to Naspm. Naspm injected intrahippocampally at 9-40 h after insult greatly reduced the late rise in intracellular free Zn(2+) in postischemic CA1 neurons and afforded partial protection against ischemia-induced cell death. These results implicate GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors in the ischemia-induced rise in free Zn(2+) and death of CA1 neurons, although a direct action at the time of the rise in Zn(2+) is unproven. This receptor subtype appears to be an important therapeutic target for intervention in ischemia-induced neuronal death in humans.
Adult female prairie (Microtus ochrogaster) and meadow (M. pennsylvanicus) voles were compared to examine neural cell proliferation and the effects of estrogen manipulation on cell proliferation in the amygdala, ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus (DG). Unlike prior studies, our study focused on the amygdala and VMH, because they are involved in social behaviors and may underlie behavioral differences between the species. Meadow voles had a higher density of cells labeled with the cell proliferation marker 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) in the amygdala and DG than did prairie voles. Treatment with estradiol benzoate (EB) for 3 days increased the density of BrdU-labeled cells in the amygdala, particularly in the posterior cortical (pCorA) and medial (pMeA) nuclei, in meadow, but not prairie, voles. Furthermore, the majority of the BrdU-labeled cells in the pCorA and pMeA displayed either a neuronal or a glial progenitor phenotype, but no species or treatment differences were found in the percentage of neuronal or glial progenitor cells. To understand better estrogen's effects on adult neurogenesis, we also examined estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) distribution. Meadow voles had more ERalpha-labeled cells in the pCorA and VMH, but not in the pMeA or DG, than did prairie voles. In addition, more than one-half of the BrdU-labeled cells in the amygdala of both species coexpressed ERalpha labeling. Together, these data indicate that estrogen alters cell proliferation in a species- and region-specific manner, and some of these effects may lie in the specific localization of estrogen receptors in the adult vole brain.
The cerebral cortex influences subcortical processing. In the somatosensory system, descending cortical inputs contribute in specific ways to the sizes and plasticity of tactile receptive fields (RFs) in the thalamus, but less is known about cortical influences on these aspects of brainstem RFs. The present studies evaluated how loss of cortical inputs affects sizes and plasticity of RFs in the brainstem dorsal column nuclei (DCN) when peripheral inputs were normal and when peripheral inputs were acutely disrupted. Loss of cortical inputs was produced by acute lesion of somatosensory, motor, and adjacent cortex, whereas disruption of peripheral inputs was produced by cutaneous microinjection of lidocaine (LID). Modest or no changes in sizes of DCN RFs, comparable to changes during control periods of no treatment, were seen in response to cortical lesion. LID caused rapid enlargements in RFs when cortex was intact. LID also caused rapid RF enlargements after cortical lesion, and these enlargements were greater than post-LID enlargements when cortex was intact. These results indicate that normally sized RFs continue to be produced in the DCN after loss of cortical input. Cortex is also not required for RF enlargements after LID; however, cortical inputs have a constraining effect on these enlargements. Considered with findings from previous thalamic studies, these results suggest that cortical influences on RF size and plasticity in the DCN and thalamus differ in some respects.
Using quantitative autoradiography, the present study examined ionotropic glutamatergic receptor binding sites using [3H]dizocilpine, [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate, and [3H]kainate in the posterior cingulate cortex of schizophrenia patients and matched controls. We found a significant increase in [3H]dizocilpine binding in the superficial layers (41%, p&lt;0.001) and deep layers (30%, p=0.004) of the posterior cingulate cortex in the schizophrenia group compared with controls. No significant differences were observed in [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate and [3H]kainate binding. In summary, the present study has for the first time demonstrated that the glutamatergic system is affected in the posterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia patients. The fact that only the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor densities are significantly altered suggests that this is unlikely to be caused by a simple decrease in glutamatergic transmission.
Inflammatory stimuli such as lipopolysaccharide increase nitric oxide and secreted phospholipase A2 release from glial cells. However, the signaling mechanism(s) regulating secreted phospholipase A2 in glial cells is not known. Here, rat brain astrocytes treated with lipopolysaccharide generated nitrite and released secreted phospholipase A2, while microglia generated nitrite without releasing secreted phospholipase A2. Unexpectedly, attenuation of nitrite production by pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-Omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester greatly enhanced lipopolysaccharide-stimulated secreted phospholipase A2 release from astrocytes; postreatment with N-Omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not potentiate secreted phospholipase A2 release, and addition of an nitric oxide donor attenuated the secreted phospholipase A2 release. The regulation of secreted phospholipase A2 may act via the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB, as a nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitor attenuated lipopolysaccharide-stimulated secreted phospholipase A2 release. These results demonstrate the role of basal nitric oxide levels as a regulator of inflammatory secreted phospholipase A2 release from glial cells of the brain.
Habituation signifies a decreased response to a constant or repeated stimulus or environment. Although habituation is a fundamental form of nonassociative learning, little is known about its ontogenesis. Here, locomotor activity of postnatal ferrets within individual open field sessions was quantitatively analysed. The patterns of activity revealed a gradual shift across developmental time between relative increment and decrement of activity within sessions. The increment-to-decrement turning point was around postnatal day 48. These novel findings indicate that systematic changes in the interplay between mechanisms that drive exploratory behaviour and those that inhibit it shape the ontogenesis of open field habituation. The remarkable robustness of the data underscores the suitability of the ferret as an experimental animal for investigating ontogenesis of habituation.
Hypoxic-ischemic represents a common cause of damage to the prenatal brain and can co-occur with prematurity. Prematurity is associated with emergent language impairments, and it has been suggested that rapid auditory processing deficits play a causal role in language difficulties. We previously demonstrated rapid auditory processing deficits in juvenile rats receiving neonatal unilateral hypoxic-ischemic injury, but these deficits appeared to resolve by adulthood. The current study compared unilaterally and bilaterally injured hypoxic-ischemic rats on auditory tasks, to assess whether rapid auditory processing recovery in adulthood is related to this aspect of injury. Current results indicate that while neonatal unilateral and bilateral hypoxic-ischemic injury both lead to rapid auditory processing deficits in the juvenile period, only rats with bilateral hypoxic-ischemic injury exhibit deficits that persist into adulthood.
In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, study participants performed a dynamic tracking task in a precision grip configuration. The precision level of the force control was varied while the mean force level of 5 N was kept constant. Contrasts cancelling error rate differences between the conditions showed activation of nonprimary motor areas and other frontal structures in response to increasing precision constraints when the precision of force control could still be increased, and of right primary and associative parietal areas when the precision of the produced force control reached its maximum. These results suggest that the network of frontal and parietal areas, usually working together in fine control of dexterity tasks, can be differentially involved when environmental constraints become very high.

The International Union of Pharmacology (IUPHAR) has established a Nomenclature Committee comprised of sub-committees of experts to evaluate types and subtypes of receptors and ion channels in an effort to establish universally accepted nomenclature [Vanhoutte, P.M., Barnard, E.A., Cosmides, G.J., Humphrey, P.P., Spedding, M., Godfraind, T., 1994. International Union of Pharmacology Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification. Pharmacological Reviews 46, 111-116]. This overview cites the reports of the IUPHAR subcommittees and other prominent review articles in an effort to compile receptors for lipid mediators that bind to and evoke their pharmacological responses via seven-transmembrane spanning, G-protein-coupled receptors.
RNA interference (RNAi) has become an invaluable tool for functional genomics. A critical use of this tool depends on an understanding of the factors that determine the specificity and activity of the active agent, small interfering RNA (siRNA). Several studies have concluded that tolerance of mutations can be considerable and hence lead to off-target effects. In this study, we have investigated in vivo the toleration of wobble (G:U) mutations in high activity siRNAs against Flap Endonuclease 1 (Fen1) and Aquaporin-4 (Aqp4). Mutations in the central part of the antisense strand caused a pronounced decrease in activity, while mutations in the 5' and 3'ends were tolerated very well. Furthermore, based on analysis of nine different mutated siRNAs with widely differing intrinsic activities, we conclude that siRNA activity can be significantly enhanced by wobble mutations (relative to mRNA), in the 5' terminal of the antisense strand. These findings should facilitate design of active siRNAs where the target mRNA offers limited choice of siRNA positions.

The role of the ERK1/2 signal transduction pathway and related transcription factors in the regulation of gene expression and pain behavior following excitotoxic spinal cord injury (SCI) was examined. Specifically, phosphorylation of ERK1/2, activation of transcription factors NF-kB, ELK-1, and CREB, and gene expression of the neurokinin-1 receptor and NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR-2A were investigated. Excitotoxic injury was produced by intraspinal injection of quisqualic acid (QUIS) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Western blots were used to evaluate phosphorylation and activation of ERK1/2 and transcription factors using phospho-specific or total antibodies. Real-time PCR was used to evaluate gene expression of NK-1R, NR-1, and NR-2A. Assessment of excessive grooming behavior was used to evaluate the presence of spontaneous pain behavior. Excitotoxic spinal injury resulted in: (1) increased phosphorylation of ERK1/2; (2) increased activation of NF-kB and phosphorylation of ELK-1; and (3) increased gene expression for the NK-1 receptor and NR1 and NR-2A subunits of the NMDA receptor. Blockade of the ERK cascade with the MEK inhibitor PD98059 inhibited phosphorylation of ELK-1, activation of NF-kB and gene expression of NR1, NR-2A and NK-1R, and prevented the development of excessive grooming behavior. The results have shown that excitotoxic spinal injury leads to the injury-induced activation of the ERK--&gt;ELK-1 and NF-kB signaling cascades and transcriptional regulation of receptors important in the development of chronic pain. Blockade of this intracellular kinase cascade prevented the onset of injury-induced pain behavior.
The present study investigates the role of serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) in the modulation of the phosphorylation of the NR1 and NR2B subunits of NMDA receptors in the spinal cord of rats following intradermal injection of capsaicin. The effects of a specific inhibitor of PP2A, fostriecin, on the expression of NR1, phospho-NR1, NR2B, and phospho-NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor in the spinal cord of rats following noxious stimulation were examined. After continually perfusing with ACSF or fostriecin (3 microM) through a previously implanted microdialysis fiber for 30 min, central sensitization was initiated by injection of capsaicin into the plantar surface of the left paw of rats. The spinal cord was removed at different time points (30, 60, 90, 120, 180 min) after intradermal injection of capsaicin. Western blots were performed to examine the expression of NMDA subunits in spinal cord tissue by using specific antibodies. We found that the upregulated phosphorylation of both NR1 and NR2B subunits induced by capsaicin injection was significantly potentiated by the PP2A inhibitor without affecting the NR1 and NR2B protein itself. These results suggest that PP2A may have a regulatory effect on central sensitization induced by noxious stimuli in the periphery by regulating the phosphorylation state of NMDA receptors.
Tauopathies are neurodegenerative disorders characterized by aberrant intracellular aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau. It has been shown that aggregated tau is phosphorylated at serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues. However, the occurrence of tyrosine phosphorylation on tau proteins at different states of tau aggregation has not been shown. In this report, we utilized the tauopathy mouse model JNPL3 that expresses human 0N4R tau isoform bearing the missense P301L mutation to study the occurrence of tau tyrosine phosphorylation in the course of the development of tau aggregation. These mice develop behavioral and motor deficits and form sarkosyl-insoluble hyperphosphorylated tau in an age-dependent manner. Mass spectrometry analyses of immunopurified brain tau proteins from JNPL3 and Alzheimer's disease affected individual uncovered novel tau tyrosine-phosphorylated sites. Further studies demonstrated that the abundance of tyrosine-phosphorylated tau increases in an age-dependent manner in JNPL3 mice. Tyrosine-phosphorylated tau was detected in both soluble and sarkosyl-insoluble preparations derived from brain and spinal cord, and localized in neurons containing aggregated tau. The phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in tau appeared to occur along with that of serine and threonine residues and was not detectable in non-transgenic littermates and transgenic mice expressing 0N4R wild-type human tau. The results suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation is as important as phosphorylation of other residues in tauopathy.


In sensory hair cells of the inner ear, mechanical amplification of small stimuli requires fast adaptation, the rapid closing of mechanically activated transduction channels. In frog and mouse vestibular hair cells, we found that the rate of fast adaptation depends on both channel opening and stimulus size and that it is modeled well as a release of a mechanical element in series with the transduction apparatus. To determine whether myosin-1c molecules of the adaptation motor are responsible for the release, we introduced the Y61G mutation into the Myo1c locus and generated mice homozygous for this sensitized allele. Measuring transduction and adaptation in the presence of NMB-ADP, an allele-specific inhibitor, we found that the inhibitor not only blocked slow adaptation, as demonstrated previously in transgenic mice, but also inhibited fast adaptation. These results suggest that mechanical activity of myosin-1c is required for fast adaptation in vestibular hair cells.
Vasopressin modulates many social and nonsocial behaviors, including emotionality. We have previously reported that male mice with a null mutation in the V1a receptor (V1aR) exhibit a profound impairment in social recognition and changes in anxiety-like behavior. Using site-specific injections of a V1aR-specific antagonist, we demonstrate that the lateral septum, but not the medial amygdala, is critical for social recognition. Reexpressing V1aR in the lateral septum of V1aR knockout mice (V1aRKO) using a viral vector resulted in a complete rescue of social recognition. Furthermore, overexpression of the V1aR in the lateral septum of wild-type (wt) mice resulted in a potentiation of social recognition behavior and a mild increase in anxiety-related behavior. These results demonstrate that the V1aR in the lateral septum plays a critical role in the neural processing of social stimuli required for complex social behavior.
The error-related negativity (ERN) is an electrophysiological marker thought to reflect changes in dopamine when participants make errors in cognitive tasks. Our computational model further predicts that larger ERNs should be associated with better learning to avoid maladaptive responses. Here we show that participants who avoided negative events had larger ERNs than those who were biased to learn more from positive outcomes. We also tested for effects of response conflict on ERN magnitude. While there was no overall effect of conflict, positive learners had larger ERNs when having to choose among two good options (win/win decisions) compared with two bad options (lose/lose decisions), whereas negative learners exhibited the opposite pattern. These results demonstrate that the ERN predicts the degree to which participants are biased to learn more from their mistakes than their correct choices and clarify the extent to which it indexes decision conflict.
Mammals have developed patterns of social relationships that enhance the survival of individuals and maximize the reproductive success of species. Although social stimuli and social responses are highly complex, recent studies are providing substantial insights into their neural substrates. Neural pathways employing the nonapeptides vasopressin and oxytocin play a particularly prominent role both in social recognition and the expression of appropriate social responses. New insights into social neuroscience are discussed, along with the relevance of this rapidly developing field to human relationships and disease processes.
Extracellular cues guide axon outgrowth by activating intracellular signaling cascades that control the growth cone cytoskeleton. However, the spatial and temporal coordination of signaling intermediates remains essentially unknown. Live imaging of tyrosine phosphorylation in growth cones revealed dynamic phospho-tyrosine (PY) signals in filopodia that directly correlate with filopodial behavior. Local PY signals are generated at distal tips of filopodia during extension and are lost during retraction. Active Src family kinases localize to the tips of filopodia, and Src activity regulates both filopodial dynamics and local PY signaling. Positive guidance cues stimulate filopodial motility by locally increasing tyrosine phosphorylation in a cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42)-dependent manner. Locally reduced Src activity on one side of the growth cone generates an asymmetry in filopodial motility and PY signaling that promotes repulsive turning, suggesting that local changes in filopodial PY levels may underlie growth cone pathfinding decisions. p21-activated kinase (PAK), a Cdc42 effector whose activity is regulated by Src phosphorylation, also localizes to the tips of extending filopodia and controls filopodial motility. Coordinated activation of cytoskeletal effector proteins by GTPase binding and Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation may function to produce specific growth cone behaviors in response to guidance cues.
Auditory information is conveyed into the CNS via the spiral ganglion neurons, cells that possess distinctive electrophysiological properties that vary according to their cochlear innervation. Neurons from the base of the cochlea fire action potentials with shorter latencies and durations with more rapid accommodation than apical neurons (Adamson et al., 2002b). Interestingly, these features are altered by exposure to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), suggesting that the electrophysiological diversity is not preprogrammed into the neurons but instead results from extrinsic regulation. In support of this, gradients of neurotrophins exist in the cochlea that could account for the apex- base differences in firing. To understand the determinants of spiral ganglion function, we characterized the NT-3 concentration dependence and mode of action on spiral ganglion neurons. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings were made from mouse basal spiral ganglion neurons (postnatal day 5) exposed to different concentrations of NT-3 for 3 d in vitro. Measurements of accommodation, latency, onset time course, and action potential latency revealed a nonmonotonic dependence on NT-3 concentration, with a peak effect occurring at 10 ng/ml. Addition of NT-3 at different time points showed that neurotrophin exposure altered the firing features of existing neurons rather than supporting differential survival. These experiments establish that the electrophysiological phenotype of spiral ganglion neurons depends critically on the precise concentration of NT-3 and that the functional organization of this component of the peripheral auditory system results from a complex interplay between multiple kinds of neurotrophins and their cognate receptors.

Neurodegeneration can occur as a result of endogenous oxidative stress. Primary cerebellar granule cells were used in this study to determine if mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) repair deficiencies correlate with oxidative stress-induced apoptosis in neuronal cells. Granule cells exhibited a significantly higher intracellular oxidative state compared with primary astrocytes as well as increases in reductants, such as glutathione, and redox sensitive signaling molecules, such as AP endonuclease/redox effector factor-1. Cerebellar granule cultures also exhibited an increased susceptibility to exogenous oxidative stress. Menadione (50 muM) produced twice as many lesions in granule cell mtDNA compared with astrocytes, and granule cell mtDNA repair was significantly less efficient. A decreased capacity to repair oxidative mtDNA damage correlates strongly with mitochondrial initiated apoptosis in these neuronal cultures. Interestingly, the mitochondrial activities of initiators for base excision repair (BER), the bifunctional glycosylase/AP lyases as well as AP endonuclease, were significantly higher in cerebellar granule cells compared with astrocytes. The increased mitochondrial AP endonuclease activity in combination with decreased polymerase gamma activity may cause an imbalance in oxidative BER leading to an increased production and persistence of mtDNA damage in neurons when treated with menadione. This study provides evidence linking neuronal mtDNA repair capacity with oxidative stress-related neurodegeneration.
Compared with apoE2 and E3, apoE4 increases the risk of cognitive impairments and of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). ApoE4 interacts with female sex, further increasing AD risk. Previously, we showed that female Apoe-/- mice are more susceptible to apoE4-induced cognitive deficits than male mice. Androgens protect against these deficits and apoE4 male mice are more sensitive to acute blockade of androgen receptors than apoE3 male mice. To determine the chronic effects of reduced circulating androgen levels on susceptibility to the effects of apoE4 on cognitive function in males, we castrated and sham-castrated apoE4, apoE3, and Apoe-/- male mice and behaviorally compared them 3 months later. Castration impaired novel location recognition in apoE4, but not apoE3 or Apoe-/-, mice. In contrast, castration impaired novel object recognition and spatial memory retention in the water maze in Apoe-/-, but not apoE3 or apoE4, mice. On the contrary, castrated, but not sham-castrated, apoE4 mice showed improved acquisition over the first two hidden platform sessions and spatial memory retention in the first probe trial. While apoE3 and Apoe-/- mice increased their exploratory times with the objects in the trial with the novel object, apoE4 mice did not. ApoE4 mice required more trials than apoE3 or Apoe-/- mice to reach criterion during passive avoidance training, but castration did not modulate passive avoidance learning or memory. Thus, androgens have differential roles in object recognition and spatial learning and memory in the water maze, depending on whether or not apoE4 is present.
Melatonin is a neuromodulator that binds to receptors in the retinotectal laminae of the amphibian optic tectum. The effect of melatonin on calcium dynamics in Xenopus retinotectal axons was investigated by imaging retinotectal axons labeled with the fluorescent indicator Fluo-4. Melatonin exerted an inhibitory influence on depolarization-evoked calcium increases, and the melatonin receptor antagonist 4-P-PDOT blocked this effect. Blockade of group III metabotropic receptors (mGluRs) counteracted the effect of melatonin on retinotectal axons. Application of the group II/group III mGluR antagonist MSPG or the group III-selective antagonist MSOP abolished the effect of melatonin. Conversely, this effect was not significantly affected by the group I mGluR antagonist LY367385 nor by EGLU or LY341495 at concentrations that specifically inhibit group II mGluRs. Furthermore, a higher concentration of LY341495 that affects group III mGluRs inhibited the effect of melatonin. The data therefore support the hypothesis that, in retinotectal axons, melatonin reduces cAMP levels, thereby relieving PKA-induced inhibition of group III mGluRs; the newly activated mGluRs in turn inhibit voltage-sensitive calcium channels, leading to a decrease in Ca2+ concentrations. The role of GABA(C) receptors in retinotectal responses was also evaluated. GABA(C) receptor antagonists did not block the effects of melatonin but instead were additive. Moreover, while other studies have shown that in Xenopus tectal cells, GABA(C) receptors mediate inhibition, in retinotectal axons, the opposite appears to occur since depolarization-evoked calcium rises in retinotectal axons were inhibited by GABA(C) receptor blockade. This result suggests that activation of GABA(C) receptors produces an increase in the synaptic excitability of retinotectal axon terminals.
Electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS), the experimental analogue of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), has been shown to produce both functional and structural effects in the hippocampal formation in infrahuman species. These changes may relate to the antidepressant and cognitive effects of ECT observed in patients treated for severe depressive disorders. Recent studies have described both enhanced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and sprouting of mossy fibre projections from granule cells. The behavioural significance of these effects remains uncertain. In this study, we examined whether ketamine, a clinically available non-competitive NMDA receptor channel blocker, could block both of these &quot;trophic&quot; effects. Rats were given a course of eight spaced ECS or sham treatments under either halothane or ketamine anaesthesia. The thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine was administered to assess the degree of hippocampal cell proliferation and mossy fibre sprouting was quantified using the Timm staining method. Pre-treatment with ketamine dissociated these effects such that mossy fibre sprouting was attenuated significantly, while cell proliferation was unaffected. This dissociation may prove useful in determining the behavioural significance of these hippocampal changes, if any, for either the antidepressant or cognitive consequences of ECT.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) affects several CNS functions such as regulation of sleep, body temperature, and feeding during pathology. There is also evidence for TNFalpha involvement in physiological sleep regulation, e.g., TNFalpha induces sleep and brain levels of TNFalpha increase during prolonged wakefulness. The immediate cause of enhanced TNFalpha production in brain is unknown. We investigated whether glutamate could signal TNFalpha production because glutamate is a neurotransmitter associated with cell activation and wakefulness. We used primary cultures of fetal rat hypothalamic cells to examine the expression and release of TNFalpha. Immunostaining for neuron specific enolase revealed that the cultures were 50-60% neuronal and 40-50% non-neuronal cells. TNFalpha was detected in both the media and cells under basal conditions. Stimulation of the cells with 1 mM glutamate for 2 h produced an increase in media content of TNFalpha, whereas cell content was elevated at earlier time points. Using trypan blue exclusion and MTT assays, there was no evidence of cell toxicity with this stimulation protocol. Immunocytochemical staining revealed that TNFalpha was expressed by approximately 25% of the neurons and approximately 75% of the glial cell in the culture. Stimulation of the cultures with glutamate did not increase the percentage of cells expressing TNFalpha. We conclude that TNFalpha is constitutively expressed and released by healthy cultures of hypothalamic cells and that activation of the cells with a non-toxic challenge of glutamate increases TNFalpha production. These findings support the hypothesis that TNFalpha can participate in normal physiological regulation of sleep and feeding.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) was examined in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats of 8 (DM8) and 20 (DM20) weeks duration of diabetes mellitus (DM). DM8 animals showed significant LTP induction, although the potentiation of the synapses was significantly lower than in the control animals. No significant potentiation of the synapses could be demonstrated in DM20 animals. The different aspects of LTP induction in the DM8 animals were studied. The threshold of LTP induction was measured by stimulating the slices with 100 Hz frequency trains of stimuli containing different number of impulses. The results showed increased threshold for LTP induction in the DM8 animals compared to the controls. The late LTP (L-LTP) phase induction was studied by applying 3 repeated HFSs to the afferent fibers. Diabetic animals (DM8) slices failed to maintain the synaptic potentiation induced by the high frequency stimulations (HFSs) for more than 1 h.
By using a double immunofluorescence method we examined co-localization of neurokinin-3 receptor (NK-3R) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits in neurons of the substantia nigra of adult mice. Overlapping distribution of NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NR1)/AMPA receptor subunits 1-4 (GluR1-4) and NK-3R-immunoreactive neurons were found in the substantia nigra pars compacta. It revealed that all (100%) of NK-3R-positive neurons displayed NR1, GluR2 or GluR3 immunoreactivity, 80% of them showed GluR1 immunoreactivity. In contrast, these neurons exhibiting both NK-3R and GluR4 immunoreactivity were hardly detected although GluR4-positive neurons were still distributed in the substantia nigra. The co-expression of NK-3R and NMDA/AMPA receptor subunits in the nigral neurons has provided a structural basis for functional modulation of neuronal glutamate receptors by neurokinin-3, suggesting that neurokinin peptides may be involved in modulation of neuronal properties and excitotoxicity in the substantia nigra of basal ganglia.

We describe a comprehensive method for the analysis of complex proteomes, multiple gel-based technology (MGT), which combines in-gel IEF-LC-MS/MS and SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS strategies. MGT was applied to the analysis of the proteome of human pituitary tissue. A total of 1449 proteins were uniquely identified. To our knowledge, this is the most comprehensive proteomic analysis of human pituitary tissue to date. Categorization of the identified proteins revealed that MGT provides an excellent and largely unbiased access to proteins with diverse characteristics, including low-abundance proteins, membrane proteins, and proteins with extremes in pI and MW.
GeneInfoMiner is a web-based system for searching Medline abstracts using sequence ID lists such as GenBank accession numbers derived from high-throughput experiments. It will map query results to MeSH topics to facilitate the exploration of the biological significance of the sequence ID lists. GeneInfoMiner is based on a custom gene and protein name identification engine that can map gene and protein names to important molecular biology databases.

Incorporation of fluorine at the 4-position of an existing series of sulfonyl piperidine 5-HT2A antagonists gave compounds with increased selectivity over the IKr potassium channel. This work led to the identification of 3b, a compound that gave no increase in QTc in the anesthetized dog up to plasma levels as high as 148 microM. Furthermore, 3b has been shown to increase slow-wave sleep bout duration and to decrease the number of awakenings in rats, indicating the potential utility of 5-HT2A antagonists in the treatment of insomnia.
Although evidence suggests that there are impairments in skilled movements following very large lesions of the pyramidal component of the corticospinal tract, the behavioral and electrophysiological effects of partial lesion has not received equal attention. Here, rats with complete lesions or partial lesions (medial, central, or lateral third) of the pyramidal tract at the medullary pyramids were evaluated for their quantitative and qualitative postsurgical performance on a skilled reaching task, following which the topographic representation of their forelimb was mapped with intracortical microstimulation (ICMS). Complete lesions impaired reaching success, impaired the qualitative features of reaching movements, and abolished ICMS evoked movement from the forelimb region of motor cortex. Although partial lesions did not impair reaching success, they did impair qualitative aspects of limb movement including forepaw aiming, supination, and food pellet release. ICMS indicated a reduction in the size of the forelimb area, especially the distal area of the caudal forelimb area (CFA), of the motor map. The behavioral and electrophysiological impairments did not vary with lesion location within the pyramidal tract. The incomplete recovery, as measured both behaviorally and electrophysiologically, demonstrates that plasticity within the corticospinal system is limited even with lesions that permit substantial sparing of pyramidal tract fibers.
Patterning of the early neural tube is achieved in part by the inductive signals, which arise from neuroepithelial signaling centers. The zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI) is a neuroepithelial domain in the alar plate of the diencephalon which separates the prethalamus from the thalamus. The ZLI has recently been considered to be a possible secondary organizer, effecting its inductions via sonic hedgehog (Shh), a signaling molecule which drives morphogenetic information for the thalamus. Using experimental embryological techniques involving the generation of chimeric embryos, we show that the formation of the ZLI in the diencephalic alar plate is due to an interaction between the prechordal and epichordal plate neuroepithelia. We also provide evidence that Shh expression in the ZLI underlies the morphogenetic activity of this putative diencephalic organizer. Ectopic Shh led to the auto-induction of its own gene expression in host cells, as well as to the expression of other genes involved in diencephalic regionalization and histogenesis. Analysis of long-term surviving embryos after Shh ectopic expression demonstrated that Shh was able to induce thalamic structures and local overgrowth. Overall, these results indicate that Shh expressed in the ZLI plays an important role in diencephalic growth and in the development of the thalamus.
Specification of the endoderm precursor, the E cell, in Caenorhabditis elegans requires a genomic region called the Endoderm Determining Region (EDR). We showed previously that end-1, a gene within the EDR encoding a GATA-type transcription factor, restores endoderm specification to embryos deleted for the EDR and obtained evidence for genetic redundancy in this process. Here, we report molecular identification of end-3, a nearby paralog of end-1 in the EDR, and show that end-1 and end-3 together define the endoderm-specifying properties of the EDR. Both genes are expressed in the early E lineage and each is individually sufficient to specify endodermal fate in the E cell and in non-endodermal precursors when ectopically expressed. The loss of function of both end genes, but not either one alone, eliminates endoderm in nearly all embryos and results in conversion of E into a C-like mesectodermal precursor, similar to deletions of the EDR. While two putative end-1 null mutants display no overt phenotype, a missense mutation that alters a residue in the zinc finger domain of END-3 results in misspecification of E in approximately 9% of mutant embryos. We report that the EDR in C. briggsae, which is estimated to have diverged from C. elegans approximately 50--120 myr ago, contains three end-like genes, resulting from both the ancient duplication that produced end-1 and end-3 in C. elegans, and a more recent duplication of end-3 in the lineage specific to C. briggsae. Transgenes containing the C. briggsae end homologs show E lineage-specific expression and function in C. elegans, demonstrating their functional conservation. Moreover, RNAi experiments indicate that the C. briggsae end genes also function redundantly to specify endoderm. We propose that duplicated end genes have been maintained over long periods of evolution, owing in part to their synergistic function.
The pattern of growth of Purkinje cell dendrites has been analyzed and related to their interactions with Bergmann glial radial processes. In cerebellar slice cultures from mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter, Purkinje cells were transfected and imaged with two-photon microscopy over 2 days. We report that while the Purkinje cell dendritic tree grows, individual dendrites increase or decrease in length. Importantly, we demonstrate that vertical growth of Purkinje cell dendrites occurs primarily in alignment with radial glial processes. These findings suggest that radial glial processes provide a structural substrate for the directional growth of Purkinje cell dendrites, thus influencing the shape of the dendritic tree.
Mutations that disrupt trafficking to lysosomes and lysosome-related organelles cause multiple diseases, including Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. The Drosophila eye is a model system for analyzing such mutations. The eye-color genes carnation and deep orange encode two subunits of the Vps-C protein complex required for endosomal trafficking and pigment-granule biogenesis. Here we demonstrate that dVps16A (CG8454) encodes another Vps-C subunit. Biochemical experiments revealed a specific interaction between the dVps16A C-terminus and the Sec1/Munc18 homolog Carnation but not its closest homolog, dVps33B. Instead, dVps33B interacted with a related protein, dVps16B (CG18112). Deep orange bound both Vps16 homologs. Like a deep orange null mutation, eye-specific RNAi-induced knockdown of dVps16A inhibited lysosomal delivery of internalized ligands and interfered with biogenesis of pigment granules. Ubiquitous knockdown of dVps16A was lethal. Together, these findings demonstrate that Drosophila Vps16A is essential for lysosomal trafficking. Furthermore, metazoans have two types of Vps-C complexes with non-redundant functions.
Nuclei in the amygdala and bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BST) form functionally organized units that are linked by topographically organized connections. The posterodorsal part of the medial nucleus of the amygdala (MEApd) and the principal nucleus of the BST (BSTpr) share strong birectional connections that project primarily through the stria terminalis. The presence of structural and neurochemical sexual dimorphisms in both the MEApd and BSTpr suggests that connections between the nuclei may develop during the postnatal critical period for sexual differentiation. In this study, 1,1'dioctadecyl-3,3,3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) axonal labeling was used to define the ontogeny of this bidirectional pathway. Placement of DiI crystals into the MEApd of rats perfused on embryonic day (E) 20 resulted in DiI-labeled fibers with axonal morphology in the BSTpr, but similar labeling was not evident in the MEApd until after birth. However, as early as E14, tracer implants into the caudal MEA (the presumptive MEApd) labeled elongated cellular processes in the region of the stria terminalis that extended into the presumptive BSTpr. Based on the correspondence of these DiI-labeled processes with immunostaining for vimentin, these cellular processes are probably derived from glial cells. Implants of DiI into the posterior BST also labeled cellular processes that extended through the medial part of the stria terminalis, but they remained confined to the molecular layer of the MEApd from E14 through P1. Labeled axons derived from the BSTpr were not observed in the MEApd until P5, demonstrating that the bidirectional connections that exist between the MEApd and BSTpr in mature rats do not develop simultaneously. The density of connections between the BSTpr and MEApd increased during the postnatal period and was similar to that of adults by P15. These findings suggest that projections from the MEApd through the stria terminalis to the BSTpr may be specified initially by a glial substrate and that return projections to the amygdala from the BSTpr develop secondary to its innervation by the MEApd.
Here we describe quantitatively the birth and death of the two separate populations of neurons, ganglion cells and displaced amacrine cells, in the mouse retinal ganglion cell layer (GCL). The two cell types, which are roughly equally numerous, were distinguished pre- and postnatally by labeling the ganglion cells retrogradely with fluorescent dye. Embryos were labeled cumulatively with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) delivered by an osmotic minipump implanted in the mother; cell birth dates were established as having occurred before or after pump implantation. Early cohorts (GCL cells born before embryonic day [E] 11.8 and E12.8) were 98+/-1.1% and 99+/-0.2% ganglion cells (mean+/-SEM), respectively, and a late cohort (born after E15.8) was 97+/-1.2% displaced amacrines. Thus birth date was a strong predictor of a GCL cell's ultimate identity. Cell death in each cohort was estimated by counting cells at different time points (soon after the cohort was produced and later) and subtracting the later from the earlier number. This method avoids the problem of simultaneous birth and death that has plagued many of the earlier attempts to assess cell death. Negligible numbers died during the first week after a cell's birthday. The amount of cell death differed in the two cohorts; 48.5+/-15% and 29.0+/-12.4% in early and late, respectively, and most of it was postnatal. These findings disagree sharply with an earlier conclusion that ganglion cells die within 5 days of their birthdays or not at all.
Spinal cord injury induces a complex cascade of degenerative and remodeling events evolving over time. The possible roles of changed intercellular communication via gap junctions after spinal cord injury (SCI) have remained relatively unexplored. We investigated the temporospatial expression patterns of gap junctional genes and proteins, connexin 43 (Cx43), Cx36, and Cx32, by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry in the rat neonatal, adult normal, and adult injured spinal cord. Cx36 was strongly expressed in immature neurons, and levels declined markedly during development, whereas Cx43 and Cx32 persisted throughout adulthood. After a complete transection of the adult spinal cord, the levels of Cx43 mRNA and protein were up-regulated within hours, especially in gray matter rostral to the lesion, reaching over three times normal levels at 4 weeks postinjury. Cx43 immunoreactivity was seen primarily in astrocytes and rarely in microglia. In contrast, Cx36 and Cx32 mRNA and proteins were relatively sparse and unchanged after spinal cord injury along the entire axis of the spinal cord. Cx43 is the most abundant gap junctional protein in the adult CNS and has been shown to form channels between astrocytes as well as between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Long-term up-regulation of Cx43 in reactive astrocytes may be one critical component in the rearrangement of the local astroglial network following SCI.
T cell activation engages multiple intracellular signaling cascades, including the ERK1/2 (p44/p42) pathway. It has been suggested that ERKs integrate TCR signal strength, and are important for thymocyte development and positive selection. However, the requirement of ERKs for the effector functions of peripheral mature T cells and, specifically, for T cell-mediated autoimmunity has not been established. Moreover, the specific requirements for ERK1 vs ERK2 in T cells have not been resolved. Therefore, we investigated the role of ERK1 in T cell immunity to foreign and self Ags and in the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. The results show that in ERK1-deficient (ERK1-/-) mice, the priming, proliferation, and cytokine secretion of T cells to the self Ag myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55 and to the prototypic foreign Ag OVA are not impaired as compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, ERK1-/- mice are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55. Finally, thymocyte development and mitogen-induced proliferation were not impaired in ERK1-/- mice on the inbred 129 Sv and C57BL/6 backgrounds. Collectively, the data show that ERK1 is not critical for the function of peripheral T cells in the response to self and foreign Ags and in T cell-mediated autoimmunity, and suggest that its loss can be compensated by ERK2.
Myelopathy is a severe complication of cervical spondylosis (CS). We studied 27 consecutive patients with CS referred for evaluation for possible myelopathy using transcranial magnetic stimulation. The findings were compared with those from 20 normal controls. Magnetic resonance imaging was utilized to assess the degree of cord compromise. Central motor conduction time (CMCT) abnormalities showed equivalent diagnostic yield with pectoralis major (PM) recordings, as compared with combined first dorsal interossei and abductor hallucis recordings. Our findings show that CMCT measurement with PM recordings is of value as a diagnostic adjunct in the electrophysiological evaluation of myelopathy in CS.
Several lines of evidence in the literature purport the contribution of glutamate mediated excitotoxicity in the etiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) but the cellular mechanisms responsible for selective loss of motor neurons are still obscure. Elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) is considered as the early event in glutamate mediated cell injury. We have studied the changes in [Ca(2+)](i) and cytotoxicity in motor neurons and other spinal neurons in culture upon exposure to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from ALS patients. CSFs from 20 ALS patients and 20 disease control patients were examined. Eighteen out of twenty (90%) ALS-CSF samples induced a transient but pronounced elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) in neurons, whereas only 1/20 (5%) sample from disease control patients induced a marginal elevation of [Ca(2+)](i). Strikingly the [Ca(2+)](i) rise was 2-3-fold higher and longer lasting in motor neurons in comparison to the other spinal neurons. Exposure of cells to ALS-CSF drastically decreased the survival rate of motor neurons to 32.26+/-2.06% whereas a moderate decrease was observed in case of other spinal neurons (67.90+/-2.04%). In cultures treated with disease control CSF, a small decrease was observed in the survival rate with 80.14+/-2.00% and 90.07+/-1.37% survival of motor neuron and other spinal neurons respectively. The AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist NBQX rendered significant protection against the ALS-CSF induced Ca(2+) influx and neurotoxicity while the NMDA receptor antagonist APV showed a mild effect. Our data demonstrate that the exposure of spinal cord neurons to ALS-CSF differentially elevates [Ca(2+)](i) and neurotoxicity in motor neurons by activation of glutamate receptors, the AMPA/kainate receptor playing the major role.
Images of Golgi impregnated neurons from different laminae of the human and rat dorsal horns were subjected to a quantitative analysis to support the Rexed's laminar scheme in mammals. Four methods of fractal analysis were performed in the proceedings: box-counting, mass-radius, cumulative intersection, and vectorized intersection. The results show that the box-counting method is more precise than the other fractal methods performed, and offers support for the conclusion that fractal analysis can successfully discriminate the neuron populations among different laminae. The analysis supports the concept of Rexed's cytoarchitectonic lamination of the dorsal horn.
A novel method of oral drug administration was used in a neuroleptic animal study. Seventy male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly subdivided into four groups, which were treated with clozapine, haloperidol, diazepam or a vehicle solution (5% sucrose solution). Oral drug treatment was achieved by training the rats to drink the drug of choice mixed with five percent sucrose or vehicle solution from a syringe. Within 3-4 weeks the haloperidol group developed vacuous chewing movement, which did not disappear with discontinuation of the drug. Significant weight gain was observed for all drug groups in relation to the control group, whereas only the diazepam group showed a significant increase in response latency on the disengage test of sensorimotor function, which disappeared with drug withdrawal. A novel means of testing the motivational status showed that all drug-treated groups engaged in eating chocolate before grooming (t=11.69, p&lt;0.001), whereas the control group showed no specific tendency towards either task. Furthermore, there was a significant delay in grooming for the haloperidol group compared to the other drug groups and controls. In conclusion, a novel method of oral drug administration with minimum stress was introduced that was sufficient to cause the described changes in behavioural parameters. Additionally, the combination of tests used provided an efficient discrimination between the behavioural effects of clozapine, haloperidol and diazepam in rodents.
The application of antibodies to living neurones has the potential to modulate function of specific proteins by virtue of their high specificity. This specificity has proven effective in determining the involvement of many proteins in neuronal function where specific agonists and antagonists do not exist, e.g. ion channel subunits. We discuss studies where antibodies modulate functions of voltage gated sodium, voltage gated potassium, voltage gated calcium hyperpolarisation activated cyclic nucleotide (HCN gated) and transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. Ligand gated channels studied in this way include nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, purinoceptors and GABA receptors. Antibodies have also helped reveal the involvement of different intracellular proteins in neuronal functions including G-proteins as well as other proteins involved in trafficking, phosphoinositide signalling and neurotransmitter release. Some suggestions for control experiments are made to help validate the method. We conclude that antibodies can be extremely valuable in determining the functions of specific proteins in living neurones in neuroscience research.
Great interest exists in using cell replacement strategies to repair the damaged central nervous system. Previous studies have shown that grafting rat fetal spinal cord into neonate or adult animals after spinal cord injury leads to improved anatomic growth/plasticity and functional recovery. It is clear that fetal tissue transplants serve as a scaffold for host axon growth. In addition, embryonic Day 14 (E14) spinal cord tissue transplants are also a rich source of neural-restricted and glial-restricted progenitors. To evaluate the potential of E14 spinal cord progenitor cells, we used in vitro-expanded neurospheres derived from embryonic rat spinal cord and showed that these cells grafted into lesioned neonatal rat spinal cord can survive, migrate, and differentiate into neurons and oligodendrocytes, but rarely into astrocytes. Synapses and partially myelinated axons were detected within the transplant lesion area. Transplanted progenitor cells resulted in increased plasticity or regeneration of corticospinal and brainstem-spinal fibers as determined by anterograde and retrograde labeling. Furthermore, transplantation of these cells promoted functional recovery of locomotion and reflex responses. These data demonstrate that progenitor cells when transplanted into neonates can function in a similar capacity as transplants of solid fetal spinal cord tissue.
An in situ hybridisation technique was used to analyse the spatial and temporal pattern of expression of the mRNA encoding the four gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptor subunits (alpha1, alpha2, beta2, and gamma2) in the developing chick optic tectum. As a rule, layer i, layer h, and transient cell compartment 3 (TCC3) show the highest levels of expression, especially of alpha1, alpha2 and beta2, which undergo striking changes as a function of time. Apart from these common features, the global pattern is highly complex and dynamic. Such complexity derives from the fact that each subunit exhibits a characteristically distinct pattern of expression and the temporal evolution of each differs in the different layers of the tectum. The influence of several developmental cell behaviours such as proliferation, neuronal migration, programmed cell death, and differentiation must be taken into account to understand pattern complexity and dynamics. Our results suggest that differences in the rate of subunit expression, particularly of alpha1, alpha2, and beta2, could have significant consequences on GABA(A) receptor complex subunit composition along development and on the functional properties of the GABA neurotransmitter system.
The TRPV4 ion channel, previously named vanilloid receptor-related osmotically activated channel (VR-OAC), functions in vivo in the transduction of osmotic and mechanical stimuli. In trpv4 null mice, TRPV4 was found to be necessary for the maintenance of systemic osmotic equilibrium, and for normal thresholds in response to noxious mechanical stimuli. In a Caenorhabditis elegans TRPV mutant transgenic for mammalian TRPV4, the mammalian transgene was directing the osmotic and mechanical avoidance response in the context of the ASH 'nociceptive' neurone. Molecular mechanisms of gating of TRPV4 in vivo are not known at this point and have to be determined.
Whether there is a projection from the primary motor cortex (M1) to upper facial muscles and how the facial M1 area is modulated by intracortical inhibitory and facilitatory circuits remains controversial. To assess these issues, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the M1 and recorded from resting and active contralateral (C-OOc) and ipsilateral orbicularis oculi (I-OOc), and contralateral (C-Tr) and ipsilateral triangularis (I-Tr) muscles in 12 volunteers. In five subjects, the effects of stimulating at different scalp positions were assessed. Paired TMS at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 2 ms were used to elicit short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and ISI of 10 ms for intracortical facilitation (ICF). Long interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) was evaluated at ISIs between 50 and 200 ms, both at rest and during muscle activation. The silent period (SP) was also determined. C-OOc and I-OOc responses were recorded in all subjects. The optimal position for eliciting C-OOc responses was lateral to the hand representation in all subjects and MEP amplitude markedly diminished when the coil was placed 2 cm away from the optimal position. For the I-OOc, responses were present in more scalp sites and the latency decreased with more anterior placement of the coil. C-Tr response was recorded in 10 out of 12 subjects and the I-Tr muscle showed either no response or low amplitude response, probably due to volume conduction. SICI and ICF were present in the C-OOc and C-Tr, but not in the I-OOc muscle. Muscle activation attenuated SICI and ICF. LICI at rest showed facilitation at 50 ms ISI in all muscles, but there was no significant inhibition at other ISIs. There was no significant inhibition or facilitation with the LICI protocol during muscle contraction. The SP was present in the C-OOc, C-Tr and I-OOc muscles and the mean durations ranged from 92 to 104 ms. These findings suggest that the I-OOc muscle response is probably related to the first component (R1) of the blink reflex. There is M1 projection to the contralateral upper and lower facial muscles in humans and the facial M1 area is susceptible to cortical inhibition and facilitation, similar to limb muscles.
We used a conductive fibre electrode placed in the lower conjunctival sac to record the a-wave of the human photopic electroretinogram elicited by bright white flashes, delivered during, or at different times after, exposure of the eye to bright white illumination that bleached a large fraction (approximately 90%) of the cone photopigment. During steady-state exposures of this intensity, the amplitude of the bright-flash response declined to approximately 50% of its dark-adapted level. After the intense background was turned off, the amplitude of the bright-flash response recovered substantially, for flashes presented within 20 ms of background extinction, and fully, for flashes presented 100 ms after extinction. In addition, a prominent 'background-off a-wave' was observed, beginning within 5-10 ms of background extinction. We interpret these results to show, firstly, that human cones are able to preserve around half of their circulating current during steady-state illumination that bleaches 90% of their pigment and, secondly, that following extinction of such illumination, the cone circulating current is restored within a few tens of milliseconds. This behaviour is in stark contrast to that in human rods, where the circulating current is obliterated by a background that bleaches only a few percent of the pigment, and where full recovery following a large bleach takes at least 20 min, some 50,000 times more slowly than shown here for human cones.
The main objective of the present study was to perform an unbiased comparison of immersion vs. perfusion techniques to assess whether we could use the former to quantify synapses through electron microscopy (EM). Using the immersion technique is ideally suited for instances in which the specimen under study could not be perfused under the standard EM protocol. Our results suggest that, despite suboptimal qualitative results, fixation by immersion allows for adequate quantification of synapses.
We show that during visual working memory, the electroencephalographic (EEG) process producing 5-7 Hz frontal midline theta (fmtheta) activity exhibits multiple spectral modes involving at least three frequency bands and a wide range of amplitudes. The process accounting for the fmtheta increase during working memory was separated from 71-channel data by clustering on time/frequency transforms of components returned by independent component analysis (ICA). Dipole models of fmtheta component scalp maps were consistent with their generation in or near dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. From trial to trial, theta power of fmtheta components varied widely but correlated moderately with theta power in other frontal and left temporal processes. The weak mean increase in frontal midline theta power with increasing memory load, produced entirely by the fmtheta components, largely reflected progressively stronger theta activity in a relatively small proportion of trials. During presentations of letter series to be memorized or ignored, fmtheta components also exhibited 12-15 Hz low-beta activity that was stronger during memorized than during ignored letter trials, independent of letter duration. The same components produced a brief 3-Hz burst 500 ms after onset of the Probe letter following each letter sequence. A new decomposition method, log spectral ICA, applied to normalized log time/frequency transforms of fmtheta component Memorize-letter trials, showed that their low-beta activity reflected harmonic energy in continuous, sharp-peaked theta wave trains as well as independent low-beta bursts. Possibly, the observed fmtheta process variability may index dynamic adjustments in medial frontal cortex to trial-specific behavioral context and task demands.
Pulmonary hypertension associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection also involves injury to the lung endothelium. However, the pathogenesis of HIV-induced pulmonary hypertension is not known; we hypothesized that HIV or secreted viral proteins could play a role in vascular injury and the increased frequency of pulmonary hypertension observed in HIV-infected patients. Here, we report that exposure of HIV-1 gp120 proteins to primary human lung microvascular endothelial cells causes apoptosis, as assessed by TUNEL assay, Annexin-V staining, and DNA laddering. Using ribonuclease protection assay and Western blotting we find that gp120-induced apoptosis of lung endothelial cells involves a down-regulation in Bcl-xl mRNA and proteins. In addition, gp120 significantly increases secretion of the potent vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 by human lung endothelial cells. These data suggest that secreted HIV gp120 proteins induce lung endothelial cell injury and could contribute to the development of HIV-associated pulmonary hypertension.
gamma-secretase catalyzes the intramembrane cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Notch after their extracellular domains are shed by site-specific proteolysis. Nicastrin is an essential glycoprotein component of the gamma-secretase complex but has no known function. We now show that the ectodomain of nicastrin binds the new amino terminus that is generated upon proteolysis of the extracellular APP and Notch domains, thereby recruiting the APP and Notch substrates into the gamma-secretase complex. Chemical- or antibody-mediated blocking of the free amino terminus, addition of purified nicastrin ectodomain, or mutations in the ectodomain markedly reduce the binding and cleavage of substrate by gamma-secretase. These results indicate that nicastrin is a receptor for the amino-terminal stubs that are generated by ectodomain shedding of type I transmembrane proteins. Our data are consistent with a model where nicastrin presents these substrates to gamma-secretase and thereby facilitates their cleavage via intramembrane proteolysis.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease characterized by various symptoms including cerebellar ataxia. Recently, several missense mutations in the protein kinase Cgamma (gammaPKC) gene have been found in different SCA14 families. To elucidate how the mutant gammaPKC causes SCA14, we examined the molecular properties of seven mutant (H101Y, G118D, S119P, S119F, Q127R, G128D, and F643L) gammaPKCs fused with green fluorescent protein (gammaPKC-GFP). Wild-type gammaPKC-GFP was expressed ubiquitously in the cytoplasm of CHO cells, whereas mutant gammaPKC-GFP tended to aggregate in the cytoplasm. The insolubility of mutant gammaPKC-GFP to Triton X-100 was increased and correlated with the extent of aggregation. gammaPKC-GFP in the Triton-insoluble fraction was rarely phosphorylated at Thr(514), whereas gammaPKC-GFP in the Triton-soluble fraction was phosphorylated. Furthermore, the stimulation of the P2Y receptor triggered the rapid aggregation of mutant gammaPKC-GFP within 10 min after transient translocation to the plasma membrane. Overexpression of the mutant gammaPKC-GFP caused cell death that was more prominent than wild type. The cytotoxicity was exacerbated in parallel with the expression level of the mutant. These results indicate that SCA14 mutations make gammaPKC form cytoplasmic aggregates, suggesting the involvement of this property in the etiology of SCA14.
EphB6 is a unique member in the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases in that its kinase domain contains several alterations in conserved amino acids and is catalytically inactive. Although EphB6 is expressed both in a variety of embryonic and adult tissues, biological functions of this receptor are largely unknown. In the present study, we examined the function of EphB6 in cell adhesion and migration. We demonstrated that EphB6 exerted biphasic effects in response to different concentrations of the ephrin-B2 ligand; EphB6 promoted cell adhesion and migration when stimulated with low concentrations of ephrin-B2, whereas it induced repulsion and inhibited migration upon stimulation with high concentrations of ephrin-B2. A truncated EphB6 receptor lacking the cytoplasmic domain showed monophasic-positive effects on cell adhesion and migration, indicating that the cytoplasmic domain is essential for the negative effects. EphB6 is constitutively associated with the Src family kinase Fyn. High concentrations of ephrin-B2 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of EphB6 through an Src family kinase activity. These results indicate that EphB6 can both positively and negatively regulate cell adhesion and migration, and suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of the receptor by an Src family kinase acts as the molecular switch for the functional transition.
The purpose of these studies was to examine possible mechanisms of Orphanin FQ/Nociceptin (OFQ/N)-induced prolactin release. We investigated the involvement of the dopaminergic neurons by quantifying DOPAC:DA levels in the median eminence and neurointermediate lobe following central administration of OFQ/N to female Sprague-Dawley rats. To specifically determine the involvement of the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons, immunocytochemical studies were conducted to visualize c-fos protein expression in the arcuate nucleus following central administration of OFQ/N. In addition, the role of serotonergic activation was examined in dose response studies using the selective serotonin antagonist ritansarin and the nonselective antagonist metergoline. Finally, the pharmacological specificity of the prolactin response was examined by pretreating animals with [Nphe1] NC (1-13)NH2, a drug reported to antagonize OFQ/N effects. The results of these studies indicate that the increase in prolactin release following central administration of OFQ/N does not inhibit tuberoinfundibular, tuberohypophyseal or periventricular hypophysial dopaminergic neuronal activity at 10 min after drug administration, a time when prolactin levels were significantly elevated. Furthermore, serotonergic activation is not involved since pharmacological blockade of serotonergic receptors did not alter the prolactin secretory response to OFQ/N. NC (1-13)NH2 did not antagonize the stimulatory effects of OFQ/N on prolactin secretion. The neural effects of OFQ/N on dopaminergic neuronal activity may occur following a different time course than that of the prolactin increase.
The aim of this study was to compare the properties of the nociceptive system in eight migraine without aura patients in the pain-free phase with 10 healthy controls, by evaluating the topography and the source of the CO2 laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) obtained by the right supraorbital skin, during and after capsaicin topical application. In healthy subjects the acute cutaneous pain induced by capsaicin reduced the amplitude of the vertex LEPs and induced a posterior shifting of the P2 wave dipolar source within the anterior cingulate cortex. These functional changes seemed significantly reduced in migraine patients, for a disturbed pattern of pain modulation at the cortical level, which may subtend the onset and persistence of migraine.
Acupuncture has been used extensively in facilitating motor recovery after stroke. Its mechanism of action remains uncertain. In this sham-controlled study, we demonstrate for the first time that acupuncture has a real and enduring effect on motor cortex functional changes, in terms of cortical excitability and output mapping using transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) refers to sublethal ischemic insults rendering brain tissue tolerant against subsequent ischemic insults. We investigated the role of the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) upon IPC induction. Rat organotypic hippocampal slices were subjected to IPC by 15 min of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by 40 min of OGD 48 h later, resulting in robust cell death reduction as assessed by the propidium iodide fluorescence method ('late' or 'second window' IPC). Superfusion with the GABA(A)R antagonist bicuculline during IPC ameliorated propidium iodide uptake at a high but not at low doses indicating that GABA(A)R activation may be assigned a limited role in neuroprotection. In previous studies, we found that increased neuronal excitability can promote IPC neuroprotection. We, therefore, tested the hypothesis that blockade of inhibitory GABAergic transmission conferred ischemic tolerance. However, temporary administration of bicuculline 48 h prior to ischemic challenge was not neuroprotective. In another approach, we tested whether preconditioning with the GABA(A)R agonist, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP) mediated ischemic tolerance and found no significant neuroprotection. The results are discussed in light of the intrinsic excitatory-inhibitory balance of glutamate and GABA.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) often leads to the generation of chronic intractable neuropathic pain. The mechanisms that lead to chronic central neuropathic pain (CNP) following SCI are not well understood, resulting in ineffective treatments for pain relief. Studies have demonstrated persistent hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons which may provide a substrate for CNP. We propose a number of similarities between CNP mechanisms and mechanisms that occur in long-term potentiation, in which hippocampal neurons are hyperexcitable. One biochemical similarity may be activation of the transcription factor, cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), via phosphorylation (pCREB). The current study was designed to examine whether tactile allodynia that develops in segments rostral to SCI (at-level pain) correlates with an increase in CREB phosphorylation in specific neurons known to be involved in allodynia, the spinothalamic tract (STT) cells. This study determined that, in animals experiencing at-level allodynia 35 days after SCI, pCREB was upregulated in the spinal cord segment rostral to the injury. In addition, pCREB was found to be upregulated specifically in STT cells in the rostral segment 35 days after SCI. These findings suggest one mechanism of maintained central neuropathic pain following SCI involves persistent upregulation of pCREB expression within STT cells.
Visual world experience is thought to play a significant role in the development of an abstract representation of quantity in the human brain. Nevertheless, some congenitally blind individuals demonstrate excellent numerical abilities. We show that blind adults have a phenomenologically normal semantic representation of number. Electro-encephalography data demonstrate that the numerical distance effect has similar parietal correlates both in the blind and in matched sighted controls. Our interpretation is that number comparison in the blind relies on a compensation network in the initial phase of number comparison. In a second phase, an evolutionarily hardwired parietal system is exploited. The representation of number meaning has both plastic and evolutionarily hardwired components.

The opening and closing of voltage-activated Na+, Ca2+ and K+ (Kv) channels underlies electrical and chemical signalling throughout biology, yet the structural basis of voltage sensing is unknown. Hanatoxin is a tarantula toxin that inhibits Kv channels by binding to voltage-sensor paddles, crucial helix-turn-helix motifs within the voltage-sensing domains that are composed of S3b and S4 helices. The active surface of the toxin is amphipathic, and related toxins have been shown to partition into membranes, raising the possibility that the toxin is concentrated in the membrane and interacts only weakly and transiently with the voltage sensors. Here we examine the kinetics and state dependence of the toxin-channel interaction and the physical location of the toxin in the membrane. We find that hanatoxin forms a strong and stable complex with the voltage sensors, far outlasting fluctuations of the voltage sensors between resting (closed) conformations at negative voltages and activated (open) conformations at positive voltages. Toxin affinity is reduced by voltage-sensor activation, explaining why the toxin stabilizes the resting conformation. We also find that when hanatoxin partitions into membranes it is localized to an interfacial region, with Trp 30 positioned about 8.5 A from the centre of the bilayer. These results demonstrate that voltage-sensor paddles activate with a toxin as cargo, and suggest that the paddles traverse no more than the outer half of the bilayer during activation.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is the most commonly mutated gene in benign tumors of the human nervous system such as schwannomas and meningiomas. The NF2 gene encodes a protein called schwannomin or merlin, which is involved in regulating cell growth and proliferation through protein-protein interactions with various cellular proteins. In order to better understand the mechanism by which merlin exerts its function, yeast two-hybrid screening was performed and Ral guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulator (RalGDS), a downstream molecule of Ras, was identified as a merlin-binding protein. The direct interaction between merlin and RalGDS was confirmed both in vitro and in the NIH3T3 cells. The domain analyses revealed that the broad C-terminal region of merlin (aa 141-595) is necessary for the interaction with the C-terminal Ras-binding domain (RBD) of RalGDS. Functional studies showed that merlin inhibits the RalGDS-induced RalA activation, the colony formation and the cell migration in mammalian cells. These results suggest that merlin can function as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting the RalGDS-mediated oncogenic signals.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) have been implicated in numerous cellular processes, including proliferation, migration, differentiation, and survival. Whereas FGF-2, the prototypic ligand in a family of 22 members, activates all four tyrosine kinase FGF receptors (FGFR1-FGFR4), other members demonstrate a higher degree of selectivity. Oligodendrocytes (OLs), the myelin-producing cells of the CNS, are highly influenced by FGF-2 at all stages of their development. However, how other FGFs and their cognate receptors orchestrate the development of OLs is essentially undefined. Using a combination of specific FGF ligands and receptor blocking antibodies, we now show that FGF-8 and FGF-17 target OL progenitors, inhibiting their terminal differentiation via the activation of FGFR3, whereas FGF-9 specifically targets differentiated OLs, triggering increases in process growth via FGFR2 signaling; FGF-18 targets both OL progenitors and OLs via activation of both FGFR2 and FGFR3. These events are highly correlated with changes in FGF receptor expression from FGFR3 to FGFR2 as OL progenitors differentiate into mature OLs. In addition, we demonstrate that, although activation of FGFR1 by FGF-2 leads to proliferation of OL progenitors, it produces deleterious effects on differentiated OLs (i.e., aberrant reentry into cell cycle and down-regulation of myelin proteins with a loss of myelin membrane). These data suggest that ligand availability, coupled with changes in FGF receptor expression, yield a changing repertoire of ligand-receptor signaling complexes that contribute critically to the regulation of both normal OL development and potential OL/myelin pathogenesis.
In response to glutamatergic synaptic drive, striatal medium spiny neurons in vivo transition to a depolarized &quot;up state&quot; near spike threshold. In the up state, medium spiny neurons either depolarize enough to spike or remain below spike threshold and are silent before returning to the hyperpolarized &quot;down state.&quot; Previous work has suggested that subthreshold K+ channel currents were responsible for this dichotomous behavior, but the channels giving rise to the current and the factors determining its engagement have been a mystery. To move toward resolution of these questions, perforated-patch recordings from medium spiny neurons in tissue slices were performed. K+ channels with pharmacological and kinetic features of KCNQ channels potently regulated spiking at up-state potentials. Single-cell reverse transcriptase-PCR confirmed the expression of KCNQ2, KCNQ3, and KCNQ5 mRNAs in medium spiny neurons. KCNQ channel currents in these cells were potently reduced by M1 muscarinic receptors, because the effects of carbachol were blocked by M1 receptor antagonists and lost in neurons lacking M1 receptors. Reversal of the modulation was blocked by a phosphoinositol 4-kinase inhibitor, indicating a requirement for phosphotidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate resynthesis for recovery. Inhibition of protein kinase C reduced the efficacy of the muscarinic modulation. Finally, acceleration of cholinergic interneuron spiking with 4-aminopyridine mimicked the effects of exogenous agonist application. Together, these results show that KCNQ channels are potent regulators of the excitability of medium spiny neurons at up-state potentials, and they are modulated by intrastriatal cholinergic interneurons, providing a mechanistic explanation for variability in spiking during up states seen in vivo.
Accumulating evidence indicates that phobic and posttraumatic anxiety disorders likely result from a failure to extinguish fear memories. Extinction normally depends on a new learning that competes with the original fear memory and is driven by medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) projections to the amygdala. Although mPFC stimulation was reported to inhibit the central medial (CEm) amygdala neurons that mediate fear responses via their brainstem and hypothalamic projections, it is unclear how this inhibition is generated. Because the mPFC has very sparse projections to CEm output neurons, the mPFC-evoked inhibition of the CEm is likely indirect. Thus, this study tested whether it resulted from a feedforward inhibition of basolateral amygdala (BLA) neurons that normally relay sensory inputs to the CEm. However, our results indicate that mPFC inputs excite rather than inhibit BLA neurons, implying that the inhibition of CEm cells is mediated by an active gating mechanism downstream of the BLA.
Recent studies indicate that the basolateral amygdala exhibits fast rhythmic oscillations during emotional arousal, but the neuronal mechanisms underlying this activity are not known. Similar oscillations in the cerebral cortex are generated by a network of parvalbumin (PV)-immunoreactive interneurons interconnected by chemical synapses and dendritic gap junctions. The present immunoelectron microscopic study revealed that the basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa) contains a network of parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV+) interneurons interconnected by chemical synapses, dendritic gap junctions, and axonal gap junctions. Twenty percent of synapses onto PV+ neurons were formed by PV+ axon terminals. All of these PV+ synapses were symmetrical. PV+ perikarya exhibited the greatest incidence of PV+ synapses (30%), with lower percentages associated with PV+ dendrites (15%) and spines (25%). These synapses comprised half of all symmetrical synapses formed with PV+ cells. A total of 18 dendrodendritic gap junctions between PV+ neurons were observed, mostly involving secondary and more distal dendrites (0.5-1.0 microm thick). Dendritic gap junctions were often in close proximity to PV+ chemical synapses. Six gap junctions were observed between PV+ axon terminals. In most cases, one or both of these terminals formed synapses with the perikarya of principal neurons. This is the first study to describe dendritic gap junctions interconnecting PV+ interneurons in the basolateral amygdala. It also provides the first documentation of gap junctions between interneuronal axon terminals in the mammalian forebrain. These data provide the anatomical basis for a PV+ network that may play a role in the generation of rhythmic oscillations in the BLa during emotional arousal.
Addiction is believed to involve glutamate-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity that promote the formation of new habits focused on drug seeking. We used primary cultures of rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons to explore mechanisms by which dopamine-releasing psychomotor stimulants such as cocaine and amphetamine influence synaptic plasticity, focusing on AMPA receptor trafficking because of its key role in long-term potentiation (LTP). Brief stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors increased surface expression of glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1)-containing AMPA receptors through a protein kinase A-dependent mechanism, by increasing their rate of externalization at extrasynaptic sites. Newly externalized GluR1 remained extrasynaptic under basal conditions but could be translocated into synapses by subsequent NMDA receptor activation. These results suggest that D1 receptors may facilitate LTP by increasing the AMPA receptor pool available for synaptic insertion. However, stimulation of D2 receptors decreased surface and synaptic GluR1 expression. These findings are discussed in the context of evidence that D1 and D2 receptors act independently rather than antagonistically in the intact PFC. D1 receptor facilitation of AMPA receptor synaptic insertion helps explain D1 receptor-dependent facilitation of LTP and learning in the normal brain. Abnormal engagement of this mechanism during unregulated dopamine release may account for maladaptive plasticity after repeated exposure to cocaine or amphetamine.
Synchronous activity is common in the neocortex, although its significance, mechanisms, and development are poorly understood. Previous work showed that networks of electrically coupled inhibitory interneurons called low-threshold spiking (LTS) cells can fire synchronously when stimulated by metabotropic glutamate receptors. Here we found that the coordinated inhibition emerging from an activated LTS network could induce correlated spiking patterns among neighboring excitatory cells. Synchronous activity among LTS cells was absent at postnatal day 12 (P12) but appeared abruptly over the next few days. The rapid development of the LTS-synchronizing system coincided with the maturation of the inhibitory outputs and intrinsic membrane properties of the neurons. In contrast, the incidence and magnitude of electrical synapses remained constant between P8 and P15. The developmental transformation of LTS interneurons into a synchronous, oscillatory network overlaps with the onset of active somatosensory exploration, suggesting a potential role for this synchronizing system in sensory processing.
In developing neurons, synaptic vesicles (SVs) undergo cycles of exo-endocytosis along isolated axons. However, it is currently unknown whether SV exocytosis is regulated before synaptogenesis. Here, we show that cAMP-dependent pathways affect SV distribution and recycling in the axonal growth cone and that these effects are mediated by the SV-associated phosphoprotein synapsin I. The presence of synapsin I on SVs is necessary for the correct localization of the vesicles in the central portion of the growth cone. Phosphorylation of synapsin I by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A) causes the dissociation of the protein from the SV membrane, allowing diffusion of the vesicles to the periphery of the growth cone and enhancing their rate of recycling. These results provide new clues as to the bases of the well known activity of synapsin I in synapse maturation and indicate that molecular mechanisms similar to those operating at mature nerve terminals are active in developing neurons to regulate the SV life cycle before synaptogenesis.
Ethanol (EtOH) disrupts the structure and function of the developing nervous system, sometimes leading to birth defects associated with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Animal FAS models indicate that cellular membrane peroxidation, intracellular oxidant accumulation, and suppression of endogenous antioxidant enzymes contribute to the toxic effects of EtOH. Mitochondrially targeted vitamin E (MitoVit E), a chemically engineered form of vitamin E (VE) designed to accumulate in the mitochondria, has been shown to inhibit intracellular oxidant accumulation and cell death more effectively than VE. In previous investigations, we have shown that, in vivo, VE reduces neuronal death in the developing cerebellum of EtOH-exposed animals, and, in vitro, VE prevents apoptotic and necrotic death of EtOH-exposed cerebellar granule cells (CGCs). The present investigation shows that, in a FAS CGC model, 1 nM MitoVit E renders significant neuroprotection against EtOH concentrations as high as 1600 mg/dL. The present study also demonstrates that, in this same model, MitoVit E mitigates EtOH-induced accumulation of intracellular oxidants and counteracts suppression of glutathione peroxidase/glutathione reductase (GSH-Px/GSSG-R) functions, protein expression of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), and total cellular glutathione (GSH) levels. In the presence and absence of EtOH, VE amplifies the protein expression levels of gamma-GCS, an enzyme that performs the rate-limiting step for GSH synthesis, and total GSH levels. These results suggest that MitoVit E and VE ameliorate EtOH toxicity through non-oxidant mechanisms-modulations of endogenous cellular proteins-and antioxidant means.
The synthesis of nitric oxide by the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is involved in the androgen-dependent gating of male-typical copulatory behavior, both centrally, particularly in the preoptic area, and peripherally, notably through its role in penile erection. In the all-female whiptail lizard species Cnemidophorus uniparens, individuals display copulatory behaviors indistinguishable from males of similar species if gonadectomized and treated with testosterone. In this experiment, androgenized individuals were treated with a NOS inhibitor, which eliminated male-like behavior in half the individuals, suggesting that the central role of nitric oxide synthesis is conserved in this species. The deficit was principally in mounting, suggesting that sexual motivational systems were affected, rather than consummatory mechanisms.
The influence of pulsed magnetic fields (PMF) on the release and uptake of glutamate was investigated. While the release was examined using hippocampal slices, synaptosomes were chosen to characterize the uptake process. (3)H-D-aspartate was used as a marker of glutamergic transmission. The pulsed magnetic fields (9-15 mT) applied according to the pattern which induced epileptic discharges in hippocampus amplified and attenuated the release and uptake of glutamate, respectively. However, the magnetic fields which induced an increase in neuronal excitability without concomitant seizures amplified both processes. These results confirm our previous reports and indicate that the glutamergic synapses are the target of magnetic fields action.
Esophageal sensory afferent inputs terminate principally in the central subnucleus of the tractus solitarius (cNTS). Neurons of the cNTS comprise two major neurochemical subpopulations. One contains neurons that are nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactive (-IR) while the other comprises neurons that are tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-IR. We have shown recently that TH-IR neurons are involved in esophageal-distention induced gastric relaxation. We used whole cell patch clamp techniques in rat brainstem slices combined with immunohistochemical and morphological reconstructions to characterize cNTS neurons. Postrecording reconstruction of cNTS neurons revealed two morphological neuronal subtypes; one group of cells (41 out of 131 neurons, i.e., 31%) had a multipolar soma, while the other group (87 out of 131 neurons, i.e., 66%) had a bipolar soma. Of the 43 cells in which we conducted a neurochemical examination, 15 displayed TH-IR (9 with bipolar morphology, 6 with multipolar morphology) while the remaining 28 neurons did not display TH-IR (18 with bipolar morphology, 10 with multipolar morphology). Even though the range of electrophysiological properties varied significantly, morphological or neurochemical distinctions did not reveal characteristics peculiar to the subgroups. Spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSC) recorded in cNTS neurons had a frequency of 1.5 +/- 0.15 events s(-1) and an amplitude of 27 +/- 1.2 pA (Vh = -50 mV) and were abolished by pretreatment with 30 muM AP-5 and 10 muM CNQX, indicating the involvement of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors. Some cNTS neurons also received a GABAergic input that was abolished by perfusion with 30-50 muM bicuculline. In conclusion, our data show that despite the heterogeneity of morphological and neurochemical membrane properties, the electrophysiological characteristics of cNTS neurons are not a distinguishing feature.
The damage caused by traumatic central nervous system (CNS) injury can be divided into two phases: primary and secondary. The initial injury destroys many of the local neurons and glia and triggers secondary mechanisms that result in further cell loss. Approximately 50% of the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the spared white matter of the epicenter die by 24 h after spinal cord injury (SCI), but their densities return to normal levels by 6 weeks. This repopulation is largely due to the proliferation of local progenitors that divide in response of CNS injury. Previous studies indicate that the secondary events that cause cell death after SCI also increase the local levels of several growth factors that stimulate the proliferation of these endogenous progenitors. We compared the spatial pattern of the post-injury up-regulation of the pro-mitotic growth factors with that of 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation to determine if each could play a role in proliferation. Three days after a standard contusive SCI or laminectomy, animals received intraperitoneal BrdU injections to label dividing cells and were perfused 2 h after the last injection. Immunohistochemistry for BrdU and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2) and in situ hybridization for ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and glial growth factor (GGF2) mRNA were used to compare the number of dividing cells with growth factor levels in sections 2 and 4 mm from the epicenter. All three growth factors are significantly up-regulated 3 days after SCI, when cell proliferation is maximal. The increase in GGF2 and FGF2 levels is highest in sections 2 mm rostral to the epicenter, mimicking BrdU incorporation. Addition of rhGGF2 to cultured cells isolated from the spinal cord 3 days after SCI increased the number of NG2+ glial progenitors. These data suggest that FGF2 and GGF2 may contribute to the spontaneous recovery observed after SCI by stimulating the proliferation of local progenitors that help repopulate the injured cord.

Homeobox transcription-factor codes control motor-neuron subtype identity and dorsal versus ventral axon guidance in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems; however, the specific axon guidance-receptors that are regulated by these transcription factors to control pathfinding are poorly defined. In Drosophila, the Even-skipped (Eve) transcription factor specifies dorsal motor-axon projection through the regulation of unidentified guidance molecules. The Netrins and their attractive and repulsive receptors DCC and Unc-5, respectively, define important conserved cue and receptor families that control growth-cone guidance. In Drosophila, the Netrins and frazzled (the fly homolog of DCC) contribute to motor-axon guidance. Here, using genetics and single-cell mRNA-expression analysis, we show that expression and requirement of different Netrin receptor combinations correlate with distinct dorsal and ventral motor-axon projections in Drosophila. Mis-expression of eve dorsalizes ventral axons in part through the upregulation of Unc-5, whereas loss of eve function in two dorsally projecting motor neurons results in aberrant axon projections and a failure to express Unc-5. Our results support a functional link between the expression of distinct Netrin receptor combinations and the transcriptional control of dorsal motor-axon guidance.
The vestibular organs in the inner ear are commonly thought of as sensors that serve balance, gaze control, and higher spatial functions such as navigation. Here, we investigate their role in the online control of voluntary movements. The central nervous system uses sensory feedback information during movement to detect and correct errors as they develop. Vestibular organs signal three-dimensional head rotations and translations and so could provide error information for body movements that transport the head in space. To test this, we electrically stimulated human vestibular nerves during a goal-directed voluntary tilt of the trunk. The stimulating current waveform was made identical to the angular velocity profile of the head in the roll plane. With this, we could proportionally increase or decrease the rate of vestibular nerve firing, as if the head were rotating faster or slower than it actually was. In comparison to movements performed without stimulation, subjects tilted their trunk faster and further or slower and less far, depending upon the polarity of the stimulus. The response was negligible when identical stimulus waveforms were replayed to stationary subjects. We conclude that the brain uses vestibular information for online error correction of planned body-movement trajectories.

Fragile X syndrome, the most frequent form of hereditary mental retardation, is due to a mutation of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene on the X chromosome. Like fragile X patients, FMR1-knockout (FMR1-KO) mice lack the normal fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) and show both cognitive alterations and an immature neuronal morphology. We reared FMR1-KO mice in a C57BL/6 background in enriched environmental conditions to examine the possibility that experience-dependent stimulation alleviates their behavioral and neuronal abnormalities. FMR1-KO mice kept in standard cages were hyperactive, displayed an altered pattern of open field exploration, and did not show habituation. Quantitative morphological analyses revealed a reduction in basal dendrite length and branching together with more immature-appearing spines along apical dendrites of layer five pyramidal neurons in the visual cortex. Enrichment largely rescued these behavioral and neuronal abnormalities while increasing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) levels in both genotypes. Enrichment did not, however, affect FMRP levels in the WT mice. These data suggest that FMRP-independent pathways activating glutamatergic signaling are preserved in FMR1-KO mice and that they can be elicited by environmental stimulation.
Under chronic conditions of neuropathic pain, nociceptive C terminals are lost from their target region in spinal lamina II, leading to reduced thermal hyperalgesia. This region of the spinal cord expresses high levels of polysialic acid (PSA), a cell surface carbohydrate known to weaken cell-cell interactions and promote plasticity. Experimental removal of PSA from the spinal cord exacerbates hyperalgesia and results in retention of C terminals, whereas it has no effect on plasticity of touch Abeta fibers and allodynia. We propose that expression of PSA at this stress pathway relay point could serve to protect central circuitry from chronic sensory overload.
cGMP synthesis in cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, the caudate putamen, and the tegmento-pedunculopontine nucleus of the rat was studied during development after birth at P1, P4, P10, and P21, in the adult, and during aging. NO-mediated cGMP synthesis in these neurons was studied using the approach of in vitro incubation of brain slices in combination with cGMP-immunocytochemistry. The percentage of NO-responsive, cGMP-synthesizing cholinergic cells in the septum and diagonal band of Broca decreased from 75% to 6% in adult animals and to 2% in aged ones. In the caudate putamen, this decrease was from 81% to 21% in adult and 11% in aged animals. Cholinergic cells of the tegmento-pedunculopontine nucleus were unresponsive to NO and never showed cGMP-immunoreactivity. In addition, it was observed that the amount of NO-responsive, cGMP-synthesizing cholinergic fibers in the hippocampus declined in parallel with the maturation of the septal-hippocampal cholinergic pathway, whereas in the caudate putamen, this colocalization became complete 2 weeks after birth. It is concluded that the property of NO-mediated cGMP synthesis in the cholinergic nuclei of the forebrain is developmentally regulated after birth and that NO-cGMP signal transduction has a role in establishing cholinergic neuronal connections in the hippocampus and caudate putamen.
A number of standard behavioral tasks in animal research utilize food rewards for positive reinforcement. In order to enhance the motivation to participate in these tasks, animals are usually placed on a restricted diet. While dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to have beneficial effects on recovery after brain injury, life span and aging processes, it might also represent a stressor. Since stress can influence a broad range of behaviors, the purpose of this study was to assess whether DR may have similar effects on skilled movement. Adult male Long-Evans rats were trained and tested in a skilled reaching task both prior to and during a mild food restriction regimen that maintained their body weights at 90-95% of baseline weight for eight days. The observations revealed that DR decreased reaching success and increased the number of attempts to grasp a single food pellet. The animals appeared to be more frantic when attempting to reach for food pellets, and the time taken to reach for 20 pellets decreased following the onset of DR. A second experiment investigating behaviors that do not require food rewards, including a ladder rung walking task and an open field test, confirmed that rats on DR display deficits in skilled movements and are hyperactive. These findings suggest that results obtained in motor tasks using food rewards need to be interpreted with caution. The findings are discussed with respect to stress associated with DR.
In both genetic and idiopathic forms of Parkinson's disease (PD), considerable evidence supports the involvement of alpha-synuclein, electron transport chain complex I, protein aggregation, and the ubiquitin-proteasome system. To investigate alterations in the transcription of genes that comprise these pathways, we performed gene expression profiling and functional gene group analysis of three brain regions (the substantia nigra, putamen, and area 9) in postmortem tissue from matched groups of PD or control subjects (n = 15/group). Verification of selected changes was performed using RT-PCR, and visualization of selected changes in expression was accomplished using in situ hybridization (ISH). Our results provide strong support for the impairment of multiple electron transport chain complexes and the ubiquitin-proteasomal system in PD, along with a robust induction of heat shock proteins and some anti-apoptotic gene groups. Several novel gene and gene group findings were also obtained that offer new insight into the pathogenesis and potential treatment of PD.
TRPC3 plays important roles in neuronal differentiation and immune cell maturation by mediating the cationic current in response to phospholipase C activation, Ca2+ depletion, and diacylglycerol stimulation. Here, we purified the TRPC3 channel using a glycosylated tetramer and observed the structure using electron microscopy. Negatively stained specimens demonstrate homogeneous protein particles containing an internal cavity-like structure. These particle images were picked up by automated pick-up programs, aligned, and classified by the growing neural gas network method. Similarly oriented projections were averaged to decrease the signal-to-noise ratio. The averaged images progress from the top view to the side views, which are representative of their raw images. The top view confirmed the hypothesis of a four-domain structure, and the side view demonstrates a large cytoplasmic domain with a capped structure at the bottom, which is near a predicted locus of ion release. The total image of the protein is a blunt-edged trapezoid of 200 x 200 x 235 A. This large dimension of TRPC3 is also supported by the Stokes radius (92 A) obtained from gel filtration chromatography.
5-Hydroxy-3-methyl-3H-benzofuran-2-one, 5, easily obtained from pyruvic acid and 1,4-cyclohexanedione, was used as a starting material to prepare (+/-)-5-hydroxy-3a-methyl-2,3,3a,8a-tetrahydro-furo[2,3-b]benzofuran, 10, and (+/-)-7-hydroxy-5-methyl-4,5-dihydro-2,5-methano-1,3-benzodioxepine, 14. Reduced reactivity relative to 5-hydroxy-3-methoxycarbonylmethylene-3-methyl-3H-benzofuran-2-one, 6, was preliminarily studied. Meanwhile, a plausible mechanism with regard to the formation of 10 and 14, which included cyclization, rearrangement, and ring expansion of hemiacetal, 15, is proposed. Specific carbamates of phenols, 10 and 14, have shown impressive inhibitory activities against human acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) ex vivo.
Tumor growth leads to anorexia and decreased food intake, the regulation of which is via the integrated hypothalamic peptidergic and monoaminergic system. Serotonin (5-HT), an anorectic monoamine acts primarily via 5-HT 1B-receptors in hypothalamic nuclei while neuropeptide Y (NPY) acts an orexigenic peptide. We previously reported that 5-HT 1B-receptors are up regulated while NPY is down regulated in tumor-bearing (TB)-related anorexia, contributing to food intake reduction. In anorectic TB rats we hypothesize that after tumor resection when food intake has reverted to normal, normalization of 5-HT 1B-receptor and NPY will occur. The aim of this study was to demonstrate normalization of these hypothalamic changes compared to Controls. In anorectic tumor-bearing rats after tumor resection (TB-R) and in sham-operated (Control) rats, distribution of 5-HT 1B-receptors and NPY in hypothalamic nuclei was analyzed using peroxidase antiperoxidase immunocytochemical methods. Image analysis of immunostaining was performed and the data were statistically analyzed. Immunostaining specificity was controlled by omission of primary or secondary antibodies and pre-absorption test. Our results show that after TB-R versus Controls a normalization of food intake, 5-H-1B-receptor and NPY expression in the hypothalamus occurs. These data, discussed in context with our previous studies, support the hypothesis that tumor resection results not only in normalization of food intake but also in reversible changes of anorectic and orexigenic hypothalamic modulators.
This study investigated the possible involvement of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the therapeutic effect of cerebral ischemia by electro-acupuncture (EA) using the rat model with middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). By immunohistochemistry, the changes of GABA expression level in the primary infarct area and its penumbral regions were examined. The changes in infarct area and survival neuron percentages were also assessed using haematoxylin and eosin stained sections after picrotoxin (PTX) injection, a GABA receptor's antagonist. Our results showed that EA markedly decreased the ischemic damaged areas in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Concomitant to this was an up-regulation of GABA immunoexpression in MCAO rats with EA treatment (P &lt; 0.05). Furthermore, injection of PTX in rats subjected to MCAO or MCAO followed by EA treatment increased the infarct area and decreased survival cell percentage significantly when compared with those without PTX injection. In the light of these findings, it is suggested that EA on specific and established acupoints that are commonly used in clinical management of cerebral ischemia may have elicited an up-regulated expression of GABA that would have a neuroprotective effect.
ATP is an important extracellular messenger in the CNS. In the hippocampus, a brain structure relevant for learning and memory processes, it acts both as a modulator and as a mediator of synaptic transmission, with implications for synaptic plasticity phenomena. Recent evidence suggests that ATP modulates activity-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. However, it remains unclear if ATP also modulates LTP counterpart's phenomenon, long-term depression (LTD), in the rat hippocampus. This study investigated the effect of ATP analogues on homosynaptic LTD, induced by low-frequency stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals (1 Hz; 900 pulses) in the CA1 region of young rat hippocampal slices. The metabolically stable ATP analogues beta,gamma-ImATP (20 microM), a P2 receptor agonist, and alpha,beta-MeATP (20 microM), a preferential P2X(1,3) receptor agonist, did not modify LTD (LTD values of 14.7+/-0.5% and 14.1+/-3% for aCSF controls and of 15.1+/-4% and 19.0+/-5.2% for beta,gamma-ImATP and alpha,beta-MeATP, respectively). The ATP analogue beta,gamma-ImATP (20 microM) did not modify LTD also in the presence of the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist DPCPX (50 nM) (21.5+/-4.2% for DPCPX only and of 23.8+/-8.9% for DPCPX plus beta,gamma-ImATP). Finally, the preferential P2X(1,3) receptor antagonist NF023 (10 microM) had also no effect on LTD (18.6+/-5.2% for aCSF and of 18.7+/-5.2% for NF023). The present results suggest that ATP does not modulate activity-dependent homosynaptic LTD in the rat CA1 hippocampal region by activating P2 receptors.

Temporal precision in spike timing is important in cortical function, interactions, and plasticity. We found that, during periods of recurrent network activity (UP states), cortical pyramidal cells in vivo and in vitro receive strong barrages of both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, with the inhibitory potentials showing much higher power at all frequencies above approximately 10 Hz and more synchrony between nearby neurons. Fast-spiking inhibitory interneurons discharged strongly in relation to higher-frequency oscillations in the field potential in vivo and possess membrane, synaptic, and action potential properties that are advantageous for transmission of higher-frequency activity. Intracellular injection of synaptic conductances having the characteristics of the recorded EPSPs and IPSPs reveal that IPSPs are important in controlling the timing and probability of action potential generation in pyramidal cells. Our results support the hypothesis that inhibitory networks are largely responsible for the dissemination of higher-frequency activity in cortex.
PICK1 and ABP/GRIP bind to the AMPA receptor (AMPAR) GluR2 subunit C terminus. Transfer of the receptor from ABP/GRIP to PICK1, facilitated by GluR2 S880 phosphorylation, may initiate receptor trafficking. Here we report protein interactions that regulate these steps. The PICK1 BAR domain interacts intermolecularly with the ABP/GRIP linker II region and intramolecularly with the PICK1 PDZ domain. Binding of PKCalpha or GluR2 to the PICK1 PDZ domain disrupts the intramolecular interaction and facilitates the PICK1 BAR domain association with ABP/GRIP. Interference with the PICK1-ABP/GRIP interaction impairs S880 phosphorylation of GluR2 by PKC and decreases the constitutive surface expression of GluR2, the NMDA-induced endocytosis of GluR2, and recycling of internalized GluR2. We suggest that the PICK1 interaction with ABP/GRIP is a critical step in controlling GluR2 trafficking.
Absence of functional FMRP causes Fragile X syndrome. Abnormalities in synaptic processes in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus contribute to cognitive deficits in Fragile X patients. So far, the potential roles of cerebellar deficits have not been investigated. Here, we demonstrate that both global and Purkinje cell-specific knockouts of Fmr1 show deficits in classical delay eye-blink conditioning in that the percentage of conditioned responses as well as their peak amplitude and peak velocity are reduced. Purkinje cells of these mice show elongated spines and enhanced LTD induction at the parallel fiber synapses that innervate these spines. Moreover, Fragile X patients display the same cerebellar deficits in eye-blink conditioning as the mutant mice. These data indicate that a lack of FMRP leads to cerebellar deficits at both the cellular and behavioral levels and raise the possibility that cerebellar dysfunctions can contribute to motor learning deficits in Fragile X patients.
The hippocampus is widely accepted to play a pivotal role in memory. Two influential theories offer competing accounts of its fundamental operating mechanism. The cognitive map theory posits a special role in mapping large-scale space, whereas the relational theory argues it supports amodal relational processing. Here, we pit the two theories against each other using a novel paradigm in which the relational processing involved in navigating in a city was matched with similar navigational and relational processing demands in a nonspatial (social) domain. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, participants determined the optimal route either between friends' homes or between the friends themselves using social connections. Separate brain networks were engaged preferentially during the two tasks, with hippocampal activation driven only by spatial relational processing. We conclude that the human hippocampus appears to have a bias toward the processing of spatial relationships, in accordance with the cognitive map theory. Our results both advance our understanding of the nature of the hippocampal contribution to memory and provide insights into how social networks are instantiated at the neural level.
The signaling pathways that mediate neurodegeneration are complex and involve a balance between phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of signaling and structural proteins. We have shown previously that 17beta-estradiol and its analogs are potent neuroprotectants. The purpose of this study was to delineate the role of protein phosphatases (PPs) in estrogen neuroprotection against oxidative stress and excitotoxicity. HT-22 cells, C6-glioma cells, and primary rat cortical neurons were exposed to the nonspecific serine/threonine protein phosphatase inhibitors okadaic acid and calyculin A at various concentrations in the presence or absence of 17beta-estradiol and/or glutamate. Okadaic acid and calyculin A caused a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability in HT-22, C6-glioma, and primary rat cortical neurons. 17beta-Estradiol did not show protection against neurotoxic concentrations of either okadaic acid or calyculin A in these cells. In the absence of these serine/threonine protein phosphatase inhibitors, 17beta-estradiol attenuated glutamate toxicity. However, in the presence of effective concentrations of these protein phosphatase inhibitors, 17beta-estradiol protection against glutamate toxicity was lost. Furthermore, glutamate treatment in HT-22 cells and primary rat cortical neurons caused a 50% decrease in levels of PP1, PP2A, and PP2B protein, whereas coadministration of 17beta-estradiol with glutamate prevented the decrease in PP1, PP2A, and PP2B levels. These results suggest that 17beta-estradiol may protect cells against glutamate-induced oxidative stress and excitotoxicity by activating a combination of protein phosphatases.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are major constituents of the extracellular matrix and form perineuronal nets. Information regarding the growth-inhibitory activity of these molecules after injury is rapidly expanding. However, less is known about their physiological role in the adult undamaged CNS. Here, we investigated the function of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in maintaining the proper structure of Purkinje axons in the cerebellum of adult rats. To this end, we examined the morphology and distribution of intracortical Purkinje neurites after intraparenchymal injection of chondroitinase ABC. Staining with the lectin Wisteria floribunda agglutinin or 2B6 antibodies showed that this treatment efficiently removed chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans from wide areas of the cerebellar cortex. In the same sites, there was a profuse outgrowth of terminal branches from the Purkinje infraganglionic plexus, which invaded the deeper regions of the granular layer. In contrast, myelinated axon segments were not affected and maintained their normal relationship with oligodendroglial sheaths. Purkinje axon sprouting was first evident at 4 d and increased further at 7 d after enzyme application. Within 42 d, the expression pattern of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans gradually recovered, whereas axonal modifications progressively regressed. Our results show that, in the absence of injury or novel external stimuli, degradation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans is sufficient to induce Purkinje axon sprouting but not the formation of long-lasting synaptic contacts. Together with other growth-inhibitory molecules, such as myelin-associated proteins, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans restrict structural plasticity of intact Purkinje axons to maintain normal wiring patterns in the adult cerebellar cortex.
Homeostatic control of pyramidal neuron firing rate involves a functional balance of feedforward excitation and feedback inhibition in neocortical circuits. Here, we reveal a dynamic scaling in vesicular excitatory (vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) and inhibitory (vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter VIAAT) transporter mRNA and synaptic protein expression in rat neocortical neuronal cultures, using a well established in vitro protocol to induce homeostatic plasticity. During the second and third week of synaptic differentiation, the predominant vesicular transporters expressed in neocortical neurons, VGLUT1 and VIAAT, are both dramatically upregulated. In mature cultures, VGLUT1 and VIAAT exhibit bidirectional and opposite regulation by prolonged activity changes. Endogenous coregulation during development and homeostatic scaling of the expression of the transporters in functionally differentiated cultures may serve to control vesicular glutamate and GABA filling and adjust functional presynaptic excitatory/inhibitory balance. Unexpectedly, hyperexcitation in differentiated cultures triggers a striking increase in VGLUT2 mRNA and synaptic protein, whereas decreased excitation reduces levels. VGLUT2 mRNA and protein are expressed in subsets of VGLUT1-encoded neocortical neurons that we identify in primary cultures and in neocortex in situ and in vivo. After prolonged hyperexcitation, downregulation of VGLUT1/synaptophysin intensity ratios at most synapses is observed, whereas a subset of VGLUT1-containing boutons selectively increase the expression of VGLUT2. Bidirectional and opposite regulation of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 by activity may serve as positive or negative feedback regulators for cortical synaptic transmission. Intracortical VGLUT1/VGLUT2 coexpressing neurons have the capacity to independently modulate the level of expression of either transporter at discrete synapses and therefore may serve as a plastic interface between subcortical thalamic input (VGLUT2) and cortical output (VGLUT1) neurons.

The P2X7 receptor is an ATP-sensitive ligand-gated cation channel, expressed predominantly in cells with immune origin. Recent studies have demonstrated that P2X7 may play an important role in pain signaling. In the present study, the expression of P2X7 receptors in non-neuronal cells and neurons isolated from dorsal root ganglia was characterized using patch clamp, pharmacological and confocal microscopy approaches. In small diameter DRG neurons, 100 microM 2', 3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP (BzATP) evoked an inward current, which was inhibited completely by 1 microM A-317491, a potent and selective P2X3 receptor antagonist. In contrast, BzATP evoked concentration-dependent increases in inward currents in non-neuronal DRG cells with an EC50 value of 26 +/- 0.14 microM, which were resistant to the blockade by A-317491. The activity to evoke cationic currents by P2X receptor agonists in non-neuronal cells showed a rank order of BzATP &gt; ATP &gt; alpha,beta-meATP. Pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-,2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS) and Mg2+ produced concentration-dependent inhibition of BzATP-evoked currents in non-neuronal cells. Confocal microscopy revealed positive immunoreactivity of anti-P2X7 receptor antibodies on non-neuronal cells. No anti-P2X7 immunoreactivity was observed on DRG neurons. Further electrophysiological studies showed that prolonged agonist activation of P2X7 receptors in non-neuronal cells did not lead to cytolytic pore formation. Taken together, the present study demonstrated functional expression of P2X7 receptors in non-neuronal but not in small diameter neurons from rat DRG. Modulation of P2X7 receptors in non-neuronal cells might have impact on peripheral sensory transduction under normal and pathological states.
In Sweden, the annual incidence of surgery for hydrocephalus was 3.4 per 100,000 adults between the years 1996 and 1998. The most common indication for surgery was normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH; 47%), followed by high-pressure hydrocephalus (27%). Seventy-three percent of the patients had communicating hydrocephalus, of which 63% had NPH. Twenty percent of the patients had non-communicating hydrocephalus, of which half resulted from aqueduct stenosis. The annual incidence of operations varied between regional clinics from 2.3 to 6.3 per 100,000 inhabitants.

The occurrence of spheroids has been described in the globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) of aged rhesus monkeys. Opinions vary as to the origin of spheroids. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis suggested that spheroids originate from degenerating axons or astroglia. In the present study, we have investigated the GP and SNr of aged monkeys (Macaca fascicularis and Macaca mulatta). Although immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1A, tau, amyloid precursor protein, synaptophysin and phosphorylated neurofilament, spheroids were not immunoreactive for MAP1B and MAP2. We confirmed the axonal nature of pallido-nigral spheroids in aged rhesus monkeys. Pallido-nigral spheroids have been reported to overexpress stress proteins, such as ubiquitin, alphaB-crystallin, and heat shock protein (Hsp) 27. We further evaluated the expression of Hsps in pallido-nigral spheroids. As well as being intensely immunoreactive for ubiquitin, alphaB-crystallin, Hsp27, and Hsp70, spheroids were immunoreactive for Hsp32 (heme oxygenase-1), Hsp40, Hsp60, and Hsp90. On the basis of these findings, we speculate that Hsp32-immunoreactive spheroids might be expressed as an oxidative stress response. Induction of other Hsps might play a role in protection of axons from the aggregation of neurofilament, MAPs and other proteins, and failure to protect degenerating axons might result in their proteolysis by the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Silver staining profiles of argyrophilic grains (AGs) and of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) of diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification (DNTC, collectively as DNTC-NFTs) were examined for their relation to tau- and ubiquitin-like immunoreactivity (IR). Pairs of mirror sections were triple-fluorolabeled with an anti-PHF tau (AT8) antibody, an anti-ubiquitin antibody and thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that identifies fibrillary structures such as NFTs of Alzheimer's disease (AD). One of the paired sections was subsequently stained with Gallyas method (GAL), and the other with Campbell-Switzer method (CS). Comparison of the same microscopic field on the paired fluorolabeled sections, subsequently silver-stained with either GAL or CS enabled the determination of five different profiles of each structure: AT8-IR, ubiquitin-like-IR, affinity to TR, argyrophilia with GAL or CS staining. AGs, mainly composed of four-repeat (4R) tau, were argyrophilic with GAL but not with CS, and their affinity to TR and ubiquitin-like-IR was not intense. This staining profile of AGs is identical with those of tau-positive structures in the cortex of progressive supranuclear palsy/corticobasal degeneration, both composed of 4R tau. This selective affinity of AGs to GAL is in sharp contrast with Pick bodies, composed of three-repeat (3R) tau, that are positive for CS but not for GAL, as we reported previously. This contrast is explainable if the argyrophilia with CS is related to deposits containing 3R tau, while that with GAL is linked to those containing 4R tau. Indeed, DNTC-NFTs, that contain both 3R and 4R tau, were argyrophilic with CS and GAL, and their affinity to TR and ubiquitin-like-IR were consistent, as we reported previously for NFTs of AD and of Down's syndrome, both similarly composed of 3R and 4R tau. Taken together, differences in molecular composition of tau protein in these deposits are linked to their argyrophilic properties dependent on the staining method in these sporadic tauopathies. Although explanations for these empirical differences are not yet available, awareness of this clear distinction is potentially of diagnostic and pathological significance.


One of the most recent and promising theoretical hypotheses for compensation of persistent asymmetry of dynamic vestibulo-ocular gain is sensory substitution. As a switch between oculomotor and vestibulo-ocular systems, saccadic eye movements are engaged in humans to compensate the angular displacement of the head towards the labyrinthine defective side thus preserving the foveal fixation of the target. This study focused on the possibility that saccadic eye movements might also compensate for the impaired vestibulo-spinal reflexes and force the postural system to a more effective control on upright stance and verified whether this sway-stabilizing effect could be applied to patients with vestibular disorders and balance dysfunction. In the first experiment, 27 patients with unilateral labyrinthine hypofunction, 24 patients with central vestibular disorders and 24 healthy volunteers were evaluated by static posturography in 3 different visual conditions: (a) eye open with fixation of a steady target, (b) eye closed, and (c) while performing horizontal visually-guided saccades. The percentage of individuals with a decreased body sway area during the oculomotor task was found to be higher in labyrinthine-defective patients as compared to those with central vestibular disorders and controls. In the second experiment, 46 patients with vestibular disorders both of central and peripheral origin, whose postural control improved by eye-tracking, as assessed by posturography, were later submitted to 12 consecutive training sessions based on repeated visually-guided saccades. Both the saccadic performances and postural control improved in all patients but a more pronounced effect was observed in those with peripheral vestibular disorders. Outcome of this rehabilitation technique was also corroborated by a general reduction of the perceived overall impairment from balance disorders as tested by a specific questionnaire.

Tobacco use among psychiatric patients in developing countries has not been well-investigated. To address this issue, we screened consecutive admissions to a major psychiatric hospital in southern India, and assessed the prevalence and correlates of tobacco use and nicotine dependence. Patients (n=988) provided information about their use of tobacco products, and participated in an interview that included the Fagerstrm Test for Nicotine Dependence as well as measures of other substance use. Three hundred and fifty-one patients (36%) reported current tobacco use, with 227 (65% of all users) reporting moderate to severe nicotine dependence. Current tobacco use as well as nicotine dependence were associated with male gender, a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, and risk of other substance use problems. The cultural context of these findings, and the implications for tobacco control among psychiatric patients, are discussed.

The identification of neural stem cells (NSCs) in situ has been prevented by the inability to identify a marker consistently expressed in all adult NSCs and is thus generally accomplished using the in vitro neurosphere-forming assay. The high-mobility group transcription factor Sox2 is expressed in embryonic neural epithelial stem cells; because these cells are thought to give rise to the adult NSC population, we hypothesized that Sox2 may continue to be expressed in adult NSCs. Using Sox2:EGFP transgenic mice, we show that Sox2 is expressed in neurogenic regions along the rostral-caudal axis of the central nervous system throughout life. Furthermore, all neurospheres derived from these neurogenic regions express Sox2, suggesting that Sox2 is indeed expressed in adult NSCs. We demonstrate that NSCs are heterogeneous within the adult brain, with differing capacities for cell production. In vitro, all neurospheres express Sox2, but the expression of markers common to early progenitor cells within individual neurospheres varies; this heterogeneity of NSCs is mirrored in vivo. For example, both glial fibrillary acidic protein and NG2 are expressed within individual neurospheres, but their expression is mutually exclusive; likewise, these two markers show distinct staining patterns within the Sox2+ regions of the brain's neurogenic regions. Thus, we propose that the expression of Sox2 is a unifying characteristic of NSCs in the adult brain, but that not all NSCs maintain the ability to form all neural cell types in vivo.
The low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, p75NTR, has been found to be pro- or anti-apoptotic depending upon the cell in which it is expressed. Reactive oxygen species play a major role in apoptosis induction and enactment. Using two polyclonal PC12 populations that, respectively, do or do not express p75NTR, this paper demonstrates that p75NTR expression confers resistance to oxidant stress upon PC12 cells maintained in serum-containing medium. The effect of p75NTR on cell survival is mimicked in p75-negative cells by expression of constructs that produce the p75NTR intracellular domain (ICD) or p75NTR with the extracellular domain deleted (DeltaECD), suggesting that binding of an extracellular ligand to p75NTR is not required. Our studies further document that the differential sensitivity to oxidant stress is serum-dependent and associated with differential oxidation of glutathione between p75-positive and p75-negative cells. These results suggest that the role of p75NTR in determining the consequences and treatment of age-related disorders and conditions in which reactive oxygen species are involved may require neither the extracellular receptor domain nor, by inference, the cognate extracellular ligands of this neurotrophin receptor.
Exogenous administration of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) can increase ethanol intake in rats and mice. To determine the contribution of endogenous neurosteroids (i.e., ALLO and related pregnane steroids) in the regulation of established ethanol consumption patterns in male C57BL/6J (B6) mice, the 5alpha-reductase (5alpha-R) enzyme inhibitor, finasteride (FIN), was chronically administered and then subsequently withdrawn. Mice were provided daily 2-h limited access to a 10% vol/vol ethanol solution (10E) and water in lickometer chambers during the dark phase. Following the establishment of stable 10E intake patterns, mice were injected intraperitoneally with either vehicle (20% wt/vol 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin; n=8) or FIN (50 mg/kg; n=16) for 7 days. Effects of withdrawal from FIN treatment were subsequently assessed for an additional 7 days. Ethanol intakes were significantly decreased with acute FIN treatment (days 1-3) and during early withdrawal (days 1-3). Acute FIN treatment was also associated with an extended latency to first bout, reduced first bout size, and greatly attenuated sipper contact count during the initial 20-min interval of 10E access. These findings collectively indicated that acute FIN treatment markedly attenuated the initiation of 10E consumption during the limited access sessions. The influence of FIN on 10E intake patterns was largely dissipated with chronic treatment, suggesting that compensatory changes in neurosteroid modulation of inhibitory tone may have occurred. Thus, acute FIN treatment modulated ethanol intake patterns in a manner opposite to that previously demonstrated for a physiologically relevant, exogenous ALLO dose, consistent with the ability of a alpha-R inhibitor to block ALLO biosynthesis. Manipulation of endogenous neurosteroid activity via biosynthetic enzyme inhibition or antagonism of steroid binding to the GABA type A receptor may prove to be a beneficial pharmacotherapeutic strategy in the intervention of alcohol abuse and alcoholism.
This article presents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2004 meeting of the International Society for Biomedical Research on Alcoholism, held in Mannheim, Germany. The symposium was organized by Etienne Quertemont and chaired by C. J. Peter Eriksson. The presentations were (1) Brain ethanol metabolism and its behavior consequences, by Sergey M. Zimatkin and P. S. Pronko; (2) Acetaldehyde increases dopaminergic neuronal activity: a possible mechanism for acetaldehyde reinforcing effects, by Marco Diana and Milena Pisano; (3) Contrasting the reinforcing actions of acetaldehyde and ethanol within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of alcohol-preferring (P) rats, by Zachary A. Rodd and Richard R. Bell; (4) Molecular and biochemical changes associated with acetaldehyde in human alcoholism and alcohol abuse, by C. J. Peter Eriksson.




In vitro electrophysiological techniques for the assessment of neurotoxicity could have several advantages over other methods in current use, including the ability to detect damage at a very early stage, and could further assist in replacing animal experimentation in vivo. We investigated how an electrophysiological parameter, the extracellularly-recorded compound action potential (&quot;population spike&quot;, PS) could be used as a marker of in vitro neurotoxicity in the case of two well-known toxic compounds, kainic acid (KA) and trimethyltin (TMT). We compared the use of this electrophysiological endpoint with changes in immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), a standard histological test for neurotoxicity. We found that both toxic compounds reliably caused disappearance of the PS, and that such disappearance occurred after only 1 hour of exposure to the drug. By contrast, densitometric measurements of MAP2 immunoreactivity were unaffected by both KA and TMT after such a short exposure time. We conclude that, in the case of KA and TMT, the extracellular PS was abolished at a very early time-point, when MAP2 immunoreactivity levels were still comparable to those of the untreated controls. Electrophysiology could be a reliable and early indicator of neurotoxicity, which could improve our ability to test for neurotoxicity in vitro, thus further replacing the need for in vivo experimentation.

Autism is a spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders with a primarily genetic etiology exhibiting deficits in (1) development of language and (2) social relationships and (3) patterns of repetitive, restricted behaviors or interests and resistance to change. Elevated platelet serotonin (5-HT) in 20%-25% of cases and efficacy of selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in treating anxiety, depression, and repetitive behaviors points to the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT; SERT) as a strong candidate gene. Association studies involving the functional insertion/deletion polymorphism in the promoter (5-HTTLPR) and a polymorphism in intron 2 are inconclusive, possibly because of phenotypic heterogeneity. Nonetheless, mounting evidence for genetic linkage of autism to the chromosome 17q11.2 region that harbors the SERT locus (SLC6A4) supports a genetic effect at or near this gene. We confirm recent reports of sex-biased genetic effects in 17q by showing highly significant linkage driven by families with only affected males. Association with common alleles fails to explain observed linkage; therefore, we hypothesized that preferential transmission of multiple alleles does explain it. From 120 families, most contributing to linkage at 17q11.2, we found four coding substitutions at highly conserved positions and 15 other variants in 5' noncoding and other intronic regions transmitted in families exhibiting increased rigid-compulsive behaviors. In the aggregate, these variants show significant linkage to and association with autism. Our data provide strong support for a collection of multiple, often rare, alleles at SLC6A4 as imposing risk of autism.


Heterotrimeric G(i) proteins may play a role in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated signaling through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), leading to inflammatory mediator production. Although LPS is a TLR4 ligand, the gram-positive bacterium Staphylococcus aureus (SA) is a TLR2 ligand, and group B streptococci (GBS) are neither TLR2 nor TLR4 ligands but are MyD88 dependent. We hypothesized that genetic deletion of G(i) proteins would alter mediator production induced by LPS and gram-positive bacterial stimulation. We examined genetic deletion of Galpha(i2) or Galpha(i1/3) protein in Galpha(i2)-knockout (Galpha(i2)-/-) or Galpha(i1/3)-knockout (Galpha(i1/3)-/-) mice. LPS-, heat-killed SA-, or GBS-induced mediator production in splenocytes or peritoneal macrophages (MPhi) was investigated. There were significant increases in LPS-, SA-, and GBS-induced production of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma in splenocytes from Galpha(i2)-/- mice compared with wild-type (WT) mice. Also, LPS-induced TNF-alpha was increased in splenocytes from Galpha(i1/3)-/- mice. In contrast to splenocytes, LPS-, SA-, and GBS-induced TNF-alpha, IL-10, and thromboxane B(2) (TxB(2)) production was decreased in MPhi harvested from Galpha(i2)-/- mice. Also, LPS-induced production of IL-10 and TxB(2) was decreased in MPhi from Galpha(i1/3)-/- mice. In subsequent in vivo studies, TNF-alpha levels after LPS challenge were significantly greater in Galpha(i2)-/- mice than in WT mice. Also, myeloperoxidase activity, a marker of tissue neutrophil infiltration, was significantly increased in the gut and lung of LPS-treated Galpha(i2)-/- mice compared with WT mice. These data suggest that G(i) proteins differentially regulate murine TLR-mediated inflammatory cytokine production in a cell-specific manner in response to both LPS and gram-positive microbial stimuli.
We investigated the pre- and postsynaptic effects of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) on identified pancreas-projecting neurons of the rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in thin brain stem slices. Perfusion with PP induced a TTX- and apamin-sensitive, concentration-dependent outward (22% of neurons) or inward current (21% of neurons) that was accompanied by a decrease in input resistance; PP was also found to affect the amplitude of the action potential afterhyperpolarization. The remaining 57% of neurons were unaffected. PP induced a concentration-dependent inhibition in amplitude of excitatory (n = 22 of 30 neurons) and inhibitory (n = 13 of 17 neurons) postsynaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulation of the adjacent nucleus of the solitary tract, with an estimated EC(50) of 30 nM for both. The inhibition was accompanied by an alteration in the paired pulse ratio, suggesting a presynaptic site of action. PP also decreased the frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous excitatory (n = 6 of 11 neurons) and inhibitory currents (n = 7 of 9 neurons). In five neurons, chemical stimulation of the area postrema (AP) induced a TTX-sensitive inward (n = 3) or biphasic (outward and inward) current (n = 2). Superfusion with PP reversibly reduced the amplitude of these chemically stimulated currents. Regardless of the PP-induced effect, the vast majority of responsive neurons had a multipolar somata morphology with dendrites projecting to areas other than the fourth ventricle or the central canal. These results suggest that pancreas-projecting rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus neurons are heterogeneous with respect to their response to PP, which may underlie functional differences in the vagal modulation of pancreatic functions.
Orexin neurons are stimulated by conditions that are glucoprivic, suggesting that orexin signaling may be increased during nutritional duress. We have previously shown that injection of orexin A (OxA) into the rostral lateral hypothalamic area (rLHa) robustly and dose-dependently increases feeding behavior. Thus we hypothesized that exogenous administration of orexin A would induce a greater feeding response after acute food deprivation or perceived caloric duress achieved through 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) administration. To test our hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats implanted with internal guide cannulas directed to the rLHa were exposed to varying degrees of food deprivation (0, 3, 12, 24 h) and 2DG (200 mg/kg) before intra-rLHa OxA (500 pmol) infusion. We also performed a dose-response study using graded doses of OxA (0, 31.25, 125, and 500 pmol) in fed and 24-h fasted rats. OxA administration in conjunction with the highest level of prior food deprivation (24 h) resulted in the greatest feeding response (above baseline means; 0 h deprivation: 1.9 +/- 0.6; 24 h deprivation: 4.4 +/- 0.8; P = 0.0034) and showed a dose-dependent enhancement of feeding. Additionally, 2DG administration before OxA administration resulted in a significantly higher feeding response (above baseline means: 2DG = 1.8 +/- 0.5; OxA = 1.8 +/- 0.4; 2DG + OxA = 5.1 +/- 0.6; P &lt; 0.0001). These data support the hypothesis that orexin signaling may be important in modulating the feeding network under times of nutritional duress.
The sensory innervation of white adipose tissue (WAT) is indicated by the labeling of sensory bipolar neurons in the dorsal root ganglion after retrograde dye placement into WAT. In addition, immunoreactivity (ir) for sensory-associated neuropeptides such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P in WAT pads also supports the notion of WAT sensory innervation. The function of this sensory innervation is unknown but could involve conveying the degree of adiposity to the brain. In tests of total body fat regulation, partial surgical lipectomy triggers compensatory increases in the mass of nonexcised WAT, ultimately resulting in restoration of total body fat levels in Siberian hamsters and other animals. The signal that triggers this compensation is unknown but could involve disruption of WAT sensory innervation that accompanies lipectomy. Therefore, a local and selective sensory denervation was accomplished by microinjecting the sensory nerve neurotoxin capsaicin bilaterally into epididymal WAT (EWAT) of Siberian hamsters, whereas controls received vehicle injections. Additional hamsters had bilateral EWAT lipectomy (EWATx) or sham lipectomy. As seen previously, EWATx resulted in significantly increased retroperitoneal WAT (RWAT) and inguinal WAT (IWAT) masses. Capsaicin treatment significantly decreased CGRP- but not tyrosine hydroxylase-ir, attesting to the diminished and selective sensory innervation. Capsaicin-treated hamsters also had increased RWAT and, to a lesser degree, IWAT mass largely mimicking the WAT mass increases seen after lipectomy. Collectively, these data suggest the possibility that information related to peripheral lipid stores may be conveyed to the brain via the sensory innervation of WAT.
The present strategy for the prevention of excessive sympathetic neural traffic to the heart relies on the use of beta-blockers, drugs that act at the heart end of the brain-heart axis. In the present study, we attempted to suppress cardiac sympathetic nerve activity by affecting the relevant cardiomotoneurons in the brain using the selective serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). In conscious, unrestrained rabbits, instrumented for recordings of heart rate, arterial pressure, or cardiac output, we provoked increases in cardiac sympathetic activity by psychological (loud sound, pinprick, and air jet) or inflammatory (0.5 microg/kg iv lipopolysaccharide) stresses. Pinprick and air-jet stresses elicited transient increases in heart rate (+50 +/- 7 and +38 +/- 4 beats/min, respectively) and in mean arterial pressure (+16 +/- 2 and +15 +/- 3 mmHg, respectively). Lipopolysaccharide injection caused sustained increases in heart rate (from 210 +/- 3 to 268 +/- 10 beats/min) and in arterial pressure (from 74 +/- 3 to 92 +/- 4 mmHg). Systemically administered 8-OH-DPAT (0.004-0.1 mg/kg) substantially attenuated these responses in a dose-dependent manner. Drug effects were prevented by a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY-100635 (0.1 mg/kg iv). Similarly to systemic administration, microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT (500 nl of 10 mM solution) into the medullary raphe-parapyramidal region caused antitachycardic effects during stressful stimulation and during lipopolysaccharide-elicited tachycardia. This is the first demonstration that activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the medullary raphe-parapyramidal area causes suppression of neurally mediated cardiovascular changes during acute psychological and immune stresses.
The high rate of co-occurrence of substance use disorders and other psychiatric disorders is well established. The population of people with co-occurring disorders is heterogeneous, and the prevalence of comorbidity differs by diagnostic group. One of the overarching issues in the area of comorbidity is the nature of the connection between psychiatric disorders and substance use disorders. The rapid development of technical advances in the neurosciences has led to a better understanding of the molecular biology, neurotransmitter systems, and neural circuitry involved in mental illness and substance use disorders. The authors discuss the neurobiological interface between substance use disorders and other psychiatric disorders with an emphasis on emerging data concerning four psychiatric disorders that commonly co-occur with substance use disorders: depression/mood disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and schizophrenia. Better understanding of the connection between substance use disorders and psychiatric disorders could have a profound effect on prevention and treatment.
In 1989, the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) established its Medications Development Program. This program has concentrated on developing pharmacotherapies for opiate and cocaine dependence and, more recently, for methamphetamine and cannabis dependence. The major goals of this program are to optimize existing treatments and to expand treatment options for physicians and patients. This review will concentrate on the development of pharmacotherapies for the following substance abuse disorders: opiate, cocaine, methamphetamine, and cannabis dependence. Left untreated, opiate and stimulant dependence are responsible for significant morbidity and mortality. For example, use of illicit opiates is associated with an increased risk of hepatitis C infection, HIV infection, and other medical consequences, e.g., an overdose. The NIDA Medications Development Program has had success in developing, with pharmaceutical partners, levomethadyl acetate, buprenorphine, and buprenorphine/naloxone for opiate dependence. Moreover, several marketed medications have shown promise in reducing cocaine use. Of interest, these medications likely operate through diverse neurochemical mechanisms, suggesting that combination therapy may be a rational next step that could increase treatment gains further in cocaine-dependent patients. The Medications Development Program has also identified multiple neuronal mechanisms that are altered by chronic administration of drugs of abuse. Advances in neuroscience have identified changes in conditioned cueing, drug priming, stress-induced increases in drug intake, and reduced frontal inhibitory mechanisms as all being possible for the development of, maintenance of, and possible relapse to, addiction. Potential medications that modulate these mechanisms are highlighted.

A 57-year-old man with mild neuropathy who was positive for hepatitis B and C viruses was treated with lamivudine 300 mg.day(-1). After 3 months he presented with dysphonia and progressive muscle weakness. Subsequently, he developed tetraparesis followed by acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, which was complicated by sudden cardiac arrest. After lamivudine was stopped, the neuropathy improved and respiratory capacity improved. Unfortunately, the patient died suddenly in spite of haemodynamic, ventilatory and metabolic support. Electrophysiological studies showed evidence of a sensory-motor axonal neuropathy. Nerve biopsy, muscle biopsy, biochemistry and mitochondrial DNA molecular genetics suggested possible widespread iatrogenic mitochondrial damage. Mitochondrial DNA dysfunction could be a potential cause of the sudden cardiac arrest. Stopping lamivudine treatment sooner after the onset of peripheral neuropathy or its exacerbation is important as continued therapy could lead to acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation and intensive care unit admission.
Theoretical models suggest that small differences only exist between brain and body temperature in health. Once the brain is injured, brain temperature is generally regarded to rise above body temperature. However, since reports of the magnitude of the temperature gradient between brain and body vary, it is still not clear whether conventional body temperature monitoring accurately predicts brain temperature at all times. In this prospective, descriptive study, 20 adults with severe primary brain trauma were studied during their stay in the neurointensive care unit. Brain temperature ranged from 33.4 to 39.9 degrees C. Comparisons between paired brain and rectal temperature measurements revealed no evidence of a systematic difference [mean difference -0.04 degrees C (range -0.13 to 0.05 degrees C, 95% CI), p = 0.39]. Contrary to popular belief, brain temperature did not exceed systemic temperature in this relatively homogeneous patient series. The mean values masked inconsistent and unpredictable individual brain-rectal temperature differences (range 1.8 to -2.9 degrees C) and reversal of the brain-body temperature gradient occurred in some patients. Brain temperature could not be predicted from body temperature at all times.
This study was carried out to investigate the motor neurone degeneration in the ventral horn following transient spinal cord ischaemia at normothermic conditions in rabbits. Transient spinal cord ischaemia was induced by occlusion of the abdominal aorta underneath the left renal artery for 15 min at normothermia (38.7 degrees C). Sections at the level of L7 were examined using histochemical and electron microscopic methods. Cresyl violet-positive motor neurones began to reduce in number at 3 h after ischaemia reperfusion, and were not detectable at 48 h after ischaemia reperfusion. Acid fuchsin-positive motor neurones were detected at 1 h after ischaemia reperfusion, significantly increased up to 6 h after the ischaemia reperfusion, and eventually disappeared by 48 h after ischaemia reperfusion. In electron microscopic findings, the disintegration of cytoplasmic membranes, and the disruption of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum were observed in motor neurones at 30 min after ischaemia reperfusion. Motor neurones showed necrotic findings with pyknotic degeneration at 1 h after ischaemia reperfusion. The necrotic degeneration became severer time dependently after ischaemia reperfusion. At 48 h after ischaemia reperfusion, cellular components were not detectable in motor neurones. In conclusion, we suggest that the degeneration pattern of motor neurones of the ischaemic spinal cord was necrotic after ischaemia reperfusion under normothermic conditions.
It has long been recognized that thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and certain TRH analogues are neuroprotective in a variety of animal models of CNS trauma. In addition to these neuroprotective actions, TRH and most TRH analogues have other physiological actions that may not be desirable for treatment of acute injury, such as analeptic, autonomic, and endocrine effects. We have developed a series of dual-substituted TRH analogues that have strong neuroprotective actions, but are largely devoid of these other physiological actions. In addition, we have developed a family of cyclized dipeptides (diketopiperazines), structurally somewhat related to a metabolic product of TRH, that appear even more effective as neuroprotective agents in vitro and in vivo, and may have nootropic properties. Here, we review these novel tripeptide and dipeptide compounds.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-positive patients in the late phase of infection develop AIDS dementia complex, an array of neurological complications that include extrapyramidal symptoms, cognitive impairments, and psychiatric disturbances. Brains of these patients exhibit brain injury. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) has been suggested to be a causal agent of neuronal loss; however, several strains of gp120 exist during the infection and the relative neurotoxic potential of each strain is presently unknown. Using cultured cerebellar granule neurons, we determined whether two strains of gp120, gp120IIIB and gp120BaL, which bind to CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors, respectively, induce cell death. Apoptotic cell death and activated caspase-3 were evident within a few hours in neurons exposed to low nanomolar concentrations of either gp120IIIB or gp120BaL. However, the neurotoxic effect of gp120IIIB was more rapid and occurred at lower concentrations than that of gp120BaL, suggesting that cerebellar granule cells may be more sensitive to apoptotic signals activated by the CXCR4 receptor. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to block neuronal apoptosis. Therefore, we examined whether BDNF protects against both strains of gp120. Preexposure of cerebellar granule cells to BDNF prior to both gp120s decreased apoptosis and consequently enhanced their survival. These findings underlie the rationale for exploring the ability of BDNF to reduce HIV-1-mediated neuronal cell death in vivo.
Synaptic activity and ischemia/injury promote lipid messenger formation through phospholipase-mediated cleavage of specific phospholipids from membrane reservoirs. Lipid messengers modulate signaling cascades, contributing to development, differentiation, function (e.g., memory), protection, regeneration, and repair of neurons and overall regulation of neuronal, glial, and endothelial cell functional integrity. Oxidative stress disrupts lipid signaling and promotes lipid peroxidation and neurodegeneration. Lipid signaling at the neurovascular unit (neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and cells of the microvasculature) is altered in early cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative disease. We discuss how lipid signaling regulates critical events in neuronal survival. Aberrant synaptic plasticity (e.g., epileptogenesis) is highlighted to show how gene expression may drive synaptic circuitry formation in the &quot;wrong&quot; direction. Docosahexaenoic acid has been implicated in memory, photoreceptor cell biogenesis and function, and neuroprotection. Free docosahexaenoic acid released in the brain during experimental stroke leads to the synthesis of stereospecific messengers through oxygenation pathways. One messenger, 10,17S-docosatriene (neuroprotectin D1; NPD1), counteracts leukocyte infiltration and proinflammatory gene expression in brain ischemia-reperfusion. In retina, photoreceptor survival depends on retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell integrity. NPD1 is synthesized in RPE cells undergoing oxidative stress, potently counteracts oxidative stress-triggered apoptotic DNA damage in RPE, upregulates antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L), and decreases proapoptotic Bax and Bad expression. These findings expand our understanding of how the nervous system counteracts redox disturbances, mitochondrial dysfunction, and proinflammatory conditions. The specificity and potency of NPD1 indicate a potential target for therapeutic intervention for stroke, age-related macular degeneration, spinal cord injury, and other neuroinflammatory or neurodegenerative diseases.
Although the prevalence of seizures in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) is 10 times that of the general population, there are few prospectively collected data on mechanism. With transcranial Doppler and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angiography, we evaluated 76 patients with sickle cell disease, 29 asymptomatic and 47 with neurological complications (seizures, stroke, transient ischemic attack, learning difficulty, headaches, or abnormal transcranial Doppler), who also underwent bolus-tracking perfusion MRI. The six patients with recent seizures also had electroencephalography. Group comparisons (seizure, nonseizure, and asymptomatic) indicated that abnormal transcranial Doppler was more common in the seizure (4/6; 67%) and nonseizure (26/41; 63%) groups than in the asymptomatic (10/29; 34%) group (chi2; p = 0.045), but abnormal structural MRI (chi2; p = 0.7) or magnetic resonance angiography (chi2; p = 0.2) were not. Relative decreased cerebral perfusion was found in all seizure patients and in 16 of 32 of the remaining patients with successful perfusion MRI (p = 0.03). In the seizure patients, the perfusion abnormalities in five were ipsilateral to electroencephalographic abnormalities; one had normal electroencephalogram results. These findings suggest that vasculopathy and focal hypoperfusion may be factors in the development of sickle cell disease-associated seizures.
Medical measures that bear no known danger for the adult brain may trigger active neuronal death in the developing brain. Pharmacological blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate or activation of GABA(A) receptors, blockade of voltage-dependent sodium channels, and oxygen induce widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration during the period of rapid brain growth in rodents. Because such measures are often necessary in critically ill infants and toddlers, search for adjunctive neuroprotective strategies is warranted. We report that 17beta-estradiol ameliorates neurotoxicity of drugs that block N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, activate GABA(A) receptors, or block voltage-gated sodium channels and reduces neurotoxicity of oxygen in the infant rat brain. This neuroprotective effect is reversed by tamoxifen and cannot be reproduced by 17alpha-estradiol. 17Beta-estradiol did not affect GABA(A) or N-methyl-D-aspartate currents in hippocampal neuronal cultures, indicating that direct modulation of neurotransmitter receptor/channel properties by this compound cannot explain neuroprotective effect. 17beta-Estradiol did, however, increase levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and AKT, suggesting that activation of these prosurvival proteins may represent one mechanism for its neuroprotective action. 17Beta-estradiol and related compounds may be neuroprotective agents suitable for use in critically ill infants and toddlers. Its supplementation may particularly help to improve neurocognitive outcome in preterm infants who are prematurely deprived of maternal estrogen.
A large body of clinical and experimental data indicate that complement activation is an important mechanism for neuronal and glial injury in Guillain-Barr syndromes. Inhibition of complement activation therefore might be expected to limit the progression of the disease. Using in vitro and in vivo models of the Guillain-Barr syndrome variant, Miller Fisher syndrome, we have shown previously that anti-GQ1b ganglioside antibodies target the presynaptic motor nerve terminal axon and surrounding perisynaptic Schwann cells, thereby mediating destructive injury through deposition of membrane attack complex. Here, we have used this model to investigate the effects of a novel therapeutic inhibitor of complement activation, APT070 (Mirococept), both in vitro and in vivo. In these models, APT070 completely prevents membrane attack complex formation, and thereby has a major neuroprotective effect at the nerve terminal, as assessed by immunohistology of perisynaptic Schwann cell and axonal integrity. These data provide a rationale for considering clinical trials of APT070 in Guillain-Barr syndrome, its variant forms, and other complement dependent neuromuscular disorders.

A multidisciplinary consensus group searched MEDLINE from 1966 to May 2003, extracted relevant references, and prepared recommendations on supportive care for Guillain-Barr syndrome. In the absence of randomized controlled trials, we agreed on recommendations by consensus based on observational studies and expert opinion. In the acute phase in bed-bound adult patients, the group recommended the use of heparin and graduated pressure stockings to prevent deep vein thrombosis, monitoring for blood pressure, pulse, autonomic disturbances, and respiratory failure, and the timely institution of artificial ventilation and tracheostomy. Pain management is difficult, but carbamazepine or gabapentin may help. The cautious use of narcotic analgesics may be needed. Disabled patients should be treated by a multidisciplinary rehabilitation team and should receive an assistive exercise program. Persistent fatigue following Guillain-Barr syndrome is common and may be helped by an exercise program. Because of a very small and possibly only theoretical increase in the risk of recurrence following immunization, the need for immunization should be reviewed on an individual basis. More research is needed to identify optimal methods for all aspects of supportive care.


The aim of the study was to investigate life situations, suffering, and perceptions of encounter with psychiatric care among 10 patients with borderline personality disorder. The results are based on a hermeneutic interpretation of narrative interviews in addition to biographical material (diary excerpts and poems). The interpretation revealed three comprehensive theme areas: life on the edge , the struggle for health and dignity-a balance act on a slack wire over a volcano , and the good and the bad act of psychiatric care in the drama of suffering . These theme areas form a movement back and forth-from despair and unendurable suffering to struggle for health and dignity and a life worth living. Common beliefs regarding these patients among personnel and implications for psychiatric care are discussed in relation to the results.
Recent evidence in natural and semi-natural settings has revealed a variety of left-right perceptual asymmetries among vertebrates. These include preferential use of the left or right visual hemifield during activities such as searching for food, agonistic responses, or escape from predators in animals as different as fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. There are obvious disadvantages in showing such directional asymmetries because relevant stimuli may be located to the animal's left or right at random; there is no a priori association between the meaning of a stimulus (e.g., its being a predator or a food item) and its being located to the animal's left or right. Moreover, other organisms (e.g., predators) could exploit the predictability of behavior that arises from population-level lateral biases. It might be argued that lateralization of function enhances cognitive capacity and efficiency of the brain, thus counteracting the ecological disadvantages of lateral biases in behavior. However, such an increase in brain efficiency could be obtained by each individual being lateralized without any need to align the direction of the asymmetry in the majority of the individuals of the population. Here we argue that the alignment of the direction of behavioral asymmetries at the population level arises as an &quot;evolutionarily stable strategy&quot; under &quot;social&quot; pressures occurring when individually asymmetrical organisms must coordinate their behavior with the behavior of other asymmetrical organisms of the same or different species.
Pregnancy and lactation involve dramatic changes in behavior and physiology necessary for the successful production and sustenance of offspring. This requires numerous processes to emerge and be coordinated in a finely tuned manner. Reduced corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) receptor activity and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function are thought to be involved in numerous functions during lactation, such as reducing fear and anxiety, which in turn, is proposed to disinhibit aggressive behaviors. K. L. D'Anna, S. A. Stevenson, and S. C. Gammie (2005) reported that central infusion of urocortin 1 and 3, anxiogenic peptides that bind to CRF receptors, reduce maternal aggression in lactating mice and alter neural c-fos expression. However, the relationship between stress hormones and where they act, emotional state, and aggression during lactation is complicated, and our understanding of how these factors influence each other might benefit from a comprehensive reevaluation of these literatures. ((c) 2005 APA, all rights reserved).
The cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) is a transcription factor that regulates synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Studies that have used conditioned fear models have established that CREB is important for the acquisition and consolidation of fear learning. The authors demonstrate that overexpression of CREB within the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of animals that are exposed to social defeat enhances subsequent defeat-induced changes in social behavior. This effect is specific to the acquisition of defeat-induced behaviors; overexpression of CREB has no effect on the expression of these behaviors if the overexpression occurs after the initial defeat. These data demonstrate that CREB is important for regulating learning not only to explicit cues but also for mediating behavioral plasticity in ethologically relevant social contexts.
Conscious regulation of negative emotion has been shown to affect human eyeblink startle responses, but whether these results depend on modulation of arousal- or valence-based processes is unknown. The authors presented participants with negative, neutral, and positive pictures and directed them to enhance, maintain, and suppress emotional responses. On emotional picture trials, startle responses decreased as a function of cue in the following order: enhance &gt; maintain &gt; suppress. Analysis of negative and positive picture trials separately revealed similar patterns of startle modulation by emotion regulation. There were no effects of emotion regulation on neutral trials. Results indicate that arousal, not valence, may be critical to startle modulation via conscious emotion regulation.
Competing views persist concerning the functional significance of ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) emitted by infant rats. One perspective holds that USVs result from an emotional state of fear and anxiety, the adult expression of which depends in part on forebrain mechanisms. Here the authors examine whether pups lacking forebrain input are capable of emitting USVs. Aspirations of neocortex and hippocampus or precollicular decerebrations were performed on 8-day-old rats. After the rats recovered, USV responses were recorded for 10 min at room temperature (Phase 1) followed by enhanced cooling for 20 min (Phase 2). Experimental pups emitted significantly fewer USVs than shams during Phase 1 but vocalized at similar rates during Phase 2. Thus, in infants, brainstem neural circuitry is sufficient to support emission of USVs.
Juvenile rats (18-23 days old) interact avidly with pups as novel stimuli and show maternal behavior after only 1-3 days of pup exposure; adults initially avoid pups and require 3-9 days of pup exposure. Upon exposure to pups as novel stimuli, adults had more c-Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the hypothalamus and amygdala--regions associated with aversion to pups--than adults exposed to familiar pup stimuli (maternal) or not exposed to pups (p &lt; .05). In juvenile rats exposed to pups as novel stimuli, only the medial amygdala had a small significant increase of c-Fos neurons. In juveniles, this blunted engagement of c-Fos neurons may reflect the diminished activation of inhibitory neurons, facilitating the interaction of juveniles with pups as novel stimuli and onset of maternal behavior.
In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), social defeat produces a subsequent increase in submissive and defensive behavior and a loss of normal territorial aggression, which the authors have called conditioned defeat. In this study, the authors investigated the effect of blocking corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) Type I and Type II receptors on conditioned defeat. Intracerebroventricular infusion of the CRF-sub-2 receptor antagonist antisauvagine-30 prior to testing significantly reduced conditioned defeat compared with vehicle controls, whereas the CRF-sub-1 receptor antagonist CP-154,526 had no effect. Also, infusion of antisauvagine-30 into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) 15 min, but not immediately, prior to testing reduced conditioned defeat in a dose-dependent manner. The authors' results provide evidence that CRF-sub-2 receptors in the BNST, but not CRF-sub-1 receptors, are an important component in the neural circuitry regulating conditioned defeat.
The present study examined the effects of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) competitive antagonist, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5), injected into the dorsolateral striatum on the acquisition and reversal learning of a response discrimination. Male Long-Evans rats were tested across 2 consecutive days in a modified cross-maze. An infusion of either saline or AP-5 (5 or 25 nM) occurred 5 min prior to testing. In acquisition rats learned to turn left or right. In reversal learning rats learned to turn in the opposite direction. An AP-5 infusion at 25 nmol, but not 5 nmol, impaired response acquisition. Neither AP-5 dose impaired response reversal learning. The results suggest that NMDA receptors in the dorsolateral striatum are critical for the initial learning of an egocentric response discrimination.
In the current study, the authors investigated whether Morris water maze learning induces alterations in hippocampal neurogenesis or neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) polysialylation in the dentate gyrus. Two frequently used rat strains, Wistar and Sprague-Dawley, were trained in the spatial or the nonspatial version of the water maze. Both training paradigms did not have an effect on survival of newly formed cells that were labeled 7-9 days prior to the training or on progenitor proliferation in the subgranular zone. However, the granule cell layer of the spatially trained rats contained significantly more positive cells of the polysialylated form of the NCAM. These data demonstrate that Morris water maze learning causes plastic change in the dentate gyrus without affecting hippocampal neurogenesis.
Short-term selective breeding created mouse lines divergent for ethanol drinking (high drinking short-term selected line [STDRHI], low drinking [STDRLO]) or ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion (CTA; high [HTA], low [LTA]). Compared with STDRLO, STDRHI mice consumed more saccharin and less quinine, exhibited greater ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), and showed reduced ethanol stimulation and sensitization under some conditions; a line difference in ethanol-induced CTA was not consistently found. Compared with LTA, HTA mice consumed less ethanol but were similar in saccharin consumption, sensitivity to ethanol-induced CPP, and ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation and sensitization. These data suggest that ethanol drinking is genetically associated with several reward-and aversion-related traits. The interpretation of ethanol-induced CTA as more genetically distinct must be tempered by the inability to test the CTA lines beyond Selection Generation 2.
We describe a device that can display very high intensity (up to 400,000 cd/m2), high-resolution visual stimuli. The device is inexpensive, is easily controlled by a conventional computer and video card, and can be calibrated for use in vision research or clinical applications. The display is capable of presenting highly saturated, near spectral colors. Unlike Maxwellian view optical systems, our display can be viewed binocularly and does not require exacting head restraint. We describe the construction, give a design example, and describe our calibration procedure. Furthermore, we report measurements of the color gamut, spatial resolution, temporal characteristics, and the dynamic range of light intensity.
Molecular techniques allowing in vivo modulation of gene expression have provided unique opportunities and challenges for behavioural studies aimed at understanding the function of particular genes or biological systems under physiological or pathological conditions. Although various animal models are available, the laboratory mouse (Mus musculus) has unique features and is therefore a preferred animal model. The mouse shares a remarkable genetic resemblance and aspects of behaviour with humans. In this review, first we describe common mouse models for behavioural analyses. As both genetic and environmental factors influence behavioural performance and need to be carefully evaluated in behavioural experiments, considerations for designing and interpretations of these experiments are subsequently discussed. Finally, common behavioural tests used to assess brain function are reviewed, and it is illustrated how behavioural tests are used to increase our understanding of the role of histaminergic neurotransmission in brain function.
Although memory loss is the central symptom of Alzheimer's disease, the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to dementia are poorly understood. It is difficult to answer this issue with studies in humans and impossible in cultured cells. Therefore animal models are needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms leading to dementia. The chief neuropathological changes during Alzheimer's disease, namely neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques, have helped us to determine which molecules to focus upon in the animal models, specifically Abeta (amyloid beta) and tau. This paper presents my perspective on what we have learnt about mechanisms of memory loss from Abeta and tau mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.
PD (Parkinson's disease) is an aetiologically heterogeneous disorder characterized by a clinical phenotype consisting of resting tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia. Motor symptoms are associated with a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons, with Lewy body inclusions within surviving neurons. Although heritability studies have shown evidence of familial aggregation, twin studies have provided limited support for a genetic aetiology. Nevertheless, classical linkage methods have nominated 11 regions of the genome and pathogenic mutations have been identified in several genes, including alpha-synuclein, parkin, ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1, oncogene DJ-1, PTEN-induced protein kinase 1 and microtubule-associated protein tau. Most recently, heterozygous mutations in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) were found to cause late-onset, autosomal-dominant PD. Despite their consistent clinical phenotype, family members with LRRK2 mutations can have variable alpha-synuclein and tau pathologies. Lrrk2 is a member of the Roc (Ras of complex proteins) family, with Ras GTPase and MAPKKK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase) catalytic domains. Thus its discovery highlights vesicle dynamics and secondary-messenger signalling in disease pathophysiology. To diagnose a disease accurately and effectively treat it, requires an understanding of its molecular pathogenesis. Herein, we provide an overview of the genetics of PD, how these discoveries are revolutionizing long-held beliefs and more importantly how this knowledge may be translated into patient therapy.
Loci underlying autosomal dominant forms of most neurodegenerative disease have been identified: prion mutations cause Gerstmann Straussler syndrome and hereditary Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, tau mutations cause autosomal dominant frontal temporal dementia and alpha-synuclein mutations cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. In these cases, the pathogenic mutation is in the protein that is deposited in the diseased tissue and the whole protein is deposited. In Alzheimer's disease, mutations in amyloid precursor protein or in the presenilins cause autosomal dominant disease. These are the substrate and proteases responsible for the production of the deposited peptide Abeta. Thus, in all the cases, the mutations lead to the disease by a mechanism that involves the deposition process. Furthermore, sporadic forms of all these diseases are predisposed by genetic variability at the same loci, implying that the quantity of the normal protein influences the risk of this form of disease. These results show that the amount of pathogenic protein expression is a key factor in determining disease initiation. Recent work on transgenic models of these diseases is consistent with the view that there are two stages of pathogenesis: a concentration-dependent formation of a pathogenic protein oligomer followed by aggregation on to this oligomeric template by a process that is less dependent on the concentration of the protein.
One of the major challenges in neuroscience is to identify the changes which accompany aging and which contribute to the well-documented age-related deterioration in cognitive function. This is a particular challenge in the light of the vast array of reported changes, which include morphological changes like synaptic and perhaps cell loss, alteration in membrane composition and the resultant changes in function of membrane proteins, modulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis, impaired calcium homoeostatic mechanisms, alteration in enzyme function and decreased neurotransmitter release. In the past few years, evidence suggesting that an aged brain exhibits signs of oxidative stress and inflammatory stress has been accumulating, and recent evidence using microarray analysis has added support to this view. In this paper, we provide evidence to suggest that vitamin D3 acts as an anti-inflammatory agent and reverses the age-related increase in microglial activation and the accompanying increase in IL-1beta (interleukin-1beta) concentration.
AD (Alzheimer's disease) is characterized by a progressive and devastating mental decline that is usually presaged by impairment of a form of memory dependent on medial temporal lobe structures, including the hippocampus. The severity of clinical dementia correlates positively with the cerebral load of the AD-related protein Abeta (amyloid beta), particularly in its soluble form rather than the insoluble fibrillar Abeta found in amyloid plaques. Recent research in animal models of AD has pointed to a potentially important role for rapid disruptive effects of soluble species of Abeta on neural function in causing a relatively selective impairment of memory early in the disease. Our experiments assessing the mechanisms of Abeta inhibition of LTP (long-term potentiation), a correlate of memory-related synaptic plasticity, in the rodent hippocampus showed that low-n oligomers were the soluble Abeta species primarily responsible for the disruption of synaptic plasticity in vivo. Exogenously applied and endogenously generated anti-Abeta antibodies rapidly neutralized and prevented the synaptic plasticity disrupting effects of these very potent Abeta oligomers. This suggests that active or passive immunotherapeutic strategies for early AD should target Abeta oligomers in the brain. The ability of agents that reduce nitrosative/oxidative stress or antagonize stress-activated kinases to prevent Abeta inhibition of LTP in vitro points to a key role of these cellular mechanisms at very early stages in Abeta-induced neuronal dysfunction. A combination of antibody-mediated inactivation of Abeta oligomers and pharmacological prevention of cellular stress mechanisms underlying their synaptic plasticity disrupting effects provides an attractive strategy in the prevention of early AD.
AD (Alzheimer's disease) is characterized neuropathologically by the presence of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and profound grey matter loss. The 'amyloid' hypothesis postulates that the toxic Abeta (amyloid beta) peptide, enzymatically derived from the proteolytic processing of a larger protein called APP (amyloid precursor protein), is one of the principal causative factors of neuronal cell death in the brains of AD patients. As such, methods for lowering Abeta levels in the brain are of significant interest with regard to identifying novel disease modifying therapies for the treatment of AD. In this review, we will review a variety of approaches and mechanisms capable of modulating levels of Abeta.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by a number of common hallmarks, such as the presence of intracellular aggregates and activation of the apoptotic cell-death pathway. Intracellular chaperones, responsible for protein integrity and structural repair, may play a crucial role in the progression of a disease. In this paper, we aim to summarize our understanding of the role and potential of a particular family of chaperones, the heat-shock proteins, in neurodegeneration, by focusing our discussion on models of motoneuron death.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is not only a major constituent of extracellular fibrillary pathologies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains, but is also physiologically produced and metabolized in neurons. This fact led us to the notion that an age-related decrease in Abeta catabolism may contribute to the molecular pathogenesis of AD, providing a rationale for seeking proteolytic enzymes that degrade Abeta in the brain. Our recent studies have demonstrated that neprilysin is the most potent Abeta-degrading enzyme in vivo. Deficiency of endogenous neprilysin elevates the level of Abeta in brains of neprilysin-knockout mice in a gene dose-dependent manner, and an age-associated decline of neprilysin occurs in several regions of mouse brain. Neuropathological alterations in these same regions have been implicated in cognitive impairments of AD patients at an early stage of the disease. Furthermore, the level of neprilysin mRNA has been found to be significantly and selectively reduced in the hippocampus and temporal cortex of AD patients. A clarification of the role played by decreased neprilysin activity in the pathogenesis of AD has opened up the possibility of neprilysin up-regulation as a novel preventive and therapeutic approach to AD. Since the expression level and activity of neprilysin are likely to be regulated by neuropeptides and their receptors, non-peptidic agonists for these receptors might be effective agents to maintain a sufficient level of Abeta catabolism in brains of the elderly. In addition to Abeta deposits, intraneuronal fibrillary lesions, such as neurofibrillary tangles, are also a pathological hallmark of AD, and the extent of the resultant cytoskeletal disruptions may be dependent upon the activity levels of proteolytic enzymes. Among proteases for which major cytoskeletal components are good substrates, calpains were shown to participate in excitotoxic stress-induced neuritic degeneration in our recent analysis using genetically engineered mice. Moreover, we have found that this pathology can be reduced by controlling the activity of an endogenous calpain inhibitor known as calpastatin, providing a possible approach for the treatment of diverse neurodegenerative disorders, including AD.
Parkinson's disease involves the progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. However, the etiology of the disease remains to be elucidated. Endogenous amines, such as 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (TIQ) derivatives present in the mammalian brain, are known to participate in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. These endogenous neurotoxins have been extensively studied because of their structural resemblance to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), an agent widely used for generating animal models of Parkinson's disease-like symptoms. Investigations of the synthesis and pharmacological properties of TIQ derivatives are expected to contribute to the development of new therapeutic agents for treating Parkinson's disease. In the present study, we describe more efficient synthesis methods for TIQ derivatives via Pummerer-type cyclization of the substrate N-acyl sulfoxide. Furthermore, the modified Pummerer reaction provided a convenient and efficient method for synthesizing various TIQs. TIQ and its derivative, 1-benzyl-TIQ, can induce parkinsonism in primates and rodents. On the other hand, one TIQ derivative, 1-methyl-TIQ, has been shown to prevent MPTP, TIQ, and 1-benzyl-TIQ induced behavioral abnormalities. Therefore, TIQ derivatives are considered to play an important role in both the onset and prevention of Parkinson's disease. In this article, we focus on the synthesis and pharmacological aspects of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline derivatives in Parkinson's disease.
Much has been learned about the activity-dependent synaptic modifications that are thought to underlie memory storage, but the mechanism by which these modifications are stored remains unclear. A good candidate for the storage mechanism is Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II). CaM kinase II is one of the most prominent protein kinases, present in essentially every tissue but most concentrated in brain. Although it has been about a quarter of a century since the finding, CaM kinase II has been of the major interest in the region of brain science. It plays a multifunctional role in many intracellular events, and the expression of the enzyme is carefully regulated in brain regions and during brain development. Neuronal CaM kinase II regulates important neuronal functions, including neurotransmitter synthesis, neurotransmitter release, modulation of ion channel activity, cellular transport, cell morphology and neurite extension, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, and gene expression. Studies concerning this kinase have provided insight into the molecular basis of nerve functions, especially learning and memory, and indicate one direction for studies in the field of neuroscience. This review presents the molecular structure, properties and functions of CaM kinase II, as a major component of neurons, based mainly developed on findings made in our laboratory.

A series of 3-aryl piperidine analogs with 2-piperidinoalkylamino or 2-piperidinoalkyloxy fused bicyclic rings were prepared and found to be potent and efficacious human dopamine D4 agonists. The synthesis and structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies that led to the identification of these compounds are discussed.



We report a case of significant weight loss experienced by a 44-year-old Caucasian woman treated with reboxetine. She was treated with this drug at 12 mg daily for a total duration of 11 months. During the corresponding period her body mass index (BMI) decreased from a baseline of 21.4 kg m(-2) to a low of 16.8 kg m(-2). Withdrawal of the drug led to a full recovery of her BMI. The strongest evidence linking reboxetine to this woman's weight loss laid in the fact that the re-introduction of the drug subsequently caused a similar negative impact in her BMI.

We have investigated the neurogenic factors inducing relaxation in the intraocular segment of the bovine long posterior ciliary artery. In precontracted vessels, electrical field stimulation (EFS, 0.5-128 Hz, 10 s trains) in the presence of guanethidine (30 microM) evoked biphasic relaxation: optimal relaxation for the first and second components occurred at 10 and 50 s, respectively. The first component, but not the second, was abolished by L-NAME (100 microM) or ODQ (3 microM). Relaxation to exogenous CGRP (0.1-300 nM) was inhibited by the CGRP antagonist, CGRP(8-37) (1-5 microM), but neither component of neurogenic relaxation was affected. Preincubation with the sensory nerve excitotoxin, capsaicin (1 microM), had no effect on either the first or second components of neurogenic relaxation. Substance P (0.1 nM-0.1 microM) induced relaxation, but rapid and complete desensitisation occurred within minutes. Neither desensitisation to substance P (0.1 microM) nor incubation with the NK(1) antagonist, L-733,060 (0.3 microM), had any effect on the first or second components of neurogenic relaxation.VIP (0.1 nM-0.3 microM) induced relaxation and this was followed by substantial desensitisation. Neither desensitisation to VIP (0.6 microM) nor treatment with the protease, alpha-chymotrypsin (10 U ml(-1)), had any effect on the first or second components of neurogenic relaxation. The results indicate that nitric oxide mediates the first component of neurogenic relaxation in the bovine intraocular ciliary artery. The neurotransmitter mediating the second component remains to be determined but is unlikely to be CGRP, substance P or VIP.
There is some dispute concerning the extent to which the uptake inhibitor VDM11 (N-(4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl) arachidonoyl amide) is capable of inhibiting the metabolism of the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). In view of a recent study demonstrating that the closely related compound AM404 (N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)arachidonylamide) is a substrate for FAAH, we re-examined the interaction of VDM11 with FAAH. In the presence of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA, 0.125% w v(-1)), both AM404 and VDM11 inhibited the metabolism of AEA by rat brain FAAH with similar potencies (IC(50) values of 2.1 and 2.6 microM, respectively). The compounds were about 10-fold less potent as inhibitors of the metabolism of 2-oleoylglycerol (2-OG) by cytosolic monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL). The potency of VDM11 towards FAAH was dependent upon the assay concentration of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA). Thus, in the absence of fatty acid-free BSA, the IC(50) value for inhibition of FAAH was reduced by a factor of about two (from 2.9 to 1.6 microM). A similar reduction in the IC(50) value for the inhibition of membrane bound MAGL by both this compound (from 14 to 6 microM) and by arachidonoyl serinol (from 24 to 13 microM) was seen. An HPLC assay was set up to measure 4-amino-m-cresol, the hypothesised product of FAAH-catalysed VDM11 hydrolysis. 4-Amino-m-cresol was eluted with a retention time of approximately 2.4 min, but showed a time-dependent degradation to compounds eluting at peaks of approximately 5.6 and approximately 8 min. Peaks with the same retention times were also found following incubation of the membranes with VDM11, but were not seen when the membranes were preincubated with the FAAH inhibitors URB597 (3'-carbamoyl-biphenyl-3-yl-cyclohexylcarbamate) and CAY10401 (1-oxazolo[4,5-b]pyridin-2-yl-9-octadecyn-1-one) prior to addition of VDM11. The rate of metabolism of VDM11 was estimated to be roughly 15-20% of that for anandamide. It is concluded that VDM11 is an inhibitor of FAAH under the assay conditions used here, and that the inhibition may at least in part be a consequence of the compound acting as an alternative substrate.

The serial reaction time (SRT) task was used to compare learning of a complex sequence by action (participants responded to sequential stimuli), by observation (participants watched but did not respond to sequential stimuli), and by action-observation (participants watched an expert model responding to sequential stimuli). Each of these groups was compared with an untrained control group. Experiment 1 indicated that both observation and action-observation were sufficient to support learning of a 12-item second-order conditional (SOC) sequence. Experiment 2 confirmed these findings, and showed that, as indexed by reaction time (RT), the extent of learning by observation and by action-observation was comparable to that of action-based learning. Using a recognition test, Experiment 2 and 3 also provided evidence that, whereas learning by stimulus observation was explicit, learning by action-observation was implicit. These findings are consistent with a connection between motor systems and implicit learning, but do not support the hypothesis that overt action is necessary for implicit learning.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA-6) is a rare, autosomal dominant neurodegenerative condition characterized by adult onset cerebellar ataxia and ocular movement disorders. The presentation is non-specific, and radiological characterization would be of diagnostic benefit. There is little published on the radiological appearances of SCA-6, and there are conflicting reports in the literature. We report the radiological findings in a group of 10 patients with SCA-6.

Erythromelalgia is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by burning pain in response to warm stimuli or moderate exercise. We describe a novel mutation in a family with erythromelalgia in SCN9A, the gene that encodes the Na(v)1.7 sodium channel. Na(v)1.7 produces threshold currents and is selectively expressed within sensory neurons including nociceptors. We demonstrate that this mutation, which produces a hyperpolarizing shift in activation and a depolarizing shift in steady-state inactivation, lowers thresholds for single action potentials and high frequency firing in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Erythromelalgia is the first inherited pain disorder in which it is possible to link a mutation with an abnormality in ion channel function and with altered firing of pain signalling neurons.
The excitability of inhibitory circuits in patients with writer's cramp is reduced at multiple levels within the sensorimotor system, including the primary motor hand area (M1). Although this may play a major role in the pathophysiology of writer's cramp, it is still unclear what factors may cause the imbalance between inhibition and excitation to arise. One possibility is that homeostatic mechanisms that keep cortical excitability within a normal physiological range are impaired. In eight patients with writer's cramp and eight healthy age-matched controls, we combined low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) with transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) to probe regional homeostatic plasticity of the left M1. Confirming our previous study (Siebner et al., J Neurosci 2004; 24: 3379-85), 'facilitatory' preconditioning of the M1 with anodal TDCS enhanced the inhibitory effect of subsequent 1 Hz rTMS on corticospinal excitability. Conversely, 'inhibitory' preconditioning with cathodal TDCS reversed the after effect of 1 Hz rTMS, producing an increase in corticospinal excitability. The results were quite different in patients with writer's cramp. Following preconditioning with TDCS, 1 Hz rTMS induced no consistent changes in corticospinal excitability, indicating a loss of the normal 'homeostatic' response pattern. In addition, the normal inhibitory effect of preconditioning with cathodal TDCS was absent. The present data suggest that homeostatic mechanisms that stabilize excitability levels within a useful dynamic range are impaired in patients with writer's cramp. We propose that a faulty homeostatic response to acute increases in corticospinal excitability favours maladaptive motor plasticity. The role of homeostatic-like plasticity in the pathophysiology of task-specific dystonias warrants further study.
The purpose of this study was to find a common pattern of event-related potential (ERP) fluctuations regardless of the type of information (either semantic or syntactic) determining the presence of a reversed word order. ERPs were recorded while subjects read Spanish transitive sentences in which either semantic or syntactic information determined the actual word order. On the one hand (semantic condition), the order could be reversed by using an inanimate noun in the first noun phrase (NP), together with a verb representing an action that cannot correspond to an inanimate entity. On the other hand (syntactic condition), word order could be manipulated depending on the presence of a preposition preceding the second NP, which confirms the preferred word order, or a determiner, conveying a reversed word order. Interestingly, the inanimate first noun elicited a frontal negativity, which could be interpreted as the detection of an initial difficulty for using that noun as the subject of the sentence. At the point of disambiguation in either condition, a late posterior positivity was observed. The P600/SPS might, therefore, be an indicator of the syntactic processing costs incurred by the variation of word order, reflecting phrase structure reallocation processes common to this operation regardless of the cue used.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and a behavioral paradigm were used to assess whether listening to action-related sentences modulates the activity of the motor system. By means of single-pulse TMS, either the hand or the foot/leg motor area in the left hemisphere was stimulated in distinct experimental sessions, while participants were listening to sentences expressing hand and foot actions. Listening to abstract content sentences served as a control. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from hand and foot muscles. Results showed that MEPs recorded from hand muscles were specifically modulated by listening to hand-action-related sentences, as were MEPs recorded from foot muscles by listening to foot-action-related sentences. This modulation consisted of an amplitude decrease of the recorded MEPs. In the behavioral task, participants had to respond with the hand or the foot while listening to actions expressing hand and foot actions, as compared to abstract sentences. Coherently with the results obtained with TMS, when the response was given with the hand, reaction times were slower during listening to hand-action-related sentences, while when the response was given with the foot, reaction times were slower during listening to foot-action-related sentences. The present data show that processing verbally presented actions activates different sectors of the motor system, depending on the effector used in the listened-to action.
We investigated the ERP correlates of the subjective perception of upright and upside-down ambiguous pictures as faces using two-tone Mooney stimuli in an explicit facial decision task (deciding whether a face is perceived or not in the display). The difficulty in perceiving upside-down Mooneys as faces was reflected by both lower rates of &quot;Face&quot; responses and delayed &quot;Face&quot; reaction times for upside-down relative to upright stimuli. The N170 was larger for the stimuli reported as &quot;faces&quot;. It was also larger for the upright than the upside-down stimuli only when they were reported as faces. Furthermore, facial decision as well as stimulus orientation effects spread from 140-190 ms to 390-440 ms. The behavioural delay in 'Face' responses to upside-down stimuli was reflected in ERPs by later effect of facial decision for upside-down relative to upright Mooneys over occipito-temporal electrodes. Moreover, an orientation effect was observed only for the stimuli reported as faces; it yielded a marked hemispheric asymmetry, lasting from 140-190 ms to 390-440 ms post-stimulus onset in the left hemisphere and from 340-390 to 390-440 ms only in the right hemisphere. Taken together, the results supported a preferential involvement of the right hemisphere in the detection of faces, whatever their orientation. By contrast, the early orientation effect in the left hemisphere suggested that upside-down Mooney stimuli were processed as non face objects until facial decision was reached in this hemisphere. The present data show that face perception involves not only spatially but also temporally distributed activities in occipito-temporal regions.
It has been argued that prototypical forms of psychopathology result from an imbalance in reward and punishment systems. Recent studies suggest that the ratios between slower and faster waves of the electroencephalogram (EEG) index this motivational balance and might therefore have diagnostic value for psychopathology. To scrutinize this notion, the present study investigated whether resting state EEG ratios would predict decision making on the Iowa gambling task (Iowa-GT), a well-known marker for motivational imbalance. A resting state EEG recording was acquired followed by the Iowa-GT in twenty-eight healthy right-handed volunteers. Results showed that higher versus lower EEG ratios were associated with disadvantageous versus advantageous decision making strategies indicating motivational imbalances in reward- and punishment-driven behavior, respectively. This finding provides the first direct evidence that the electrophysiologically derived EEG ratios can serve as biological markers for balance and imbalance in motivation.
The purpose of this review is to demonstrate that respiration is a complex behavior comprising both brainstem autonomic control and supramedullary influences, including volition. Whereas some fundamental mechanisms had to be established using animal models, this review focuses on clinical cases and physiological studies in humans to illustrate normal and abnormal respiratory behavior. To summarize, central respiratory drive is generated in the rostroventrolateral medulla, and transmitted to both the upper airway and to the main and accessory respiratory muscles. Afferent feedback is provided from lung and muscle mechnoreceptors, peripheral carotid and aortic chemoreceptors, and multiple central chemoreceptors. Supramedullary regions, including cortex and subcortex, modulate or initiate breathing with volition, emotion and at the onset of exercise. Autonomic breathing control can be perturbed by brainstem pathology including space occupying lesions, compression, congenital central hypoventilation syndrome and sudden infant death syndrome. Sleep-wake states are important in regulating breathing. Thus, respiratory control abnormalities are most often evident during sleep, or during transition from sleep to wakefulness. Previously undiagnosed structural brainstem pathology may be revealed by abnormal breathing during sleep. Ondine's curse and 'the locked-in syndrome' serve to distinguish brainstem from supramedullary regulatory mechanisms in humans: The former comprises loss of autonomic respiratory control and requires volitional breathing for survival, and the latter entails loss of corticospinal or corticobulbar tracts required for volitional breathing, but preserves autonomic respiratory control.
There are numerous concerns related to treatment choices involving early dopaminergic therapy in Parkinson's disease. These include the effect on the underlying progression of the neurodegenerative process as well as the development of motor complications such as fluctuations and dyskinesias. A number of recent basic and clinical studies have provided new insights but have also added confusion and controversy. This report summarizes presentations and discussion dealing with these issues from a one-day symposium involving Canadian Movement Disorders neurologists.
Transient forebrain ischemia causes selective induction of DeltaFosB, an AP-1 (activator protein-1) subunit, in cells within the ventricle wall or those in the dentate gyrus in the rat brain prior to neurogenesis, followed by induction of nestin, a marker for neuronal precursor cells, or galectin-1, a beta-galactoside sugar-binding lectin. The adenovirus-mediated expression of FosB or DeltaFosB induced expression of nestin, glial fibrillary acidic protein and galectin-1 in rat embryonic cortical cells. DeltaFosB-expressing cells exhibited a significantly higher survival and proliferation after the withdrawal of B27 supplement than the control or FosB-expressing cells. The decline in the DeltaFosB expression in the survivors enhanced the MAP2 expression. The expression of DeltaFosB in cells within the ventricle wall of the rat brain also resulted in an elevated expression of nestin. We therefore conclude that DeltaFosB can promote the proliferation of quiescent neuronal precursor cells, thus enhancing neurogenesis after transient forebrain ischemia.
Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) can induce severe and debilitating neurological problems that include behavioral abnormalities, motor dysfunction and frank dementia. After infiltrating peripheral immune competent cells, in particular macrophages, HIV-1 provokes a neuropathological response involving all cell types in the brain. HIV-1 also incites activation of chemokine receptors, inflammatory mediators, extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes and glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, all of which can trigger numerous downstream signaling pathways and disrupt neuronal and glial function. This review will discuss recently uncovered pathologic neuroimmune and degenerative mechanisms contributing to neuronal damage induced by HIV-1 and potential approaches for development of future therapeutic intervention.
Many patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) suffer cognitive impairment ranging from mild to severe (HIV dementia), which may result from neuronal death in the basal ganglia, cerebral cortex and hippocampus. HIV-1 does not kill neurons by infecting them. Instead, viral proteins released from infected glial cells, macrophages and/or stem cells may directly kill neurons or may increase their vulnerability to other cell death stimuli. By binding to and/or indirectly activating cell surface receptors such as CXCR4 and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, the HIV-1 proteins gp120 and Tat may trigger neuronal apoptosis and excitotoxicity as a result of oxidative stress, perturbed cellular calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial alterations. Membrane lipid metabolism and inflammation may also play important roles in determining whether neurons live or die in HIV-1-infected patients. Drugs and diets that target oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, inflammation and lipid metabolism are in development for the treatment of HIV-1 patients.
dng1 is a Dictyostelium homologue of the mammalian tumor suppressor ING gene. DNG1 protein localizes in the nucleus, and has a highly conserved PHD finger domain found in chromatin-remodeling proteins. Both dng1 disruption and overexpression impaired cell proliferation. In dng1-null cells, the progression of differentiation was delayed in a cell-density-dependent manner, and many tiny aggregates were formed. Exogenously applied cAMP pulses reversed the inhibitory effect caused by dng1 disruption on the aggregation during early development, but formation of tiny aggregates was not restored. dng1-overexpressing cells acquired the ability to undergo chemotaxis to cAMP earlier and exhibited enhanced differentiation. These phenotypes were found to be coupled with altered expressions of early genes such as cAMP receptor 1 (car1) and contact site A (csA). Furthermore, disordered histone modifications were demonstrated in dng1-null cells. These results suggest a regulatory role of dng1 in the transition of cells from growth to differentiation.
1. Extracellular ATP is recognized as a peripheral modulator of pain. Activation of ionotropic P2X receptors in sensory neurons has been implicated in induction of pain, whereas metabotropic P2Y receptors in potentiation of pain induced by chemical or physical stimuli via capsaicin sensitive TRPV1 channel. Here we report that P2Y2 receptor activation by ATP can activate the TRPV1 channel in absence of any other stimuli. 2. ATP-induced Ca2+ signaling was studied in Neuro2a cells. ATP evoked release of intracellular Ca2+ from ER and Ca2+ influx through a fast inactivating channel. The Ca2+ response was induced by P2Y receptor agonists in the order of potency ATP&gt;or=UTP&gt;or=ATPgammaS&gt;ADP and was inhibited by suramin and PPADS. The P2X receptor agonist alpha beta methyl ATP was ineffective. 3. The Ca2+ influx was blocked by ruthenium red, an inhibitor of TRPV1 channel. Capsaicin, the most potent activator of the TRPV1 channel, evoked a fast inactivating Ca2+ transient suggesting the presence of endogenous TRPV1 channels in Neuro2a cells. NMS and PDBu, repressors of IP3 formation, drastically inhibited both the components of Ca2+ response. 4. Our data show co-activation of the P2Y2 receptor and capsaicin sensitive TRPV1 channel by ATP. Such functional interaction between endogenous P2Y2 receptor and TRPV1 channels could explain the ATP-induced pain.

Trigeminal autonomic cephalgias (TACs) include a spectrum of primary headache syndromes associated with cranial autonomic dysfunction. Other types of headache and facial pain syndromes can be associated with marked localized facial or ear autonomic changes. We report on a group of patients suffering from episodic migraine with cranial autonomic features, patients with different presentations of the 'red ear syndrome' (RES), cluster headache with prominent lower facial involvement and crossover cases. In our experience crossover between TACs and migraine, RES and cluster headache is not uncommon. We propose that all these conditions belong to the same group and a unifying causative mechanism is proposed.
Several studies have shown the presence of a comorbidity between migraine and vascular diseases, like hypertension and stroke. The mechanisms of this comorbidity are unknown. Impaired insulin sensitivity has recently emerged as a risk factor for hypertension and stroke. We evaluated insulin sensitivity in 30 young, nonobese, nondiabetic, normotensive migraine patients and in 15 healthy controls. During the OGTT, glucose plasma concentrations were significantly higher in migraineurs than in controls. Insulin sensitivity, as measured by ISI-stumvoll and OGIS-180 indexes, was significantly altered in migraine. Our data show that insulin sensitivity is impaired in migraine and suggest a role for insulin resistance in the comorbidity between migraine and vascular diseases.
Primary visual cortex contains multiple maps of features of the visual scene, including visual field position, orientation, direction, ocular dominance and spatial frequency. The complex relationships between these maps provide clues to the strategies the cortex uses for representing and processing information. Here we simulate the combined development of all these map systems using a computational model, the elastic net. We show that this model robustly produces combined maps of these four variables that bear a close resemblance to experimental maps. In addition we show that the experimentally observed effects of monocular deprivation and single-orientation rearing can be reproduced in this model, and we make some testable predictions. These results provide strong support for the hypothesis that cortical representations attempt to optimize a trade-off between coverage and continuity.
The discovery that experience-driven changes in the human brain can occur from a neural to a cortical level throughout the lifespan has stimulated a proliferation of research into how neural function changes in response to experience, enabled by neuroimaging methods such as positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging. Studies attempt to characterize these changes by examining how practice on a task affects the functional anatomy underlying performance. Results are incongruous, including patterns of increases, decreases and functional reorganization of regional activations. Following an extensive review of the practice-effects literature, we distinguish a number of factors affecting the pattern of practice effects observed, including the effects of task domain, changes at the level of behavioural and cognitive processes, the time-window of imaging and practice, and of a number of other influences and miscellaneous confounding factors. We make a novel distinction between patterns of reorganization and redistribution as effects of task practice on brain activation, and emphasize the need for careful attention to practice-related changes occurring on the behavioural, cognitive and neural levels of analysis. Finally, we suggest that functional and effective connectivity analyses may make important contributions to our understanding of changes in functional anatomy occurring as a result of practice on tasks.
When we observe someone performing an action, do our brains simulate making that action? Acquired motor skills offer a unique way to test this question, since people differ widely in the actions they have learned to perform. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study differences in brain activity between watching an action that one has learned to do and an action that one has not, in order to assess whether the brain processes of action observation are modulated by the expertise and motor repertoire of the observer. Experts in classical ballet, experts in capoeira and inexpert control subjects viewed videos of ballet or capoeira actions. Comparing the brain activity when dancers watched their own dance style versus the other style therefore reveals the influence of motor expertise on action observation. We found greater bilateral activations in premotor cortex and intraparietal sulcus, right superior parietal lobe and left posterior superior temporal sulcus when expert dancers viewed movements that they had been trained to perform compared to movements they had not. Our results show that this 'mirror system' integrates observed actions of others with an individual's personal motor repertoire, and suggest that the human brain understands actions by motor simulation.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a rate-limiting enzyme for prostanoid synthesis that is present in cortical pyramidal neurons and highly implicated in control of cerebral blood flow during neural activity. We examined the electron microscopic localization of COX-2 and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), a functionally related enzyme, in the somatosensory cortex of rat brain to determine the relevant functional sites. COX-2 immunoreactivity was detected in significantly more somatodendritic than axonal profiles, while nNOS was more often seen in axon terminals. The dendritic COX-2 was localized to endomembranes near synaptic inputs from axon terminals, some of which contained nNOS. Conversely, COX-2 terminals formed asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses with dendrites containing nNOS. The dendritic and axonal profiles containing COX-2 as well as those containing nNOS were minimally separated from penetrating arterioles and capillaries by filamentous glial processes. The perivascular COX-2 labeled terminals were among those that also formed axo-dendritic synapses, suggesting that the release of prostanoids and/or excitatory transmitters from a single terminal may simultaneously affect neuronal activity and cerebral blood flow. Thus, COX-2 has a compartmental distribution in somatosensory cortical neurons consistent with the local neuronal synthesis of prostanoids that are involved in neurovascular coupling and whose actions are modulated by nitric oxide.
Objects in the visual scene are defined by different cues such as colour and motion. Through the integration of these cues the visual system is able to utilize different sources of information, thus enhancing its ability to discriminate objects from their backgrounds. In the following experiments, we investigate the neural mechanisms of cue integration in the human. We show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), that both colour and motion defined shapes activate the lateral occipital complex (LOC) and that shapes defined by both colour and motion simultaneously activate the anterior-ventral margins of this area more strongly than shapes defined by either cue alone. This suggests that colour and motion cues are integrated in the LOC and possibly a neighbouring, more anterior, region. We support this result using an fMR adaptation technique, demonstrating that a region of the LOC adapts on repeated presentations of a shape regardless of the cue that is used to define it and even if the cue is varied. This result raises the possibility that the LOC contains cue-invariant neurons that respond to shapes regardless of the cue that is used to define them. We propose that such neurons could integrate signals from different cues, making them more responsive to objects defined by more than one cue, thus increasing the ability of the observer to recognize them.
Humans are capable of storing and retrieving sequences of complex structured events. Here we report a study in which we establish the psychological structure of event knowledge and then use parametric event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify its neural correlates. We demonstrate that event knowledge is organized along dissociable dimensions that are reflected in distinctive patterns of neural activation: social valence (amygdala and right orbitofrontal cortex), experience (medial prefrontal cortex) and engagement (left orbitofrontal cortex). Our study affirms the importance and uniqueness of the human prefrontal cortex in representing event knowledge.



Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are the most common neurodegenerative childhood-onset disorders characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance, epileptic seizures, progressive psychomotor deterioration, visual failure, and premature death. At least seven subtypes of childhood-onset NCLs have been identified of which the late-infantile-onset forms (LINCLs) are genetically the most heterogeneous with four underlying genes identified. A variant form of LINCL (vLINCL) present in Turkish patients has been considered a distinct clinical and genetic entity (CLN7). However, we recently showed that mutations in the CLN8 gene account for a subset of Turkish vLINCL. Toward identifying the CLN7 gene we here screened the known NCL loci for homozygosity in nine Turkish vLINCL families. These loci were excluded in seven families that are likely to represent the 'true' Turkish vLINCL. In two families, we identified two novel homozygous mutations in the CLN6 gene: an intronic base substitution (c.542+5G&gt;T) affecting the splicing of the transcript and a nonsense mutation (c.663C&gt;G) creating a stop codon at tyrosine 221. These data indicate that CLN6 mutations, in addition to those of CLN8, should be considered a diagnostic alternative in Turkish vLINCL patients. The genetic background of the 'true' Turkish vLINCL, CLN7, remains to be defined.
A review of the current literature on magnetic resonance imaging of neuronal function in the spinal cord (spinal fMRI) is presented. The unique challenges of spinal fMRI are identified as being the small cross-sectional dimensions of the spinal cord, magnetic field inhomogeneity caused by the bone and cartilage in the spine, and motion of cerebrospinal fluid, blood, adjacent tissues and organs and of the spinal cord itself. Techniques have been developed to overcome or compensate for these challenges and the result is a fMRI method which is distinct from that used for mapping function in the brain. Evidence that the current spinal fMRI method provides accurate and sensitive maps of neuronal function is also discussed. Studies presented in the literature have demonstrated areas of neuronal activity corresponding with spinal cord neuroanatomy as a result of thermal and electrical stimuli and motor tasks with the hands, arms and legs. Signal intensity changes detected in active areas have also been demonstrated to depend on the intensity of the stimuli with both thermal stimulation and a motor task, providing evidence of the correspondence between spinal fMRI results and neuronal activity in the spinal cord.






A case of unusually selective deletion of recurring letters is described. The disorder was primarily visual, spelling being unaffected. There was no evidence of neglect. Reading was fluent and rapid (not letter-by-letter), though words often appeared as a series of resolving fragments. Selective deletions were entirely confined to adjacent letters, excluding explanation in terms of repetition blindness (Kaniwisher, 1991). Mixing case and font, or increasing inter-letter distance, did not alter rate of recurring letter deletion, provided the task required some form of perceptual grouping. The final 2 experiments establish the pre-lexical nature of the deficit; they show deletion of recurring symbols, for example, when copying Navon-style global forms constructed from same or different Greek letters. This visual deficit is explained using the neural network model developed by Rolls and Deco (2002).

Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are the most lethal of known human toxins, exerting their actions by cleaving the soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) required for neurotransmitter release. Early detection of these toxins is important for appropriate medical treatment. To detect BoNT activity, traditional assays monitor the effects of the toxins on a mammalian organism (observing signs of botulism in mice), or identify cleaved substrate molecules (electrophoresis and immunoblot). Similarly, enzyme-linked assays were used for screening potential toxin inhibitors in vitro in attempt to select antitoxins that could be used for therapeutic purposes. Here we review two recently developed sensor systems for detection of toxin activity in vitro and in living cells. In vitro detection was carried out using a micromechanosensor that relies on the attachment of a bead to the micromachined cantilever through the interactions between SNARE proteins, with synaptobrevin 2 deposited onto beads and syntaxin 1A deposited onto cantilevers. The presence of toxin is indicated by the detachment of the bead, resulting from cleavage of synaptobrevin 2. Additional in vitro detection is possible using fluorescent sensors constructed by inserting linkers, containing fragments of SNARE proteins acting as toxin substrates, between cyan and yellow fluorescent proteins (CFP and YFP). Toxins cause the cleavage of these linkers and thereby abolish fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between CFP and YFP. This approach, combined with an additional sensor based on subcellular redistribution of YFP fluorescence in cells, was used for cell-based screening of toxin activity.
Parkinson's disease (PD), considered one of the major neurological disorders, is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra and by the presence of intraneuronal cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. The causes for degeneration of PD neurons remain unclear, however, recent findings contributed to clarify this issue. This review will discuss the current understanding of the mechanisms underlying Parkinson's disease pathogenesis, focusing on the current and potential therapeutic strategies for human treatment.
The characteristic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia in the elderly, include senile plaques, mainly composed of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide, neurofibrillary tangles and selective synaptic and neuronal loss in brain regions involved in learning and memory. Genetic studies, together with the demonstration of Abeta neurotoxicity, led to the development of the amyloid cascade hypothesis to explain the AD-associated neurodegenerative process. However, a modified version of this hypothesis has emerged, the Abeta cascade hypothesis, which takes into account the fact that soluble oligomeric forms and protofibrils of Abeta and its intraneuronal accumulation also play a key role in the pathogenesis of the disease. Recent evidence posit that synaptic dysfunction triggered by non fibrillar Abeta species is an early event involved in memory decline in AD. The current understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for impaired synaptic function and cognitive deficits is outlined in this review, focusing on oxidative stress and disturbed metal ion homeostasis, Ca(2+) dysregulation, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum dysfunction, cholesterol dyshomeostasis and impaired neurotransmission. The activation of apoptotic cell death as a mechanism of neuronal loss in AD, and the prominent role of neuroinflammation in this neurodegenerative disorder, are also reviewed herein. Furthermore, we will focus on the more relevant therapeutical strategies currently used, namely those involving antioxidants, drugs for neurotransmission improvement, hormonal replacement, gamma- and beta- secretase inhibitors, Abeta clearance agents (Abeta immunization, disruption of Abeta fibrils, modulation of the cholesterol-mediated Abeta transport), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), microtubules stabilizing drugs and kinase inhibitors.
This article provides an overview of the molecular mechanisms associated with striatal neuronal degeneration in Huntington's disease (HD), the most studied of the diseases caused by polyglutamine expansion. We discuss the current status of research in cellular and animal models of HD, in which protein aggregation, excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, transcription deregulation, trophic factor starvation and the disruption of axonal transport appear to be key features for selective striatal neurodegeneration. We further emphasize some of the most promising current strategies in HD treatment. We delineate the molecular and cellular rationale underlying the development of new pharmaceutical interventions that offer new hope of future treatment for HD patients worldwide.
The aim of the present review is to discuss the evidence supporting the hypothesis that inflammation and neurogenesis play an important role in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and to examine whether possible strategies that involve the pharmacological manipulation of inflammation/neurogenesis can lead to the development of novel approaches for the treatment of epilepsy. Since it is not yet clear whether the neuron-glia response obtained in this pathology is a secondary effect of an aggressive inflammation or if it is somehow related to the cause of the epileptic condition, with the present review we guide the readers through the complex and ambiguous crosstalk between neuroimmunology and epilepsy.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most abundant and widely distributed neuropeptides in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). An overview of the distribution of the G-protein coupled NPY receptor family (Y(1), Y(2), Y(4), Y(5) receptors) in the brain is described. The coexistence of NPY with other neurotransmitters and its wide distribution in several brain areas predict the high importance of NPY as a neuromodulator. Thus, the effect of NPY on the release of several neurotransmitters such as glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), norepinephrine (NE), dopamine, somastotatin (SOM), serotonin (5-HT), nitric oxide (NO), growth hormone (GH) and corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is reviewed. A neuroprotective role for NPY under physiological conditions and during hyperactivity such as epileptic-seizures has been suggested. We have shown previously that NPY inhibits glutamate release evoked from hippocampal nerve terminals and has a neuroprotective effect in rat organotypic hippocampal cultures exposed to an excitotoxic insult. Moreover, changes in NPY levels have been observed in different pathological conditions such as brain ischemia and neurodegenerative diseases (Huntington's, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases). Taken together, these studies suggest that NPY and NPY receptors may represent pharmacological targets in different pathophysiological conditions in the CNS.
The possibility of repairing brain lesions is a crucial issue. Knowing how regeneration occurs allows novel concepts in the process of protecting the nervous system, in other words to induce and to develop neuroprotection. Brain insults cause irreversible tissue damage by at least three mechanisms: First, through consequences of mechanical disruption of neurons or their projections; secondly, through biochemical or metabolic changes that are initiated by the insult; and finally, through inflammatory reactions or gliotic changes. The cellular elements and the chemical neuro-mediators involved in brain injury act via interconnections between the cellular elements and their secretions; the immune system and the nervous system are highly regulated in normal physiology, which benefits the organism. When these cells suffer insults in the central nervous system (CNS), the connections between the systems are altered; these systems act together to strangulate the tissue, depriving it of the local control over microcirculation and necessary oxygen, rendering membrane potentials useless to modulate neuronal function. Surgical interventions during the stages of brain injury continue to progress as do biochemical and bioelectric therapeutics during the chronic and rehabilitation stages. There is some hope, too, for effective neuropharmacological intervention. The fact that chemical mediators are already part of normal physiology, whether during development or adulthood, means that their activity can be modified by specific agonists and antagonists to restore homeostasis or to promote the safe pathways that can lead to regeneration. This is the orientation of much of current basic and clinical research. During the past decade considerable experimental and clinical data have been accumulated regarding cellular and biochemical events associated with brain repair.
Dysregulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis is a common hallmark of degenerating neurons, at some point in the cell death cascade. It is also a feature of many neurological disorders, including stroke, epilepsy, trauma and several neurodegenerative diseases, commonly associated with the phenomenon of excitotoxicity. Nitric oxide (NO) is a signaling gaseous molecule formed in the brain as a part of the normal intracellular calcium signalling, playing highly diversified roles in cellular physiology. For the past 20 years, numerous studies have demonstrated that NO can acts as a neurotoxin in several disorders of the nervous system. More recent evidence shows that NO can also act as a neuroprotective agent. Calcium-dependent proteases, like calpains, were also shown to be activated in several conditions of the nervous system that involve excitotoxic neurodegeneration, and have been receiving increasing attention as therapeutical targets in recent years. In this review, we bring together the recent literature concerning the involvement of NO and calpains in neuronal survival and death. The biological pathways involved with NO and calpains may be good drug targets to alter neurodegenerative diseases.
Functional dyspepsia (FD) refers to unexplained pain or discomfort in the upper abdomen and is commonly seen in gastroenterology practice. The underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms associated with FD are unclear, although traditionally, delayed gastric emptying, visceral hypersensitivity to acid or mechanical distention, and impaired gastric accommodation have been implicated as putative physiologic disturbances. It also remains uncertain whether FD and irritable bowel syndrome are different presentations of the same disorder. Recent data on pathophysiologic mechanisms of FD have focused on postprandial motor disturbances (accelerated gastric emptying, antral-fundic incoordination, and abnormal phasic contractions), alterations of neurohormonal mechanisms in response to a meal, and previous acute infection. Pharmacologic therapies for FD may be guided by these novel mechanisms, as current available therapeutic options are limited. Novel prokinetics and gastric accommodation modulators, visceral analgesics, and agents targeting the neurohormonal response to food ingestion are the next therapeutic frontiers in FD. This review summarizes traditional knowledge and more recent advances in the pathophysiology of FD and potential therapeutic opportunities.

Evolution of the mammalian neocortex is difficult to examine directly. For this reason, comparative studies and developmental studies are the best way of gaining insight into the evolutionary process. Comparative studies indicate that neocortical evolution is constrained, and that the types of systems-level modifications made to the neocortex are limited. Developmental studies of gene expression suggest that genetic contingencies set up aspects of cortical organization and connectivity, and that the complex spatial and temporal interactions of genes constrain development and evolution. Although genes obviously contribute to phenotypic variability, variability can also be achieved through alterations in the sensory receptor arrays, or changes in sensory driven activity. The intracellular mechanisms that enable phenotypic variability might evolve, but often the phenotypic characteristic in question is context-dependent.
It has been accepted for a hundred years or more that rods and cones are the only photoreceptive cells in the retina. The light signals generated in rods and cones, after processing by downstream retinal neurons (bipolar, horizontal, amacrine and ganglion cells), are transmitted to the brain via the axons of the ganglion cells for further analysis. In the past few years, however, convincing evidence has rapidly emerged indicating that a small subset of retinal ganglion cells in mammals is also intrinsically photosensitive. Melanopsin is the signaling photopigment in these cells. The main function of the inner-retina photoreceptors is to generate and transmit non-image-forming visual information, although some role in conventional vision (image detection) is also possible.
Neurobiologists have traditionally assumed that multisensory integration is a higher order process that occurs after sensory signals have undergone extensive processing through a hierarchy of unisensory subcortical and cortical regions. Recent findings, however, question this assumption. Studies in humans, nonhuman primates and other species demonstrate multisensory convergence in low level cortical structures that were generally believed to be unisensory in function. In addition to enriching current models of multisensory processing and perceptual functions, these new findings require a revision in our thinking about unisensory processing in low level cortical areas.





This review summarizes what has been learned from studies of human neurovestibular system in weightless conditions, including balance and locomotion, gaze control, vestibular-autonomic function and spatial orientation, and gives some examples of the potential Earth benefits of this research. Results show that when astronauts and cosmonauts return from space flight both the peripheral and central neural processes are physiologically and functionally altered. There are clear distinctions between the virtually immediate adaptive compensations to weightlessness and those that require longer periods of time to adapt. However, little is known to date about the adaptation of sensory-motor functions to long-duration space missions in weightlessness and to the transitions between various reduced gravitational levels, such as on the Moon and Mars. Results from neurovestibular research in space have substantially enhanced our understanding of the mechanisms and characteristics of postural, gaze, and spatial orientation deficits, analogous to clinical cases of labyrinthine-defective function. Also, space neurosciences research has participated in the development and application of significant new technologies, such as video recording and processing of three-dimensional eye movements and posture, hardware for the unencumbered measurement of head and body movement, and procedures for investigating otolith function on Earth. In particular, devices such as centrifugation or off-vertical axis rotation could enhance clinical neurological testing because it provides linear acceleration which specifically stimulates the otolith organs in a frequency range close to natural head and body movement.
The brain renin-angiotensin system enables the formation of different biological active forms of angiotensins within the brain. All enzymes and peptides necessary for the biosynthesis of these angiotensins have been recognized within the central nervous system. Since there are considerable mismatches concerning the localization of the different enzymes, this system is not fully understood. Moreover, since alternative pathways of the angiotensin biosynthesis exists, localization and generation, especially of the short forms of biologically active angiotensins, are largely enigmatic. The brain renin-angiotensin system mediates several classic physiological effects including body water balance, maintenance of blood pressure, sexual behaviors, and regulation of pituitary gland hormones. Beside these classic functions, the brain renin-angiotensin system has more subtle functions involving complex mechanisms such as learning and memory. The mechanisms of action seem to differ depending on the utilized different bioactive angiotensin fragments, which are formed by the action of a variety of enzymes. This phenomenon appears to represent an important mechanism for neuromodulation. Moreover, there is evidence to suggest that the renin-angiotensin system is involved in neurological disorders, as e.g. Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease.
Although treatment with different compounds such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, high-potency benzodiazepines, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors has been proven effective in anxiety disorders, 20% to 40% of patients are nonresponders. Given the limited efficacy, the delayed onset of response (it takes several weeks before a clinical effect can be seen for most of these drugs), and the occurrence of side effects associated with pharmacotherapy, predicting response in anxiety disorders would be immensely valuable. This review surveys the literature over the past years on predictors of response to pharmacotherapy in obsessive-compulsive disorder, social anxiety disorder, panic disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Prediction of treatment response may be founded on demographic and clinical variables, neurochemical and electrophysiologic parameters, imaging studies, and genetic markers.
A simple procedure to isolate neural stem cells would greatly facilitate direct studies of their properties. Here, we exploited the increase in EGF receptor (EGFR) levels, that occurs in late development stem cells or in younger precursors upon exposure to FGF-2, to isolate cells expressing high levels of EGFR (EGFR(high)) from the developing and the adult brain. Independently of age and region of isolation, EGFR(high) cells were highly enriched in multipotent precursors and displayed similar antigenic characteristics, with the exception of GFAP and Lex/SSEA-1 that were mainly expressed in adult EGFR(high) cells. EGFR levels did not correlate with neurogenic potential, indicating that the increase in EGFR expression does not directly affect differentiation. Instead, in the brain, many EGFR(high) precursors showed tangential orientation and, whether isolated from the cortex or striatum, EGFR(high) precursors displayed characteristics of cells originating from the ventral GZ such as expression Dlx and Mash-1 and the ability to generate GABAergic neurons and oligodendrocytes. Moreover, migration of EGFR(high) cells on telencephalic slices required EGFR activity. Thus, the developmentally regulated increase in EGFR levels may affect tangential migration of multipotent precursors. In addition, it can be used as a marker to effectively isolate telencephalic multipotent precursors from embryonic and adult tissue.
In Xenopus laevis, amputation of the adult limb results in the formation of a simple (hypomorphic) spike-like structure without joints, although tadpole limb bud regenerates complete limb pattern. The expression of some joint marker genes was examined in limb development and regeneration. Bmp-4 and gdf-5 were expressed and sox-9 expression was decreased in the joint region. Although developing cartilages were well-organized and had bmp-4 expressing perichondrocytes, the spike cartilage did not have such a structure, but only showed sparse bmp-4 expression. Application of BMP4-soaked beads to the spike led to the induction of a joint-like structure. These results suggest that the lack of joints in the spike is due to the deficiency of the accumulation of the cells that express bmp-4. Improvement of regeneration in the Xenopus adult limb that we report here for the first time will give us important insights into epimorphic regeneration.
Conserved axon guidance mechanisms are essential for proper wiring of the nervous system during embryogenesis; however, the functions of these cues in adults and during regeneration remain poorly understood. Because freshwater planarians can regenerate a functional central nervous system (CNS) from almost any portion of their body, they are useful models in which to study the roles of guidance cues during neural regeneration. Here, we characterize two netrin homologs and one netrin receptor family member from Schmidtea mediterranea. RNAi analyses indicate that Smed-netR (netrin receptor) and Smed-netrin2 are required for proper CNS regeneration and that Smed-netR may mediate the response to Smed-netrin2. Remarkably, Smed-netR and Smed-netrin2 are also required in intact planarians to maintain the proper patterning of the CNS. These results suggest a crucial role for guidance cues, not only in CNS regeneration but also in maintenance of neural architecture.


Viral encephalitis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, particularly when appropriate management is omitted as a result of delayed diagnosis. A case of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encephalitis is presented, demonstrating that the presentation of confusion, speech difficulties and fever with non-specific early brain CT appearances can easily be misdiagnosed as pneumonia with stroke. This case highlights the need for increased awareness of HSV-1 encephalitis among emergency physicians and radiologists, given that the early spectrum of clinical and CT findings can mimic the more common diagnoses of sepsis and stroke.

Prenatal administration of corticosteroids is common in obstetrics to improve the outcome of premature deliveries. Many pregnant women receive multiple corticosteroid courses. Long-term follow-up studies in humans are limited, but those available suggest detrimental effects on the behavior of those children. Animal data also show adverse effects of prenatal corticosteroids mainly in the hippocampus, a structure sensitive to corticosteroid action. Several molecules involved in neuronal survival, seizure susceptibility, and behavior have been identified as possible targets of prenatal corticosteroid effects. These molecules include hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, corticotropin-releasing hormone, and neuropeptide Y. Prenatal corticosteroid treatment permanently reprograms expression of these molecules. The future goals of research in this area include development of specific antagonists of corticosteroid activation pathways that would help differentiate between positive main effects and undesired adverse effects of prenatally administered corticosteroids.
The objective of the present study was to assess the association between depressive characteristics and completed suicide despite adequate antidepressant therapy in severe depression and to investigate the frequency of lethal antidepressant overdoses. A record evaluation of 98 suicide victims with a primary severe depression had been performed. These had been admitted to the Department of Psychiatry, Lund University Hospital between 1956 and 1969 and followed up to 1998. Psychomotor retardation was related to completed suicide after ECT. The estimated frequency of lethal intoxication with antidepressants was low: 3% of the suicides.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is an important neurotransmitter mediating many aspects of cognition and behaviour. One psychology in which 5-HT plays an important role is impulsive responding. Recently, we have demonstrated that variation in an aspect of impulsive behaviour, namely delayed gratification, has a clear genetic contribution. Here, we examined the neurobiological relevance of a recently discovered single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the murine gene tryptophan hydroxylase (mTph2) by analysing extracellular levels of 5-HT in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and ventral striatum (VS), key brain regions for impulsive behaviours. The allelic variants were associated with systematic effects on baseline 5-HT efflux in the mPFC and VS. We then went on to examine whether the mTph2 allelic variants gave rise to differences in impulsive behaviour. However, the mTph2 genotype, and therefore presumably baseline brain levels of 5-HT, did not predict impulsive choice, as indexed by sensitivity to delayed reinforcement. Consequently, the data do not support a role for the mTph2 C1473G polymorphism on this aspect of impulsive behaviour. Instead, they indicate that perturbations of the 5-HT system via heritable traits may have differential consequences for qualitatively distinct aspects of impulsive behaviour.
Temporal organization of the molecular clockwork and behavioral output were investigated in nocturnal rats housed in constant darkness and synchronized to nonphotic cues (daily normocaloric or hypocaloric feeding and melatonin infusion) or light (light-dark cycle and daily 1-h light exposure). Clock gene (Per1, Per2 and Bmal1) and clock-controlled gene (Vasopressin) expression in the suprachiasmatic nuclei was assessed over 24 h. Light and exogenous melatonin synchronized the molecular clock, signaling, respectively, 'daytime' and 'nighttime', without affecting temporal organization of behavioral output (rest/activity rhythm). By contrast, synchronization to hypocaloric feeding led to a striking temporal change between gene expression in the suprachiasmatic clock and waveform of locomotor activity rhythm, rats then becoming active during the subjective day (diurnal-like temporal organization). When the time of feeding coincided with activity offset, normocaloric feeding also synchronized the locomotor activity rhythm with no apparent switch in temporal organization. Peak of Per2 expression in the piriform cortex occurred between the beginning and the middle of the activity/feeding period, depending on the synchronizer. These data demonstrate that even though the suprachiasmatic clockwork can be synchronized to nonphotic cues, hypocaloric feeding likely acts downstream from clock gene oscillations in the suprachiasmatic nuclei to yield a stable yet opposite organization of the rest/activity cycle.
Rapid eye movements (REMs), traditionally measured using the electrooculogram (EOG), help to characterize active sleep in adults. In early infancy, however, they are not clearly expressed. Here we measured extraocular muscle activity in infant rats at 3 days of age (P3), P8 and P14-15 in order to assess the ontogeny of REMs and their relationship with other forms of sleep-related phasic activity. We found that the causal relationship between extraocular muscle twitches and REMs strengthened during the first two postnatal weeks, reflecting increased control of the extraocular muscles over eye movements. As early as P3, however, phasic bursts of extraocular muscle twitching occurred in synchrony with twitching in other muscle groups, producing waves of phasic activity interspersed with brief periods of quiescence. Surprisingly, the tone of the extraocular muscles, invisible to standard EOG measures, fluctuated in synchrony with the tone of other muscle groups; focal electrical stimulation within the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum, an area that has been shown to contain wake-on neurons in P8 rats, resulted in the simultaneous activation of high tone in both nuchal and extraocular muscles. Finally, when state-dependent neocortical electroencephalographic activity was observed at P14, it had already integrated fully with sleep and wakefulness as defined using electromyographic criteria alone; this finding is not consistent with the notion that active sleep in infants at this age is 'half-activated.' All together, these results indicate exquisite temporal organization of sleep soon after birth and highlight the possible functional implications of homologous activational states in striated muscle and neocortex.
Functional recovery after peripheral nerve injury is often poor. Comprehension of cellular and molecular mechanisms limiting or promoting restoration of function and design of efficient therapeutic approaches remain serious challenges for neuroscience and medicine. Progress has been restricted by the lack of reliable methods for evaluation of motor functions in laboratory animals. We describe a novel approach for assessment of muscle function in mice after femoral nerve damage, an injury causing impairment of knee extension. The functional deficit can be precisely estimated by angle and distance measurements on single video frames recorded during movements of the animals with or without body weight support. Using this method we describe here the precise time-course and degree of functional recovery after femoral nerve crush and transection. In addition, we show that restoration of function is considerably impaired in mice with a reduced expression level of the tyrosine kinase receptor B, a cognate receptor for the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This finding is consistent with known functions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and tyrosine kinase receptor B and demonstrates the potential of the method. The principles of the approach are highly relevant for the development of novel functional assays in other peripheral and, in particular, central nervous system injury paradigms.
The neural basis of autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs) is poorly understood. Studies of mnemonic function in ASD suggest a profile of impaired episodic memory with relative preservation of semantic memory (at least in high-functioning individuals). Such a pattern is consistent with developmental hippocampal abnormality. However, imaging evidence for abnormality of the hippocampal formation in ASD is inconsistent. These inconsistencies led us to examine the memory profile of children with ASD and the relationship to structural abnormalities. A cohort of high-functioning individuals with ASD and matched controls completed a comprehensive neuropsychological memory battery and underwent magnetic resonance imaging for the purpose of voxel-based morphometric analyses. Correlations between cognitive/behavioural test scores and quantified results of brain scans were also carried out to further examine the role of the medial temporal lobe in ASD. A selective deficit in episodic memory with relative preservation of semantic memory was found. Voxel-based morphometry revealed bilateral abnormalities in several areas implicated in ASD including the hippocampal formation. A significant correlation was found between parental ratings reflecting autistic symptomatology and the measure of grey matter density in the junction area involving the amygdala, hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. The data reveal a pattern of impaired and relatively preserved mnemonic function that is consistent with a hippocampal abnormality of developmental origin. The structural imaging data highlight abnormalities in several brain regions previously implicated in ASD, including the medial temporal lobes.
This study investigated the ability of animals to learn both reference memory and delayed matching-to-place variants of the watermaze after large lesions of the hippocampus that deliberately spared only small remnants of the structure. Groups were created that had differing blocks of residual tissue in the septal pole of the hippocampus (15% or 30% of total volume), located either unilaterally (30 or 50% on one side, 0% on the other) or bilaterally (30 + 30%). These groups were capable of learning the reference memory task, as indexed by normal spatially focused searching in a probe trial, but their rate of learning was slower than that of sham-lesioned rats. An impairment in the rate of learning was also seen in the delayed match-to-place task, where one-trial memory was observed only at the shortest (5 s) intertrial interval in the lesioned groups with the largest sparing. In both tasks performance was proportional to the volume of hippocampus spared and independent of whether this was unilaterally or bilaterally located. The findings are compatible with distributed processing accounts of hippocampal memory storage.
The characteristic locomotor disturbances of Parkinson's disease (PD) include shuffling gait, short steps and low walking velocity. In this study we investigated features of walking and turning in a rat model of PD caused by unilateral infusion of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). We assessed gait and electromyographic (EMG) patterns of the ankle flexor tibialis anterior and the knee extensor vastus lateralis of the hindlimb, and triceps brachii of the forelimb, during overground locomotion, spontaneous rotation (turning) and apomorphine-induced rotation. When compared with control rats, rats with unilateral dopamine depletion displayed a shuffling gait and short stride lengths. This locomotor pattern was accompanied by prolonged ankle flexor activity on the ipsilateral side, and prolonged activity of knee extensors on the contralateral side. The dopamine depletion also led to enhanced contraversive rotations after an apomorphine challenge. The EMG recordings during drug-induced rotation suggested that hindlimb stepping was a reflective response to an active drive produced by forelimbs. The EMG recordings of the contralateral side during rotation were marked by reduced ankle flexor activity and increased knee extensor activity. Furthermore, EMG recordings indicated that dopamine-agonists induce rotational bias by altering the coupling between ipsi- and contralateral hindlimbs, and between forelimbs. In straight walking, however, the gait of 6-OHDA lesion animals reflected normal, coupled hindlimb stepping as controlled by spinal pattern generators. The data suggest that the unilateral rat model of PD resembles key features of human parkinsonian gait, and that asymmetric descending input may underlie the observed changes in gait patterns.
Spines can grow and retract within hours of activity perturbation. We investigated the time course of spine formation in a model of plasticity involving changes in brain architecture where spines of a dendritic domain become innervated by a different neuronal population. Following a lesion of rat olivocerebellar axons, by severing the inferior cerebellar peduncle, new spines grow on the deafferented proximal dendrite of the Purkinje cells (PCs) and these new spines become innervated by parallel fibres (PFs) that normally contact only the distal dendrites. The varicosities of climbing fibre (CF) terminal arbors disappear within 3 days of the lesion. Spine density in the proximal dendritic domain begins to rise within 3 days and continues to increase towards a plateau at 6-8 days. In 'slow Wallerian degeneration' mice, in which axonal degeneration is delayed, climbing fibre varicosities virtually disappear at 14 rather than 3 days. Spine density in the proximal dendritic domain is similar to control Purkinje cells up to 14 days and increases significantly 18 days postlesion. The delayed spinogenesis in the latter mutant is the result of a persistence of the climbing fibre presynaptic structure in the absence of activity. Therefore, climbing fibre activity itself is not directly responsible for the suppression of spine formation, but suppression mechanisms tend to become weaker as long as the structural dismantling of the presynaptic varicosities proceeds. Thus, spinogenesis is guided by two different mechanisms; a rapid one related to changes in homotypic remodeling and a slower one, which requires the removal of a competitive afferent.
Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death in developed countries. Millions of smokers are willing to stop, but few of them are able to do so. Clinicians should only use approaches that have demonstrated their efficacy in helping patients to stop smoking. This article summarizes the evidence-based major findings and clinical recommendations for the treatment of tobacco dependence of the French Health Products Safety Agency (AFSSAPS). Clinicians should enquire about the smoking status of each patient and provide information about health consequence of smoking and effective treatments available. These treatments include counseling (mainly individual or social support and behavioral and cognitive therapy) and pharmacological treatment with either nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or bupropion LP. Pharmacological treatments should be used only for proven nicotine dependence, as assessed by the Fagerstrom test for Nicotine Dependence. The choice of pharmacologic treatment depends of the patient's preference and history and of the presence of contra-indications. The clinician should start with a single agent, but these treatments may be used in combination. Smoking behavior is a chronic problem that requires long-term management and follow-up. Access to intensive treatment combining pharmacological treatment and extensive behavioral and cognitive therapy should be available for highly dependent patients.


Conditional motor behavior, in which the relationship between stimuli and responses changes arbitrarily, is an important component of cognitive motor function in primates. It is still unclear how cognitive processing for conditional motor control determines movement parameters to directly specify motor output. To address this issue, we studied the neuronal representation of motor variables relating to conditional motor control and also directly to the metrics of motor output in prefrontal cortex (PFC). Monkeys were required to generate a force that fell within one of two categories (&quot;small&quot; and &quot;large&quot;). We found that most PFC neurons were activated as a function of force category, suggesting a role in conditional motor control. At the same time, we found that activity in many PFC neurons varied continuously with the force that was eventually produced, suggesting they participated in specifying the metrics of movements as they were executed. The results suggest that the PFC neural population encodes both &quot;what&quot; motor response should be performed and &quot;how&quot; the selected movement should be realized immediately after the visual instruction.
A cell proliferation marker protein, pKi-67, distributes to the chromosome periphery during mitosis and nucleolar heterochromatin in the interphase. We report here on the structural domains of pKi-67 that are required for its correct distribution. While both the LR domain and the conserved domain were involved in localization to the nucleolar heterochromatin, both the LR domain and the Ki-67 repeat domain were required for its distribution to the mitotic chromosome periphery. Using in vivo time-lapse microscopy, GFP-pKi-67 was dynamically tracked from the mitotic chromosome periphery to reforming nucleoli via prenucleolar bodies (PNBs). The signals in PNBs then moved towards and fused into the reforming nucleoli with a thin string-like fluorescence during early G1 phase. An analysis of the in vivo kinetics of pKi-67 using photobleaching indicated that the association of pKi-67 with chromatin was progressively altered from &quot;loose&quot; to &quot;tight&quot; after the onset of anaphase. These findings indicate that pKi-67 dynamically alters the nature of the interaction with chromatin structure during the cell cycle, which is closely related to the reformation process of the interphase nucleolar chromatin.
Mulibrey nanism is an autosomal recessive prenatal-onset growth disorder characterized by dysmorphic features, cardiomyopathy, and hepatomegaly. Mutations in TRIM37 encoding a tripartite motif (TRIM, RING-B-box-coiled-coil)-family protein underlie mulibrey nanism. We investigated the ubiquitin ligase activity predicted for the RING domain of TRIM37 by analyzing its autoubiquitination. Full-length TRIM37 and its TRIM domain were highly polyubiquitinated when co-expressed with ubiquitin. Polyubiquitination was decreased in a mutant protein with disrupted RING domain (Cys35Ser;Cys36Ser) and in the Leu76Pro mutant protein, a disease-associated missense mutation affecting the TRIM domain of TRIM37. Bacterially produced GST-TRIM domain fusion protein, but not its Cys35Ser;Cys36Ser or Leu76Pro mutants, were polyubiquitinated in cell-free conditions, implying RING-dependent modification. Ubiquitin was also identified as an interaction partner for TRIM37 in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Ectopically expressed TRIM37 rapidly formed aggregates that were ubiquitin-, proteasome subunit-, and chaperone-positive in immunofluorescence analysis, defining them as aggresomes. The Cys35Ser;Cys36Ser mutant and the Leu76Pro and Gly322Val patient mutant proteins were markedly less prone to aggregation, implying that aggresomal targeting reflects a physiological function of TRIM37. These findings suggest that TRIM37 acts as a TRIM domain-dependent E3 ubiquitin ligase and imply defective ubiquitin-dependent degradation of an as-yet-unidentified target protein in the pathogenesis of mulibrey nanism.
Levodopa induced dyskinesias (LIDs) are poorly understood and yet are a major cause of disability in Parkinson's disease (PD). The activity of neurons in the basal ganglia of patients with PD tends to be strongly synchronized at frequencies under 30 Hz, leading to oscillatory local field potentials (LFPs). As dopaminergic therapy acutely suppresses this synchronization, we investigated whether this suppression may contribute to LIDs. Accordingly, we sought an inverse correlation between oscillatory synchronization and dyskinesia activity across time. To this end, we recorded pallidal LFPs in two Parkinsonian subjects exhibiting LIDs following surgery for deep brain stimulation. We correlated LFP power with simultaneously recorded EMG from the dyskinetic contralateral upper limb. We found highly significant inverse correlations between the oscillatory LFP activity under 30 Hz and dyskinetic EMG (maximum r = -0.65, P &lt; 0.001 and r = -0.33, P &lt; 0.001 for activities over 13-30 Hz in each subject). The inverse relationship between oscillatory pallidal LFP activity and dyskinetic EMG was maintained over time periods of a few seconds and was focal. This observation links the suppression of oscillatory synchronization in the pallidum with dyskinetic muscle activity in PD.
The olfactory bulb is the target of neural progenitor cells that are generated in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle in the adult brain. This permanent neurogenesis is likely influenced by olfactory input to the bulb since previous studies have shown that cell proliferation and/or apoptotic death are stimulated by naris closure or surgical transection of the olfactory nerve. Since the olfactory bulb is densely innervated by noradrenergic afferents originating in the locus coeruleus, we have studied the impact of pharmacologically activating this noradrenergic system on cell death and proliferation following unilateral olfactory axotomy in the adult mouse olfactory bulb. We found that noradrenaline release in the olfactory bulb was significantly increased by intraperitoneal injections of the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists, dexefaroxan (0.63 mg/kg) and 5-fluoro-methoxyidazoxan (F 14413; 0.16 mg/kg). A chronic treatment with either compound for 7 days following olfactory axotomy significantly reduced neuronal death, glial activation and cell proliferation in the deafferented olfactory bulb. These data (1) confirm that alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists, presumably by facilitating central noradrenergic transmission, afford neuroprotection in vivo, as previously shown in models of cerebral ischemia, excitotoxicity and devascularization-induced neurodegeneration, and (2) support a role of the locus coeruleus noradrenergic system in promoting survival of neurons in areas of the brain where neurogenesis persists in the adult.
Axonal regeneration can be influenced by a conditioning lesion (an axonal injury made prior to a second test lesion). Previously, sympathetic neurons in vivo were shown to respond to a conditioning lesion with decreased neurite outgrowth, in contrast to the enhanced outgrowth observed in all other peripheral neurons examined. The present experiments tested the effects of a conditioning lesion on neurite outgrowth in vitro from the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and the impact of several factors on that response. Ganglia axotomized 1 week earlier and then explanted in Matrigel or collagen gel responded with a significant increase in neurite extension compared to sham-operated ganglia. A distal axotomy produced by unilateral removal of the salivary glands (sialectomy) caused an increase in neurite outgrowth similar to that of a proximal axotomy. These conditioning lesions induced both an increase in the rate of elongation, and, in the case of the proximally axotomized SCG, a shorter initial delay of outgrowth. The enhanced outgrowth following sialectomy was specific to the nerve containing the majority of axons projecting to the salivary glands, suggesting that the conditioning lesion effect is restricted to previously injured neurons. Deletion of the gene for leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), a gene induced by axotomy, did not abolish the conditioning lesion effect in SCG explants or dissociated cell cultures. In conclusion, sympathetic neurons are capable of responding to a conditioning lesion with increased neurite outgrowth. The hypothesis that the neuronal cell body response to axotomy plays an important role in the conditioning lesion response is discussed.
Dyskinesias and seizures are both medically refractory disorders for which cannabinoid-based treatments have shown early promise as primary or adjunctive therapy. Using the Borna disease (BD) virus rat, an animal model of viral encephalopathy with spontaneous hyperkinetic movements and seizure susceptibility, we identified a key role for endocannabinoids in the maintenance of a balanced tone of activity in extrapyramidal and limbic circuits. BD rats showed significant elevations of the endocannabinoid anandamide in subthalamic nucleus, a relay nucleus compromised in hyperkinetic disorders. While direct and indirect cannabinoid agonists had limited motor effects in BD rats, abrupt reductions of endocannabinoid tone by the CB1 antagonist SR141716A (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) caused seizures characterized by myoclonic jerks time-locked to periodic spike/sharp wave discharges on hippocampal electroencephalography. The general opiate antagonist naloxone (NLX) (1 mg/kg, s.c.), another pharmacologic treatment with potential efficacy in dyskinesias or L-DOPA motor complications, produced similar seizures. No changes in anandamide levels in hippocampus and amygdala were found in convulsing NLX-treated BD rats. In contrast, NLX significantly increased anandamide levels in the same areas of normal uninfected animals, possibly protecting against seizures. Pretreatment with the anandamide transport blocker AM404 (20 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented NLX-induced seizures. These findings are consistent with an anticonvulsant role for endocannabinoids, counteracting aberrant firing produced by convulsive agents, and with a functional or reciprocal relation between opioid and cannabinoid tone with respect to limbic convulsive phenomena.
Autonomic dysreflexia is a condition of episodic hypertension that develops after spinal cord injury (SCI). We previously showed that a two-day anti-inflammatory treatment with an anti-CD11d integrin monoclonal antibody (mAb), soon after SCI in rats, reduced the magnitude of dysreflexia for at least 6 weeks. Effects of methylprednisolone (MP), a commonly used neuroprotective treatment for SCI, on dysreflexia have never been examined. We compared the effects of a 2-day MP treatment and/or the anti-CD11d mAb on autonomic dysreflexia, elicited by colon distension, after clip-compression SCI at the 4th thoracic segment (T4) in rats. We assessed the effects of each treatment on the size of the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive afferent arbour in the dorsal horn, as changes in this arbour can correlate with the development of dysreflexia. MP reduced autonomic dysreflexia by approximately 50% at 2 weeks after SCI, but this effect was lost by 6 weeks. At 2 weeks, the combined effects of MP and the mAb were not additive, reducing dysreflexia by approximately 50%. Neither MP nor the mAb treatment altered the area of CGRP-immunoreactive fibres in the lumbar cord, the crucial input region for dysreflexia initiated by colon distension. However, both treatments led to increased fibre areas in the T9 segment, correlated with greater tissue integrity and smaller lesions, delineated by inflammatory cells. In summary, MP only temporarily decreases autonomic dysreflexia after SCI. The early beneficial effects of both treatments on dysreflexia do not relate to changes in the CGRP-immunoreactive afferent arbour but may correlate with decreased lesion progression.
Our previous studies have shown that 2 Hz peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) can suppress morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in the rat, although the mechanisms remain unclear. Since CPP involves the mechanism of learning and memory, it is rational to ask whether the suppressive effect of repeated 2 Hz PES on morphine-induced CPP is due to an impairment of the function of spatial learning and memory. Rats were trained with 4 mg/kg morphine, i.p. for 4 days to establish the CPP. Twenty-four hours after the CPP testing, they were given PES at 2 Hz once a day for 1, 3 or 5 days, followed by another CPP testing. The results showed that (1) the morphine-induced CPP was significantly inhibited by 3 or 5 consecutive sessions, but not by single session of 2 Hz PES. (2) A test of spatial leaning and memory ability using the Morris water maze task revealed that 2 Hz PES per se exhibited a promoting, rather than a deteriorating effect on the ability of spatial memory. (3) 2 Hz PES by itself produced a moderate yet significant CPP. The results imply that (a) a low frequency PES can produce a rewarding effect as revealed by the CPP testing, which may account, at least in part, for its suppressive effect on morphine induced CPP, (b) the suppressive effect of PES on morphine induced CPP is not due to a deteriorating effect on the ability of spatial memory.
Ocular allergy is a common condition that usually affects the conjunctiva of the eye and is, therefore, often referred to as allergic conjunctivitis. The severity of the disease can range from mild itching and redness, as seen in seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, to the more severe, sight-threatening forms such as vernal and atopic keratoconjunctivitis. The central mechanism in the pathogenesis of these diseases is IgE-mediated mast cell degranulation and activation of T lymphocytes, eosinophils and conjunctival structural cells. The pharmacotherapy of allergic conjunctivitis consists of several classes of drugs: antihistamines, mast cell stabilisers, dual-acting agents and corticosteroids. None of the available drugs completely abolishes the development of ocular allergy. For this reason, new topical antiallergic/anti-inflammatory agents are currently and continually under clinical trials. This review provides a background to ocular allergic diseases, the medical need for therapy and current and potential new treatments.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal autosomal-dominant disorder involving progressive motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. HD is one of a large family of neurodegenerative diseases caused by a trinucleotide (CAG) repeat mutation, encoding an expanded tract of glutamines in the disease protein. HD was one of the first neurological disorders for which accurate transgenic models were created, allowing mechanisms of pathogenesis to be explored at molecular, cellular and behavioural levels. In the last decade, the understanding of molecular and cellular changes which occur in HD prior to onset of symptoms, and at early and late stages of disease progression, has been greatly expanded. A wide range of potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention have been identified, associated with a variety of cellular processes including gene transcription, protein trafficking, protein degradation, protein-protein interactions, glutamatergic synaptic transmission, presynaptic signalling, postsynaptic signalling, synaptic plasticity, dopaminergic and neurotrophic modulation of synaptic function, experience-dependent neurogenesis, mitochondrial function and oxidative metabolism. Presymptomatic testing for the HD gene mutation necessitates future development of novel therapeutics aimed at delaying onset of symptoms, as well as slowing or reversing disease progression.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is a fatal demyelinating disease caused by infection of oligodendrocytes by the human polyomavirus known as JC virus. Over the past 10 years, the disease has been documented almost exclusively in AIDS patients, who constitute a rapidly growing population of immunosuppressed individuals. More recently, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy has also been described in patients undergoing solid organ or cell transplant, as a result of immunosuppressive therapy to avoid graft rejection. Although there are several reports of successful treatment of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, large-scale prospective trials have been few, and with mixed results. As more is discovered about the biology of JC virus infection and advances are made in targeted parenchymal delivery of therapeutic agents, there is hope for the development of an effective therapy for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Nitric oxide produced by the neuronal or inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS, iNOS) is detrimental in acute ischemic stroke (IS), whereas that derived from the endothelial isoform is beneficial. However, experimental studies with nitric oxide synthase inhibitors have given conflicting results. Relevant studies were found from searches of EMBASE, PubMed, and reference lists; of 456 references found, 73 studies involving 2321 animals were included. Data on the effects of NOS inhibition on lesion volume (mm3, %) and cerebral blood flow (CBF; %, ml * min(-1) * g(-1)) were analyzed using the Cochrane Review Manager software. NOS inhibitors reduced total infarct volume in models of permanent (standardized mean difference (SMD) -0.56, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) -0.86, -0.26) and transient (SMD -0.99, 95% CI -1.25, -0.72) ischemia. Cortical CBF was reduced in models of permanent but not transient ischemia. When assessed by type of inhibitor, total lesion volume was reduced in permanent models by nNOS and iNOS inhibitors, but not by nonselective inhibitors. All types of NOS inhibitors reduced infarct volume in transient models. NOS inhibition may have negative effects on CBF but further studies are required. Selective nNOS and iNOS inhibitors are candidate treatments for acute IS.
Tropically breeding anurans that require heavy rainfall in order to reproduce are subject to favorable breeding conditions that are sporadic. Although there is an increased probability of rain during the rainy season, the probability of local rainfall is unpredictable and this may influence female anuran reproductive strategies. The female tngara frog, a neotropical frog that requires standing water to breed, maintains readiness to breed at any time via asynchronous oogenesis. Although females constantly produce and maintain oocytes during the breeding season, this study shows that they have cyclic fluctuations in gonadal hormone levels. Plasma levels of estrogen significantly change during three reproductive stages within a single reproductive cycle (P=0.03), as do plasma levels of progesterone and androgen (P&lt;0.001 and P=0.001, respectively). Furthermore, elevation in plasma estrogen and progesterone concentrations occurs during the same reproductive stage in which it has been reported that females display the maximum frequency of reproductive behaviors, the amplexed stage. Androgen levels, however, are elevated prior to the reproductive stage in which females display maximal reproductive behavior, that is, the unamplexed stage. Our study suggests that the pattern of gonadal hormone fluctuation in a tropically breeding female anuran is similar to the classic paradigm in which there is a temporal relationship between the appearance of reproductive hormones and reproductive behaviors.
Vertebrates exhibit several forms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). In birds, chicken GnRH-I (cGnRH-I) is the primary hypophysiotropic form that regulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis. In seasonally breeding songbirds, cGnRH-I immunoreactivity is primarily in the preoptic septo-infidibular regions and varies greatly between the breeding and non-breeding season. Chicken GnRH-II (cGnRH-II) is more widely distributed throughout the avian brain, but cGnRH-II immunoreactivity has been found in the median eminence of quail. Thus, cGnRH-II may function in addition to cGnRH-I in the regulation of the HPG axis. If so, we predicted that cGnRH-II immunoreactivity should exhibit seasonal and age related variation similar to that observed for cGnRH-I. In this study, we compared hypothalamic immunoreactivity of cGnRH-I and -II (ir-cGnRH-I and ir-cGnRH-II) between breeding and non-breeding adult and juvenile house sparrows (Passer domesticus). We used immunocytochemistry with highly specific antibodies developed for quail to examine brains of free-living house sparrows collected in the breeding and non-breeding season. Results showed a greater number of ir-cGnRH-I cell bodies and beaded fibres in breeding adult birds compared to non-breeding adult and juvenile birds. Moreover, there were significantly more ir-cGnRH-II fibres in the preoptic area of breeding adult birds compared to non-breeding adult and juvenile birds. These data suggest that cGnRH-II undergoes seasonal- and age-related changes similar to cGnRH-I and implicate a role in regulating reproduction.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is caused by the transcriptional silencing of the Fmr1 gene, which encodes a protein (FMRP) that can act as a translational suppressor in dendrites, and is characterized by a preponderance of abnormally long, thin and tortuous dendritic spines. According to a current theory of FXS, the loss of FMRP expression leads to an exaggeration of translation responses linked to group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Such responses are involved in the consolidation of a form of long-term depression that is enhanced in Fmr1 knockout mice and in the elongation of dendritic spines, resembling synaptic phenotypes over-represented in fragile X brain. These observations place fragile X research at the heart of a long-standing issue in neuroscience. The consolidation of memory, and several distinct forms of synaptic plasticity considered to be substrates of memory, requires mRNA translation and is associated with changes in spine morphology. A recent convergence of research on FXS and on the involvement of translation in various forms of synaptic plasticity has been very informative on this issue and on mechanisms underlying FXS. Evidence suggests a general relationship in which the receptors that induce distinct forms of efficacy change differentially regulate translation to produce unique spine shapes involved in their consolidation. We discuss several potential mechanisms for differential translation and the notion that FXS represents an exaggeration of one 'channel' in a set of translation-dependent consolidation responses.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by the absence of the fragile X mental-retardation protein (FMRP), an mRNA-binding protein, which may play important roles in the regulation of dendritic mRNA localization and/or synaptic protein synthesis. We have recently applied high-resolution fluorescence imaging methods to document the presence, motility and activity-dependent regulation of FMRP granule trafficking in dendrites and spines of cultured hippocampal neurons. In this study, we show that FMRP granules distribute to F-actin-rich compartments, including filopodia, spines and growth cones during the staged development of hippocampal neurons in culture. Fragile X mental-retardation protein granules were shown to colocalize with ribosomes, ribosomal RNA and MAP1B mRNA, a known FMRP target, which encodes a protein important for microtubule and actin stabilization. The levels of FMRP within dendrites were reduced by disruption of microtubule dynamics, but not by disruption of F-actin. Direct measurements of FMRP transport kinetics using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching in living neurons showed that microtubules were required to induce the mGluR-dependent translocation into dendrites. This study provides further characterization of the composition and regulated trafficking of FMRP granules in dendrites of hippocampal neurons.

Achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism and has an incidence of approximately 1/7500. In more than 97% of cases, it is caused by a recurrent point mutation, a G to A substitution at nucleotide position 1138 (G1138A) of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene. Although this is an autosomal dominant condition, more than 90% of all mutations occur sporadically making this one of the most mutagenic sites in the human genome. The reasons for the high spontaneous G1138A mutation rate are not known. This investigation was performed by developing a simple and rapid semi-quantitative allele specific PCR based assay capable of reliably detecting more than 25 mutant G1138A copies in a pool of 300 000 wild type molecules. Using this assay, the G1138A mutation frequency was measured in cell lines deficient in mismatch repair (LoVo, SW48) and comparing it with controls. No differences were found in the frequency of this point mutation between the mismatch repair deficient and wild type cell lines.
This study investigates the effect of microglial activation on microglial glutamate transporters in vitro. Stimuli known to activate microglia and/or to be associated with pathological conditions with an impaired astroglial glutamate uptake were compared. Morphological changes and marked increases in ED1 antigen expression were found after 8-h incubation of rat microglia in 56 mM KCl, 1 ng/ml lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and 100 microM glutamate, as well as in acidic and basic conditions, showing that the cells were activated. Of the stimuli used, only LPS induced a significant release of the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), and was the only stimulus that increased microglial GLT-1 expression and glutamate uptake capacity after 12-h incubation. This effect was probably mediated by TNF-alpha, since this cytokine mimicked the effect of LPS. Furthermore, the effect of LPS was blocked by thalidomide, an inhibitor of TNF-alpha synthesis. Additionally, neutralizing antibodies against TNF-alpha also blocked the increase, indicating TNF-alpha as an inducer of GLT-1 expression in microglia. It was also found that preincubation with glutamate dose-dependently inhibited the microglial glutamate uptake. This could suggest different physiological functions for microglial and astroglial glutamate uptake and might indicate a reciprocal control of GLT-1 expression between microglia and astrocytes.
There is growing evidence that 5-HT3 receptor blockade will benefit patients with fatigue. Further research is needed to determine the mechanism underlying this widespread clinically important symptom and therapies may be derived from targeting the 5-HT system.
Puberty is a time of significant change in preparation for adulthood. Here, we examined how stressful experience affects cognitive and related hormonal responses in male and female rats prior to, during and after puberty. Groups were exposed to an acute stressor of brief periodic tailshocks and tested 24 h later in an associative memory task of trace eyeblink conditioning. Exposure to the stressor did not alter conditioning in males or females prior to puberty but enhanced conditioning in both males and females during puberty. The enhancement occurred in pubescent females irrespective of the estrous cycle. In adulthood, sex differences in trace conditioning and the response to stress emerged: females outperformed males under unstressed conditions, but after stressor exposure, trace conditioning in females was impaired whereas that in males was enhanced. These differences were not related to changes in gross motor activity or other nonspecific measures of performance. The effects of acute stress on corticosterone, estradiol, progesterone, and testosterone were also measured. Stressor exposure increased the concentration of corticosterone in all age groups, although sex differences were only evident in adults. All reproductive hormones except estradiol increased with age in a predictable and sex dependent fashion and none were affected by stressor exposure. Estradiol decreased in male rats across age, and remained stable for female rats. Together, these data indicate that males and female respond similarly to learning opportunities and stressful experience before and during puberty; it is in adulthood that sex differences and the opposite responses to stress arise.
In this study, long ( approximately 1,300 ms) and short duration ( approximately 450 ms) estimation trials in an event-related functional MRI (fMRI) study were contrasted in order to reveal the regions within a time estimation network yielding increased activation with the increase of the duration to be estimated. In accordance with numerous imaging studies, our results showed that the presupplementary motor area (preSMA), the anterior cingulate, the prefrontal and parietal cortices, and the basal ganglia were involved in the estimation trials whatever the duration to be estimated. Moreover, only a subset of the regions within this distributed cortical and subcortical network yielded increased activation with increasing time, namely, the preSMA, the anterior cingulate cortex, the right inferior frontal gyrus (homolog to Broca's area), the bilateral premotor cortex, and the right caudate nucleus. This suggests that these regions are directly involved in duration estimation. We propose that the caudate-preSMA circuit, the anterior cingulate, and the premotor-inferior frontal regions may support a clock mechanism, decision and response-related processes, and active maintenance of temporal information, respectively.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate within-subject reproducibility of activation in higher level, category-specific visual areas to validate the functional localization approach widely used for these areas. The brain areas investigated included the extrastriate body area (EBA), which responds selectively to human bodies, the fusiform face area (FFA) and the occipital face area (OFA), which respond selectively to faces, and the parahippocampal place area (PPA), which responds selectively to places and scenes. All six subjects showed significant bilateral activation in the four areas. Reproducibility was very high for all areas, both within a scanning session and between scanning sessions separated by 3 weeks. Within sessions, the mean distance between peak voxels of the same area localized by using different functional runs was 1.5 mm. The mean distance between peak voxels of areas localized in different sessions was 2.9 mm. Functional reproducibility, as expressed by the stability of T-values across sessions, was high for both within-session and between-session comparisons. We conclude that within subjects, high-level category-specific visual areas can be localized robustly across scanning sessions.
Due to their vast surface area, the mucosal surfaces of the body represent a major site of potential attack by invading pathogens. The secretions that bathe mucosal surfaces contain significant levels of immunoglobulins (Igs), which play key roles in immune defense of these surfaces. IgA is the predominant antibody class in many external secretions and has many functional attributes, both direct and indirect, that serve to prevent infective agents such as bacteria and viruses from breaching the mucosal barrier. This review details current understanding of the structural and functional characteristics of IgA, including interaction with specific receptors (such as Fc(alpha)RI, Fc(alpha)/microR, and CD71) and presents examples of the means by which certain pathogens circumvent the protective properties of this important Ig.
Assessment of chemosensitivity of neovessel endo-thelium associated to tumor mass is hindered by the limited availability of experimental models of actively proliferating endothelial cells. In fact, primary endothelial cells possess a limited lifespan and replicative senescence represents a major limit to their long-term culture. Moreover, non-dividing senescent cells undergo a gradual loss of phenotypic markers and become unable to respond to mitogenic stimuli. We report the generation of an immortalized human endothelial cell line by transfection of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) with both SV40 large/small T antigens and the catalytic subunit of human telomerase. This cell line (HUV-ST) possesses stabilized telomere length and increased proliferation rate with respect to parental cells or to cells transfected with SV40 T antigens only (HUV-S). Nevertheless, even at PD &gt; 100 it is not tumorigenic and displays all major endothelial phenotypic markers, such as von Willebrand factor, CD31, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors (VEGFR1/Flt-1, VEGR2/KDR) and CD105/endoglin. HUV-ST cells are capable of organizing into tubule-like networks with branching morphology in response to appropriate stimuli and migrate upon exposure to VEGF. Interestingly, HUV-ST cells over-express the tumor endothelial marker-1/endosialin which is regarded as the most differentially expressed molecule in tumor-derived endothelium versus normal-derived endothelium. Analysis of chemosensitivity to the wide spectrum methylating agent temozolomide (TMZ), an anticancer drug more effective against actively dividing cells than against resting or slowing proliferating cells, indicated that HUV-ST cells are more susceptible to the drug with respect to HUVEC or HUV-S cells. Abrogation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase activity significantly enhances growth inhibition induced by TMZ. In conclusion, the immortalized human endothelial line HUV-ST represents a suitable model for studying the efficacy of anti-neovascular therapy, mimicking proliferating neovascular endothelial cells associated to the tumor mass.
The main purpose of this study was to examine large-scale oscillatory activity and frequency-related neuronal synchronization during the comprehension of English spoken sentences of different complexity. Therefore, EEG coherence during the processing of subject-subject (SS)- and more complex subject-object (SO)-relatives was computed using an adaptive fitting approach of bivariate auto-regressive moving average (ARMA) models which enabled the continuous calculation of coherence in the course of sentence processing with a high frequency resolution according to the dynamic changes of the EEG signals. Coherence differences between sentence types were observed in the theta (4-7 Hz), beta-1 (13-18 Hz) and gamma (30-34 Hz) frequency ranges, though emerging during the processing of different parts of these sentences: gamma differences were evident mainly during the relative clause while theta and beta-1 differed significantly following the end of the relative clause. These findings reveal no simple one to one map between EEG frequencies and cognitive operations necessary for sentence comprehension. Instead, they indicate a complex interplay and dynamic interaction between different EEG frequencies and verbal working memory, episodic memory, attention, morpho-syntactic and semantic-pragmatic analyses, which though distinct often co-occur.
Animals commonly modify their behavior in the presence of a conspecific or in response to signals. This is particularly true in the context of aggressive exchanges, which animals use to form networks of social relationships and to communicate social status associated with those relationships. Although hierarchical structures are a widespread phenomenon that has been studied extensively, the dynamic communication processes, specifically chemical communication in this review, is relatively overlooked. In particular, it is the exchange of information during agonistic interactions that mediates hierarchies and/or alters the outcomes of agonistic interactions. Given the theoretical appeal of these interactions, and the evolutionary importance and taxonomic diversity associated with social hierarchies, it is not surprising that the sensory mechanisms involved in the formation and maintenance of hierarchical structures have received recent attention. In crayfish, dominance is thought to be largely determined by physical superiority, where encounters are largely dyadic and fighting behavior is highly stereotyped. However, recent evidence has shown that the outcome of dyadic encounters are dependent upon a number of factors other than physical size, that include the exchange of chemical information during encounters, previous social history, and the intrinsic neurochemical state of opponents. We have attempted to provide a comprehensive analysis of the extrinsic chemical processes (previous history, sensory communication, etc.) and intrinsic chemical processes (neurochemical state) that produce and maintain dominance relations and social hierarchies in crayfish. We hope that this review will bring together a global picture of the processes that determine a crayfish's social standing and how intrinsic and extrinsic chemicals have substantial effects on aggressive states and agonistic bouts.
Meniere's disease is a clinical syndrome of uncertain aetiology but it is a widespread belief that it is related to endolymphatic hydrops. Clinically, it is a paroxysmal disorder with vertigo and subsequent deafness. It is responsive to acetazolamide and sensitive to the sodium content in the diet, many of the features of the channelopathies. The present paper explores the possibility that it may be related to a channelopathy.

Neurodegeneration is associated with increased frequency of neurological soft signs (NSS). We designed the present study to investigate the association between NSS and subjective memory complaints, cognitive function and apolipoprotein E genotype in a community-dwelling sample of volunteers participating in an ongoing longitudinal program investigating predictors of cognitive decline. NSS were found to be associated with apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 genotype (p = 0.015), age (p = 0.012) and poor cognitive performance, as assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination (p = 0.053). There was no significant difference between subjects with and without memory complaints in relation to the frequency of NSS (p = 0.130). The association with age and the APOE epsilon4 genotype suggests that the systematic investigation of NSS may contribute to identify subjects at risk of clinically significant cognitive decline in later life.

This review discusses the ways in which the circadian rhythms of older people are different from those of younger adults. After a brief discussion of clinical issues, the review describes the conventional wisdom regarding age-related changes in circadian rhythms. These can be summarized as four assertions regarding what happens to people as they get older: 1) the amplitude of their circadian rhythms reduces, 2) the phase of their circadian rhythms becomes earlier, 3) their natural free-running period (tau) shortens, and 4) their ability to tolerate abrupt phase shifts (e.g., from jet travel or night work) worsens. The review then discusses the empirical evidence for and against these assertions and discusses some alternative explanations. The conclusions are that although older people undoubtedly have earlier circadian phases than younger adults, and have more trouble coping with shift work and jet lag, evidence for the assertions about rhythm amplitude and tau are, at best, mixed.
A fully automated, solid-to-solid weighing workstation (patent pending) is described in this article. The core of this automated process is the use of an electrostatically charged pipette tip to attract solid particles on its outside surface. The particles were then dislodged into a 1.2-mL destination vial in a microbalance by spinning the pipette tip. Textures of solid that could be weighed included powder, crystalline, liquid, and semi-solid substances. The workstation can pick up submilligram quantities of sample (=0.3mg) from source vials containing as little as 1mg. The destination vials containing the samples were stored in a 96-well rack to enable subsequent automated liquid handling. Using bovine serum albumin as test solid, the coefficient of variation of the protein concentration for 48 samples is less than 6%. The workstation was used successfully to weigh out 48 different synthetic compounds. Time required for automated weighing was similar to manual weighing. The use of this workstation reduced 90% hands-on time and thus exposure to potentially toxic compounds. In addition, it minimized sample waste and reduced artifacts due to the poor solubility of compound in solvents. Moreover, it enabled compounds synthesized in milligram quantities to be weighed out and tested in biological assays.


Axon degeneration occurs frequently in neurodegenerative diseases and peripheral neuropathies. Important insight into the mechanisms of axon degeneration arose from findings that the degeneration of transected axons is delayed in Wallerian degeneration slow (Wlds) mice with the overexpression of a fusion protein with the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) synthetic enzyme, nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (Nmnat1). Although both Wld(s) and Nmnat1 themselves are functional in preventing axon degeneration in neuronal cultures, the underlying mechanism for Nmnat1- and NAD-mediated axon protection remains largely unclear. We demonstrate that NAD levels decrease in degenerating axons and that preventing this axonal NAD decline efficiently protects axons from degeneration. In support of a local protective mechanism, we show that the degeneration of axonal segments that have been separated from their soma could be prevented by the exogenous application of NAD or its precursor nicotinamide. Furthermore, we provide evidence that such Nmnat1/NAD-mediated protection is primarily mediated by their effects on local bioenergetics. Together, our results suggest a novel molecular pathway for axon degeneration.
A DNA fragment of about 13 kb containing the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter was previously isolated from a genomic DNA library and sequenced. The 11 kb from the transcription start of the human TH promoter was successively joined to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) to generate a transgenic mouse model. High levels of GFP expression could be observed in TH-positive cells of the Substantia nigra of embryonic and adult mice. Intriguingly, the sequence of the human TH promoter showed a low degree of homology with the mouse and rat TH promoters. In fact, comparative analysis of the sequences of human, rat, and mouse TH promoters revealed only five small regions of high homology. These five evolutionarily conserved regions were numbered in numeric progression from the 5' end of human TH promoter. In the present study, a panel of minimal human TH promoters was generated to analyze the transcriptional activity and specificity of gene expression conferred by the five conserved regions (CRs). The series of constructs was termed 250 bp and contained the first -194 bp of the human TH promoter immediately upstream of the transcription start, the first 35 bp the human TH messenger RNA leader, plus one or more of the five CRs. All the constructs were assembled in a self-inactivating form of the latest series of lentiviral vector system based on the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Lentiviral-mediated gene transfer was highly efficient for the in vitro transduction of human neuronal progenitor cells (hNPCs). Since a subset of hNPCs express TH following in vitro treatment with a mixture of differentiating agents, it was possible to assess specificity of expression for all the minimal human TH promoters. Overall, the successive addition of the five conserved regions produced a greater degree of specificity in induced TH-positive hNPCs, in particular after the addition of CRI (-8,917, -8,876). However, the human TH minimal promoters did not show any specificity for TH-positive differentiated mouse primary striatal and S. nigra cells, indicating a difference of TH gene regulation between the human and mouse systems. The human TH minimal promoters may provide the opportunity for the selection of TH-positive human embryonic and adult stem cells for brain transplantation experiments in animal models for Parkinson's disease.

Cellular Fas-associated death domain-like interleukin-1-beta converting enzyme (FLICE) inhibitory proteins (cFLIPs) are endogenous caspase homologues that inhibit programmed cell death. We hypothesized that cFLIPs are differentially expressed in response to traumatic brain injury (TBI). cFLIP-alpha and cFLIP-delta mRNA were expressed in normal mouse brain-specifically cFLIP-delta (but not cFLIP-alpha) protein was robustly expressed. After controlled cortical impact (CCI), cFLIP-alpha expression increased initially then decreased to control levels at 12 h, increasing again at 24-72 h (P&lt;0.05). cFLIP-delta expression was decreased in brain homogenates by 12 h after CCI, then increased again at 24 to 72 h (P&lt;0.05). cFLIP-delta immunostaining was markedly reduced in injured cortex, but not hippocampus, at 3 to 72 h after CCI. In cortex, reduced cFLIP-delta staining was found in TUNEL-positive cells, but in hippocampus TUNEL-positive cells expressed cFLIP-delta immunoreactivity. cFLIP-delta was increased in a subset of reactive astrocytes in pericontusional cortex and hippocampus at 48 to 72 h. Low levels of both cFLIP isoforms were detected in human cortical tissue with no TBI, from four patients undergoing brain surgery for epilepsy and &lt;24 h post mortem from three patients without CNS pathologic assessment. In cortical tissue surgically removed &lt;18 h after severe TBI (n=3), cFLIP-alpha expression was increased relative to epilepsy controls (P&lt;0.05) but not relative to post-mortem controls. The data suggest differential spatial and temporal regulation of cFLIP-alpha and cFLIP-delta expression that may influence the magnitude of cell death and further implicate programmed mechanisms of cell death after TBI.
Social anxiety disorder, or social phobia (SP), is an anxiety disorder characterized by excessive fear of exposure to situations that involve potential scrutiny by others. SP is a common psychiatric problem in children and adolescents, often presenting with comorbid anxiety and mood disorders. Although the onset of SP is typically in late childhood or early adolescence, most afflicted individuals go undiagnosed for years, not seeking treatment until adulthood. First-line treatments for SP in adults support the use of pharmacotherapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. There is new and emerging data in youths with SP to support the use of similar treatments. This paper will review the clinical characteristics, epidemiology, and treatment of SP in youths. Current investigations using selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, benzodiazepines, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors in youths will be reviewed. Several studies on the use of cognitive behavioral therapy in youths will also be examined. Practical guidelines for clinicians who treat children and adolescents are also presented.

The exact cause of narcolepsy-cataplexy syndrome remains unclear; however, the recent discovery of hypocretin deficiency in the lateral hypothalamus of narcoleptic patients has increased our understanding of its etiology. The authors performed masseter reflex, tibial F response, and blink reflex excitability studies during and between attacks in a 66-year-old man with status cataplecticus. Masseter reflex and F responses were inhibited while the blink reflex R2 component was enhanced during attacks, suggesting either hyperexcitability or disinhibition of pontine and/or medullary interneurons but hypoexcitability of pontine and spinal motor neurons during cataplexy.
Intraoperative monitoring is needed to identify accurately those patients in need of a shunt during carotid endarterectomy. EEG can be used for this purpose, but there is no consensus on the variables to use. Using a database consisting of 149 EEGs recorded from patients during carotid endarterectomy under isoflurane (n=61) or propofol (n=88) anesthesia and who did or did not receive a shunt, the authors investigated which of 16 derivations (common reference, Cz) and 12 parameters (relative and absolute powers and spectral edge frequencies [SEFs]) singly or in combination could best distinguish between the shunt and the nonshunt groups for the two anesthesia regimens. Receiver operating characteristic curves were used to select derivation/parameter combinations for three types of trend computation: (1) values of relative powers and SEFs during clamping (C) only, (2) clamp minus preclamp (baseline) differences (C-B), and (3) C-B differences in absolute logarithmic power (DeltalogP). For both anesthesia regimens, C-B computation distinguished best between the shunt and nonshunt groups. For isoflurane anesthesia, SEF parameters were the best, and for propofol anesthesia the relative power parameters. Discriminant analysis, in which additional derivation/parameter combinations were added, increased the discriminative power of the DeltalogP computation but not of the C or C-B computations. For isoflurane anesthesia, SEF 90% was the best single parameter for distinguishing between patients who did and did not need a shunt and the four best derivations were F3-Cz, P4-Cz, C4-Cz, and F7-Cz. For the propofol anesthesia, the relative power (C or C-B computations) of the delta band was the best and the four best derivations were F8-Cz, T4-Cz, C4-Cz, and F4-Cz.
The authors compared the localization accuracy of interictal magnetoencephalography (MEG) with ictal and interictal invasive video electroencephalography (VEEG) in identifying the epileptogenic zone in epilepsy surgery candidates. Forty-one patients, 29 with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and 12 with extratemporal lobe epilepsy (ETLE), participated. Only patients with interictal changes during the MEG recordings were included. A comparison of the accuracy of invasive VEEG and MEG seizure zone identification was based on the degree of overlap between the location of the actual surgical resection and the zone identified by each method, and the success of surgery in reducing seizure activity. No statistical differences were observed between the accuracy of invasive VEEG and MEG in determining the location of the seizure zone across TLE and ETLE cases. Invasive VEEG and MEG localization judgments were correct in 54% and 56% of the cases, respectively. Separate group analyses suggested that MEG may be less beneficial relative to invasive VEEG in ETLE than TLE cases. MEG is of statistically equivalent accuracy to invasive VEEG, despite the fact that its use has not reached optimal conditions. The authors predict the replacement of the more invasive procedure with MEG in the near future for TLE cases, subsequent to the optimization of the conditions under which preoperative MEG is performed.

With the development of MRI, the natural history of cavernous haemangiomas has been appreciated. This article describes a series of patients with deep cavernous haemangiomas who have presented with acute hydrocephalus. The diagnosis and treatment options are discussed with a review of the literature.
Prevalence of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI] &gt; or = 5) in acute stroke patients ranges between 44% and 95%, compared to the community prevalence, 9 to 35% for women and 8 to 57% for men [age range 30-60 years]. Limited data exists beyond 3 months following stroke. We assessed the prevalence of SDB amongst stroke survivors at 3 years and compared results to data reported in normal and elderly populations. 90/143 eligible stroke survivors from an existing cohort underwent a home based sleep study. Mean age of the 78 subjects with a valid sleep study was 64 years (SD 15). Prevalence of SDB (AHI &gt; or = 5) was 81% (95% CI 72% to 90%) and sleep apnoea syndrome (AHI &gt; or = 5 plus ESS score &gt; or =11) was 20% (95% CI 11% to 29%). Important predictors for AHI &gt; or = 15 were haemorrhagic stroke (aOR12.06 [1.42-102.74]) and stroke severity at 1 month (aOR4.15 [1.05-16.38]). Large case-control studies are needed.

Attention can enhance processing for relevant information and suppress this for ignored stimuli. However, some residual processing may still arise without attention. Here we presented overlapping outline objects at study, with subjects attending to those in one color but not the other. Attended objects were subsequently recognized on a surprise memory test, whereas there was complete amnesia for ignored items on such direct explicit testing; yet reliable behavioral priming effects were found on indirect testing. Event-related fMRI examined neural responses to previously attended or ignored objects, now shown alone in the same or mirror-reversed orientation as before, intermixed with new items. Repetition-related decreases in fMRI responses for objects previously attended and repeated in the same orientation were found in the right posterior fusiform, lateral occipital, and left inferior frontal cortex. More anterior fusiform regions also showed some repetition decreases for ignored objects, irrespective of orientation. View-specific repetition decreases were found in the striate cortex, particularly for previously attended items. In addition, previously ignored objects produced some fMRI response increases in the bilateral lingual gyri, relative to new objects. Selective attention at exposure can thus produce several distinct long-term effects on processing of stimuli repeated later, with neural response suppression stronger for previously attended objects, and some response enhancement for previously ignored objects, with these effects arising in different brain areas. Although repetition decreases may relate to positive priming phenomena, the repetition increases for ignored objects shown here for the first time might relate to processes that can produce &quot;negative priming&quot; in some behavioral studies. These results reveal quantitative and qualitative differences between neural substrates of long-term repetition effects for attended versus unattended objects.
Enkephalin (ENK)-immunoreactive (IR) axons occur in regions containing spinal autonomic neurons and endogenous opiates contribute to spinal regulation of bladder function. To identify possible spinal sites of opiate action, we used immunocytochemistry for ENK with retrograde tracing from the major pelvic ganglion (MPG), a key location for postganglionic neurons controlling pelvic viscera, with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) or CTB-horseradish peroxidase (CTB-HRP). We compared the relationship of ENK-IR axons with sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) projecting to the MPG between intact spinal cords and cords with 2- or 11-week complete transections between thoracic segments 4 and 5. By light microscopy, sections of intact cord showed dense networks of ENK-IR axons surrounding CTB-IR SPNs in the intermediolateral cell column (IML), intercalated nucleus, and central autonomic area of lower thoracic and upper lumbar cord. This staining pattern was similar in rats with 2- or 11-week transections. Ultrastructurally, ENK-IR axons formed synapses on SPNs in all three autonomic subnuclei of intact cord. In the IML, ENK-IR varicosities contributed 52% of the synapses on the somata of MPG-projecting SPNs. In 2-week transected cord, synapses from ENK-IR axons persisted on SPNs and the proportion of input to IML SPNs had increased to 67%, probably reflecting loss of supraspinal input. These results suggest that endogenous opioids could play a major role in controlling sympathetic outflow to the bladder through a direct action on SPNs. The persistence of the dense ENK innervation after complete cord transection indicates that the ENK-IR input to SPNs arises predominantly from intraspinal sources.
Nicotinic transmission in the enteric nervous system (ENS) is extensive, but the role of individual nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes in the functional connectivity of its plexuses has been elusive. Using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against neuronal alpha3-, alpha4-, alpha3/alpha5-, beta2-, beta4- and alpha7-subunits, combined with radioimmunoassays and immunocytochemistry, we demonstrate that guinea-pig enteric ganglia contain all of these nAChR-subunits with the exception of alpha4, and so, differ from mammalian brain. This information alone, however, is insufficient to establish the functional role of the identified nAChR-subtypes within the enteric networks and, ultimately, their specific contributions to gastrointestinal physiology. We have used voltage-sensitive dyes and a high-speed CCD camera, in conjunction with specific antagonists to various nAChRs, to elucidate some of the distinct contributions of the individual subtypes to the behaviour of enteric networks. In the guinea-pig, the submucous plexus has the extraordinary advantage that it is virtually two-dimensional, permitting optical recording, with single cell resolution, of the electrical activity of all of its neurones. In this plexus, the block of alpha3beta2-, alpha3beta4- and/or alpha7-nAChRs always results in a decrease in the magnitude of the synaptic response. However, the magnitude of the fast excitatory post-synaptic potentials (epsps) evoked by electrical stimulation of a neighbouring ganglion varies from cell to cell, reflecting the differential expression of subunits already observed using mAbs, as well as the strengths of the activated synaptic inputs. At the same time, we observe that submucous neurones have a substantial mecamylamine (Mec)-insensitive (non-nicotinic) component to their fast epsps, which may point to the presence of purinergic or serotonergic fast epsps in this system. In the myenteric plexus, on the other hand, the antagonist-induced changes in the evoked synaptic response vary depending upon the location of the stimulating electrode with respect to the ganglion under study. The range of activity patterns that follows sequential pharmacological elimination of individual subtypes suggests that nAChRs may be capable of regulating the activity of both excitatory and inhibitory pathways, in a manner similar to that described in the central nervous system.
Five experiments examined the relations between timing and attention using a choice time production task in which the latency of a spatial choice response is matched to a target interval (3 or 5 s). Experiments 1 and 2 indicated that spatial stimulus-response incompatibility increased nonscalar timing variability without affecting timing accuracy and that choice reaction time practice reduced choice time production variability. These data support a &quot;temporal discounting&quot; model in which response choice and timing occur in series, but the interval timed is shortened to account for nontemporal processing. In Experiment 3, feedback and anticipation task demands improved choice time production accuracy. In Experiments 4 and 5, the delay between the start-timing and choice-decision signals interacted with choice difficulty to affect choice time production accuracy and variability when timing a 3- but not a 5-s interval, suggesting that attention mediates timing before and after an interruption in timing.
This article examines how the human visual system represents the shapes of 3-dimensional (3D) objects. One long-standing hypothesis is that object shapes are represented in terms of volumetric component parts and their spatial configuration. This hypothesis is examined in 3 experiments using a whole-part matching paradigm in which participants match object parts to whole novel 3D object shapes. Experiments 1 and 2, consistent with volumetric image segmentation, show that whole-part matching is faster for volumetric component parts than for either open or closed nonvolumetric regions of edge contour. However, the results of Experiment 3 show that an equivalent advantage is found for bounded regions of edge contour that correspond to object surfaces. The results are interpreted in terms of a surface-based model of 3D shape representation, which proposes edge-bounded 2-dimensional polygons as basic primitives of surface shape.
Normal muscle has a resting potential of -85 mV, but in a number of situations there is depolarization of the resting potential that alters excitability. To better understand the effect of resting potential on muscle excitability we attempted to accurately simulate excitability at both normal and depolarized resting potentials. To accurately simulate excitability we found that it was necessary to include a resting potential-dependent shift in the voltage dependence of sodium channel activation and fast inactivation. We recorded sodium currents from muscle fibers in vivo and found that prolonged changes in holding potential cause shifts in the voltage dependence of both activation and fast inactivation of sodium currents. We also found that altering the amplitude of the prepulse or test pulse produced differences in the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation respectively. Since only the Nav1.4 sodium channel isoform is present in significant quantity in adult skeletal muscle, this suggests that either there are multiple states of Nav1.4 that differ in their voltage dependence of gating or there is a distribution in the voltage dependence of gating of Nav1.4. Taken together, our data suggest that changes in resting potential toward more positive potentials favor states of Nav1.4 with depolarized voltage dependence of gating and thus shift voltage dependence of the sodium current. We propose that resting potential-induced shifts in the voltage dependence of sodium channel gating are essential to properly regulate muscle excitability in vivo.
A stable plasmid DNA, pMWJEAT, was constructed by using full-length Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) cDNA isolated from the wild-type strain JEV AT31. Recombinant JEV was obtained by synthetic RNA transfection into Vero cells and designated rAT virus. JEV rAT exhibited similar large-plaque morphology and antigenicity to the parental AT31 strain. Mutant clone pMWJEAT-E138K, containing a single Glu-to-Lys mutation at aa 138 of the envelope (E) protein, was also constructed to analyse the mechanisms of viral attenuation arising from this mutation. Recombinant JEV rAT-E138K was also recovered and displayed a smaller-plaque morphology and lower neurovirulence and neuroinvasiveness than either AT31 virus or rAT virus. JEV rAT-E138K exhibited greater plaque formation than rAT virus in virus-cell interactions under acidic conditions. Heparin or heparinase III treatment inhibited binding to Vero cells more efficiently for JEV rAT-E138K than for rAT virus. Inhibition of virus-cell interactions by using wheatgerm agglutinin was more effective for JEV rAT than for rAT-E138K on Vero cells. About 20 % of macropinoendocytosis of JEV rAT for Vero cells was inhibited by cytochalasin D treatment, but no such inhibition occurred for rAT-E138K virus. Furthermore, JEV rAT was predominantly secreted from infected cells, whereas rAT-E138K was more likely to be retained in infected cells. This study demonstrates clearly that a single Glu-to-Lys mutation at aa 138 of the envelope protein affects multiple steps of the viral life cycle. These multiple changes may induce substantial attenuation of JEV.

The incidence of neurological disabilities ascribable to hypoxia-ischemia in the perinatal period (HIPP) is rising. Glutamate plays a key role in the development of cerebral damage related to HIPP: it triggers the excitotoxic cascade by overactivating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDA), implicated as important mediators of both learning and neuronal development. Laudanosine is the metabolite of the neuromuscular blocking drugs, atracurium and cisatracurium, administered as part of obstetric general anesthesia. In elective cesarean section, laudanosine may be found in the fetus with a mean umbilical vein concentration of 26 (range 6-60) ng ml(-1). At nM concentrations, laudanosine can activate alpha4beta2 nACh subtype receptors. Activation of alpha4beta2 nAChRs provided neuroprotection against NMDA excitotoxic cascade in a neonatal model. Taken together, experimental and clinical data widely indicate a potential neuroprotective role for laudanosine against perinatal brain lesions of hypoxic-ischemic origin. The clinical relevance is that administration of the neuromuscular blocking drugs atracurium and cisatracurium, administered as part of general anesthesia for cesarean section, could be potentially therapeutic in obstetric anesthesia. Therefore, we find laudanosine to be an attractive proposal for further studies in the prevention of neurological disabilities ascribable to perinatal injury related to hypoxia and ischemia.
Stress affects eating behaviour in rodents and humans, suggesting that the regulation of energy balance and the stress response are coupled physiological processes. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP) are potent food-stimulating neuropeptides that are highly co-localised in arcuate nucleus neurons of the hypothalamus. Recent studies have shown that NPY and AgRP mRNA levels in these neurons respond similarly to fasting and leptin, indicating functional redundancy of the neuropeptide systems in these orexigenic neurons. However, we have found that NPY and AgRP mRNA expression in arcuate nucleus neurons are dissociated immediately following a stressful event. Two hours following a brief session of inescapable foot shocks, AgRP mRNA levels are down-regulated (P &lt; 0.0001). In contrast, NPY mRNA levels are up-regulated (P &lt; 0.0001). To provide physiological relevance for this acute down-regulation of AgRP, an inverse agonist of melanocortin receptors, we have shown that acute intracerebroventricular injection of a melanocortin receptor agonist, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), caused a significantly stronger activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal-cortical (HPA) axis following a stressful event than in controls. Thus, AgRP and NPY mRNA levels in similar arcuate nucleus neurons are differentially regulated following a stressful event. This may contribute to increased sensitivity for alpha-MSH to activate the HPA axis following a repeated stressful experience.

The molecular mechanisms regulating sexual differentiation of the brain are largely unknown, although progress is being made, particularly in some mammalian systems. To uncover more of the key factors, a screen was conducted for genes involved in sexually dimorphic development of the neural song system in zebra finches. cDNA microarrays were initially used to compare gene expression in the telencephalons of hatchling and juvenile males and females. Then, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was employed to confirm sex differences, and the brain regions expressing the cDNAs of interest were localized using in situ hybridization. Several genes, including those likely to encode two ribosomal proteins (RPL17 and RPL37), SCAMP1, ZNF216, and a COBW-domain containing protein, showed enhanced expression in the telencephalon of males compared to females. In several cases, expression in the song control nuclei specifically was detected only in males. Interestingly, the sequences of some of these cDNAs shared substantial homology with regions of the chicken Z chromosome (male birds are ZZ, females ZW). Thus, we have identified genes likely to be involved in masculinization of the structure and/or function of the song circuit, some of which could be initial triggers for the sexual differentiation process.

Insulin and its receptor are both present in the central nervous system and are implicated in neuronal survival and hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Here we show that insulin activates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B (PKB), and results in an induction of long-term depression (LTD) in hippocampal CA1 neurones. Evaluation of the frequency-response curve of synaptic plasticity revealed that insulin induced LTD at 0.033 Hz and LTP at 10 Hz, whereas in the absence of insulin, 1 Hz induced LTD and 100 Hz induced LTP. LTD induction in the presence of insulin required low frequency synaptic stimulation (0.033 Hz) and blockade of GABAergic transmission. The LTD or LTP induced in the presence of insulin was N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor specific as it could be inhibited by alpha-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV), a specific NMDA receptor antagonist. LTD induction was also facilitated by lowering the extracellular Mg(2+) concentration, indicating an involvement of NMDA receptors. Inhibition of PI3K signalling or discontinuing synaptic stimulation also prevented this LTD. These results show that insulin modulates activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, which requires activation of NMDA receptors and the PI3K pathway. The results obtained provide a mechanistic link between insulin and synaptic plasticity, and explain how insulin functions as a neuromodulator.
Topiramate (TPM) is a structurally novel broad spectrum anticonvulsant known to have a negative modulatory effect on the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate subtypes of glutamate receptors and some types of voltage-gated Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels, and a positive modulatory effect on some types of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors and at least one type of K(+) channels in neurons. In an earlier work, we showed that the negative modulatory effect of TPM (100 mum) on AMPA/kainate receptors in neurons is dependent on TPM modulation of the phosphorylation state of these receptors. In this work, we investigated the effect of TPM on AMPA-induced intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) responses in cultured rat cortical astrocytes, with special interest in intracellular mechanisms. Here, we report that the ability of TPM (1-100 mum) to inhibit AMPA-induced accumulation of Ca(2+) in astrocytes is inversely related to the level of protein kinase A (PKA) -mediated phosphorylation of channels activated by AMPA. The level of receptor phosphorylation was further determined with western blot using phosphorylation specific antibodies that recognize the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunit phosphorylated on Ser845. These results demonstrated that, even in cultured cortical astrocytes, TPM significantly reduced the phophorylation level of GluR1 subunits. Furthermore, it was shown that TPM binds to AMPA receptors in the dephosphorylated state and thereby exerts an allosteric modulatory effect on the ion channel.
Astrocytes are highly coupled by gap junction channels, which allow transfer of intracellular signalling molecules and metabolites between connected cells. Astrocytic gap junctions remain open during ischemic conditions as previously demonstrated in vitro and in situ. In this study, we investigated the effect of gap junction blockage on iodoacetate-induced ATP depression and cell death progression in astrocytes in primary rat hippocampal cultures. We demonstrated that blockage of gap junctions during iodoacetate-induced inhibition of the glycolysis induced an earlier onset of the ATP depression. Moreover, initiation of apoptotic processes, demonstrated by binding of Annexin V, was critically dependent on the ATP levels. The apoptotic event was also shown to spread and involve neighbouring cells, a process that was inhibited by blockage of gap junction communication. Chelating intracellular calcium using BAPTA-AM decelerated the iodoacetate-induced ATP depression. The chelation also decelerated the spreading of apoptotic processes. Inhibition of caspases did not alter the expansion of cell groups being Annexin V positive. However, the proportion of Annexin V positive cells also being propidium iodide positive was increased after caspase inhibition. The results show that inhibition of gap junctions during cellular metabolic depression interferes with the metabolic status and cell death progression in astrocytes.
The amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) is linked to Alzheimer's disease through its pathological proteolytic processing in the secretory pathway. Nevertheless, surprisingly little is known about the biosynthesis of endogenous APP. We therefore decided to investigate the intracellular fate of newly synthesized APP in a physiologically inducible neuroendocrine cell, the Xenopus intermediate pituitary melanotrope cell. We found that the level of both APP mRNA and protein was about threefold induced in the activated cells of black-adapted animals. Intriguingly, two pools of APP were found, only one of which was up-regulated. This induced pool became readily N- and subsequently O-glycosylated and was eventually proteolytically processed by an alpha-secretase-like cleavage event resulting in a secreted N-terminal and a cell-associated C-terminal APP fragment. Conversely, only the other (non-induced, non-glycosylated and uncleaved) pool became phosphorylated. Thus, we report on the biosynthesis of APP in a physiological context and illuminate the occurrence of two pools of APP, one of which is linked to neuroendocrine cell activation.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are implicated in neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Celastrol is a potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant compound extracted from a perennial creeping plant belonging to the Celastraceae family. Celastrol is known to prevent the production of proinflammatory cytokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase and lipid peroxidation. Mice were treated with celastrol before and after injections of MPTP, a dopaminergic neurotoxin, which produces a model of PD. A 48% loss of dopaminergic neurons induced by MPTP in the substantia nigra pars compacta was significantly attenuated by celastrol treatment. Moreover, celastrol treatment significantly reduced the depletion in dopamine concentration induced by MPTP. Similarly, celastrol significantly decreased the striatal lesion volume induced by 3-nitropropionic acid, a neurotoxin used to model HD in rats. Celastrol induced heat shock protein 70 within dopaminergic neurons and decreased tumor necrosis factor-alpha and nuclear factor kappa B immunostainings as well as astrogliosis. Celastrol is therefore a promising neuroprotective agent for the treatment of PD and HD.
Stimulation of hippocampal 5-HT(1A) receptors impairs memory retention. The highly selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY-100635, prevents the cognitive deficits induced not only by 5-HT(1A) stimulation but also by cholinergic or NMDA receptor blockade. On this basis, the effects of WAY-100635 on molecular events associated with memory storage were explored. In rat hippocampus, WAY-100635 produced a rapid increase in phosphorylated Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and in Ca(2+)-independent CaMKII and protein kinase A (PKA) enzyme activity. This increase was followed a few hours later by an enhanced membrane expression of AMPA receptor subunits, especially of the GluR1 subunit phosphorylated at the CaMKII site, pGluR1(Ser831). The same qualitative effects were found with the weaker 5-HT(1A) antagonist NAN-190. The effects of both antagonists were no longer apparent in rats with a previous 5-HT depletion induced by the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), suggesting that 5-HT(1A) receptor blockade removes the tonic inhibition of 5-HT through 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation on excitatory hippocampal neurons, with the consequent increase in PKA activity. In addition, administration of WAY-100635 potentiated the learning-specific increase in the hippocampus of phospho-CaMKII, Ca(2+)-independent CaMKII activity, as well as the phosphorylation of either the CaMKII or the PKA site on the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit. This study suggests that blockade of hippocampal 5-HT(1A) receptors favours molecular events critically involved in memory formation, and provides an in vivo molecular basis for the proposed utility of 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists in the treatment of cognitive disorders.
Minocycline is neuroprotective in animal models of a number of acute CNS injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. While anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects of minocycline have been characterized, the molecular basis for the neuroprotective effects of minocycline remains unclear. We report here that minocycline and a number of antioxidant compounds protect mixed neuronal cultures in an oxidative stress assay. To evaluate the role of minocycline's direct antioxidant properties in neuroprotection, we determined potencies for minocycline, other tetracycline antibiotics, and reference antioxidant compounds using a panel of in vitro radical scavenging assays. Data from in vitro rat brain homogenate lipid peroxidation and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assays show that minocycline, in contrast to tetracycline, is an effective antioxidant with radical scavenging potency similar to vitamin E. Our findings suggest that the direct antioxidant activity of minocycline may contribute to its neuroprotective effects in some cell-based assays and animal models of neuronal injury.
The neuroprotective effect and molecular mechanisms underlying preconditioning with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in cultured hippocampal neurons have not been described. Pre-incubation with subtoxic concentrations of the endogenous neurotransmitter glutamate protects vulnerable neurons against NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. As a result of physiological preconditioning, NMDA significantly antagonizes the neurotoxicity resulting from subsequent exposure to an excitotoxic concentration of glutamate. The protective effect of glutamate or NMDA is time- and concentration-dependent, suggesting that sufficient agonist and time are required to establish an intracellular neuroprotective state. In these cells, the TrkB ligand, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) attenuates glutamate toxicity. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that NMDA protects neurons via a BDNF-dependent mechanism. Exposure of hippocampal cultures to a neuroprotective concentration of NMDA (50 microM) evoked the release of BDNF within 2 min without attendant changes in BDNF protein or gene expression. The accumulated increase of BDNF in the medium is followed by an increase in the phosphorylation (activation) of TrkB receptors and a later increase in exon 4-specific BDNF mRNA. The neuroprotective effect of NMDA was attenuated by pre-incubation with a BDNF-blocking antibody and TrkB-IgG, a fusion protein known to inhibit the activity of extracellular BDNF, suggesting that BDNF plays a major role in NMDA-mediated survival. These results demonstrate that low level stimulation of NMDA receptors protect neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity via a BDNF autocrine loop in hippocampal neurons and suggest that activation of neurotrophin signaling pathways plays a key role in the neuroprotection of NMDA.
A yeast two-hybrid screen using the last 28 amino acids of the cytoplasmic domain of the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 identified RanBPM as an L1-interacting protein. RanBPM associates with L1 in vivo and the N-terminal region of RanBPM (N-RanBPM), containing the SPRY domain, is sufficient for the interaction with L1 in a glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay. L1 antibody patching dramatically changes the subcellular localization of N-RanBPM in transfected COS cells. Overexpression of N-RanBPM in COS cells reduces L1-triggered extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation by 50% and overexpression of N-RanBPM in primary neurons inhibits L1-mediated neurite outgrowth and branching. These data suggest that RanBPM is an adaptor protein that links L1 to the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/MAPK pathway.
Neuronal plasticity is achieved by regulation of the expression of genes for neurotransmitter receptors such as the type A receptor (GABA(A)R) for gamma-aminobutyric acid. We now show that two different rat neuronal populations in culture manifest distinct patterns of GABA(A)R plasticity in response to identical stimuli. Whereas prolonged exposure to ethanol had no effect on expression of the delta subunit of GABA(A)Rs at the mRNA or protein level in cerebellar granule neurons, it increased the abundance of delta subunit mRNA and protein in hippocampal neurons. Subsequent ethanol withdrawal transiently down-regulated delta subunit expression in cerebellar granule neurons and gradually normalized that in hippocampal neurons. These effects of ethanol exposure and withdrawal were accompanied by corresponding functional changes in GABA(A)Rs. GABA(A)Rs containing the delta subunit were also distributed differentially in the cerebellar and hippocampal neurons. These findings reveal complex and distinct mechanisms of regulation of the expression of GABA(A)Rs that contain the delta subunit in different neuronal types.
Increased activity of plasma membrane K+ channels, leading to decreased cytoplasmic K+ concentrations, occurs during neuronal cell death. In the present study, we showed that the neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide Abeta(25-35) caused a dose-dependent (0.1-10 microm) and time-dependent (&gt; 12 h) enhancement of both inactivating and non-inactivating components of voltage-dependent K+ (VGK) currents in nerve growth factor-differentiated rat phaeochromocytoma (PC-12) cells and primary rat hippocampal neurones. Similar effects were exerted by Abeta(1-42), but not by the non-neurotoxic Abeta(35-25) peptide. Abeta(25-35) and Abeta(1-42) caused an early (15-20 min) increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. This led to an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which peaked at 3 h and lasted for 24 h; ROS production seemed to trigger the VGK current increase as vitamin E (50 microm) blocked both the Abeta(25-35)- and Abeta(1-42)-induced ROS increase and VGK current enhancement. Inhibition of protein synthesis (cycloheximide, 1 microg/mL) and transcription (actinomycin D, 50 ng/mL) blocked Abeta(25-35)-induced VGK current enhancement, suggesting that this potentiation is mediated by transcriptional activation induced by ROS. Interestingly, the specific nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitor SN-50 (5 microm), but not its inactive analogue SN-50M (5 microm), fully counteracted Abeta(1-42)- or Abeta(25-35)-induced enhancement of VGK currents, providing evidence for a role of this family of transcription factors in regulating neuronal K+ channel function during exposure to Abeta.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a regulatory neuropeptide of which there are multiple structural variants. In mammals, a hypothalamic form (GnRH-I) controls gonadotrophin secretion whereas a midbrain form (GnRH-II) appears to have a neuromodulatory role affecting feeding and reproduction. In female musk shrews and mice, central administration of GnRH-II reinstates mating behaviour previously inhibited by food restriction. In addition, GnRH-II treatment also decreases short-term food intake in musk shrews. GnRH-II can bind two different mammalian GnRH receptors (type-1 and type-2), and thus it is unclear which receptor subtype mediates the behavioural effects of this peptide. Adult female musk shrews implanted with i.c.v. cannula were food restricted or fed ad lib and then tested for sexual behaviour or food intake. One hour before testing, animals were pretreated with vehicle or Antide, a potent type-1 GnRH receptor antagonist (at a dose that blocks GnRH-I or -II mediated ovulation). Twenty minutes before testing, females were infused a second time with either GnRH-II or vehicle. Additional females were tested after an infusion of 135-18, a type-1 receptor antagonist that displays agonist actions at the primate type-2 receptor. GnRH-II treatment increased sexual behaviour in underfed female shrews; pretreatment with Antide did not block this action, suggesting that the effects of GnRH-II are not mediated via the type-1 receptor. Similarly, the inhibitory effects of GnRH-II on short-term food intake were not prevented by pretreatment with Antide. The behavioural effects of the type-2 receptor agonist 135-18 were similar to those seen in GnRH-II-treated females, with 135-18 promoting sexual behaviour and decreasing food intake. Collectively, these results indicate that GnRH-II does not act via the type-1 GnRH receptor to regulate mammalian behaviour but likely activates the type-2 GnRH receptor.
Early exposure to stressors is strongly associated with enduring effects on central nervous system function, but the mechanisms and neural substrates involved in this biological 'programming' are unclear. This study tested the hypothesis that inappropriate exposure to glucocorticoid stress hormones (GCs) during critical periods of development permanently alters the mesencephalic dopaminergic populations in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Using a rat model, the synthetic GC dexamethasone was added to the maternal drinking water during gestational days 16-19 or over the first week of postnatal life. In adulthood, the effects upon tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive (TH+) cell numbers in the midbrain, and monoamine levels in the forebrain, of the adult offspring were assessed and compared with control offspring whose dams received normal drinking water. In the VTA, both prenatal and postnatal dexamethasone treatment increased TH+ cell numbers by approximately 50% in males and females. Although prenatal dexamethasone treatment also increased TH+ cell numbers in the SNc by 40-50% in males and females, postnatal treatment affected females only by increasing TH+ cell numbers by approximately 30%. In comparison, similar changes were not detected in the monoamine levels of the dorsolateral striatum, nucleus accumbens or infralimbic cortex of either males or females, which is a feature likely to reflect adaptive changes in these pathways. These studies demonstrate that the survival or phenotypic expression of VTA and SNc dopaminergic neurones is profoundly influenced by brief perinatal exposure to GCs at times when endogenous levels are normally low. These findings are the first to demonstrate permanent changes in the cytoarchitecture within midbrain dopamine nuclei after perinatal exposure to stress hormones and implicate altered functionality. Thus, they have significance for the increasing use of GCs in perinatal medicine and indicate potential mechanisms whereby perinatal distress may predispose to the development of a range of psychiatric conditions in later life.
The systemic autoimmune disease lupus erythematosus (SLE) is frequently accompanied by neuropsychiatric manifestations and brain lesions of unknown etiology. The MRL-lpr mice show behavioral dysfunction concurrent with progression of a lupus-like disease, thus providing a valuable model in understanding the pathogenesis of autoimmunity-induced CNS damage. Profound neurodegeneration in the limbic system of MRL-lpr mice is associated with cytotoxicity of their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to mature and immature neurons. We have recently shown that IgG-rich CSF fraction largely accounts for this effect. The present study examines IgG levels in serum and CSF, as well as the permeability of the blood-brain barrier in mice that differ in immune status, age, and brain morphology. In comparison to young MRL-lpr mice and age-matched congenic controls, a significant elevation of IgG and albumin levels were detected in the CSF of aged autoimmune MRL-lpr mice. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF MS confirmed elevation in IgG heavy and Ig light chain isoforms in the CSF. Increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier correlated with neurodegeneration (as revealed by Fluoro Jade B staining) in periventricular areas. Although the source and specificity of neuropathogenic antibodies remain to be determined, these results support the hypothesis that a breached blood-brain barrier and IgG molecules are involved in the etiology of CNS damage during SLE-like disease.
The objective of the current study was to investigate whether minocycline improves the effect of an existing multiple sclerosis (MS) medication, interferon-beta, on experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice. When used at sub-optimal doses, neither medication affected EAE but their combination at these doses led to the significant alleviation of EAE disease severity scores and histological outcomes. In culture, the toxicity of T cells to neurons was alleviated by their prior exposure to minocycline or interferon-beta and their combination further attenuated neuronal death. Collectively, these results suggest the utility of the combination of minocycline and interferon-beta in MS.
The immune system plays a key role in the dissemination of prion infections from the periphery to the central nervous system (CNS). While follicular dendritic cells are critical for prion replication in lymphoid tissue and subsequent neuroinvasion, myeloid dendritic cells (DCs) have been implicated in both the clearance and propagation of pathological prion protein. Since nothing is known on the ability of DCs to migrate to the CNS during prion diseases, we investigated the immunohistochemical localization of CD205(+) DCs in the brain of C57BL/6 mice intraperitoneally infected with the mouse-adapted KFu strain of Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome, a human genetic prion disorder. In normal brain, CD205(+) cells were present in the meninges and choroid plexus, whereas in the majority of mice sacrificed between 120 and 300 days post infection, CD205(+) DCs were also detected in the cerebral cortex, subcortical white matter, thalamus and medulla oblongata. These findings demonstrate that DCs can enter the CNS of prion-infected mice, suggesting a possible role for these cells in the pathogenesis of prion disorders.

The subjective visual vertical (SVV) was investigated in right brain-damaged (RBD) patients with pusher syndrome (PS) which is thought to stem from an erroneous perception of body orientation. The participants, sitting or lying, had to align a luminous rod with gravity. The task was performed in darkness with the rod centred to the body, or placed in the left (neglected) or in the right hemispace. The error, negligible in the control group (+0.3 degrees; n = 6) and mild in the nonneglect non-pusher patients (-1.8 degrees; n = 6), was clearly clockwise in the pusher neglect patients (N+P+; +7.2 degrees; n = 4), but anticlockwise in the non-pusher neglect patients (-6.6 degrees; n = 6). In both neglect groups, error was greater when the rod was in the left space. In N+P+ patients, the performance was strongly affected by posture (lying: +5.2 degrees ; sitting: +9.2 degrees ). Intra-individual variability was also much greater in this group. This study confirms the contralesional deviation of SVV in RBD patients without PS and suggests the presence of an opposite bias in RBD patients affected by PS.
We carried out an epidemiological survey to determine prevalence and incidence of multiple sclerosis in the little town of Linguaglossa in the Province of Catania. We calculated prevalence rate as point prevalence at 1 January 2001 and incidence during 1991-2000. We studied the frequency of multiple sclerosis in the community of Linguaglossa in a population of 5,422 inhabitants in the 2001 census. The primary sources for the case ascertainment were the general practitioners of Linguaglossa, the local Italian Multiple Sclerosis Association and the neurological departments, Multiple Sclerosis Centers and private neurologists of the province of Catania. We considered as prevalent and incident cases all patients who satisfied the Poser's diagnostic criteria. We detected 11 patients with multiple sclerosis who had had the onset of disease on prevalent day (P.D.). The onset-adjusted prevalence rate was 203/100,000 (95% CI 107-352). Prevalence was higher in women (247/100,000) than in men (154/100,000). From 1991 to 2000, 10 subjects with MS had clinical onset of disease. The mean annual incidence risk was 18.2/100,000 (C. I. 95 % 5.9-42.5). Conversely in the same population prevalence on 1 January 1991 was 37/100,000 while the onset adjusted annual incidence risk during the previous decade (1981-1991) was 3.6/100,000. Prevalence and incidence rates of MS during the last decade in the little town of Linguaglossa are higher than those found in the same area during the previous ten years and also than those reported in other Sicilian and Italian surveys suggesting a possible cluster of MS.



As a result of their close association with the blood-brain barrier, astrocytes play an important role in regulating the homing of different leukocyte subsets to the inflamed central nervous system (CNS). In this study, we investigated whether human astrocytes produce chemokines that promote the migration of myeloid dendritic cells (DCs). By reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, we show that cultured human astrocytes stimulated with interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor produce CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, CCL20, and CXCL12 that act on immature DCs, but not CCL19 and CCL21, 2 chemokines specific for mature DCs. Compared with controls, supernatants of cytokine-stimulated astrocytes are more effective in promoting the migration of immature monocyte-derived DCs (iMDDCs). Desensitization of CXCR4 (receptor for CXCL12), CCR1-3-5 (shared receptors for CCL3-4-5), and CCR6 (receptor for CCL20) on iMDDC reduces cell migration toward astrocyte supernatants, indicating that astrocytes release biologically relevant amounts of iMDDC-attracting chemokines. By immunohistochemistry, we show that CXCL12 and, to a lesser extent, CCL20 are expressed by reactive astrocytes in multiple sclerosis lesions. These data lend support to the idea that astrocyte-derived chemokines may contribute to immature DC recruitment to the inflamed CNS.
Peripheral nerve injury results in changes in action potential waveform, ion channel organization, and firing properties of primary afferent neurons. It has been suggested that these changes are the result of reduction in basal trophic support from skin targets. Subcutaneous injections of Fluro-Gold (FG) in the hind limb of the rat were used to identify cutaneous primary afferent neurons. Five days after FG injection, sciatic nerves were ligated and encapsulated in a silicon tube allowing neuroma formation. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing Schwann cells (SCs) were injected proximal to the cut end of the nerve. Thirteen to 22 days after injury and SC injection, the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were prepared for acute culture. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings in current clamp mode were obtained and action potential properties of medium-sized (34-45 microm) FG+ DRG neurons were characterized. In the neuroma group without cell transplantation, action potential duration and spike inflections were reduced as were the amplitude and duration of spike afterhyperpolarizations. These changes were not observed after transection by nerve crush where axons were allowed to regenerate to distal peripheral targets. In the transplantation group, GFP(+)-SCs were extensively distributed throughout the neuroma, and oriented longitudinally along axons proximal to the neuroma. Changes in action potential properties were attenuated in the GFP(+)-SC group. Thus the engrafted SC procedure ameliorated the changes in action potential waveform of cutaneous primary afferents associated with target disconnection and neuroma formation.
We have used antidromic activation to determine the functional discharge properties of neurons that project to the frontal pursuit area (FPA) from the medial-superior temporal visual area (MST). In awake rhesus monkeys, MST neurons were considered to be activated antidromically if they emitted action potentials at fixed, short latencies after stimulation in the FPA and if the activation passed the collision test. Antidromically activated neurons (n = 37) and a sample of the overall population of MST neurons (n = 110) then were studied during pursuit eye movements across a dark background and during laminar motion of a large random-dot texture and optic flow expansion and contraction during fixation. Antidromically activated neurons showed direction tuning during pursuit (25/37), during laminar image motion (21/37), or both (16/37). Of 27 neurons tested with optic flow stimuli, 14 showed tuning for optic flow expansion (n = 10) or contraction (n = 4). There were no statistically significant differences in the response properties of the antidromically activated and control samples. Preferred directions for pursuit and laminar image motion did not show any statistically significant biases, and the preferred directions for eye versus image motion in each sample tended to be equally divided between aligned and opposed. There were small differences between the control and antidromically activated populations in preferred speeds for laminar motion and optic flow; these might have reached statistical significance with larger samples of antidromically activated neurons. We conclude that the population of MST neurons projecting to the FPA is highly diverse and quite similar to the general population of neurons in MST.
The activity of neurons in primary visual cortex is influenced by the orientation, contrast, and temporal frequency of a visual stimulus. This raises the question of how these stimulus properties interact to shape neuronal responses. While past studies have shown that the bandwidth of orientation tuning is invariant to stimulus contrast, the influence of temporal frequency on orientation-tuning bandwidth is unknown. Here, we investigate the influence of temporal frequency on orientation tuning and direction selectivity in area 17 of ferret visual cortex. For both simple cells and complex cells, measures of orientation-tuning bandwidth (half-width at half-maximum response) are approximately 20-25 degrees across a wide range of temporal frequencies. Thus cortical neurons display temporal-frequency invariant orientation tuning. In contrast, direction selectivity is typically reduced, and occasionally reverses, at nonpreferred temporal frequencies. These results show that the mechanisms contributing to the generation of orientation tuning and direction selectivity are differentially affected by the temporal frequency of a visual stimulus and support the notion that stability of orientation tuning is an important aspect of visual processing.
The response of a cell in the primary visual cortex to an optimally oriented grating is suppressed by a superimposed orthogonal grating. This cross-orientation suppression (COS) is exhibited when the orthogonal and optimal stimuli are presented to the same eye (monoptically) or to different eyes (dichoptically). A recent study suggested that monoptic COS arises from subcortical processes; however, the mechanisms underlying dichoptic COS were not addressed. We have compared the temporal frequency tuning and stimulus adaptation properties of monoptic and dichoptic COS. We found that dichoptic COS is best elicited with lower temporal frequencies and is substantially reduced after prolonged adaptation to a mask grating. In contrast, monoptic COS is more pronounced with mask gratings at much higher temporal frequencies and is less prone to stimulus adaptation. These results suggest that monoptic COS is mediated by subcortical mechanisms, whereas intracortical inhibition is the mechanism for dichoptic COS.
Spreading acidification and depression (SAD) is a form of propagated activity in the cerebellar cortex characterized by acidification and a transient depression in excitability. This study investigated the role of Kv1 potassium channels in SAD using neutral red, flavoprotein autofluorescence, and voltage-sensitive dye optical imaging in the mouse cerebellar cortex, in vivo. The probability of evoking SAD was greatly increased by blocking Kv1.1 as well as Kv1.2 potassium channels by their specific blockers dendrotoxin K (DTX-K) and tityustoxin (TsTX), respectively. DTX-K not only greatly lowered the threshold for evoking SAD but also resulted in multiple cycles of spread and spontaneous SAD. The occurrence of spontaneous SAD originating from spontaneous parallel fiber-like beams of activity suggests that blocking Kv1 channels increased parallel fiber excitability. This was confirmed by the generation of parallel fiber-like beams with the microinjection of glutamate into the upper molecular layer in the presence of DTX-K. The dramatic effects of DTX-K suggest a possible connection between SAD and episodic ataxia type 1 (EA1), a Kv1.1 potassium channelopathy. The threshold for evoking SAD was significantly lowered in the Kv1.1 heterozygous knockout mouse compared with wild-type littermates. Carbamazepine and acetazolamide, both effective in the treatment of EA1, significantly decreased the likelihood of evoking SAD. Blocking GABAergic neurotransmission did not alter the effectiveness of DTX-K. The cyclin D2 null mouse, which lacks cerebellar stellate cells, also exhibited SAD. Therefore blocking Kv1 potassium channels establishes the conditions needed to generate SAD. Furthermore, the results are consistent with the hypothesis that SAD may underlie the transient attacks of ataxia characterizing EA1.
A retinal ganglion cell receives information about a white-noise stimulus as a flickering pattern of glutamate quanta. The ganglion cell reencodes this information as brief bursts of one to six spikes separated by quiescent periods. When the stimulus is repeated, the number of spikes in a burst is highly reproducible (variance &lt; mean) and spike timing is precise to within 10 ms, leading to an estimate that each spike encodes about 2 bits. To understand how the ganglion cell reencodes information, we studied the quantal patterns by repeating a white-noise stimulus and recording excitatory currents from a voltage-clamped, brisk-sustained ganglion cell. Quanta occurred in synchronous bursts of 3 to 65; the resulting postsynaptic currents summed to form excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). The number of quanta in an EPSC was only moderately reproducible (variance = mean), quantal timing was precise to within 14 ms, and each quantum encoded 0.1-0.4 bit. In conclusion, compared to a spike, a quantum has similar temporal precision, but is less reproducible and encodes less information. Summing multiple quanta into discrete EPSCs improves the reproducibility of the overall quantal pattern and contributes to the reproducibility of the spike train.
Neuronal firing is determined largely by incoming barrages of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), each of which produce a transient increase in firing probability. To measure the effects of weak transient inputs on firing probability of cortical neurons, we compute phase-response curves (PRCs). PRCs, whose shape can be related to the dynamics of spike generation, document the changes in timing of spikes caused by an EPSP in a repetitively firing neuron as a function of when it arrives in the interspike interval (ISI). The PRC can be exactly related to the poststimulus time histogram (PSTH) so that knowledge of one uniquely determines the other. Typically, PRCs have zero values at the start and end of the ISI, where EPSPs have minimal effects and a peak in the middle. Where the peak occurs depends in part on the firing properties of neurons. The PRC can have regions of positivity and negativity corresponding respectively to speeding up and slowing down the time of the next spike. A simple canonical model for spike generation is introduced that shows how both the background firing rate and the degree of postspike afterhyperpolarization contribute to the shape of the PRC and thus to the PSTH. PRCs in strongly adapting neurons are highly skewed to the right (indicating a higher change in probability when the EPSPs appear late in the ISI) and can have negative regions (indicating a decrease in firing probability) early in the ISI. The PRC becomes more skewed to the right as the firing rate decreases. Thus at low firing rates, the spikes are triggered preferentially by inputs that occur only during a small time interval late in the ISI. This implies that the neuron is more of a coincidence detector at low firing frequencies and more of an integrator at high frequencies. The steady-state theory is shown to also hold for slowly varying inputs.
Posttetanic potentiation (PTP)-like phenomena appear to be mediated by a variety of mechanisms. Although neuropeptides are located in a large number of neurons and many neuropeptides, like PTP, can enhance synaptic transmission, there is a paucity of studies indicating that peptides may actually participate in PTP. Here, we utilize a single central synapse in the feeding circuit of Aplysia to investigate a possible peptidergic contribution to PTP in the CNS. The cholinergic command-like interneuron, cerebral-buccal interneuron 2 (CBI-2), contains two neuropeptides, feeding circuit activating peptide (FCAP) and cerebral peptide 2 (CP2). Previous studies showed that tetanic prestimulation or repeated stimulation of CBI-2, as well as perfusion of FCAP and CP2, increase the size of the cholinergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) that CBI-2 evokes in the motoneurons B61/62 and shorten the latency to initiate B61/62 firing in response to CBI-2 stimulation. We used temperature-dependent suppression of peptide release and occlusion experiments to examine the possible contribution of FCAP and CP2 to PTP at the CBI-2 to B61/62 synapse. When peptide release was suppressed, perfusion of exogenous peptides increased the size of posttetanic EPSPs. In contrast, when peptide release was not suppressed, exogenous peptides did not enhance the size of posttetanic EPSPs, thus indicating occlusion. Temperature manipulation and occlusion experiments also indicated that peptides extend PTP duration. This peptide-dependent prolongation of PTP has functional consequences in that it extends the duration of time during which the latency to initiate B61/62 firing in response to CBI-2 stimulation is shortened.
The avian auditory midbrain nucleus, the mesencephalicus lateralis, dorsalis (MLd), is the first auditory processing stage in which multiple parallel inputs converge, and it provides the input to the auditory thalamus. We studied the responses of single MLd neurons to four types of modulated sounds: 1) white noise; 2) band-limited noise; 3) frequency modulated (FM) sweeps, and 4) sinusoidally amplitude-modulated tones (SAM) in adult male zebra finches. Responses were compared with the responses of the same neurons to pure tones in terms of temporal response patterns, thresholds, characteristic frequencies, frequency tuning bandwidths, tuning sharpness, and spike rate/intensity relationships. Most neurons responded well to noise. More than one-half of the neurons responded selectively to particular portions of the noise, suggesting that, unlike forebrain neurons, many MLd neurons can encode specific acoustic components of highly modulated sounds such as noise. Selectivity for FM sweep direction was found in only 13% of cells that responded to sweeps. Those cells also showed asymmetric tuning curves, suggesting that asymmetric inhibition plays a role in FM directional selectivity. Responses to SAM showed that MLd neurons code temporal modulation rates using both spike rate and synchronization. Nearly all cells showed low-pass or band-pass filtering properties for SAM. Best modulation frequencies matched the temporal modulations in zebra finch song. Results suggest that auditory midbrain neurons are well suited for encoding a wide range of complex sounds with a high degree of temporal accuracy rather than selectively responding to only some sounds.
To investigate the physiological effects of melatonin receptors in the Xenopus tectum, we have used the fluorescent indicator Fluo-4 AM to monitor calcium dynamics of cells in tectal slices. Bath application of KCl elicited fluorescence increases that were reduced by melatonin. This effect was stronger at the end of the light period than at the end of the dark period. Melatonin increased gamma-aminobutyric acid-C (GABA(C))-receptor activity, as demonstrated by the ability of the GABA(C)-receptor antagonists, picrotoxin and TPMPA, to abolish the effects of melatonin. In contrast, neither the GABA(A)-receptor antagonist bicuculline nor the GABA(B)-receptor antagonist CGP 35348 diminished the effects of melatonin. RT-PCR analyses revealed expression of the 3 known melatonin receptors, MT1 (Mel1(a)), MT2 (Mel1(b)), and Mel1(c). Because the effect of melatonin on tectal calcium increases was antagonized by an MT2-selective antagonist, 4-P-PDOT, we performed Western blot analyses with an antibody to the MT2 receptor; the data indicate that the MT2 receptor is expressed primarily as a dimeric complex and is glycosylated. The receptor is present in higher amounts at the end of the light period than at the end of the dark period, in a pattern complementary to the changes in melatonin levels, which are higher during the night than during the day. These results imply that melatonin, acting by MT2 receptors, modulates GABA(C) receptor activity in the optic tectum and that this effect is influenced by the light-dark cycle.
In populations of synapses, overall synaptic strength can undergo either a net strengthening (long-term potentiation) or weakening (long-term depression). These phenomena have distinct induction pathways, but the functional outcome is usually measured as a single lumped quantity. In hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses, we took two approaches to study the activity dependence of each phenomenon in isolation. First, we selectively blocked one process by applying kinase or phosphatase inhibitors known, respectively, to block potentiation or depression. Second, we saturated depression or potentiation and examined the activity dependence of the converse process. The resulting unidirectional learning rules could be recombined to give a well-known bidirectional frequency-dependent learning rule under the assumption that when both pathways are activated kinases dominate, resulting in potentiation. Saturation experiments revealed an additional process in which potentiated synapses can be locked at high strength. Saturability of the components of plasticity implies that the amount of plasticity contributed by each pathway depends on the initial level of strength of the synapses. Variation in the distribution of initial synaptic strengths predicts a form of metaplasticity and can account for differences in learning rules observed under several physiological and genetic manipulations.

Lumbar herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP) and lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) are common spine pathologies with different clinical presentations and interventions. HNP generally has an acute onset often without a precipitating event. Unless there is a significant or emergent neurologic deficit, nonsurgical medical management is warranted for 6 or more weeks after the onset of symptoms. If there is no improvement in 6 weeks, surgical intervention may be indicated. Microdiscectomy is the gold standard treatment for uncomplicated HNP. LSS has an insidious onset. Often, clinical presentation is a long history of intermittent back pain and gradual decrease in ambulation due to leg pain-which quickly subsides upon sitting. Medical management is the first treatment choice. If there is no improvement in the patient's condition, surgery may be necessary. As with any spine surgery, patient symptoms, clinical exam, and diagnostics must correlate. Postoperative care differs for microdiscectomy and decompressive laminectomy because the surgical pathology and interventions are different. The usual age variation of patients undergoing either of the two procedures will also change postoperative care needs. Neuroscience nurses provide ongoing patient education, and ensure a complete understanding of the proposed surgical intervention and outcome that may be expected by the patient and family. Congruent expectations between the patient and provider are vital. In addition, accurate assessment and evaluation of the patient's physical and functional progress by neuroscience nurses is of the utmost importance.
Microglia are thought to play important roles not only in repairing injured tissue but in regulating neuronal activity, and visualizing the cells is very useful as a means of further investigating the function of microglia in vivo. We previously cloned the ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) gene, which is expressed selectively in microglia/microphages. To generate new transgenic mice to visualize microglia with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), we here constructed a plasmid carrying EGFP cDNA under control of the Iba1 promoter. This construct was injected into C57B/6 mouse zygotes, and the Iba1-EGFP transgenic line was developed. Fluorescent in-situ hybridization analysis revealed that the Iba1-EGFP transgene was located on chromosome 11D. No obvious defects were observed during development or in adulthood, and the EGFP fluorescence remained invariant over the course of at least four generations. Judging from the immunoreactivity with anti-Iba1 antibody, all EGFP-positive cells in the adult brain were ramified microglia. In the developing transgenic embryos, EGFP signals were detected as early as embryonic Day 10.5. The most prominent EGFP signals were found in forebrain, spinal cord, eye, foreleg, yolk sac, liver, and vessel walls. At postnatal Day 6, clear EGFP signals were observed in the supraventricular corpus callosum, known as &quot;fountain of microglia&quot;, where ameboid microglia migrate into the brain parenchyma and mature into ramified microglia. Iba1-EGFP transgenic mice thus permit observation of living microglia under a fluorescence microscope and provide a useful tool for studying the function of microglia in vivo.


Certain viruses can infect neurons and cause persistent infections with restricted expression of viral proteins. To study the consequences of such viral proteins on synaptic functions, the effects of two influenza A virus proteins, the nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) and the nucleoprotein (NP), were analyzed in cultures of rat hippocampal neurons. Transduction of the NS1 and NP proteins into the neurons was performed by applying the 11-amino acid peptide transduction domain (PTD) of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) TAT coupled to the viral proteins. Neurons exposed to the NS1 and NP fusion proteins (NS1-PTD and NP-PTD, respectively) for 4 h were immunopositive for these proteins as diffuse cytoplasmic and nuclear distribution. After exposure for 48 h to NP-PTD, a punctate pattern of the immunolabel appeared in dendritic spinelike processes. Electrophysiologically, a reduction in both the frequency of spontaneous excitatory synaptic activity and in the amplitude of the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents were recorded after exposing the hippocampal neurons to NP-PTD between 17 and 22 days in culture. These changes may reflect disturbances in postsynaptic functions. No such alterations in synaptic activities were recorded after exposure to NS1-PTD or to green fluorescent protein-PTD, which was used as a control. Based on these findings the authors hypothesize that the viral NP, by its localization to dendritic spinelike structures, interferes with the expression or anchoring of postsynaptic glutamate receptors and thereby disturbs synaptic functions. Thus a persistent viral infection in the brain may be associated with functional disturbances at the synaptic level.
A significant loss and remodeling of the lamina cribrosa tissue leading to the excavation of the optic nerve is seen in glaucoma. Elevated endothelin-1 (ET-1) levels are detected in the aqueous humor of patients of open-angle glaucoma and in the plasma of patients with normal- tension glaucoma. Optic nerve damage, including axonal loss, can be mimicked by ET-1 injection near the optic nerve. ET-1 is produced from its precursor Big ET-1 (38 amino acids) by endothelin-converting enzyme (ECE). Although ET-1 and its receptors have been identified in the retina, little is known of the distribution of ECE at the optic nerve. Presently, ET-1 receptors and Big ET-1 converting activities were characterized in bovine optic nerve and the retina. The ET(B) receptor was detected in both the optic nerve and retina by immunoblotting and cross-linking, using 125I-ET-1. However, the ET(A) receptor was detected only in the retina. Big ET-1 conversion activities were detected in the plasma membrane (PM) of bovine retina, but not in the PM of the optic nerve. The retinal PM Big ET-1 converting activity was inhibited by phosphoramidon, thiorphan, and acidification. Furthermore, ECE cytosolic activities were detected in both the optic nerve and retina. Unlike the PM-ECE, cytosolic Big ET-1 converting activities were activated by acidification (pH 6.4), suggesting the involvement of ECE-2-like activity and/or cathepsin activity. Pepstatin, a potent inhibitor of cathepsins, inhibited the optic nerve (ON) cytosolic conversion of Big ET-1 peptide by 50%, and the combination of pepstatin and phosphoramidon, a potent inhibitor of ECE, inhibited the ON cytosolic activity by 86%. By contrast, the combination of both inhibitors weakly inhibited the cytosolic retinal Big ET-1 converting activity. Western blotting revealed the presence of ECE-1 at the PM of the retina not the ON. ECE-2 and cathpesins B, D, and L were detected only in the cytosol of both the retina and ON. In summary, it appears that ET-1 could be produced in the retina and optic nerve by at least two ECE subtypes and, perhaps, cathepsins. Big ET-1 converting activity may be an important target in preventing ET-1-induced optic nerve pathology.
The present work was an attempt to investigate for the existence of an association between anxiety psychopathology and bruxism. The presence of bruxism was investigated according to validated clinical criteria in 98 subjects, who also filled out a self-report questionnaire (PAS-SR) for the assessment of panic-agoraphobic spectrum. 34.7% (n = 34) of participants were diagnosed as bruxers. The prevalence of anxiety psychopathology was similar between bruxers and non-bruxers, but Mann-Whitney U-test revealed significant differences in total PAS-SR (P = 0.026) score, indicating that subclinical symptoms of the anxiety spectrum might differentiate bruxers from controls. In particular, significant differences emerged in scores of domains evaluating panic (P = 0.039), stress sensitivity (P = 0.006) and reassurance sensitivity symptoms (P = 0.005) of panic-agoraphobic spectrum. Support to the existence of an association between bruxism and certain psychopathological symptoms has been provided.

The effects of systemic administration of beta-phenylethylamine (beta-PEA) and microiontophoretically applied beta-PEA on the spontaneous discharge of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the anesthetized rat were examined. Intravenous administration of beta-PEA (1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/kg) and microiontophoretic applications of beta-PEA caused inhibitory responses in DA neurons. Systemic administration and microiontophoretic applications of beta-PEA induced dose- or current-dependent responses. The systemic beta-PEA-induced inhibitory responses were reversed by pretreatment with the DA D(2) receptor antagonists haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) and sulpiride (10 mg/kg i.p). Pretreatment with reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p. 24 h earlier) did not completely block the systemic administration of beta-PEA (2.5 mg/kg) inhibition. A microdialysis study of freely moving rats demonstrated that the extracellular DA level increased significantly in response to local application of beta-PEA (100 muM) in the VTA via a microdialysis probe, and local application of beta-PEA-stimulated somatodendritic DA release in the VTA. The beta-PEA-induced release of DA was calcium ion-independent and was enhanced by pretreatment with pertussis toxin. These findings indicate that beta-phenylethylamine inhibits DA neuron activity via DA D(2) autoreceptors in the rat VTA and that this inhibitory effect is mediated by the somatodendritic DA release.
Binge alcohol consumption in the rat induces substantial neurodegeneration in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. Oxidative stress and cytotoxic edema have both been shown to be involved in such neurotoxicity, whereas N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity has been implicated in alcohol withdrawal and excitoxic injury. Because the nonpsychoactive cannabinoid cannabidiol (CBD) was previously shown in vitro to prevent glutamate toxicity through its ability to reduce oxidative stress, we evaluated CBD as a neuroprotectant in a rat binge ethanol model. When administered concurrently with binge ethanol exposure, CBD protected against hippocampal and entorhinal cortical neurodegeneration in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, the common antioxidants butylated hydroxytoluene and alpha-tocopherol also afforded significant protection. In contrast, the NMDA receptor antagonists dizocilpine (MK-801) and memantine did not prevent cell death. Of the diuretics tested, furosemide was protective, whereas the other two anion exchanger inhibitors, L-644,711 [(R)-(+)-(5,6-dichloro2,3,9,9a-tetrahydro 3-oxo-9a-propyl-1H-fluoren-7-yl)oxy acetic acid] and bumetanide, were ineffective. In vitro comparison of these diuretics indicated that furosemide is also a potent antioxidant, whereas the nonprotective diuretics are not. The lack of efficacy of L-644,711 and bumetanide suggests that the antioxidant rather than the diuretic properties of furosemide contribute most critically to its efficacy in reversing ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in vitro, in our model. This study provides the first demonstration of CBD as an in vivo neuroprotectant and shows the efficacy of lipophilic antioxidants in preventing binge ethanol-induced brain injury.
Mu opioid receptors are densely expressed within rat striatum and are concentrated in anatomically discrete patches called striosomes. The density of striosomal mu receptors remains relatively constant during postnatal development, but little is known about their functional maturation. We examined the extent of G protein coupling by mu opioid receptors in rat brain during development, focusing on striosomes within the striatum because of receptor density. The mu receptors were quantified using [(3)H][d-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) autoradiography. Adjacent sections were analyzed for DAMGO-stimulated guanosine 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding to assess mu receptor activation of G(i/o) proteins. Striosomal mu receptor expression increased only slightly between postnatal day 5 and adult. In contrast, mu receptor-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding increased from 0.13 to 2.6 fmol/mg tissue over the same period, a 20-fold difference. The ratio of specific DAMGO-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding to [(3)H]DAMGO binding, representing the relative number of G proteins activated per receptor, increased 19-fold between postnatal day 5 and adult. Similar patterns were observed throughout the striatum and other brain regions such as the nucleus accumbens, although the extent of change varied from region to region. These data indicate that mu opioid receptors exhibit enhanced function in the adult rat brain compared with the neonate. These data also suggest that this increase in G protein coupling is developmentally regulated and that in the developing rat brain the density of mu opioid receptor expression may not necessarily correlate with receptor activation of G proteins.
The modulation of transmembrane signaling by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitutes the single most important therapeutic target in medicine. Drugs acting on GPCRs have traditionally been classified as agonists, partial agonists, or antagonists based on a two-state model of receptor function embodied in the ternary complex model. Over the past decade, however, many lines of investigation have shown that GPCR signaling exhibits greater diversity and &quot;texture&quot; than previously appreciated. Signal diversity arises from numerous factors, among which are the ability of receptors to adopt multiple &quot;active&quot; states with different effector-coupling profiles; the formation of receptor dimers that exhibit unique pharmacology, signaling, and trafficking; the dissociation of receptor &quot;activation&quot; from desensitization and internalization; and the discovery that non-G protein effectors mediate some aspects of GPCR signaling. At the same time, clustering of GPCRs with their downstream effectors in membrane microdomains and interactions between receptors and a plethora of multidomain scaffolding proteins and accessory/chaperone molecules confer signal preorganization, efficiency, and specificity. In this context, the concept of agonist-selective trafficking of receptor signaling, which recognizes that a bound ligand may select between a menu of active receptor conformations and induce only a subset of the possible response profile, presents the opportunity to develop drugs that change the quality as well as the quantity of efficacy. As a more comprehensive understanding of the complexity of GPCR signaling is developed, the rational design of ligands possessing increased specific efficacy and attenuated side effects may become the standard mode of drug development.
The central cholinergic system plays a crucial role in synaptic plasticity and spatial attention; however, the roles of the individual cholinergic receptors involved in these activities are not well understood at present. In the present study, we show that acetylcholine (ACh) can facilitate or depress synaptic transmission in occipital slices of mouse visual cortex. The precise nature of the ACh effects depends on the ACh concentration, and is input specific, as shown by stimulating different synaptic pathways. Pharmacological blockade of muscarinic receptor (mAChR) subtypes and the use of M1-M5 mAChR-deficient mice showed that specific mAChR subtypes, together with the activity of the cholinesterases (ChEs), mediate facilitation or depression of synaptic transmission. The present data suggest that local ACh, acting through mAChRs, regulates the cortical dynamics making cortical circuits respond to specific stimuli.
Many arteries and arterioles exhibit rhythmical contractions which are synchronous over considerable distances. This vasomotion is likely to assist in tissue perfusion especially during periods of altered metabolism or perfusion pressure. While the mechanism underlying vascular rhythmicity has been investigated for many years, it has only been recently, with the advent of imaging techniques for visualizing intracellular calcium release, that significant advances have been made. These methods, when combined with mechanical and electrophysiological recordings, have demonstrated that the rhythm depends critically on calcium released from intracellular stores within the smooth muscle cells and on cell coupling via gap junctions to synchronize oscillations in calcium release amongst adjacent cells. While these factors are common to all vessels studied to date, the contribution of voltage-dependent channels and the endothelium varies amongst different vessels. The basic mechanism for rhythmical activity in arteries thus differs from its counterpart in non-vascular smooth muscle, where specific networks of pacemaker cells generate electrical potentials which drive activity within the otherwise quiescent muscle cells.
In hippocampal pyramidal cells, a single action potential (AP) or a burst of APs is followed by a medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHP, lasting approximately 0.1 s). The currents underlying the mAHP are considered to regulate excitability and cause early spike frequency adaptation, thus dampening the response to sustained excitatory input relative to responses to abrupt excitation. The mAHP was originally suggested to be primarily caused by M-channels (at depolarized potentials) and h-channels (at more negative potentials), but not SK channels. In recent reports, however, the mAHP was suggested to be generated mainly by SK channels or only by h-channels. We have now re-examined the mechanisms underlying the mAHP and early spike frequency adaptation in CA1 pyramidal cells by using sharp electrode and whole-cell recording in rat hippocampal slices. The specific M-channel blocker XE991 (10 microm) suppressed the mAHP following 1-5 APs evoked by current injection at -60 mV. XE991 also enhanced the excitability of the cell, i.e. increased the number of APs evoked by a constant depolarizing current pulse, reduced their rate of adaptation, enhanced the after depolarization and promoted bursting. Conversely, the M-channel opener retigabine reduced excitability. The h-channel blocker ZD7288 (4-ethylphenylamino-1,2-dimethyl-6-methylaminopyrimidinium chloride; 10 microm) fully suppressed the mAHP at -80 mV, but had little effect at -60 mV, whereas XE991 did not measurably affect the mAHP at -80 mV. Likewise, ZD7288 had little or no effect on excitability or adaptation during current pulses injected from -60 mV, but changed the initial discharge during depolarizing pulses injected from -80 mV. In contrast to previous reports, we found that blockade of Ca2+-activated K+ channels of the SK/KCa type by apamin (100-400 nm) failed to affect the mAHP or adaptation. A computational model of a CA1 pyramidal cell predicted that M- and h-channels will generate mAHPs in a voltage-dependent manner, as indicated by the experiments. We conclude that M- and h-channels generate the somatic mAHP in hippocampal pyramidal cells, with little or no net contribution from SK channels.
Accumulating evidence suggests that fibromyalgia syndrome (FM) pain is maintained by tonic impulse input from deep tissues, such as muscle and joints, in combination with central sensitization mechanisms. This nociceptive input may originate in peripheral tissues (trauma and infection) resulting in hyperalgesia/allodynia and/or central sensitization. Evidence for abnormal sensitization mechanisms in FM includes enhanced temporal summation of delayed pain in response to repeated heat taps and repeated muscle taps, as well as prolonged and enhanced painful after-sensations in FM patients but not control subjects. Moreover, magnitudes of enhanced after-sensations are predictive of FM patients' ongoing clinical pain. Such alterations of relevant pain mechanisms may lead to longterm neuroplastic changes that exceed the antinociceptive capabilities of affected individuals, resulting in ever-increasing pain sensitivity and dysfunction. Future research needs to address the important role of abnormal nociception and/or antinociception for chronic pain in FM.




Multiple myeloma (MM) is refractory to conventional chemotherapy. To achieve a sustained complete remission, we performed planned non-myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation (NST) after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in a patient with stage III MM. Autologous HSCT was performed using high-dose melphalan after conventional chemotherapy, followed by NST from an HLA-identical sibling using low-dose total body irradiation (200 cGy) for conditioning. Cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil were used for graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis. Acute GVHD was transiently seen in the skin and intestine, while, in addition, mild chronic GVHD was seen in the oral mucosa and skin. Complete donor chimerism was achieved and the disappearance of tumor-derived monoclonal B cells was confirmed based on an analysis of immunoglobulin light chain messenger signals on day 156 when chronic GVHD occurred. The clinical course in this case strongly suggested the existence of a graft-vs-myeloma effect.
The binding affinities at the human NK-1 receptor of two spirocyclic compounds were found to be similar despite being epimeric at a key stereocentre. This unexpected result prompted a thorough investigation of the solution conformations of the two compounds. This revealed that a conformational switch in the tetrahydrofuran ring enabled the C-3-aryl group to be equatorial in both cases, leading to a similar juxtaposition of the aryl rings.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal variations are based on a combination of changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and volume (CBV), and blood oxygenation. We investigated the relationship between these hemodynamic parameters in the rodent barrel cortex by performing fMRI concurrently with laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) or optical imaging spectroscopy (OIS), following whisker stimulation and hypercapnic challenge. A difference between the positions of the maximum blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) and CBV changes was observed in coronal fMRI maps, with the BOLD region being more superficial. A 6.5% baseline blood volume fraction in this superficial region dropped to 4% in deeper cortical layers (corresponding to total hemoglobin baseline volumes Hbt0 = 110 microM and 67 microM, respectively), as inferred from maps of deltaR2*. Baseline volume profiles were used to parameterize the Monte Carlo simulations (MCS) to interpret the 2D OIS. From this it was found that the optical blood volume measurements (i.e., changes in total hemoglobin) equated with CBV-MRI measurements when the MRI data were taken from superficial cortical layers. Optical measures of activation showed a good spatial overlap with fMRI measurements taken in the same plane (covering the right hemisphere surface). Changes in CBV and CBF followed the scaling relationship CBV = CBF(alpha), with mean alpha = 0.38 +/- 0.06.
We describe a rare tumor site in a 46 year old man who presented with a two week history of headache. Physical examination revealed bilateral papilloedema with no other localizing signs. Computed Tomographic Scan as well as Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the brain revealed a lesion with a dura tail located adjacent to the falx cerebri of the right frontal lobe. This lesion was not invading the inner table of the skull base. A tumor blush was seen on angiogram. There were no abnormalities on CT scan of the abdomen and fundoscopy was normal. Intraoperatively a vascular tumor not attached to the dura was noted and removed totally. Histopathological examination was typical of a hemangioblastoma. Analysis revealed no mutations of the VHL gene in 5 regions, exon 5-8 of the p53 gene, exon 1-2 of the p16 gene and exon 5,6 and 8 of the PTEN gene. This is the first case report of a supratentorial hemangioblastoma in a non-Von Hippel Lindau patient with genetic evidence.
Ghrelin, a peptide predominantly produced by the stomach, has been discovered as a natural ligand of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) type 1a. Shortly there after, it attracted enormous interest since it appeared as the first peripheral orexigenic factor. Besides, ghrelin exerts other neuroendocrine metabolic and non-endocrine actions (e.g. cardiovascular activities) that may rely on the widespread distribution of ghrelin and its receptor (GHS-R). The existence of several GHS-R subtypes and evidences that neuroendocrine and metabolic but not all other ghrelin actions are dependent on acylation on serine 3 add further complexity to the system whose major physiological role remains to be definitely elucidated. Ghrelin knockout(-/-) mice are neither anorectic nor dwarf though GHS-R-/- are slightly underweight and do not respond to ghrelin with increased GH secretion or appetite. Thus, the continuation of the fascinating ghrelin story as well as its potential pathophysiological implications in endocrinology and internal medicine remain open avenues for future investigations.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the self-renewing, multipotent cells that generate neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in the nervous system. Contrary to the long-held dogma, neurogenesis occurs in discrete areas of the adult brain, the hippocampus and the subventricular zone, and NSCs reside in the adult central nervous system. Recent studies have shown that neurogenesis is increased in the diseased brains, after strokes and traumatic brain injuries, and that new neuronal cells are generated at the sites of injury, where they replace some of the degenerated nerve cells. Thus, the central nervous system has the capacity to regenerate after injury. The contribution and function of the increased neurogenesis in the pathologies of the nervous system remain to be understood. The increased hippocampal neurogenesis may play a role in neuroadaptation, such as in memory troubles and depression, associated with these pathologies. The increased neurogenesis at the sites of injury may represent an attempt by the central nervous system to regenerate itself after injury. Newly generated neuronal cells at the sites of injury originate from the subventricular zone. Hence, strategies that would promote neurogenesis in the subventricular zone may promote neuronal repair after injury of the nervous system. In this manuscript, we will review the studies on neurogenesis in the pathologies of the nervous system.
Intracellular inclusions of abnormally long polyglutamine tracts and neurotoxicity are the hallmarks of several hereditary neurodegenerative disorders, including Huntington's disease (HD). In Drosophila melanogaster, dMLF, an ortholog of human myeloid leukemia factors, hMLF1 and hMLF2, suppressed polyglutamine toxicity and colocalized with the inclusions. In transfected primary rat neuronal cultures, dMLF and its orthologs reduced the morphological phenotypes and inclusions. Furthermore, dMLF reduced the recruitment of CBP and Hsp70 into the inclusions, both of which are among many essential proteins apparently trapped in the inclusions. These data suggest that a possible mechanism of suppression by dMLF is via the sequestration of polyglutamine oligomers or inclusions.
The extensive networking of the cells of the nervous system results in large cell membrane surface areas. We now know that neuronal membranes contain phospholipid pools that are the reservoirs for the synthesis of specific lipid messengers on neuronal stimulation or injury. These messengers in turn participate in signaling cascades that can either promote neuronal injury or neuroprotection. Prostaglandins are synthesized as a result of cyclooxygenase activity. In the first step of the arachidonic acid cascade, the short-lived precursor, prostaglandin H2, is synthesized. Additional steps in the cascade result in the synthesis of an array of prostaglandins, which participate in numerous physiological and neurological processes. Our laboratory recently reported that the membrane polyunsaturated fatty acid, docosahexaenoic acid, is the precursor of oxygenation products now known as the docosanoids, some of which are powerful counter-proinflammatory mediators. The mediator 10,17S-docosatriene (neuroprotectin D1, NPD1) counteracts leukocyte infiltration, NF-kappa activation, and proinflammatory gene expression in brain ischemia-reperfusion and is an apoptostatic mediator, potently counteracting oxidative stress-triggered apoptotic DNA damage in retinal pigment epithelial cells. NPD1 also upregulates the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and decreases pro-apoptotic Bax and Bad expression. Another biologically active messenger derived from membrane phospholipids in response to synaptic activity is platelet-activating factor (PAF). The tight regulation of the balance between synthesis (via phospholipases) and degradation (via acetylhydrolases) of PAF modulates the functions of this lipid messenger. Under pathological conditions, this balance is tipped, and PAF becomes a proinflammatory mediator and neurotoxic agent. The newly discovered docosahexaenoic acid signaling pathways, as well as other lipid messengers related to synaptic activation, may lead to the clarification of clinical issues relevant to stroke, age-related macular degeneration, spinal cord injury, Alzheimer's disease, and other diseases that include neuroinflammatory components.
As more information becomes available regarding the role of inflammation following stroke, it is apparent that some inflammatory mediators are detrimental and others are beneficial to the progression of ischemic injury. Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is known to impart some degree of ischemic tolerance to the brain and to influence the expression of many genes. Many of the genes whose expression is altered by CSD are associated with inflammation, and it appears likely that modulation of the inflammatory response to ischemia by CSD contributes to ischemic tolerance. Understanding which inflammatory processes are influenced by CSD may lead to the identification of novel targets in the effort to develop an acute treatment for stroke.
This article describes the scientific legacy of Dr. Leon Wolfe, with illustrations from his contributions to insect physiology, glycolipid, and eicosanoid biochemistry as well as to our understanding of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses and lysosomal storage diseases. In addition to the written record, Wolfe inspired all who knew him with his boundless imagination and enthusiasm for science and his ability to see the promise and potential of every experiment.
The role of norepinephrine (NE) in attention, memory, affect, stress, heart rate, and blood pressure implicates NE in psychiatric and cardiovascular disease. The norepinephrine transporter (NET) mediates reuptake of released catecholamines, thus playing a role in the limitation of signaling strength in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the human NET (hNET) gene that influence transporter function can contribute to disease, such as the nonfunctional transporter, A457P, identified in orthostatic intolerance. Here, we examine additional amino acid variants that have been identified but not characterized in populations that include cardiovascular phenotypes. Variant hNETs were expressed in COS-7 cells and were assayed for protein expression and trafficking using cell-surface biotinylation and Western blot analysis, transport of radiolabeled substrate, antagonist interaction, and regulation through protein kinase C (PKC)-linked pathways by the phorbol ester beta-phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate. We observed functional perturbations in 6 of the 10 mutants studied. Several variants were defective in trafficking and transport, with the most dramatic effect observed for A369P, which was completely devoid of the fully glycosylated form of transporter protein, was retained intracellularly, and lacked any transport activity. Furthermore, A369P and another trafficking variant, N292T, impeded surface expression of hNET when coexpressed. F528C demonstrated increased transport and, remarkably, exhibited both insensitivity to down-regulation by PKC and a decrease in potency for the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine. These findings reveal functional deficits that are likely to compromise NE signaling in SNP carriers in the population and identify key regions of NET contributing to transporter biosynthesis, activity, and regulation.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely used antidepressant drugs that increase the extracellular levels of serotonin by blocking the reuptake activity of the serotonin transporter (SERT). Although SSRIs elevate brain serotonergic neurotransmission acutely, their full therapeutic effects involve neurochemical adaptations that emerge following chronic drug administration. The adaptive downregulation of SERT has recently been implicated in the therapeutic response of SSRIs. Interestingly, studies using SERT-knockout mice reveal somewhat paradoxical depression-related effects, probably specific to the downregulation of SERT during early development. However, the behavioral significance of SSRI-mediated downregulation of SERT during adulthood is still unknown. We investigated whether somatic gene manipulation, triggered by infusing short interfering RNA (siRNA) into the ventricular system, would enable the downregulation of SERT in the adult mouse brain. Infusing the SERT-targeting siRNA, for 2 weeks, significantly reduced the mRNA levels of SERT in raphe nuclei. Further, a significant, specific and widespread downregulation of SERT-binding sites was achieved in the brain. In contrast, 2-week infusion of the SSRI, citalopram, produced a widespread downregulation of SERT-binding sites, independent of any alterations at the mRNA level. Irrespective of their mechanisms for downregulating SERT in the brain, infusions of SERT-siRNA or citalopram elicited a similar antidepressant-related behavioral response in the forced swim test. These results signify a role for the downregulation of SERT in mediating the antidepressant action of SSRIs in adults. Further, these data demonstrate that siRNA-induced widespread knockdown of gene expression serves as a powerful tool for assessing the function of endogenous genes in the adult brain.
There is a stern therapeutic challenge for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) that has not yet been met. The lack of randomized, controlled trials and negative outcomes from the vast majority of studies make it impossible to set therapeutic standards, or to give clear recommendations. We review progress to date in this area and briefly consider future potential therapeutic strategies.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD) are both sporadic disorders with tau pathology. Criteria have been defined that in most instances allow for adequate diagnosis of the two disorders both clinically and neuropathologically; however, overlap is not uncommon. For example, patients with PSP may present with severe unilateral apraxia and supranuclear gaze palsy can occur in CBD. Pathological overlap also occurs and pathologically &quot;mixed&quot; cases are encountered. Common to both these two tauopathies is that isoforms of four-repeat tau due to splicing of exon 10 define the tau filamentous aggregates. This is in contrast to other tau disorders such as Pick's with three-repeat tau aggregates. Additional evidence for a causal link between PSP and CBD is the finding that both disorders are homozygous for the H1 tau haplotype. Furthermore, in some families with parkinsonism linked to defined mutations of the tau gene (FTDP-17), involved relatives have presented with PSP whereas others with the CBD phenotype. Although PSP and CBD frequently can be clearly separated clinically and pathologically, the degree of clinicopathological and genetic overlap is important and suggests that they represent different phenotypes of the same disorder, with differences occurring perhaps in relation to different genetic background. That PSP and CBD are distinct nosological entities occurring in patients with similar genetic predisposition cannot be ruled out.
The diagnosis of multiple system atrophy (MSA) in life remains entirely clinical. Consensus diagnostic criteria have been developed, but their use does not particularly render a diagnosis of MSA more accurate than are clinicians' diagnoses. Some patients may not fulfill the stipulated core diagnostic criteria, yet display many so-called red flags pointing toward MSA. The additional usefulness of these red flags and of a variety of investigations currently is being investigated, with a view to some of them being incorporated in future sets of diagnostic criteria.
It is not known whether bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus, performed to improve skeletal motor control in advanced Parkinson's disease, also affects central autonomic regulation of cardiovascular motor function. Furthermore, reduced treatment with dopaminergic and other drugs after bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus could affect cardiovascular autonomic reflexes and/or other factors controlling blood pressure level. The primary aim of this study was to investigate putative effects of bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on the autonomic nervous system, using respiratory heart rate variability and blood pressure responses to tilt as indices. Baseline autonomic tests were performed in 19 patients with Parkinson's disease and 10 matched healthy subjects. Patients were divided in two groups and re-investigated after 1 year of optimized pharmacological treatment (n = 8) or 1 year of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation (n = 11). Both skeletal motor dysfunction and dopaminergic drug treatment were significantly reduced after 1 year of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation. However, heart rate variability as well as blood pressure during tilt was reduced compared to baseline to a similar extent in both patient groups. The number of individual patients showing pathological autonomic test results at 1-year follow-up increased only in the subthalamic nucleus stimulation group. Despite reduced pharmacological treatment and reduced motor disability, bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation does not improve cardiovascular autonomic reflex function or protect against development of cardiovascular autonomic failure in Parkinson's disease. Preoperative cardiovascular autonomic reflex dysfunction, conversely, does not exclude an excellent stimulation effect.
Subthalamic nucleus stimulation dramatically improves parkinsonian symptoms, notably the tremor. The occurrence of a tremor in the first 6 months after the surgical procedure in patients without tremor preoperatively is much less common. We report on the cases of 3 patients who developed such modification of their parkinsonian symptomatology. Physiopathological hypotheses are discussed.
We report a Chinese patient with amyloidotic polyneuropathy associated with a novel transthyretin mutation (V32A). He presented with slowly progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy accompanied by autonomic dysfunction and cardiomyopathy by echocardiography. This mutation is likely to be associated with late onset and low-penetrance phenotype.
Amyloid-beta peptide is elevated in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease and is believed to be causative in the disease process. Amyloid-beta reduces glutamatergic transmission and inhibits synaptic plasticity, although the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We found that application of amyloid-beta promoted endocytosis of NMDA receptors in cortical neurons. In addition, neurons from a genetic mouse model of Alzheimer disease expressed reduced amounts of surface NMDA receptors. Reducing amyloid-beta by treating neurons with a gamma-secretase inhibitor restored surface expression of NMDA receptors. Consistent with these data, amyloid-beta application produced a rapid and persistent depression of NMDA-evoked currents in cortical neurons. Amyloid-beta-dependent endocytosis of NMDA receptors required the alpha-7 nicotinic receptor, protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B) and the tyrosine phosphatase STEP. Dephosphorylation of the NMDA receptor subunit NR2B at Tyr1472 correlated with receptor endocytosis. These data indicate a new mechanism by which amyloid-beta can cause synaptic dysfunction and contribute to Alzheimer disease pathology.
Axon guidance cues contributing to the development of eye-specific visual projections to the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) have not previously been identified. Here we show that gradients of ephrin-As and their receptors (EphAs) direct retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons from the two eyes into their stereotyped pattern of layers in the LGN. Overexpression of EphAs in ferret RGCs using in vivo electroporation induced axons from both eyes to misproject within the LGN. The effects of EphA overexpression were competition-dependent and restricted to the early postnatal period. These findings represent the first demonstration of eye-specific pathfinding mediated by axon guidance cues and, taken with other reports, indicate that ephrin-As can mediate several mapping functions within individual target structures.
Human visual cortex is organized into distinct visual field maps whose locations and properties provide important information about visual computations. There are two conflicting models of the organization and computational role of ventral occipital visual field maps. We report new functional MRI measurements that test these models. We also present the first coordinated measurements of visual field maps and stimulus responsivity to color, objects and faces in ventral occipital cortex. These measurements support a model that includes a hemifield map, hV4, adjacent to the central field representation of ventral V3. In addition, the measurements demonstrate a cluster of visual field maps in ventral occipital cortex (VO cluster) anterior to hV4. We describe the organization and stimulus responsivity of two new hemifield maps, VO-1 and VO-2, within this cluster. The maps and stimulus responsivity support a general organization of visual cortex based on clusters of maps that serve distinct computational functions.
Pro- and mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activate two distinct receptors: p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) and TrkB. Mature BDNF facilitates hippocampal synaptic potentiation through TrkB. Here we report that proBDNF, by activating p75(NTR), facilitates hippocampal long-term depression (LTD). Electron microscopy showed that p75(NTR) localized in dendritic spines, in addition to afferent terminals, of CA1 neurons. Deletion of p75(NTR) in mice selectively impaired the NMDA receptor-dependent LTD, without affecting other forms of synaptic plasticity. p75(NTR-/-) mice also showed a decrease in the expression of NR2B, an NMDA receptor subunit uniquely involved in LTD. Activation of p75(NTR) by proBDNF enhanced NR2B-dependent LTD and NR2B-mediated synaptic currents. These results show a crucial role for proBDNF-p75(NTR) signaling in LTD and its potential mechanism, and together with the finding that mature BDNF promotes synaptic potentiation, suggest a bidirectional regulation of synaptic plasticity by proBDNF and mature BDNF.
The C-terminal PDZ ligand of the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit may be important for expression of CA1 hippocampal long-term potentiation. To test this directly in vivo, we generated a knock-in mouse lacking the last seven residues of GluR1, comprising the PDZ ligand. This deletion did not affect basal GluR1 synaptic localization, basal synaptic transmission, long-term potentiation or long-term depression, indicating that the ligand is not required for CA1 hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Forty-five years ago, Roger Sperry, Joseph Bogen and I embarked on what are now known as the modern split-brain studies. These experiments opened up new frontiers in brain research and gave rise to much of what we know about hemispheric specialization and integration. The latest developments in split-brain research build on the groundwork laid by those early studies. Split-brain methodology, on its own and in conjunction with neuroimaging, has yielded insights into the remarkable regional specificity of the corpus callosum as well as into the integrative role of the callosum in the perception of causality and in our perception of an integrated sense of self.
Neuronal connections are established and refined through a series of developmental programs that involve axon and dendrite specification, process growth, target innervation, cell death and synaptogenesis. Many of these developmental events are regulated by target-derived neurotrophins and their receptors, which signal retrogradely over long distances from distal-most axons to neuronal cell bodies. Recent work has established many of the cellular and molecular events that underlie retrograde signalling and the importance of these events for both development and maintenance of proper neural connectivity.
Neurotrophins have diverse functions in the CNS. Initially synthesized as precursors (proneurotrophins), they are cleaved to produce mature proteins, which promote neuronal survival and enhance synaptic plasticity by activating Trk receptor tyrosine kinases. Recent studies indicate that proneurotrophins serve as signalling molecules by interacting with the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). Interestingly, proneurotrophins often have biological effects that oppose those of mature neurotrophins. Therefore, the proteolytic cleavage of proneurotrophins represents a mechanism that controls the direction of action of neurotrophins. New insights into the 'yin and yang' of neurotrophin activity have profound implications for our understanding of the role of neurotrophins in a wide range of cellular processes.
Resistance to drug treatment is an important hurdle in the therapy of many brain disorders, including brain cancer, epilepsy, schizophrenia, depression and infection of the brain with HIV. Consequently, there is a pressing need to develop new and more effective treatment strategies. Mechanisms of resistance that operate in cancer and infectious diseases might also be relevant in drug-resistant brain disorders. In particular, drug efflux transporters that are expressed at the blood-brain barrier limit the ability of many drugs to access the brain. There is increasing evidence that drug efflux transporters have an important role in drug-resistant brain disorders, and this information should allow more efficacious treatment strategies to be developed.
Members of the X11/Mint family of multidomain adaptor proteins are composed of a divergent N terminus, a conserved PTB domain and a pair of C-terminal PDZ domains. Many proteins can interact with the PDZ tandem of X11 proteins, although the mechanism of such interactions is unclear. Here we show that the highly conserved C-terminal tail of X11alpha folds back and inserts into the target-binding groove of the first PDZ domain. The binding of this tail occludes the binding of other target peptides. This autoinhibited conformation of X11 requires that the two PDZ domains and the entire C-terminal tail be covalently connected to form an integral structural unit. The autoinhibited conformation of the X11 PDZ tandem provides a mechanistic explanation for the unique target-binding properties of the protein and hints at potential regulatory mechanisms for the X11-target interactions.
The availability of efficient and reliable simulation tools is one of the mission-critical technologies in the fast-moving field of computational neuroscience. Research indicates that higher brain functions emerge from large and complex cortical networks and their interactions. The large number of elements (neurons) combined with the high connectivity (synapses) of the biological network and the specific type of interactions impose severe constraints on the explorable system size that previously have been hard to overcome. Here we present a collection of new techniques combined to a coherent simulation tool removing the fundamental obstacle in the computational study of biological neural networks: the enormous number of synaptic contacts per neuron. Distributing an individual simulation over multiple computers enables the investigation of networks orders of magnitude larger than previously possible. The software scales excellently on a wide range of tested hardware, so it can be used in an interactive and iterative fashion for the development of ideas, and results can be produced quickly even for very large networks. In contrast to earlier approaches, a wide class of neuron models and synaptic dynamics can be represented.
A wide variety of papers have reviewed what is known about the function of primary visual cortex. In this review, rather than stating what is known, we attempt to estimate how much is still unknown about V1 function. In particular, we identify five problems with the current view of V1 that stem largely from experimental and theoretical biases, in addition to the contributions of nonlinearities in the cortex that are not well understood. Our purpose is to open the door to new theories, a number of which we describe, along with some proposals for testing them.
Plaques found in the brains of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) mainly consist of beta-amyloid (Abeta), which is produced by sequential cleaving of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by two proteolytic enzymes, beta- and gamma-secretases. Any change in the fine balance between these enzymes and their substrate may contribute to the etio-pathogenesis of AD. Indeed, the protein level and enzymatic activity of beta-secretase (BACE), but not its mRNA level, were found elevated in brain areas of AD patients who suffer a high load of Abeta plaque formation. Similarly, increased BACE activity but no mRNA change was observed in a transgenic mouse model of AD, tg2576, in which over expression of the Swedish mutated human APP leads to Abeta plaque formation and learning deficits. Based on the recent demonstration of four BACE splice variants with different enzymatic activity, the discrepancy between BACE activity and mRNA expression may be explained by the altered BACE alternative splicing. To test this hypothesis, we studied the expression of all BACE splice variants in different brain areas of tg2576 mice at age of 4 months and 1 year old. We found developmental and regional differences between wild-type and tg2576 mice. Our results indicate that over expression of APP in tg2576 mice leads to the altered alternative splicing of BACE and the increase of its enzymatically more active splice variant (I-501).
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) intoxication in mice results in dopamine neuron degeneration that is alleviated by prevention of microglia cell activation and blockade of iNOS production. However, the role of peripherally derived microglia in this response has not been well characterized. In the present study, we investigated the time course of infiltration and phenotypic differentiation of bone marrow-derived cells (BMDCs) following MPTP treatment in mice, using green fluorescent protein (GFP) bone marrow chimeras. BMDCs were found in the meninges, choroid plexus, blood vessels, and brain parenchyma in both saline and MPTP-treated mice. MPTP stimulated a transient, two-fold increase in the rate of BMDC infiltration into the brain, concomitant with the onset of microglia activation. The majority of BMDCs were microglial in phenotype, as assessed by morphology and expression of the pan-hematopoietic marker CD45 and the microglia marker CD11b. We did not observe BMDCs that expressed neuronal or astroglial markers. Over 90% of bone marrow-derived microglia expressed the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), suggesting that peripherally derived microglia may play a deleterious role in MPTP-induced degeneration.
Neuregulins are a family of growth factors with potent neuroprotective properties. We recently demonstrated that neuregulin-1 blocked delayed neuronal death following focal ischemic stroke in the rat. Focal ischemia results in the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines that produce profound changes in gene expression and contribute to cell death associated with stroke. Inflammatory and stress mediators are involved in the pathogenesis of focal ischemic brain damage. We examined whether neuregulin-1 can influence inflammatory and stress gene expression in the rat brain following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). In this study, we compared gene expression profiles in animals treated with neuregulin-1beta (NRG-1) or vehicle followed by MCAO. We used the Affymetrix GeneChip system to analyze gene expression in focal ischemia of the rat brain. Several inflammatory and stress genes were significantly induced following MCAO compared to sham controls including heat shock protein-70 (HSP70), interleukin-1beta, and macrophage chemotattractant protein-1 (JE/MCP-1). Treatment with NRG-1 attenuated the expression of many of these genes by 50% or more. In vitro studies demonstrated that NRG-1 suppressed inflammatory gene expression in activated macrophages. NRG-1 also prevented neuronal death induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation in a rat neuroblastoma cell line, suggesting that NRG-1 may have both direct and indirect neuroprotective capacity. These results demonstrate that NRG-1 can regulate inflammatory and stress gene expression and may give new insight to the molecular mechanisms involved in the neuroprotective role of neuregulins in stroke.
Layer III neurons of the medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) project to CA1 via the temporoammonic pathway and exert a powerful feed-forward inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The present study evaluates the hypothesis that disrupted inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons causes an eased propagation of entorhinal seizures to the hippocampus via the temporoammonic pathway. Using a method to induce a confined epileptic focus in brain slices, we investigated the spread of epileptiform activity from the disinhibited mEC to CA1 in control and pilocarpine-treated rats that had displayed status epilepticus and spontaneous recurrent seizures. In pilocarpine-treated rats, the mEC showed a moderate layer III cell loss and an enhanced susceptibility to epileptiform discharges compared to control animals. Entorhinal discharges propagated to CA1 in pilocarpine-treated rats but not in controls. Disconnecting CA3 from CA1 did not affect the spread of epileptiform activity to CA1 excluding its propagation via the trisynaptic hippocampal loop. Mimicking the invasion of epileptiform discharges by repetitive stimulation of the temporoammonic pathway caused a facilitation of field potentials in CA1 that were contaminated by population spikes and afterdischarges in pilocarpine-treated but not control rats. Single cell recordings of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed a dramatic loss of feed-forward inhibition and the occurrence of strong postsynaptic excitatory potentials in pilocarpine-treated rats. Excitatory responses in CA1 were characterized by multiple NMDA receptor-mediated afterdischarges and a strong paired-pulse facilitation in response to activation of the temporoammonic pathway. Our results suggest that, irrespective of the enhanced seizure-susceptibility of the mEC in epileptic rats, the loss of feed-forward inhibition and the enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated excitability CA1 pyramidal cells ease the spread of epileptiform activity from the mEC to CA1 via the temporoammonic pathway bypassing the classical trisynaptic hippocampal loop.
A novel peptide with the binding characteristics of tetanus toxin was identified with phage display, for application in therapeutic protein and vector motor and sensory neuron targeting. A 12mer phage library was biopanned on trisialoganglioside (G(T1b)) and eluted with the tetanus toxin C fragment (rTTC). Phage ELISAs revealed increases in G(T1b) binding for the Tet1 and Tet2 phage clones when compared to peptideless phage (PLP). rTTC displaced both Tet1 and Tet2 phage clones from G(T1b), and both clones reduced rTTC-G(T1b) binding. Comparison of Tet1, Tet2, PLP, and the random phage library binding to PC12 and HEK293 cells revealed enhanced cellular binding by Tet1 and Tet2 phage. Tet1 phage binding was selective for neurons. Immunofluorescence also confirmed selective PC12 binding of Tet1 and Tet2 phage. Fluorescein-conjugated synthetic Tet1, but not Tet2, peptide showed strong binding to cultured PC12, primary motor neurons, and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. Synthetic Tet1 bound DRG and motor neurons but not muscle in tissue sections. The enhanced neuronal binding affinity and specificity of Tet1, a novel 12 amino acid peptide, suggests potential utility for targeting neurotherapeutic proteins and viral vectors in the treatment of motor neuron disease, neuropathy, and pain.
The processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the secretase family of protease enzymes can be influenced by a variety of diverse factors, including elements of the immune response. In this study, we have investigated the effect of the pro-inflammatory lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on APP processing in rat glial cell cultures derived from both cortex and cerebellum. LPS activation of the cells, as monitored by the induction of the pro-inflammatory nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) enzyme, elicited no change in the overall cellular expression levels of APP, although there was a marked concentration-related increase in the secretion of the soluble APPs following both short- (4 h) and long-term (18 h) drug treatment times. The stimulation of APPs secretion was blocked by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor GF109203x, suggesting that LPS may act via a PKC-mediated pathway to increase APPs secretion.
The development of psychometrically sound health-related quality of life (Hr-QoL) instruments has made it possible to assess subjectively experienced Hr-QoL quantitatively, and to incorporate Hr-QoL as a measure in medical research and clinical trials. Hr-QoL in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) has been measured using generic (not disease-specific) instruments, or Parkinson's disease-specific scales. We give an overview of the development of a disease-specific Hr-QoL instrument for patients with PSP. Based on interviews with 27 patients with PSP a preliminary Hr-QoL instrument was developed and administered to over 300 people with PSP in the UK and US. Following psychometric analysis a rating scale with a physical and a mental subscale emerged. In this patient sample, both subscales satisfied criteria for scaling assumptions, acceptability, reliability and validity (correlations with other measures consistent with a priori hypotheses). The psychometric properties of this questionnaire are undergoing further evaluation.
The inhibition of mitochondrial respiration by nitric oxide (.NO) at cytochrome c oxidase level has been established as a physiological regulatory mechanism of mitochondrial function. Given, on the one hand, the potential involvement of .NO and dopamine metabolism in mitochondrial dysfunction associated with neurodegeneration and, on the other hand, the reported interaction of .NO with dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), a major mitochondrial-associated dopamine metabolite, we examined the combined effects of .NO and DOPAC on the respiratory chain of isolated rat brain mitochondria. Whereas dopamine or DOPAC induced no measurable effects on the mitochondrial respiration rate, a mixture of .NO with DOPAC inhibited the rate in a way stronger than that exerted by .NO. This effect was noticed with actively respiring (state 3) and resting (state 4) mitochondria. At variance with DOPAC, dopamine failed to potentiate .NO inhibitory effects. The inhibition was dependent on the concentration of both compounds, .NO and DOPAC, and exhibited characteristics similar to those exerted by .NO, namely: it was reversible and dependent on the concentration of oxygen. Analysis of respiratory enzymatic activities demonstrated a selective inhibition at the level of cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV). Insights into the chemical mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effect were inferred from experiments using metmyoglobin (a ligand for .NO and derived species, such as nitroxyl anion) and ferrocyanide (a reductant of .NO, producing nitroxyl anion). Whereas metmyoglobin decreased the inhibition, ferrocyanide potentiated the inhibition. Moreover, a mixture of ferrocyanide with .NO reproduced the effects exerted by the mixture of .NO with DOPAC. The results are consistent with the notion of a reaction of .NO with DOPAC producing a nitric oxide-derived compound(s), which inhibit O2 uptake at the cytochrome oxidase level. Although the mechanism in question remains to be clearly elucidated it is suggested that the .NO/DOPAC-dependent inhibition of cytochrome oxidase may involve nitroxyl anion. The significance of these observations for mitochondrial dysfunction inherent in Parkinson's disease is discussed.
Abnormalities in oxidative processes, region-selective neuron loss, inflammation and diminished activity of thiamine-dependent enzymes characterize age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Thiamine deficiency (TD) models the selective neurodegeneration that accompanies mild impairment of oxidative metabolism. As in human neurodegenerative diseases, alterations in multiple cell types accompany the TD-induced neurodegeneration. The current studies demonstrate that CD40 and CD40 ligand (CD40L), two co-stimulatory immune molecules, are involved in TD-induced selective neuronal death. TD induced CD40 immunoreactivity in microglia and CD40L immunoreactivity in astrocytes. Both CD40-positive microglia and CD40L-positive astrocytes increased during the progressive TD-induced neuronal death. In early stages of TD, targeted deletion of CD40 diminished the number of CD40L-positive astrocytes and reduced neuronal death by 35%. The number of CD40L-positive astrocytes increased whenever the number of NeuN-positive neurons decreased. In early stages of TD, deletion of CD40L diminished CD40-positive microglia and reduced the neuronal death by 64%. In advanced phases of TD, neither CD40 nor CD40L deletion protected against neuronal death. The data show for the first time that TD induces expression of CD40 by the microglia and CD40L by astrocytes. The results indicate that CD40-CD40L interactions promote neuronal death in early stages of TD, but that at later phases the protective effects of the diminished CD40 or CD40L are over-ridden by other mechanisms.
Munc18-1, also referred to as p67, co-purifies with Cdk5 and has an important role in neurotransmitter release. The role of Munc18-1 for functional connectivity of the nervous system was demonstrated by gene knockout experiments in mice, wherein accumulation of neurotransmitter and silencing of synaptic activity was observed. Our earlier studies have shown that both Munc18-1 and Cdk5 co-purify and co-localize with cytoskeletal components, implying that apart from having a regulatory role in vesicle docking and fusion, Munc18-1 could also affect the dynamics of neuronal cytoskeleton. In the present study we have shown the presence of Munc18-1 in nuclear rich fraction from rat brain and confirmed the nuclear localization of this protein in PC12 cells and adult rat brain neurons by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy. We also demonstrate the binding of Munc18-1 to double stranded (ds) DNA. The ability of Munc18-1 to bind dsDNA, albeit the lack of DNA binding domains, suggests that the binding may be mediated through protein-protein interaction through some other DNA-binding proteins. The presence of both nuclear import and export signals in Munc18-1 primary structure corroborates its nuclear localization and makes it a putative shuttle protein between nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments, the precise physiological relevance of which needs to be elucidated.
The relationship between pain and cognitive function is of theoretical and clinical interest, exemplified by observations that attention-demanding activities reduce pain in chronically afflicted patients. Previous studies have concentrated on phasic pain, which bears little correspondence to clinical pain conditions. Indeed, phasic pain is often associated with differential or opposing effects to tonic pain in behavioral, lesion, and pharmacological studies. To address how cognitive engagement interacts with tonic pain, we assessed the influence of an attention-demanding cognitive task on pain-evoked neural responses in an experimental model of chronic pain, the capsaicin-induced heat hyperalgesia model. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show that activity in the orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices, insula, and cerebellum correlates with the intensity of tonic pain. This pain-related activity in medial prefrontal cortex and cerebellum was modulated by the demand level of the cognitive task. Our findings highlight a role for these structures in the integration of motivational and cognitive functions associated with a physiological state of injury. Within the limitations of an experimental model of pain, we suggest that the findings are relevant to understanding both the neurobiology and pathophysiology of chronic pain and its amelioration by cognitive strategies.
Humans blink every few seconds, yet the changes in retinal illumination during a blink are rarely noticed, perhaps because visual sensitivity is suppressed. Furthermore, despite the loss of visual input, visual experience remains continuous across blinks. The neural mechanisms in humans underlying these two phenomena of blink suppression and visual continuity are unknown. We investigated the neural basis of these two complementary behavioural effects using functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure how voluntary blinking affected cortical responses to visual stimulation. Two factors were independently manipulated in a blocked design; the presence/absence of voluntary blinking, and the presence/absence of visual stimulation. To control for the simple loss of visual input caused by eyelid closure, we created a fifth condition where external darkenings were dynamically matched to each subjects' own blinks. Areas of lateral occipital cortex, including area V5/MT, showed suppression of responses to visual stimulation during blinking, consistent with the known loss in visual sensitivity. In contrast, a medial parieto-occipital region, homologous to macaque area V6A, showed responses to blinks that increased when visual stimulation was present. Our data are consistent with a role for this region in the active maintenance of visual continuity across blinks. Moreover, both suppression in lateral occipital and activation in medial parieto-occipital cortex were greater during blinks than during matched external darkenings of the visual scene, suggesting that they result from an extra-retinal signal associated with the blink motor command. Our findings therefore suggest two distinct neural correlates of blinking on human visual processing.
A prevailing neurobiological theory of semantic memory proposes that part of our knowledge about concrete, highly imageable concepts is stored in the form of sensory-motor representations. While this theory predicts differential activation of the semantic system by concrete and abstract words, previous functional imaging studies employing this contrast have provided relatively little supporting evidence. We acquired event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data while participants performed a semantic similarity judgment task on a large number of concrete and abstract noun triads. Task difficulty was manipulated by varying the degree to which the words in the triad were similar in meaning. Concrete nouns, relative to abstract nouns, produced greater activation in a bilateral network of multimodal and heteromodal association areas, including ventral and medial temporal, posterior-inferior parietal, dorsal prefrontal, and posterior cingulate cortex. In contrast, abstract nouns produced greater activation almost exclusively in the left hemisphere in superior temporal and inferior frontal cortex. Increasing task difficulty modulated activation mainly in attention, working memory, and response monitoring systems, with almost no effect on areas that were modulated by imageability. These data provide critical support for the hypothesis that concrete, imageable concepts activate perceptually based representations not available to abstract concepts. In contrast, processing abstract concepts makes greater demands on left perisylvian phonological and lexical retrieval systems. The findings are compatible with dual coding theory and less consistent with single-code models of conceptual representation. The lack of overlap between imageability and task difficulty effects suggests that once the neural representation of a concept is activated, further maintenance and manipulation of that information in working memory does not further increase neural activation in the conceptual store.
Bilateral hippocampal pathology typically results in significant memory problems. Despite apparently similar structural damage, patients with such lesions can differ in the pattern of impairment and preservation of memory functions. Previously, an fMRI study of a developmental amnesic patient whose anoxic hippocampal damage was incurred perinatally revealed his residual hippocampal tissue to be active during memory retrieval. This hippocampal activity was apparent during the retrieval of personal and general facts relative to a control task. In this study, we used a similar fMRI paradigm to investigate whether residual hippocampal activation was present also in patient VC with adult-acquired anoxic hippocampal pathology. VC's performance and reaction times on the experimental personal and general fact tasks were comparable to age-matched control subjects. However, in contrast to the elderly control sample and the previous developmental amnesic patient, his residual hippocampal tissue did not show activation changes during the experimental tasks. This finding indicates that patient VC's successful retrieval of personal and general facts was achieved without a significant hippocampal contribution. It further suggests that the hippocampal activation observed in the elderly controls and previous developmental amnesic patient was not necessary for successful task performance. The reason for this difference in hippocampal responsivity between VC and the developmental amnesic patient remains to be determined. We speculate that it may relate to the age at which hippocampal damage occurred reflecting plasticity within the developing brain, or to cognitive differences between VC, the developmental amnesic patient, and the control subjects.
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) is an evolving neurovascular ultrasound technique that has an established diagnostic and potential therapeutic role in acute stroke management. Angiographically validated criteria for circle-of-Willis occlusion and thrombolysis in brain ischemia classification of residual flow have set the stage for the further development of this technique. TCD has shown its clinical value in thrombolysis monitoring and early emboli detection. The therapeutic effect requires confirmation and may be enhanced further by nanobubble technologies.
Over 90% of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) develop cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Severe dyshoric CAA, in which amyloid extends into the surrounding brain parenchyma, may be associated with adjacent clustering of tau-immunopositive neurites but the relationship of CAA to neurofibrillary pathology has not been systematically investigated. In the present study this relationship was examined in sections of frontal, temporal and parietal cortex from 25 AD patients with moderate to severe CAA and 26 with mild or absent CAA. We measured immunolabelling of abnormally phosphorylated tau adjacent to A beta-laden and non-A beta-laden arteries and arterioles, and in cortex away from arteries and arterioles. We also analysed the possible influence of APOE genotype on these measurements. There were no significant differences between the lobes in measurements of tau labelling, either around blood vessels or elsewhere in the cortex. However, tau labelling around A beta-laden arteries and arterioles significantly exceeded that around non-A beta-laden blood vessels (P&lt;0.001) and this, in turn was greater than the labelling of cortex away from blood vessels (P&lt;0.001). There was no association between APOE epsilon 4 and the immunolabelling density for tau, whether around amyloid- or non-amyloid-laden arteries and arterioles, or in the cerebral cortex away from these. We propose that both CAA and peri-vascular accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau may be a consequence of elevated levels of soluble A beta around cortical arteries and arterioles.
L-655,708 is an imidazobenzodiazepine possessing 30-70-fold selectivity for the benzodiazepine binding site of GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha5 rather than alpha1, alpha2 or alpha3 subunit. In the present study, [(3)H]L-655,708 was used to label mouse brain benzodiazepine binding sites in vivo. When compared to inhibition of in vivo binding of the non-selective ligand [(3)H]Ro 15-1788, the pharmacology of mouse in vivo [(3)H]L-655,708 binding was consistent with selective in vivo labelling of alpha5 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors. Thus, diazepam was equipotent at inhibiting in vivo [(3)H]L-655,708 and [(3)H]Ro 15-1788 binding; zolpidem, which has very low affinity for alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors, gave no inhibition of in vivo [(3)H]L-655,708 binding despite inhibiting in vivo [(3)H]Ro 15-1788 binding; and L-655,708 was more potent at inhibiting the in vivo binding of [(3)H]L-655,708 compared to [(3)H]Ro 15-1788. This pharmacological specificity of in vivo [(3)H]L-655,708 binding was confirmed autoradiographically. Hence, the anatomical distribution of in vivo [(3)H]L-655,708 binding was comparable to the distribution of alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors identified in vitro. Moreover, this distribution was distinct from that identified using [(3)H]Ro 15-1788. These data therefore suggest that [(3)H]L-655,708 can be used to identify alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors in vivo and that this ligand can be used to measure receptor occupancy of alpha5-selective ligands.
Nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation and levodopa therapy in animal models and in parkinsonian patients are associated with an enhanced opioid transmission in the striatum. The functional role of this increase has always been a subject of debate. In this study two groups of drug-nave macaque monkeys with MPTP-induced parkinsonism were treated daily, during four weeks, with l-Dopa alone or l-Dopa plus naltrexone, a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist. The improvement of parkinsonism in all animals treated with l-Dopa alone was clearly displayed from the first day of treatment. By contrast, naltrexone co-treatment blocked the antiparkinsonian action of l-Dopa for 7-14 days. As soon as the therapeutical action of l-Dopa appeared in naltrexone-treated monkeys, the magnitude and duration of the antiparkinsonian response were similar in both groups. Furthermore, in animals treated with l-Dopa plus naltrexone the beginning of the therapeutical effect of l-Dopa was accompanied by the appearance of dyskinesias. In this group, the severity of dyskinesias during the third and fourth weeks of treatment was significantly higher than the group treated with l-Dopa alone. The results of the present study demonstrate that in de novo MPTP parkinsonian monkeys antagonizing the action of opioid receptors worsens the motor response to l-Dopa.
AMPA receptor potentiating drugs (e.g. ampakines) enhance glutamatergic neurotransmission, and may have potential therapeutic consequences in CNS disorders. The neuroanatomical basis of action for these compounds is at present unclear. This study aimed to identify the effects of two novel ampakines, Org 26576 and Org 24448, on local cerebral glucose use (LCGU) in the mouse. C57BL/6J mice received Org 26576 (0.1, 1, 10 mg/kg i.p.) or Org 24448 (3, 10, 30 mg/kg i.p.) or vehicle and LCGU was assessed using 14C-2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. Both compounds produced dose-dependent increases in LCGU with specific regional activation at low doses. Org 26576 (1 mg/kg) produced significant increases in 9 of the 43 areas examined, including the anteroventral and laterodorsal thalamus, cingulate cortex, dentate gyrus and CA3 subfield of the hippocampus. Org 24448 (3 mg/kg) produced significant increases in LCGU in 4 of the 43 regions examined, including the dorsal raphe nucleus, medial lateral habenula, CA1 subfield of the hippocampus and median forebrain bundle. Furthermore, the increases in LCGU observed with both Org 26576 (10 mg/kg) and Org 24448 (10 mg/kg) were blocked by pre-treatment with the AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX (10 mg/kg). These data demonstrate that both Org 26576 and Org 24448 produce dose-dependent AMPA receptor mediated increases in LCGU and provide an anatomical basis suggestive that these drugs may be of use in the treatment of conditions such as depression or schizophrenia.
Early behavioral investigations supported the contention that systemic ethanol displays a GABAmimetic profile. Microinjection of GABA agonists into brain and in vivo electrophysiological studies implicated a regionally specific action of ethanol on GABA function. While selectivity of ethanol to enhance the effect of GABA was initially attributed an effect on type-I-benzodiazepine (BZD)-GABA(A) receptors, a lack of ethanol's effect on GABA responsiveness from isolated neurons with this receptor subtype discounted this contention. Nonetheless, subsequent work identified GABA(A) receptor subtypes, with limited distribution in brain, sensitive to enhancement of GABA at relevant ethanol concentrations. In view of these data, it is hypothesized that the GABAmimetic profile for ethanol is due to activation of mechanisms associated with GABA function, distinct from a direct action on the majority of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors. The primary action proposed to account for ethanol's regional specificity on GABA transmission is its ability to release GABA from some, but not all, presynaptic GABAergic terminals. As systemic administration of ethanol increases neuroactive steroids, which can enhance GABA responsiveness, this elevated level of neurosteroids is proposed to magnify the effect of GABA released by ethanol. Additional factors contributing to the degree to which ethanol interacts with GABA function include an involvement of GABA(B) and other receptors that influence ethanol-induced GABA release, an effect of phosphorylation on GABA responsiveness, and a regional reduction of glutamatergic tone. Thus, an integration of these consequences induced by ethanol is proposed to provide a logical basis for its in vivo GABAmimetic profile.
A growing body of evidence suggests that structural changes in the cortex may disrupt dopaminergic transmission in circuits involving the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and may contribute to the etiology of schizophrenia. In this study, we utilize a rodent model of neonatal disruption of cortical development using prenatal administration of the mitotoxin methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM). Using intracellular recordings in vivo, we compare the physiology of prefrontal cortical neurons and their responses to topical administration of dopamine (DA) in intact animals and adult rats treated prenatally with MAM. Topical administration of DA hyperpolarized the membrane potential (MP) and decreased the firing rate of neurons recorded in deep layers of the PFC in intact animals. Furthermore, electrical stimulation of the VTA evoked fast onset epsps or long-lasting depolarizations in PFC neurons. In comparison, PFC neurons recorded in MAM-treated animals had significantly faster baseline firing rates. Moreover, topical administration of DA did not affect the MP or firing rate of the neurons in MAM-treated animals. However, MAM-treated animals exhibited an increase in the percentage of neurons responding with long-lasting depolarizations to stimulation of the VTA. The results of this study indicate that PFC neurons in the MAM-treated rats are not responsive to DA administered superficially, while at the same time exhibit greater responsiveness to VTA stimulation. These results are consistent with a rewiring of the corticolimbic system in response to neurodevelopmental insults.
The chronic effects of glycine transporter 1 and 2 inhibitors (sarcosine and ALX-1393, respectively) on miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were studied in cultured spinal neurons. We found that sarcosine increased the frequency of overall miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents without affecting the ratio of glycinergic, mixed and GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, whereas ALX-1393 changed the ratio by increasing the proportions of GABAergic and mixed miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents without affecting overall mIPSC frequency. We propose that inhibition of glycine transporter 1 by sarcosine increased overall mIPSC frequency via the activation of presynaptic glycine receptors, while inhibition of glycine transporter 2 by ALX-1393 changed the ratio of glycinergic, mixed and GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents by shifting the balance of inhibitory transmitters in vesicles towards gamma-aminobutyric acid.
Gamma-band neural synchrony has been proposed as a correlate of consciousness and as a solution for the binding problem. Research on visual working memory and the perception of coherent images in ambiguous figures supports this view. To test the relationship between perceptual consciousness and gamma synchrony, we recorded electroencephalogram activity while participants were presented with rivalling visual images to each eye. Participants pressed buttons to indicate which image they were perceiving, and response-locked phase-locking values (6-60 Hz) were calculated from the electroencephalogram time series. Results revealed transient bursts of increased global phase synchrony in the gamma-band peaking approximately 425 and approximately 260 ms preresponse. This suggests that global gamma synchrony is associated with the emergence of a coherent conscious percept.
Neurons with similar preferences for two-dimensional shapes of intermediate complexity cluster in area TE of the monkey inferior temporal cortex. To further characterize the functional structure of area TE, we quantitatively analyzed various aspects of the visual responses of closely located neurons by applying multiple single-unit recording techniques in anesthetized monkeys. Examination of the visual responses elicited with a large, predetermined set of visual stimuli confirmed previous findings that nearby neurons, on average, exhibited positively correlated preferences for a set of visual stimuli. Nearby neurons also tended to be similar in their receptive-field organization and contrast-polarity preference. In contrast, no correlation was found in the size tuning of neighboring neurons. Pooling or subtraction of activities between a pair of nearby neurons was shown to improve stimulus discriminability, if the neuron pair had positively or negatively correlated stimulus preferences, respectively. These results indicate that nearby TE neurons share some aspects of stimulus preference, but their response selectivity differ in other aspects. Both pooling and subtraction between nearby neurons can reduce across-trial response variability, if these decoding strategies are applied to appropriate neuronal pools.
Migraine is an episodic headache disorder affecting more than 10% of the general population. Migraine arises from a primary brain dysfunction that leads to activation and sensitization of the trigeminovascular system. A major incompletely understood issue in the neurobiology of migraine concerns the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie the primary brain dysfunction and lead to activation and sensitization of the trigeminovascular system, thus generating and maintaining migraine pain. Here the author reviews recent discoveries that have advanced our understanding of these mechanisms toward a unifying pathophysiological hypothesis, in which cortical spreading depression (CSD), the phenomenon underlying migraine aura, assumes a key role. In particular, the author discusses the main recent findings in the genetics and neurobiology of familial hemiplegic migraine and the insights they provide into the molecular and cellular mechanisms that may lead to the increased susceptibility of CSD in migraineurs.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has recently emerged as a possible molecular mediator of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory. Long-term potentiation (LTP) within the hippocampus and hippocampally dependent behaviors has been the primary model for examining the role of BDNF in learning and memory. However, these studies are limited by an incomplete understanding of the complex behavioral function of hippocampal circuitry, making it difficult to unravel the molecular machinery responsible for the formation and storage of these memories. In contrast, the amygdala and its role in Pavlovian fear conditioning promise to provide us with new insights into the mechanisms of BDNF-mediated synaptic plasticity during the learning and memory process. This article reviews the different levels of research on BDNF in learning and memory. The focus is primarily on the use of Pavlovian fear conditioning as a learning model that allows for the examination of the role of BDNF in the amygdala, following a single learning session and within a well-understood neural circuit.


Zebrafish has become a favorite model organism not only in genetics and developmental biology, but also for the study of cancer, neuroscience and metabolism. However, strategies for reverse genetics in zebrafish are mostly limited to the use of antisense oligonucleotides, and therefore the development of other targeting methods is highly desirable. Here, we report an approach to gene targeting in this system in which single-stranded oligonucleotides and zebrafish Rad52 protein are employed. It has been proposed that a single-stranded oligonucleotide containing a mutation can be incorporated into the genome by annealing to the single-stranded region of the lagging strand of the replication fork. Rad52 is expected to accelerate the annealing step. In vitro experiments using purified truncated Rad52 proteins and replication protein A (RPA) showed that annealing of oligonucleotides is accelerated by Rad52 in the presence of RPA. We developed a simple and sensitive PCR-based method to detect point mutations in the genome. In exploratory experiments, we found that microinjection of single-stranded oligonucleotide targeted to a specific gene together with truncated Rad52 into zebrafish embryos resulted in a low level of recombinant copies in 3 of the 80 embryos tested under these conditions.



Ectopic spontaneous discharges play a critical role for both initiation and maintenance of the neuropathic pain state. Gabapentin (GBP) has been shown to be effective in animal models of neuropathic pain as well as in chronic pain patients. To investigate the peripheral mechanisms of GBP, the effects of GBP on spontaneous discharges and subthreshold membrane potential oscillation (SMPO) of chronically compressed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were examined electrophysiolocally in vitro. The rate of spontaneous discharges was transitorily enhanced when GBP was applied to the DRG. When the concentration was under 5microM, only enhanced effect was observed, while spontaneous discharges were completely suppressed when the concentration of GBP was beyond 5microM. The similar doses of GBP blocking the spontaneous discharges failed to block the propagation of impulses by electrical nerve stimulation. Furthermore, we found that the SMPO of injured DRG cells can be selectively abolished by GBP without interrupting spike propagation. The results suggest that the inhibitory effect of GBP on SMPO might be one of the membrane mechanisms of action of GBP. This may partially explain the antinociceptive action of GBP by directly suppression nociceptive afferent input to the spinal cord.
We present the clinical description of a 70-year-old man with parkinsonian tremor, which was severely exaggerated by hyperthyroidism. Clinical diagnosis of hyperthyroidism was overshadowed by the parkinsonian symptoms. Anti-thyroid treatment had a beneficial effect on the exaggerated parkinsonian tremor. This case report highlights that thyroid dysfunction should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aggravated tremor in Parkinson's disease which seems refractory to increased dosages of anti-parkinsonian drugs.
Unexpended energy is stored as fat in the body and increased rate of fat accretion culminates in obesity. Obesity increases the risks of many diseases several folds and shortens life span. A progressive deficit in the central feedback effects of leptin, a peptide produced by fat cells and hypothalamus, results in increased weight gain and obesity. This article summarizes our experimental findings to show that a stable increase in leptin availability in the hypothalamus alone with the aid of leptin gene therapy suppresses fat accretion and metabolic hormones for nearly the lifetime of laboratory rodents. Consequently, central leptin gene therapy is a novel modality that offers a viable therapeutic option to reduce fat depots and attendant metabolic sequelae implicated in obesity-related illnesses.
Under congenital thyroid hypofunction, the oro-facial large and small calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactive motoneurons were classified into strong, moderate, weak and negative intensity in offspring weaned rats. While 50% of neurons in the trigeminal motor nucleus (Mo5) were of the large type, this value dropped to 30% in hypothyroid pups. Hypothyroid trigeminal accessory nucleus (Mo5-AC) contained 10% large motoneurons versus about 45% in normal pups. Normal facial nucleus (Mo7) had 20% large motoneurons in contrast with 10% in hypothyroid pups. These values are significant in comparison with the normal pattern of oro-facial CGRP positive immunoreactive motoneurons as well as those devoid of immunostaining.
The transient receptor potential canonical type 5 (TRPC5) channel is a member of the channels that has been implicated in neurite extension and growth cone morphology of hippocampal neurons. Although homomeric TRPC5 channels are activated following stimulation of G(q/11)-coupled receptors, the exact mechanism for this activation remains unresolved. Using two-electrode voltage clamp recordings, we show that the activity of TRPC5 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes is dependent on the presence of Ca2+ at the extracellular as well as the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membrane. TRPC5 was activated by the stimulation of coexpressed M5 muscarinic receptors or by ionomycin. The TRPC5 activity was detectable with the presence of submillimolar levels of extracellular Ca2+, but it was eliminated by the injection of 5 mM 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid into the oocytes. Lanthanum could substitute for extracellular Ca2+ to support TRPC5 activity. Coexpression of Ca2+-binding protein 1 (CaBP1), but not calmodulin (CaM), inhibited the TRPC5 activity, without affecting the cell surface expression of TRPC5 proteins. Using in vitro binding assays, we demonstrated direction interactions between CaBP1 and TRPC5. The CaBP1-binding sites at the C terminus of TRPC5 are closely localized, but not identical, to CaM-binding sites. We conclude that TRPC5 is a Ca2+-regulated channel, and its activity is negatively controlled by CaBP1.
We recently reported a method where water-restricted mice were given scheduled access to ethanol followed by access to water. C57BL/6J mice would repeatedly self-administer ethanol in amounts that produced high and stable blood ethanol concentrations (BEC) [Finn DA, Belknap JK, Cronise K, Yoneyama N, Murillo A, Crabbe JC. A procedure to produce high alcohol intake in mice. Psychopharmacol 2005;178:471-480]. The studies reported here demonstrate that behavioral signs of motor impairment result from these high alcohol intakes, and that there was some evidence of tolerance development across repeated sessions. Female C57BL/6J mice were allowed 30 min access to ethanol (5% v/v) followed by 2.5 h access to water either: every 3rd day for 12 days; every 2nd day for 28 days; or every 2nd day for 9 days. On intervening days, mice had 3 h access to water. A control group had daily access to water only. Mice consumed 2-2.5 g/kg ethanol in 30 min, resulting in BECs of 1.4-1.5 mg/ml. Motor impairment was assessed using the accelerating or fixed speed rotarod, balance beam or screen test. In all studies, mice were tested for motor impairment immediately after 30 min access to ethanol or water. In Experiment 1, ethanol-exposed mice had shorter latencies to fall from the fixed speed rotarod and more foot slips on the balance beam than the control group, indicating motor impairment. After drinking ethanol, mice also fell from a screen more quickly than during sober pretraining. In Experiment 2, mice tested (without prior training) for motor impairment and tolerance on the fixed speed rotarod at 6.5 and 10 RPM showed repeated motor impairment in the ethanol group, but did not develop tolerance. In Experiment 3, mice were first given rotarod training at 10 RPM. Following each fluid access period, performance was impaired in mice self-administering ethanol at 10, but not 15 RPM, when compared to control mice. There was no evidence of tolerance across days. However, on the last day, all mice were tested at both RPM following an i.p. injection of 2 g/kg ethanol. Ethanol-experienced mice were less impaired at both RPM than the ethanol-nave mice, indicating tolerance development according to this between-groups index. These results suggest that C57BL/6J mice will repeatedly consume alcohol in amounts that produce motor impairment under these scheduled fluid access conditions, and that a modest degree of tolerance can be detected using appropriate tests.
Using a rat model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), the contributions of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors to axial, limb, and orolingual (ALO) abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) elicited by L-DOPA were examined. Chronic L-DOPA-treated rats received the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mg/kg; i.p.), the D2 receptor antagonist Eticlopride (0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mg/kg; i.p.), a mixture of both antagonists (0.01, 0.1, 1.0 mg/kg each; i.p.), or vehicle 30 min prior to L-DOPA (6 mg/kg; i.p.)+Benserazide (15 mg/kg; i.p.). SCH23390 (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) significantly reduced axial and limb AIMs, while the same doses of Eticlopride significantly decreased axial, limb, and orolingual AIMs. Co-administration of SCH23390+Eticlopride significantly reduced axial (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg), limb (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg), and orolingual (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) AIMs. These results indicate the importance of D1 and D2 receptors to LID and further validate the rat AIMs model.
A series of in vivo studies in a conscious rat model was conducted to investigate the role of oxytocinergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission in the central regulation of penile erection. Oxytocin, when administrated either intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or intrathecally (i.t.) at the spinal levels of L4-L6, produced dose-related erectogenic effects with a maximum at 0.1 microg/rat i.c.v. or 0.03 microg/rat i.t. Oxytocin-evoked penile activity was attenuated by the inhibitory effect of the selective oxytocin antagonist vasotocin analog [Pmp-Tyr(Me)-Ile-Thr-Asn-Cys]-Pro-Orn-Tyr-NH2 (0.1-1 microg, i.c.v. or i.t.). Penile erection induced by oxytocin was blocked by the dopaminergic receptor antagonist clozapine (1-10 micromol/kg i.p.) in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, oxytocin antagonist microinjected locally (i.c.v. or i.t.) significantly attenuated the pro-erectile effects of systemic (s.c.) apomorphine, a centrally acting erectogenic agent through dopaminergic receptors. Together, these data indicate a possible concomitant role between dopamine and oxytocin in mediating penile erection at both the spinal and supraspinal sites.
Puffs from cigarettes are the fundamental unit of smoking reward. Here, we examined the extent to which reward from puffs can be derived from the airway sensory effect of nicotine, in the absence of a direct central nervous system effect of nicotine. We did this by assessing the self-reported reward obtained from individual puffs from nicotinized, denicotinized and unlit cigarettes within 7 s of inhalation, which is before nicotine had an opportunity to reach the brain. We also assessed the self-reported strength of airway sensations elicited by the puffs. We found that nicotinized puffs were rated as both stronger and more rewarding than denicotinized and unlit puffs. We also found that the extent to which nicotine elicited reward was directly correlated with the extent to which nicotine elicited airway sensations. This indicates that the airway sensory effects of nicotine contribute to the reward from puffs, above and beyond the reward derived from the airway sensory effects of non-nicotine constituents. These findings have implications for the interpretation of studies that use puffs as experimental units to examine nicotine reward. They also have implications for the use of denicotinized and low nicotine cigarettes as aids to smoking cessation.
Previous studies showed that 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and Staurosporine (ST), a protein kinase inhibitor (PKI), were able to increase the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in human colon cancer cells. In the present study, we examined the in vitro effects of five PKIs, i.e. ST, 1-5-isoquinolinyl-sulfonyl-2-methylpiperazine (H-7), bisindolylmaleimide-I (BIS), Genistein (GEN), and Herbimycin A (HERB) alone or in combination with 5-FU on CEA expression. C22-20, a clonal subline, derived from colon cancer HT-29 line, selected for low expression of CEA, was used in our experimental model. Among the PKIs tested, only ST, at non-toxic concentrations of 5 nM, was capable of increasing the level of CEA. The other PKIs did not modify CEA expression when used either alone or in combination with 5-FU. Flow cytometric analysis showed that treatment of cells with 5-FU + ST resulted in a synergistic increase of CEA expression, being higher than that obtainable with both agents alone. Moreover, the increase of CEA expression occurred not only in membrane fractions but also in cytosolic compartments, as indicated by Western blot analysis. The present study suggests that ST-mediated induction of CEA expression in cancer cells is PKC independent and could be of potential clinical interest for the development of new diagnostic and/or immunotherapeutic approaches.
Many neurons exhibit interval correlations in the absence of input signals. We study the influence of these intrinsic interval correlations of model neurons on their signal transmission properties. For this purpose, we employ two simple firing models, one of which generates a renewal process, while the other leads to a nonrenewal process with negative interval correlations. Different methods to solve for spectral statistics in the presence of a weak stimulus (spike train power spectra, cross spectra, and coherence functions) are presented, and their range of validity is discussed. Using these analytical results, we explore a lower bound on the mutual information rate between output spike train and input stimulus as a function of the system's parameters. We demonstrate that negative correlations in the baseline activity can lead to enhanced information transfer of a weak signal by means of noise shaping of the background noise spectrum. We also show that an enhancement is not compulsory--for a stimulus with power exclusively at high frequencies, the renewal model can transfer more information than the nonrenewal model does. We discuss the application of our analytical results to other problems in neuroscience. Our results are also relevant to the general problem of how a signal affects the power spectrum of a nonlinear stochastic system.
Neurological damage, and stroke in particular, is the leading cause of long term disability worldwide. There is growing interest in the part that central nervous system reorganisation plays in recovery of function. Techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation permit the non-invasive study of the working human brain, and suggest that functionally relevant adaptive changes occur in the human brain after focal damage. An understanding of how these changes are related to recovery will facilitate the development of novel therapeutic techniques that are based on neurobiological principles and that are designed to minimise impairment in appropriately targeted patients suffering from stroke.
The medicinal leech has served as an important experimental preparation for neuroscience research since the late 19th century. Initial anatomical and developmental studies dating back more than 100 years ago were followed by behavioral and electrophysiological investigations in the first half of the 20th century. More recently, intense studies of the neuronal mechanisms underlying leech movements have resulted in detailed descriptions of six behaviors described in this review; namely, heartbeat, local bending, shortening, swimming, crawling, and feeding. Neuroethological studies in leeches are particularly tractable because the CNS is distributed and metameric, with only 400 identifiable, mostly paired neurons in segmental ganglia. An interesting, yet limited, set of discrete movements allows students of leech behavior not only to describe the underlying neuronal circuits, but also interactions among circuits and behaviors. This review provides descriptions of six behaviors including their origins within neuronal circuits, their modification by feedback loops and neuromodulators, and interactions between circuits underlying with these behaviors.
Post-concussive symptoms reported by mild head injury (MHI) patients have been inadequately understood. Post-concussive symptoms reported by patients with MHI have so far been explained in terms of impairment in neurocognitive functions or deficits in modulation of flow of information. There are no studies that have looked into sensory gating impairment in MHI and its relation to post-concussive symptoms. The purpose of the present paper was to investigate the role of sensory gating impairment in post-concussive symptoms in mild head injury patients. Thirty MHI patients were evaluated for their neuropsychological functions, sensory gating deficits, and post-concussive symptoms. Neuropsychological functions were in the domain of attention, executive functions, and learning and memory. Sensory gating was assessed by Structured Interview for Assessing Perceptual Anomalies and post-concussive symptoms were assessed using the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale. Multiple regression method was used to identify predictors for post-concussive symptoms. Post-concussive symptoms were predicted by sensory gating deficits when sensory gating deficit was one of the predictors along with neuropsychological functions. Post-concussive symptoms were predicted by scores of Digit Vigilance and Digit Symbol Substitution Test, when predictors were restricted to neuropsychological functions. Sensory gating deficits were correlated with performance on Digit Symbol Substitution test. Post-concussive symptoms reported by MHI patients are the result of poor modulation of incoming sensory information.




The chronic, excessive consumption of alcohol results in significant modification of selective neural systems of the brain structure, physiology, and function. Quantitative MR structural imaging, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and functional MRI (fMRI), together with neuropsychological challenges, have enabled rigorous in vivo characterization of the results of alcoholism on the brain in the human condition. Neuroimaging has also enabled longitudinal study for the examination of alcoholism's dynamic course through periods of drinking and sobriety. Controlled studies have revealed compelling evidence for alcohol-related brain structural and functional modification--some longstanding, some transient, and some compensatory. Patterns of circuitry disruption identified through structural and functional MRI studies suggest a central role for degradation of frontocerebellar neuronal nodes and connecting circuitry affecting widespread brain regions and contributing to alcoholism's salient, enduring, and debilitating cognitive and motor deficits--executive dysfunction, visuospatial impairment, and ataxia.




The purpose of this study was to test a hybrid multitask paradigm in healthy subjects and in a patient at preoperative functional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. In this new paradigm, tasks related to different centers of brain function (motor and language) are performed in alternation during a single functional MR imaging examination, without the typical rest period, to improve time efficiency without compromising the quality of activation maps. The institutional review board approved the study, and all participants gave informed prior consent. The study complied with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Seven healthy right-handed volunteers (four men, three women; age range, 22-40 years) were studied first. In both individual and group analyses, there was no statistically significant difference in results between assessment with the multitask design and that with the traditional block design. An advantage of the new paradigm was substantial time savings because the subject was engaged during the entire examination. Finally, the multitask design was tested in a patient undergoing preoperative evaluation, with similar results; therefore, use of the multitask design is feasible in a clinical setting.
Human history reveals that the way in which humans treat animals is based on their views of themselves as well as of the living environment around them. These views may vary from an assumption of human superiority to one of equality between humans and animals. Recent trends affecting companion-animal welfare are: modern philosophies on animal issues, the specialised and varied roles that companion animals play in modern societies, new results from animal neuroscience, human-animal interaction studies and the new profession of companion animal ethology. This paper concludes that applied ethology could provide science-based criteria to assess companion-animal welfare. Due to the integral part that companion animals play in human societies, the paper is divided into an animal component that deals with the animal's basic needs and its ability to adapt, and a human component assessing the living environment of animals as provided by humans and responsible companion-animal ownership. The greatest challenge for future research is to find ways to disseminate knowledge of companion animal ethology to companion animal owners.

Pathogenic autoimmune cells are demonstrated to be able to produce neurotrophic factors during acute phase of multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study, we determined the production of various neurotrophins [brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and neurotrophin 4 (NT4)] and some pro-inflammatory cytokines [tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)] by unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in 21 relapsing-remitting MS patients during different phases of disease (stable, relapse and post-relapse). During acute phase of disease, we detected a considerable increase of BDNF, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma production, while significantly higher levels of GDNF, NGF, NT3 and NT4 were found in post-relapse phase. When neurotrophin production was correlated with clinical outcome (complete or partial recovery from new symptoms), we found a significantly higher BDNF production in relapse phase followed by increased GDNF, NGF, NT3 and NT4 levels during post-relapse phase in subjects with complete remission only. During relapse phase, we detected a significant increase of pro-inflammatory cytokines, that was more evident in patients with partial recovery. The neuroprotective potential of immune cells seems to be inversely correlated with disease duration and with the age of patients.
This study examines the hypothesis that cartilage-derived morphogenic protein-2 (CDMP-2) can improve tendon healing after surgical repair. We have previously found improved tendon healing by applying CDMP-2 in models for conservative treatment with mechanically loaded Achilles tendon defects in rats and rabbits. In this study, the patellar tendon was unloaded by patello- tibial cerclage and cut transversely in 40 rabbits. Two hours post-operative, the rabbits received a dose of 20 microg of CDMP-2 or vehicle injected into the hematoma. Specimens were harvested after 14 and 28 days and evaluated by biomechanical testing, radiography and histology. At 14 days, CDMP-2 caused a 65% increase in force at failure, a 50% increase in ultimate stress and a 57% increase in stiffness, as compared with controls. There was no effect on callus size. At 28 days, no differences between the treatment groups could be demonstrated. No bone or cartilage was found in any tendon or regenerated tissue at any time point. Thus, early tendon repair can be stimulated by CDMP-2 in an unloaded model. These results suggest that CDMP-2 might be of interest for clinical use as a complement to surgical treatment of tendon ruptures.
Several studies have demonstrated the potential of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) for the repair of central and peripheral nerve injury. In this work, ensheathing cells that express the receptor gene coding for enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) from adult mice were isolated and purified, and then, its biological characters were examined in vitro. The work was based on combinations of fluorescence confocal, phase contrast, cell proliferation assay and immunolabeling identification. The results showed that (1) two major morphologically and immunohistochemically distinct types of cells were present after 15 days in the primary cultures of adult transgenic mice olfactory nerves and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb. One cell type was bipolar or multipolar OECs and strained positively for P75 low affinity neurotrophic receptor (P75N), S100, and glial fibrillary acidic protein(GFAP). The other type was fibroblasts with flat or endothelial-like shape, and reacted with antibody against Thy1.1. (2) A simple, inexpensive method for purifying ensheathing cells, in which various harvested cell types showed different rates of attachment to the uncoated culture ware, was developed. This technique neither binds any antibodies nor requires any costly equipment, and yields a large number of highly purified cells. (3) In sequential observations over 22 days in culture, the population of purified cells was maintained and continued to proliferate for longer. This experiment not only supported and advanced the ensheathing cell research but also offered ideal materials of in vivo transplantation for the repair of CNS injury.
Cerebral revascularization continues to evolve as an option in the setting of ischemia. The potential to favorably influence stroke risk and the natural history of cerebrovascular occlusive disease is being evaluated by the ongoing Carotid Occlusion Surgery Study and the Japanese Extracranial-Intracranial Bypass Trial. For those patients who undergo bypass in the setting of ischemia, four key areas of follow-up include functional neurological status, neurocognitive status, bypass patency, and status of cerebral blood flow and perfusion. Several stroke scales that can be used to assess functional status include the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, Bathel Index, Modified Rankin Scale, and Stroke Specific Quality of Life. Neurocognition can be checked using the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status, among other tests. Bypass patency is checked intraoperatively using various flow probes and postoperatively using magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or computed tomographic angiography (CTA). Cerebral blood flow and perfusion can be assessed using a host of modalities that include positron emission tomography (PET), xenon CT, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), transcranial Doppler (TCD), CT, and MR. Paired blood flow studies after a cerebral vasodilatory stimulus using one of these modalities can determine the state of autoregulatory vasodilation (Stage 1 hemodynamic compromise). However, only PET with oxygen extraction fraction measurements can reliably assess for Stage 2 compromise (misery perfusion). This article discusses the various clinical, neuropsychological, and radiographic techniques available to assess a patient's clinical state and cerebral blood flow before and after cerebral revascularization.







Anorexia nervosa is a life-threatening psychiatric disorder characterized by severe weight loss and high rates of comorbidity and mortality. The current study assessed the feasibility of using microPET imaging to study the effects of chronic food restriction in an animal model of anorexia nervosa. To establish preliminary support for this model, we hypothesized that chronic food restriction would decrease relative 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (18FDG) uptake in the rat, in effect modeling cerebral glucose hypometabolism reported in the clinical population of anorexia nervosa. Nine adolescent Wistar female rats received a baseline 18FDG scan. The control group received free access to food for a period of 25 days. The food restricted (FR) group received 40% of their baseline daily food intake until a 30% weight loss occurred; body weight was then maintained at 70% of baseline by adjusting daily food intake. The FR group also had free access to a running wheel for a mean period of 10.8+/-6.1 days. Both groups received a follow-up 18FDG scan. Relative 18FDG uptake was significantly increased in the cerebellum and significantly decreased in the hippocampus and striatum in the FR group compared to controls. Moreover, there was a trend towards a decrease in relative 18FDG uptake in the thalamus in the FR compared to control group. This is the first study to establish support for the use of microPET imaging in an animal model of anorexia nervosa as a means for studying the neurobiological changes that occur due to chronic food restriction.
Schizophrenia and autism are neurodevelopmental disorders with genetic and environmental etiologies. Prenatal viral infection has been associated with both disorders. We investigated the effects of prenatal viral infection on gene regulation in offspring of Balb-c mice using microarray technology. The results showed significant upregulation of 21 genes and downregulation of 18 genes in the affected neonatal brain homogenates spanning gene families affecting cell structure and function, namely, cytosolic chaperone system, HSC70, Bicaudal D, aquaporin 4, carbonic anhydrase 3, glycine receptor, norepinephrine transporter, and myelin basic protein. We also verified the results using QPCR measurements of selected mRNA species. These results show for the first time that prenatal human influenza viral infection on day 9 of pregnancy leads to alterations in a subset of genes in brains of exposed offspring, potentially leading to permanent changes in brain structure and function.
Iodothyronine deiodinases (D1, D2, and D3) comprise a family of selenoproteins that are involved in the conversion of thyroxine (T(4)) to active triiodothyronine (T(3)), and also the inactivation of both thyroid hormones. The deiodinase enzymes are of critical importance for the normal development and function of the central nervous system. D1 is absent from the human brain, suggesting that D2 and D3 are the two main enzymes involved in the maintenance of thyroid hormone homeostasis in the central nervous system, D2 as the primary T(3)-producing enzyme, and D3 as the primary inactivating enzyme. While the coordinated action of D2 and D3 maintain constant T(3) levels in the cortex independently from the circulating thyroid hormone levels, the role of deiodinases in the hypothalamus may be more complex, as suggested by the regulation of D2 activity in the hypothalamus by infection, fasting and changes in photoperiod. Tanycytes, the primary source of D2 activity in the hypothalamus, integrate hormonal and probably neuronal signals, and under specific conditions, may influence neuroendocrine functions by altering local T(3) tissue concentrations. This function may be of particular importance in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis during fasting and infection, and in the regulation of appetite and reproductive function. Transient expression of D3 in the preoptic region during a critical time of development suggests a special role for this deiodinase in sexual differentiation of the brain.
Chemical signalling underlies every function of the nervous system, from those of which we are unaware, for example, control of the heart, to higher cognitive functions, such as emotions, learning and memory. Neurotransmitters and neuromodulators mediate communication between neurons and between neurons and non-neural cells such as glia and muscle. In the past, the means for studying the production and release of these signalling agents directly has been limited in its temporal and spatial resolution relative to the dynamics of chemical signalling and the structures of interest in the brain. Now microelectrode biosensors are becoming available that give unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution, enabling, for the first time, direct measurement in real time of the chemical conversations between cells in the nervous system.
Over the past decade, many findings in cognitive neuroscience have resulted in the view that selective attention, working memory and cognitive control involve competition between widely distributed representations. This competition is biased by top-down projections (notably from prefrontal cortex), which can selectively enhance some representations over others. This view has now been implemented in several connectionist models. In this review, we emphasize the relevance of these models to understanding consciousness. Interestingly, the models we review have striking similarities to others directly aimed at implementing 'global workspace theory'. All of these models embody a fundamental principle that has been used in many connectionist models over the past twenty years: global constraint satisfaction.
Historically, psychologists and neuroscientists have distinguished between processes supporting memory for events across retention delays of several seconds (short-term memory, STM), and those supporting memory for events across longer retention delays of minutes or more (long-term memory, LTM). Dissociations reported in some neuropsychological studies have contributed to a popular view that there must be neurally distinct memory stores that differentially support STM and LTM. In this article, we review evidence from recent studies regarding dissociations between STM and LTM. We suggest that the evidence reveals problems with claims of selective STM or LTM impairments, which in turn questions whether theories of memory need to propose neurally distinct stores for short- and long-term retention. We consider alternative ways to explain the neural mechanisms of memory across different retention intervals.
Botulinum neurotoxins are the most potent toxins designed by nature. They are produced by Clostridium bacteria to cause long-lasting paralysis and death. However, in the past century one member of the botulinum family--botulinum neurotoxin type A--has been put to good use, and is now widely employed in clinical neurology and, even more often, in beauty clinics. This article will critically assess the value of individual members of the botulinum family for experimental neuroscience and medicine. The seven botulinum neurotoxins all act by targeting the same vesicle fusion machinery, and yet they cause paralysis of different durations. The distinct behaviors of botulinum neurotoxins will be discussed, with the aim of highlighting advantages and limitations for their future exploitation.
The past decade has been a fruitful one for geneticists involved in Parkinson's disease (PD) research. The initial hurdle of identifying the first gene underlying parkinsonism was cleared with apparent ease in 1997 and four additional genes have since been found to contain mutations causing this disorder. Driving this research is the belief that these data will highlight disease mechanisms and directly implicate a pathway amenable to therapeutic intervention. This article will focus on recent genetic advances in the field, focusing on data that suggest alpha-synuclein expression is key in the etiology of PD. In addition, it will discuss the recent identification of LRRK2 mutation as a cause of PD and the potential of this finding to provide further insight into disease.
Recent developments have implicated cannabinoid CB1 receptors as a novel target for a new class of therapeutic agents used to treat drug addiction. CB1 receptors are expressed in the motivational circuitry of the brain and modulate drug seeking. Blockade of the CB1 receptor is particularly effective in reducing cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking, an animal analogue of cue-induced relapse in human addicts. These relapse-preventing properties are observed with different classes of abused drug (i.e. psychostimulants, opiates, nicotine and alcohol). In addition, recent evidence indicates a more general role of CB1 receptors in reward-related memories, which is consistent with the proposed role of endocannabinoids in memory-related plasticity. Relapse-preventing actions and inhibitory effects on weight gain were confirmed recently in clinical trials with the CB1 antagonist rimonabant. Collectively, these clinical and preclinical studies suggest that antagonists of CB1 receptors offer a novel approach in the treatment of addictive behaviours.
It has been argued that culture significantly influences the developmental basis of self-concept. The goal of the present study is to compare the relative importance of genetic and environmental factors to explain individual differences in various dimensions of self-concept in female preadolescents of Minnesota in the United States and Seoul in South Korea. Two hundred and eighteen monozygotic (MZ) and 137 dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs from the Minnesota Twin Family Study (MTFS) and 74 MZ and 42 DZ twin pairs from the Seoul Twin Family Study (STFS) completed the 6 cluster scales of the Piers-Harris Children's Self-Concept Scale (P-H). The 6 cluster scales of the P-H include Popularity, Physical Appearance and Attributes, Behavior, Intellectual Competence and School Status, Anxiety, and Happiness and Satisfaction. Univariate model-fitting analyses were performed. In both samples, a model incorporating shared and nonshared environmental influences fitted the data best for Popularity, Anxiety, and Intellectual Competence and School Status, whereas a model including additive genetic and nonshared environmental factors provided the best fit for Physical Appearance and Attributes, and Behavior. The univariate model did not yield an adequate fit for Happiness and Satisfaction. For Physical Appearance and Attributes, and Intellectual Competence and School Status, estimates of additive genetic and environmental factors were significantly different between the MTFS and the STFS samples. For Popularity, Anxiety, and Behavior, however, the genetic and environmental estimates were comparable between the two samples.

Eccentricity-dependent resolution losses are sometimes compensated for in psychophysical experiments by magnifying (scaling) stimuli at each eccentricity. The use of either pre-selected scaling factors or unscaled stimuli sometimes leads to non-monotonic changes in performance as a function of eccentricity. We argue that such non-monotonic changes arise when performance is limited by more than one type of constraint at each eccentricity. Building on current methods developed to investigate peripheral perception [e.g., Watson, A. B. (1987). Estimation of local spatial scale. Journal of the Optical Society of America A, 4 (8), 1579-1582; Poirier, F. J. A. M., &amp; Gurnsey, R. (2002). Two eccentricity dependent limitations on subjective contour discrimination. Vision Research, 42, 227-238; Strasburger, H., Rentschler, I., &amp; Harvey Jr., L. O. (1994). Cortical magnification theory fails to predict visual recognition. European Journal of Neuroscience, 6, 1583-1588], we show how measured scaling can deviate from a linear function of eccentricity in a grating acuity task [Thibos, L. N., Still, D. L., &amp; Bradley, A. (1996). Characterization of spatial aliasing and contrast sensitivity in peripheral vision. Vision Research, 36(2), 249-258]. This framework can also explain the central performance drop [Kehrer, L. (1989). Central performance drop on perceptual segregation tasks. Spatial Vision, 4, 45-62] and a case of &quot;reverse scaling&quot; of the integration window in symmetry [Tyler, C. W. (1999). Human symmetry detection exhibits reverse eccentricity scaling. Visual Neuroscience, 16, 919-922]. These cases of non-monotonic performance are shown to be consistent with multiple sources of resolution loss, each of which increases linearly with eccentricity. We conclude that most eccentricity research, including &quot;oddities&quot;, can be explained by multiple-scaling theory as extended here, where the receptive field properties of all underlying mechanisms in a task increase in size with eccentricity, but not necessarily at the same rate.
Limiting factors of resolution have previously only been investigated by using resolution data and retinal ganglion cell spacing data from different individuals. We report on our unique opportunity to study the intra-individual relationship in three human subjects between retinal ganglion cell separations and resolution thresholds, measured with high-pass resolution perimetry. Our data show that resolution is directly proportional to half the midget population, in accordance with the hypothesis that a dichotomous midget ON/OFF population mediates resolution.
Clinical and experimental studies have demonstrated that the meniscus is important for normal knee function. Loss of meniscus results in abnormal load transmission across the knee and may lead to degenerative joint disease. Preservation of meniscal tissue is therefore important. About 10 % of all meniscal tears are repairable. The most successful repairs occur in younger patients who have an acute, vertical tear in the vascular portion of the meniscus. Currently, arthroscopic meniscal repair procedures include the inside-out, the outside-in and the all-inside technique. Vertical suture techniques are superior to horizontally placed sutures. From a biomechanical point of view, 2-0 to 1 sutures are recommended for suture repair. Various meniscus implants are also available for meniscal repair. The initial fixation strength of the implants is lower compared to vertical sutures. A combination of suture techniques and implants might be a treatment option in posterior meniscal lesions. The collagen meniscus implant has been designed to support tissue ingrowth after segmental medial meniscectomy. Although fibrocartilage matrix formation has been shown, long-term clinical follow-ups are still required. Meniscal allograft transplantation may be indicated in limited situations. Younger patients with meniscal deficiency due to previous meniscectomy who have only early arthrosis, normal axial alignment, and a stable knee may currently considered appropriate candidates for meniscal transplantation.
We investigated whether a continuous supply of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) via encapsulated genetically modified cells can promote survival and fiber outgrowth from xenotransplanted human dopaminergic neurons. Cells genetically engineered to continuously secrete GDNF were confined in hollow fiber-based macrocapsules. Each hemiparkinsonian rat received either a single C2C12-hGDNF capsule (n=8) or a C2C12-control capsule (n=8) concomitantly with human embryonic ventral mesencephalic cell suspension transplants. Our results show that fiber outgrowth in the area between the capsule and the graft is more extensive in rats with GDNF-releasing capsules than in rats with control capsules. We suggest that continuous and safe delivery of GDNF to the brain could be a potential way to optimize neural transplantation as a therapy for Parkinson's disease.
The current work examined spatial learning and memory (i.e., latencies to find a baited food well) in age-matched nulliparous, primiparous and multiparous (NULL, PRIM and MULT, zero, one or two pregnancies and lactations, respectively). We tested at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months of age in a dry land version of the Morris water maze (Main task), and at 12, 18 and 24 months in the same task in which the original location of the baited well was changed (Reversal task). We show that PRIM/MULT rats, compared to the age-matched NULL females, learned the spatial tasks significantly better and exhibited attenuated memory decline, up to 24 months of age. Furthermore, at the conclusion of behavioral testing, we investigated levels of these animals' hippocampal (CA1 and dentate gyrus) immunoreactive amyloid precursor protein (APP), a marker of neurodegeneration and age-related cognitive loss. MULTs had significantly reduced APP in both CA1 and DG, relative to PRIMs and NULLs, and PRIMs had a trend (p&lt;0.06) toward a reduction in APP compared to NULLs in DG. Further, level of APP was negatively correlated with performance in the two tasks (viz., more APP, worse maze performance). Reproduction, therefore, with its attendant natural endocrine and postpartum sensory experiences, may facilitate lifelong learning and memory, and may mitigate markers of neural aging, in the rat. Combining natural hormonal exposure with subsequent substantial experience with stimuli from the offspring may preserve the aged parous female brain relative to that of NULL females.
We identified CAT 53 by cDNA hybridization selection as an expressed sequence tag (EST), located in the vicinity of HLA-C and designated as CAT (for HLA-C associated transcript) 53. CAT 53 encodes a protein described by others and commonly known as phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). PNUTS is a potent inhibitor of nuclear serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). We present the genomic organization of CAT 53, localize specific sites of mRNA transcription in thin sections of mouse brain by in-situ hybridization, and perform a structural analysis of the peptide domains. We also characterize the protein expression pattern for PNUTS by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry with PNUTS antibody in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and age-matched control brains. In-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis of human and mouse brain show high CAT 53 expression in the olfactory cortex, piriform cortex, and hippocampus. Very high expression of CAT 53 was found mainly in the hippocampus, frontal, and entorhinal cortex of control brains and in the neurofibrillary tangles of AD brain. In the hippocampus, CAT 53 is expressed in CA1 and CA3 cell layers and in the dentate gyrus. The hippocampus is known to play a fundamental role in learning and episodic memories and has been implicated in a number of neurological and psychiatric disorders, including AD, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. Our findings suggest that PNUTS, encoded by CAT 53 on 6p21.3, may have a role in the progression of AD.

Many dominantly inherited disorders are caused by missense amino acid substitutions resulting from a single nucleotide exchange in the encoding gene. For these disorders, where proteins expressed from the mutant alleles are often pathogenic and present throughout life, gene silencing, through intervention at the mRNA level, holds promise as a therapeutic approach. We have used mutations that underlie the slow channel congenital myasthenic syndrome (SCCMS) as a model system to study allele-specific gene silencing of RNA transcripts by DNAzymes. We tested the ability of DNAzymes to give allele-specific cleavage for i) mutations that create cleavage sites, and ii) mutations located close to a DNAzyme cleavage site that create a potential mismatch in the binding arms. For both we demonstrate selective cleavage of mutant transcripts under simulated physiological conditions. For DNAzymes with binding arm mismatches the degree of selectivity for mutant over wild type may be enhanced by optimising the mismatch position as well as the binding arm length. The optimal sites for mismatches are 1.1 and 1.2 in arm I, and 16.2 in arm II. Asymmetric binding arm DNAzymes with a shorter arm I are more discriminative. Our results show it should be possible to apply DNAzyme-mediated cleavage of mutant alleles even when the mutant does not itself create a putative cleavage site. This therapeutic approach may be well suited to dominantly inherited disorders such as SCCMS, where loss of some wild type transcripts is unlikely to have pathogenic consequences.
Slow channel congenital myasthenic syndrome (SCCMS) is a dominant disorder caused by missense mutations in muscle acetylcholine receptors (AChR). Expression from mutant alleles causes prolonged AChR ion-channel activations. This 'gain of function' results in excitotoxic damage due to excess entry of calcium ions that manifests as an endplate myopathy. The biology of SCCMS provides a model system to investigate the potential of catalytic nucleic acids for therapy in dominantly inherited disorders involving single missense mutations. Hammerhead ribozymes can catalytically cleave RNA transcripts in a sequence-specific manner. We designed hammerhead ribozymes to target transcripts from four SCCMS mutations, alphaT254I, alphaS226F, alphaS269I and epsilonL221F. Ribozymes were incubated with cRNA transcripts encoding wild type and mutant AChR subunits. The ribozymes efficiently cleaved the mutant allele cRNA transcripts but left the wild type cRNA intact. Cleavage efficiency was optimised for alphaS226F. We were able to demonstrate robust catalytic activity under simulated physiological conditions and at high Ca(2+) concentrations, which is likely to be accumulated at the endplate region of the SCCMS patient muscles. These results demonstrate the potential for gene therapy applications of ribozymes to specifically down-regulate expression of mutant alleles in dominantly inherited disorders.
The molecular mechanism of RNA interference (RNAi) is under intense investigation. We previously demonstrated the existence of inactive siRNAs and also of mRNA cleavage in vivo in human cells. Here it is shown that some siRNAs with low activity leave mRNA cleavage fragments while an siRNA with higher activity does not. The pattern is consistent with both short-term (4-24 hours) and long-term (1-4 days) time-series. Analysis of the putative 3' mRNA cleavage product showed high GC content immediately after the cleavage point. The cleavage fragments might indicate a stalled or slowed RNAi cleavage complex - possibly in the RISC enzyme restoration phase - and thus constitute a novel explanation for the existence of inactive siRNAs.



In conscious rabbits, microinjection of muscimol into the medullary raph/parapyramidal region decreased fluctuation (coefficient variation) of resting ear blood flow (from 62 +/- 8 to 25 +/- 4%, P &lt; 0.01, n = 8). The muscimol injection also prevented falls in ear blood flow that normally occur in response to alerting stimuli and to cold exposure. Thus, raph/parapyramidal neurons constitute an important brainstem center for mediating cutaneous vasoconstriction initiated by alerting stimuli and by cold exposure.
A mitochondrial complex-I inhibitor, rotenone was unilaterally infused into the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) or median forebrain bundle (MFB) to create hemiparkinsonian animal models and investigated spontaneous and drug-induced stereotypic rotations, as well as certain postural behaviors in Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals infused intranigrally, but not intra-MFB, with rotenone exhibited spontaneous contralateral rotations immediately after recovery from anesthesia. Head position bias and elevated body swing test showed insignificant contralateral bias in animals with nigral damage but a significant ipsilateral bias in MFB-lesioned rats. General motor activity of the animals was reduced in both the groups as indicated by reduced performance on a Plus-Maze. Intranigrally, rotenone-infused animals exhibited progressive ipsilateral rotations when challenged with d-amphetamine on the 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th days or with apomorphine on 9th, 16th, 23rd, and 30th days. However, animals that received rotenone in MFB exhibited ipsilateral or contralateral rotations when challenged respectively with d-amphetamine or apomorphine only in the 5th week (28th and 30th days). Stereotaxic administration of rotenone into SNpc or MFB caused a significant loss of dopamine in the ipsilateral striatum (&gt;80% in SNpc; &gt;95% in MFB), when assayed employing an HPLC equipped with electrochemical detector on the 32nd day. Neuronal loss in SNpc was confirmed in coronal sections stained with cresyl violet and revealed extension of lesion towards SN pars reticulata, in SNpc-infused animals. Our results demonstrate that rotenone-induced neurodegeneration is a slow, yet progressive process similar to that in idiopathic Parkinson's disease and unlike that observed in other classical neurotoxin-mediated lesions which are abrupt and developed in few hours to days. Thus, intranigral or intra-MFB infusion of rotenone could be used for producing hemiparkinsonian animal models in rats. These findings further suggest that, while both d-amphetamine and apomorphine-induced stereotypic rotations could be used as a valuable behavioral assay procedure to test novel drugs against Parkinson's disease, yet apomorpine-induced contralateral bias in turning is a reliable indicator of specific destruction in nigrostriatal pathway and development of postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity.
Placing rats into a series of novel environments induced vigorous c-fos expression in the infralimbic, anterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortices, and in the hippocampus. Pretreatment with the antimuscarinic drugs scopolamine and atropine was able to greatly suppress novelty-induced Fos expression at these sites. Placement into the novel environments also induced Fos expression in the habenula and the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, but the response at these sites did not appear to be sensitive to cholinergic blockade. These findings suggest that cholinergic mechanisms play an important role in ability of behavioral events to influence cortical and hippocampal immediate-early gene expression and are consistent with the possibility that some of the effects of anticholinergic drugs on placticity and learning may be mediated through alterations in the expression of these genes.
This study used immunohistochemical methods to determine if the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is involved in the extinction of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA). As rats reached 90% reacceptance of a tastant (saccharin: SAC) that had previously been associated with lithium chloride-induced malaise, c-Fos protein expression increased dramatically as compared to animals with active CTAs, animals without CTAs (i.e., explicitly unpaired CS-US exposures) or animals drinking SAC for the first time. These data indicate a role for mPFC (prelimbic and infralimbic cortex) in the formation of a CTA extinction memory.
Homer proteins are integral to the assembly of proteins regulating glutamate signaling and synaptic plasticity. Constitutive Homer2 gene deletion [knock-out (KO)] and rescue with adeno-associated viral (AAV) transfection of Homer2b was used to demonstrate the importance of Homer proteins in neuroplasticity produced by repeated ethanol (EtOH) administration. Homer2 KO mice avoided drinking high concentrations of EtOH and did not develop place preference or locomotor sensitization after repeated EtOH administration. The deficient behavioral plasticity to EtOH after Homer2 deletion was paralleled by a lack of augmentation in the rise in extracellular dopamine and glutamate elicited by repeated EtOH injections. The genotypic differences in EtOH-induced change in behavior and neurochemistry were essentially reversed by AAV-mediated transfection of Homer2b into accumbens cells including, differences in EtOH preference, locomotor sensitization, and EtOH-induced elevations in extracellular glutamate and dopamine. These data demonstrate a necessary and active role for accumbens Homer2 expression in regulating EtOH-induced behavioral and cellular neuroplasticity.
Neurofilament proteins are known to be transported along axons by slow axonal transport, but the form in which they move is controversial. In previous studies on cultured rat sympathetic neurons, we found that green fluorescent protein-tagged neurofilament proteins move predominantly in the form of filamentous structures, and we proposed that these structures are single-neurofilament polymers. In the present study, we have tested this hypothesis by using a rapid perfusion technique to capture these structures as they move through naturally occurring gaps in the axonal neurofilament array. Because the gaps lack neurofilaments, they permit unambiguous identification of the captured structure. Using quantitative immunofluorescence microscopy and correlative light and electron microscopy, we show that the captured structures are single continuous neurofilament polymers. Thus, neurofilament polymers are one of the cargo structures of slow axonal transport.
Can the rapid stream of conscious experience be predicted from brain activity alone? Recently, spatial patterns of activity in visual cortex have been successfully used to predict feature-specific stimulus representations for both visible and invisible stimuli. However, because these studies examined only the prediction of static and unchanging perceptual states during extended periods of stimulation, it remains unclear whether activity in early visual cortex can also predict the rapidly and spontaneously changing stream of consciousness. Here, we used binocular rivalry to induce frequent spontaneous and stochastic changes in conscious experience without any corresponding changes in sensory stimulation, while measuring brain activity with fMRI. Using information that was present in the multivariate pattern of responses to stimulus features, we could accurately predict, and therefore track, participants' conscious experience from the fMRI signal alone while it underwent many spontaneous changes. Prediction in primary visual cortex primarily reflected eye-based signals, whereas prediction in higher areas reflected the color of the percept. Furthermore, accurate prediction during binocular rivalry could be established with signals recorded during stable monocular viewing, showing that prediction generalized across viewing conditions and did not require or rely on motor responses. It is therefore possible to predict the dynamically changing time course of subjective experience with only brain activity.
Blinks profoundly interrupt visual input but are rarely noticed, perhaps because of blink suppression, a visual-sensitivity loss that begins immediately prior to blink onset. Blink suppression is thought to result from an extra-retinal signal that is associated with the blink motor command and may act to attenuate the sensory consequences of the motor action. However, the neural mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain unclear. They are challenging to study because any brain-activity changes resulting from an extra-retinal signal associated with the blink motor command are potentially masked by profound neural-activity changes caused by the retinal-illumination reduction that results from occlusion of the pupil by the eyelid. Here, we distinguished direct top-down effects of blink-associated motor signals on cortical activity from purely mechanical or optical effects of blinking on visual input by combining pupil-independent retinal stimulation with functional MRI (fMRI) in humans. Even though retinal illumination was kept constant during blinks, we found that blinking nevertheless suppressed activity in visual cortex and in areas of parietal and prefrontal cortex previously associated with awareness of environmental change. Our findings demonstrate active top-down modulation of visual processing during blinking, suggesting a possible mechanism by which blinks go unnoticed.
Touch differs from other exteroceptive senses in that the body itself forms part of the tactile percept. Interactions between proprioception and touch provide a powerful way to investigate the implicit body representation underlying touch. Here, we demonstrate that an intrinsic primary quality of a tactile object, for example its size, is directly affected by the perceived size of the body part touching it. We elicited proprioceptive illusions that the left index finger was either elongating or shrinking by vibrating the biceps or triceps tendon of the right arm while subjects grasped the tip of their left index finger. Subjects estimated the distance between two simultaneous tactile contacts on the left finger during tendon vibration. We found that tactile distances feel bigger when the touched body part feels elongated. Control tests showed that the modulation of touch was linked to the perceived index-finger size induced by tendon vibration. Vibrations that did not produce proprioceptive illusion had no effect on touch. Our results show that the perception of tactile objects is referenced to an implicit body representation and that proprioception contributes to this body representation. We also provide, for the first time, a quantitative, implicit measure of distortions of body size.

Episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) is an autosomal dominant channelopathy characterized by paroxysmal cerebellar ataxia. Previous studies suggest that most EA2 cases are associated with mutations in the alpha1A subunit of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel gene CACNA1A. In a UK national study, the authors analyzed 15 index cases with typical EA2 and identified two unreported intronic mutations that predict aberrant splicing.
Using ultrasonography we found multiple sites with nerve enlargement along the course of the brachial plexus, median, ulnar, and radial nerves in the majority of 21 patients with multifocal motor neuropathy. Sonography and electrophysiologic studies showed more abnormalities than expected on purely clinical grounds. Moreover, sonography revealed nerve enlargement without clinical or electrophysiologic abnormalities.
Some patients with a lesion to the primary visual cortex (V1) show &quot;blindsight&quot;: the remarkable ability to guess correctly about attributes of stimuli presented to the blind hemifield. Here, we show that blindsight can be induced in normal observers by using transcranial magnetic stimulation of the occipital cortex but exclusively for the affective content of unseen stimuli. Surprisingly, access to the affective content of stimuli disappears upon prolonged task training or when stimulus visibility increases, allegedly increasing the subjects' confidence in their overall performance. This finding suggests that availability of conscious information suppresses access to unconscious information, supporting the idea of consciousness as a repressant of unconscious tendencies.
Protein conformational diseases, including Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's diseases, result from protein misfolding, giving a distinct fibrillar feature termed amyloid. Recent studies show that only the globular (not fibrillar) conformation of amyloid proteins is sufficient to induce cellular pathophysiology. However, the 3D structural conformations of these globular structures, a key missing link in designing effective prevention and treatment, remain undefined as of yet. By using atomic force microscopy, circular dichroism, gel electrophoresis, and electrophysiological recordings, we show here that an array of amyloid molecules, including amyloid-beta(1-40), alpha-synuclein, ABri, ADan, serum amyloid A, and amylin undergo supramolecular conformational change. In reconstituted membranes, they form morphologically compatible ion-channel-like structures and elicit single ion-channel currents. These ion channels would destabilize cellular ionic homeostasis and hence induce cell pathophysiology and degeneration in amyloid diseases.
Neurosteroids have been linked to cognitive performance, and their levels are altered in neuropsychiatric diseases. These neuromodulators are produced in the brain where they have important effects on synaptic transmission at postsynaptic gamma-amino-butyric acid receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and at presynaptic sites. We previously found, in cultured neonatal hippocampal neurons, that the neurosteroid, pregnenolone sulfate, acts presynaptically through a sigma1-like receptor to modulate basal glutamate release. The present study was designed to test whether pregnenolone sulfate acts through a similar presynaptic receptor in adult hippocampal neurons. The sigma1-receptor agonist, 2-(4-morpholino)ethyl-1-phenylcyclohexane-1-carboxylate, enhanced paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) by a similar extent to that which we had previously reported for pregnenolone sulfate. The sigma1-receptor antagonists, 1-(4-Iodophenyl)-3-(2-adamantyl)guanidine and 1[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-4-methylpiperazine, blocked the pregnenolone sulfate enhancement of PPF as did pretreatment of slices in pertussis toxin. We conclude that pregnenolone sulfate acts through a Gi/o-coupled sigma1-like receptor to enhance short-term presynaptic facilitation onto adult hippocampal CA1 neurons.
For many populations of estrogen-sensitive neurons it remains unknown how they are associated with central nervous system circuitries that mediate estrogen-induced modulation of behavioral components. With the use of double-labeling immunohistochemistry and tracing techniques, the relationships of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha- and ER-beta-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the mouse brainstem and spinal cord to monoaminergic, cholinergic, and spinal projection systems are explored. Similar distributions of ER-IR neurons were present in females and males, with differences in labeling intensity of ER-alpha immunoreactivity among males and estrogen-, and oil-treated females. Barrington's nucleus, the ventrolateral medulla, and the nucleus of the solitary tract contained spinal-projecting ER-alpha-IR neurons, whereas ER-alpha-IR neurons in the periaqueductal gray, parabrachial nucleus, and catecholaminergic A1 cell group received spinal input. Numerous tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-IR ER-alpha-IR neurons were present in the ventral periaqueductal gray, nucleus of the solitary tract, A1 cell group, and lumbosacral cord. The dorsal raphe nucleus contained ER-alpha-IR and ER-beta-IR neurons that colocalized with serotonin (5HT), and the reticulotegmental nucleus contained 5HT-IR ER-alpha-IR neurons. Fibers IR for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), TH, and 5HT were located among ER-alpha-IR neurons in the dorsal horn and spinal autonomic regions. Robust staining for TH and VAChT, but not 5HT, was present among ER-alpha-IR neurons in the lumbosacral lateral collateral pathway. Possible modulatory actions of estrogen on each of these ER-IR populations are discussed in the context of their specific function, including micturition, sexual behavior, ejaculation, cardiovascular and respiratory control, tactile and nociceptive sensory processing, anti-nociception, endocrine regulation, and feeding.
Sclerosteosis is an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by overgrowth of bone tissue and is linked to mutations in the gene encoding the secreted protein SOST. Sclerosteosis shares remarkable similarities with &quot;high bone mass&quot; diseases caused by &quot;gain-of-function&quot; mutations in the LRP5 gene, which encodes a coreceptor for Wnt signaling proteins. We show here that SOST antagonizes Wnt signaling in Xenopus embryos and mammalian cells by binding to the extracellular domain of the Wnt coreceptors LRP5 and LRP6 and disrupting Wnt-induced Frizzled-LRP complex formation. Our findings suggest that SOST is an antagonist for Wnt signaling and that the loss of SOST function likely leads to the hyperactivation of Wnt signaling that underlies bone overgrowth seen in sclerosteosis patients.
Change in sodium channel (NaCh) activity can play a role in reorganization, recovery, or possibly excitotoxic damage after CNS injury. Alteration of sodium channel function has been reported to occur in a variety of neuropathological states including epilepsy and brain injury. Previously we reported that out of five NaCh alpha subunit genes that were down-regulated, Na(v)1.1 exhibited the most dramatic and sustained alterations following focal cerebral ischemia in the rat. In the present study, we evaluated the acute spatial and temporal time course distribution of Na(v)1.1 mRNA (in situ hybridization) and protein (immunohistochemistry) following ischemic brain injury. Male rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by reperfusion and brain tissue was collected at 2, 6, 24, and 48 h post-MCAo. Analysis of brain tissue revealed a qualitative drop in both mRNA and protein levels of Na(v)1.1 throughout ischemic regions, beginning at the early stage of injury (6 h) with dramatic losses at later stages (24 and 48 h). Quantitative cell counts and optical density measurements indicated significant decreases in the percent of brain cells immunoreactive for Na(v)1.1 as well as a loss of signal in those cells positive for Na(v)1.1 in the injured cortex and striatum as compared to the contralateral hemisphere. Double labeling with NeuN and Na(v)1.1 immunoflouresence confirmed that the predominate loss of Na(v)1.1 immunoreactivity was in neurons. In conclusion, these data map the time-dependent loss of Na(v)1.1 mRNA and protein following focal ischemic brain injury in the rat out to 48 h post-injury.
Previous studies have observed increased tachykinin NK(1) receptor immunoreactivity (NK(1)-IR) in the prefrontal cortex in subjects with schizophrenia. Since the subjects were medicated the possibility of a treatment effect could not be excluded. Thus, the present study was undertaken to determine the effect of chronic treatment with the antipsychotic drug, haloperidol, on the distribution of NK(1)-IR neurons in the guinea-pig brain. Guinea pigs were treated each day for 21 days with either haloperidol (1mg/kg) or vehicle and the brains were then processed for immunohistochemistry using an NK(1) receptor-specific polyclonal antibody. NK(1)-IR neurons and fibres were abundant in the forebrain cortex and caudate putamen and more sparsely distributed in a number of other brain regions. The relative density of NK(1)-IR neurons was significantly increased in the forebrain cortex, but not in the caudate putamen in guinea pigs treated with haloperidol. This study has shown that haloperidol causes region-specific changes to the density of NK(1)-IR neurons. Whether these changes are related to the therapeutic effects or to the side effects of haloperidol in individuals with schizophrenia, remains to be determined.

Robust innate behaviours are attractive systems for genetically dissecting how environmental cues are perceived and integrated to generate complex behaviours. During courtship, Drosophila males engage in a series of innate, stereotyped behaviours that are coordinated by specific sensory cues. However, little is known about the specific neural substrates mediating this complex behavioural programme. Genetic, developmental and behavioural studies have shown that the fruitless (fru) gene encodes a set of male-specific transcription factors (FruM) that act to establish the potential for courtship in Drosophila. FruM proteins are expressed in approximately 2% of central nervous system neurons, at least one subset of which coordinates the component behaviours of courtship. Here we have inserted the yeast GAL4 gene into the fru locus by homologous recombination and show that (1) FruM is expressed in subsets of all peripheral sensory systems previously implicated in courtship, (2) inhibition of FruM function in olfactory system components reduces olfactory-dependent changes in courtship behaviour, (3) transient inactivation of all FruM-expressing neurons abolishes courtship behaviour, with no other gross changes in general behaviour, and (4) 'masculinization' of FruM-expressing neurons in females is largely sufficient to confer male courtship behaviour. Together, these data demonstrate that FruM proteins specify the neural substrates of male courtship.
Learning can be characterized as the extraction of reliable predictions about stimulus occurrences from past experience. In two experiments, we investigated the interval of temporal integration of previous learning trials in different brain regions using implicit and explicit Pavlovian fear conditioning with a dynamically changing reinforcement regime in an experimental setting. With formal learning theory (the Rescorla-Wagner model), temporal integration is characterized by the learning rate. Using fMRI and this theoretical framework, we are able to distinguish between learning-related brain regions that show long temporal integration (e.g., amygdala) and higher perceptual regions that integrate only over a short period of time (e.g., fusiform face area, parahippocampal place area). This approach allows for the investigation of learning-related changes in brain activation, as it can dissociate brain areas that differ with respect to their integration of past learning experiences by either computing long-term outcome predictions or instantaneous reinforcement expectancies.
The prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus exhibit converging projections to the nucleus accumbens and have functional reciprocal connections via indirect pathways. As a result, information processing between these structures is likely to be bidirectional. Using evoked potential measures, we examined the interactions of these inputs on synaptic plasticity within the accumbens. Our results show that the direction of information flow between the prefrontal cortex and limbic structures determines the synaptic plasticity that these inputs exhibit within the accumbens. Moreover, this synaptic plasticity at hippocampal and prefrontal inputs selectively involves dopamine D1 and D2 activation or inactivation, respectively. Repeated cocaine administration disrupted this synaptic plasticity at hippocampal and prefrontal cortical inputs and goal-directed behavior in the spatial maze task. Thus, interactions of limbic-prefrontal cortical synaptic plasticity and its dysfunction within the accumbens could underlie complex information processing deficits observed in individuals following psychostimulant administration.
Auditory afferent fiber activity is driven by high-fidelity information transfer from the sensory hair cell. Presynaptic specializations, posited to maintain fidelity, are investigated at synapses with characteristic frequencies of 120 Hz and 320 Hz. Morphological data indicate that high-frequency cells have more synapses and higher vesicle density near dense bodies (DBs). Tracking vesicular release via capacitance changes identified three overlapping kinetic components of release corresponding to morphologically identified vesicle pools. High-frequency cells released faster; however, when normalized to release site number, low-frequency cells released faster, likely due to a greater Ca2+ load per synapse. The Ca(2+)-dependence of release was nonsaturating and independent of frequency, suggesting that release, not refilling, was rate limiting. A model of release derived from vesicle equilibration between morphologically defined pools reproduced the capacitance data, supporting a critical role in vesicle trafficking for DBs. The model suggests that presynaptic specializations enable synapses to operate most efficiently at their characteristic frequencies.
Considerable circumstantial evidence suggests that Abeta42 is the initiating molecule in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. However, the absolute requirement for Abeta42 for amyloid deposition has never been demonstrated in vivo. We have addressed this by developing transgenic models that express Abeta1-40 or Abeta1-42 in the absence of human amyloid beta protein precursor (APP) overexpression. Mice expressing high levels of Abeta1-40 do not develop overt amyloid pathology. In contrast, mice expressing lower levels of Abeta1-42 accumulate insoluble Abeta1-42 and develop compact amyloid plaques, congophilic amyloid angiopathy (CAA), and diffuse Abeta deposits. When mice expressing Abeta1-42 are crossed with mutant APP (Tg2576) mice, there is also a massive increase in amyloid deposition. These data establish that Abeta1-42 is essential for amyloid deposition in the parenchyma and also in vessels.
Although drug withdrawal may induce an anxiety-like state, decreased locomotion in tests of anxiety-like behavior is an almost universal finding in rodent studies of ethanol withdrawal. Decreased locomotion in many behavioral apparatus, either as a result of a withdrawal-induced lethargy, malaise, or reduced motivation to explore confounds interpreting the effects of withdrawal as specifically increasing an anxiety-like state. To address this issue, we measured home cage activity levels as well as food and water intake for 3 days prior to and up to 5 days after chronic ethanol vapor exposure in genetically heterogeneous mice. In the first experiment, ethanol-withdrawing WSC-2 mice drank less water than controls, but did not differ from controls on any other behavioral measure during the withdrawal assessments. When the dose of ethanol was elevated in a subsequent experiment in WSC-2 mice, a similar temporary decrease in food and water intake, but not in locomotion, was observed during withdrawal. These results differed from those of mice placed into activity monitors during peak withdrawal, which exhibited profoundly reduced activity levels compared to controls. Finally, home cage activity levels during withdrawal were only transiently decreased in a mouse line that has been selectively bred to display high ethanol withdrawal handling-induced convulsion severity (WSP mice). The reduction in food and water consumption seen in most experiments suggests that withdrawal may induce a temporary malaise-like state, but this state is not reflected in altered home cage activity levels. Further, even in a relatively severe mouse model of alcohol withdrawal, any decreases in general home cage activity are short-lived.


A large class of proteins with cytosolic functional domains is anchored to selected intracellular membranes by a single hydrophobic segment close to the C-terminus. Although such tail-anchored (TA) proteins are numerous, diverse, and functionally important, the mechanism of their transmembrane insertion and the basis of their membrane selectivity remain unclear. To address this problem, we have developed a highly specific, sensitive, and quantitative in vitro assay for the proper membrane-spanning topology of a model TA protein, cytochrome b5 (b5). Selective depletion from membranes of components involved in cotranslational protein translocation had no effect on either the efficiency or topology of b5 insertion. Indeed, the kinetics of transmembrane insertion into protein-free phospholipid vesicles was the same as for native ER microsomes. Remarkably, loading of either liposomes or microsomes with cholesterol to levels found in other membranes of the secretory pathway sharply and reversibly inhibited b5 transmembrane insertion. These results identify the minimal requirements for transmembrane topogenesis of a TA protein and suggest that selectivity among various intracellular compartments can be imparted by differences in their lipid composition.
Although it is widely accepted that molecular mechanisms play an important role in the initial establishment of retinotopic maps, it has also long been argued that activity-dependent factors act in concert with molecular mechanisms to refine topographic maps. Evidence of a role for retinal activity in retinotopic map refinement in mammals is limited, and nothing is known about the effect of spontaneous retinal activity on the development of receptive fields in the superior colliculus. Using anatomical and physiological methods with two genetically manipulated mouse models and pharmacological interventions in wild-type mice, we show that spontaneous retinal waves instruct retinotopic map refinement in the superior colliculus of the mouse. Activity-dependent mechanisms may play a preferential role in the mapping of the nasal-temporal axis of the retina onto the colliculus, because refinement is particularly impaired along this axis in mutants without retinal waves. Interfering with both axon guidance cues and activity-dependent cues in the same animal has a dramatic cumulative effect. These experiments demonstrate how axon guidance cues and activity-dependent factors combine to instruct retinotopic map development.
Aging is associated with spatial memory impairments and with deficient encoding of information by the hippocampus. In young adult rats, recent studies on the firing properties of hippocampal neurons have emphasized the importance of the CA3 subregion in the rapid encoding of new spatial information. Here, we compared the spatial firing patterns of CA1 and CA3 neurons in aged memory-impaired rats with those of young rats as they explored familiar and novel environments. We found that CA1 place cells in aged and young rats had similar firing characteristics in the familiar and novel environments. In contrast, aged CA3 place cells had higher firing rates in general and failed to change their firing rates and place fields as much as CA3 cells of young rats when the rats were introduced to a novel environment. Thus, aged CA3 cells failed to rapidly encode new spatial information compared with young CA3 cells. These data suggest an important and selective contribution of CA3 dysfunction to age-related memory impairment.
The behavior of the pattern generator for walking in human infants (7-12 months of age) was studied by supporting the infants to step on a split-belt treadmill. The treadmill belts could be run at the same speed (tied-belt), different speeds, or in different directions (split-belt). We determined whether the legs could operate independently under these conditions, as demonstrated by taking different numbers of steps or by stepping in different directions. Video, surface electromyography, electrogoniometry, and force platform data were recorded. The majority of infants who could step under tied-belt conditions also stepped under split-belt conditions. During forward stepping at low speed differentials between the two belts (ratio, &lt;4), infants adopted a step cycle duration that was intermediate between that expected from tied-belt stepping at each of the speeds. At large speed differentials between the two belts (ratio, 7-22), the infants took extra steps on the fast leg during the stance phase on the slow leg. When the two belts ran in opposite directions, one leg stepped forward, and the other stepped backward. During all forms of stepping, the legs maintained a reciprocal relationship, so that swing phase occurred in one leg at a time. Timing of muscle activity suggests a strong inhibition between the flexor-generating centers on each side and a weaker inhibition between the extensor-generating centers. The stepping behavior resembled that reported for other animals under similar conditions, suggesting that the pattern generator for each limb is autonomous but interacts with its counterpart for the contralateral limb.
The origin of the action potential in the cochlea has been a long-standing puzzle. Because voltage-dependent Na+ (Nav) channels are essential for action potential generation, we investigated the detailed distribution of Nav1.6 and Nav1.2 in the cochlear ganglion, cochlear nerve, and organ of Corti, including the type I and type II ganglion cells. In most type I ganglion cells, Nav1.6 was present at the first nodes flanking the myelinated bipolar cell body and at subsequent nodes of Ranvier. In the other ganglion cells, including type II, Nav1.6 clustered in the initial segments of both of the axons that flank the unmyelinated bipolar ganglion cell bodies. In the organ of Corti, Nav1.6 was localized in the short segments of the afferent axons and their sensory endings beneath each inner hair cell. Surprisingly, the outer spiral fibers and their sensory endings were well labeled beneath the outer hair cells over their entire trajectory. In contrast, Nav1.2 in the organ of Corti was localized to the unmyelinated efferent axons and their endings on the inner and outer hair cells. We present a computational model illustrating the potential role of the Nav channel distribution described here. In the deaf mutant quivering mouse, the localization of Nav1.6 was disrupted in the sensory epithelium and ganglion. Together, these results suggest that distinct Nav channels generate and regenerate action potentials at multiple sites along the cochlear ganglion cells and nerve fibers, including the afferent endings, ganglionic initial segments, and nodes of Ranvier.
Analyses of the effect of ryanodine in vertebrate brain slices have led to the conclusion that presynaptic ryanodine receptors (RYRs) may have several functions in synaptic release, including causing large-amplitude miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs) by promoting concerted multivesicular release. However, the role of RYRs in synaptic release is controversial. To better understand the role of RYRs in synaptic release, we analyzed the effect of RYR mutation on mPSCs and evoked postsynaptic currents (ePSCs) at the Caenorhabditis elegans neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Amplitudes of mPSCs varied greatly at the C. elegans NMJ. Loss-of-function mutations of the RYR gene unc-68 (uncoordinated 68) essentially abolished large-amplitude mPSCs. The amplitude of ePSCs was also greatly suppressed. These defects were completely rescued by expressing wild-type UNC-68 specifically in neurons but not in muscle cells, suggesting that RYRs acted presynaptically. A combination of removing extracellular Ca2+ and UNC-68 function eliminated mPSCs, suggesting that influx and RYR-mediated release are likely the exclusive sources of Ca2+ for synaptic release. Large-amplitude mPSCs did not appear to be caused by multivesicular release, as has been suggested to occur at vertebrate central synapses, because the rise time of mPSCs was constant regardless of the amplitude but distinctive from that of ePSCs, and because large-amplitude mPSCs persisted under conditions that inhibit synchronized synaptic release, including elimination of extracellular Ca2+, and mutations of syntaxin and SNAP25 (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein 25). These observations suggest that RYRs are essential to normal quantal size and are potential regulators of quantal size.
The inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) have been identified as mediators of several forms of neurodegeneration in the brain. However, they can produce either deleterious or beneficial effects on neuronal function. We investigated the effects of these cytokines on neuronal death caused by exposure of mouse organotypic hippocampal slice cultures to toxic concentrations of AMPA. Either potentiation of excitotoxicity or neuroprotection was observed, depending on the concentration of the cytokines and the timing of exposure. A relatively high concentration of mouse recombinant TNF-alpha (10 ng/ml) enhanced excitotoxicity when the cultures were simultaneously exposed to AMPA and to this cytokine. Decreasing the concentration of TNF-alpha to 1 ng/ml resulted in neuroprotection against AMPA-induced neuronal death independently on the application protocol. By using TNF-alpha receptor (TNFR) knock-out mice, we demonstrated that the potentiation of AMPA-induced toxicity by TNF-alpha involves TNF receptor-1, whereas the neuroprotective effect is mediated by TNF receptor-2. AMPA exposure was associated with activation and proliferation of microglia as assessed by macrophage antigen-1 and bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry, suggesting a functional recruitment of cytokine-producing cells at sites of neurodegeneration. Together, these findings are relevant for understanding the role of proinflammatory cytokines and microglia activation in acute and chronic excitotoxic conditions.
Methamphetamine causes long-term toxicity to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. Evidence is emerging that microglia can contribute to the neuronal damage associated with disease, injury, or inflammation, but their role in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity has received relatively little attention. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and the neurotoxic HIV Tat protein, which cause dopamine neuronal toxicity after direct infusion into brain, cause activation of cultured mouse microglial cells as evidenced by increased expression of intracellular cyclooxygenase-2 and elevated secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha. MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist that is known to protect against methamphetamine neurotoxicity, prevents microglial activation by LPS and HIV Tat. Dextromethorphan, an antitussive agent with NMDA receptor blocking properties, also prevents microglial activation. In vivo, MK-801 and dextromethorphan reduce methamphetamine-induced activation of microglia in striatum and they protect dopamine nerve endings against drug-induced nerve terminal damage. The present results indicate that the ability of MK-801 and dextromethorphan to protect against methamphetamine neurotoxicity is related to their common property as blockers of microglial activation.
Due to the nature of processing within the accumbens shell (AccSh) and the presence of orexin receptors and varicosities within the AccSh, we hypothesized that orexin A may partly regulate feeding behavior and locomotor activity via signaling in this site. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with guide cannulae directed to the medial portion of the AccSh. Orexin A (0, 100, 500, and 1000 pmol, in 0.5 microl artificial cerebrospinal fluid) was infused into the AccSh and feeding behavior and locomotor activity were monitored. The effect of pretreatment with an orexin 1 receptor antagonist (SB334867A) on orexin A-induced feeding and locomotor activity was assessed. Orexin A augmented feeding in the 0-1 h and 1-2 h post-infusion interval (P = 0.0058 and P = 0.025, respectively) and stimulated locomotor activity in the 30-60 min, 60-90 min, and 90-120 min post-infusion intervals (P &lt;or= 0.0001, P = 0.0056 and P = 0.046, respectively). Orexin A-induced feeding was significantly attenuated by preadministration of SB334867A in the 0-1 h post-infusion time interval (P = 0.03). Orexin A-induced locomotor activity was not affected by SB334867A. These data support the hypothesis that the AccSh is a site of orexin A modulation of feeding behavior and locomotor activity.
CART peptide is a novel neurotransmitter that, due to its distribution in the brain and its modulation of dopamine systems, may be involved in aspects of reward and drug abuse. In the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), CART peptide immunoreactivity (IR) is colocalized with substance P-IR in neurons. Approximately 86% of CART-IR cells colocalize with substance P, while only 19% of substance P-IR neurons contain CART. CART peptide does not colocalize with enkephalin-IR in this region. The substance P-CART colocalization exists in a rostro-caudal gradient with more colocalization in rostral regions. The presence of CART in substance P NAcc neurons suggests that CART neurons may be a subset of the basal ganglia direct pathway or that CART neurons are involved in limbic projections of the NAcc, such as to the ventral pallidum.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is widely held to be associated with Alzheimer's disease. It was previously demonstrated by our group that Abeta induces cell death by an apoptotic process. We report here that activation of the caspase-3 apoptotic cascade is regulated by calcineurin-mediated BAD dephosphorylation. Calcineurin inhibitors were also proven to be effective by preventing the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Delta Psim) induced by Abeta, not allowing cytochrome c release from mitochondria and subsequently caspase-3 activation. Considering the results presented, we argue that calcineurin activation and BAD dephosphorylation are upstream in premitochondrial signaling events leading to caspase-3 activation in Abeta-peptide-treated cells.
In mammals, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) mediate non-image-forming visual functions such as pupillary light reflex (PLR) and circadian photoentrainment. This photosensitivity requires melanopsin, an invertebrate opsin-like protein expressed by the ipRGCs. The precise role of melanopsin remains uncertain. One suggestion has been that melanopsin may be a photoisomerase, serving to regenerate an unidentified pigment in ipRGCs. This possibility was echoed by a recent report that melanopsin is expressed also in the mouse retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), a key center for regeneration of rod and cone pigments. To address this question, we studied mice lacking RPE65, a protein essential for the regeneration of rod and cone pigments. Rpe65-/- ipRGCs were approximately 20- to 40-fold less photosensitive than normal at both single-cell and behavioral (PLR) levels but were rescued by exogenous 9-cis-retinal (an 11-cis-retinal analog), indicating the requirement of a vitamin A-based chromophore for ipRGC photosensitivity. In contrast, 9-cis-retinal was unable to restore intrinsic photosensitivity to melanopsin-ablated ipRGCs, arguing against melanopsin functioning merely in photopigment regeneration. Interestingly, exogenous all-trans-retinal was also able to rescue the low sensitivity of rpe65-/- ipRGCs, suggesting that melanopsin could be a bistable pigment. Finally, we detected no melanopsin in the RPE and no changes in rod and cone sensitivities due to melanopsin ablation. Together, these results strongly suggest that melanopsin is the photopigment in the ipRGCs.
Dopamine neurotransmission has been implicated in the modulation of many cognitive processes. Both rapid (phasic) and slower (tonic) changes in its extracellular concentration contribute to its complex actions. Fast in vivo electrochemical techniques can measure extracellular dopamine on a rapid time scale but without the selectivity afforded with slower techniques that use chemical separations. Cyclic voltammetry improves chemical resolution over other electrochemical methods, and it can resolve dopamine changes in the brains of behaving rodents over short epochs (&lt;10 s). With this method, however, selective detection of slower dopamine changes is still elusive. Here we demonstrate that principal component regression of cyclic voltammetry data enables quantification of changes in dopamine and extracellular pH. Using this method, we show that cocaine modifies dopamine release in two ways: dopamine concentration transients increase in frequency and magnitude, whereas a gradual increase in steady-state dopamine concentration occurs over 90 s.
Autosomal dominant optic atrophy (DOA) is the most common form of hereditary optic neuropathy. DOA presents in the first decade of life and manifests as progressive vision loss. In DOA retinal ganglion cells and the optic nerve degenerate by an unknown mechanism. The gene mutated in DOA, Optic Atrophy Type 1 (OPA1), encodes a dynamin-related GTPase implicated in mitochondrial fusion and maintenance of the mitochondrial network and genome. Here, we determine which cell types in the normal retina and the optic nerve express OPA1. In the normal rat retina, OPA1 is expressed in the ganglion cell layer as well as in the outer plexiform layer, the inner nuclear layer, and the inner plexiform layer. In the ganglion cell layer, OPA1 is expressed predominantly in retinal ganglion cells. By contrast, OPA1 protein is low or undetectable in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes of the optic nerve. Additionally, OPA1 protein is present in axonal mitochondria. Last, OPA1 expression is present in mitochondria of processes and cell bodies of purified retinal ganglion cells and of the RGC-5 cell line. Thus, OPA1 is predominantly expressed in retinal ganglion cells of the normal rat retina and axons of the optic nerve. These findings may explain the selective vulnerability of retinal ganglion cells to OPA1 loss of function.


AgRP is a neuropeptide that stimulates food intake through inhibition of central melanocortin receptors (MCRs). In humans, the non-conservative amino acid substitution Alanine (Ala) 67 Threonine (Thr) has been associated with Anorexia Nervosa and with leanness. In the present study, the cellular distribution, processing and in vitro and in vivo activities of Ala67 and Thr67 AgRP were investigated. Western blots of media and lysates of BHK cells stably transfected with Ala67 or Thr67 expression constructs showed identical AgRP bands. Both Ala67 and Thr67 AgRP colocalised with the Golgi apparatus, but not with the ER or lysosomes when expressed in Att20 D16V cells. Also, no differences were observed between the potencies of bacterially expressed Ala67 and Thr67 AgRP to stimulate MC4R in a reporter gene assay or inhibit food intake in rats. Taken together, no evidence was found for a functional defect of Thr67 AgRP related to MC4R interactions.

Behaviors and taste-nerve responses to bitter stimuli are linked to compounds that bind T2 receptors expressed in one subset of taste-bud receptor cells (TRCs); and behavioral and neural responses to sweet stimuli are linked to chemical compounds that bind a T1 receptor expressed in a different TRC subset. Neural and behavioral responses to bitter-sweet mixtures, however, complicate the ostensible bitter and sweet labeled lines. In the golden hamster, Mesocricetus auratus, quinine hydrochloride, the bitter prototype, suppresses chorda tympani (CT) nerve responses to the sweet prototype: sucrose. This bitter-sweet inhibition was tested with concentration series of sucrose and dulcin, a hydrophobic synthetic sweetener that hamsters behaviorally cross-generalize with sucrose. Dulcin, sucrose and other sweeteners activate one subset of CT fibers: S neurons; whereas, quinine activates a separate subset of CT fibers: E neurons. Whole-nerve and S-neuron CT responses to a sweetener concentration series, mixed with 0, 1, 3 and 10 mM quinine, were measured for 0-2.5 s transient and/or 2.6-10 s steady-state response periods. Ten-sec total single-fiber records, aligned at response onset, were averaged for 100 ms bins to identify response oscillations. Quinine inhibition of dulcin and sucrose responses was identical. Each log molar increment in quinine resulted in equivalent declines in response to either sweetener. Furthermore, sucrose response decrements paralleled response increments in quinine-sensitive CT neurons to the same quinine increases. A 1.43 Hz bursting rhythm to the sweeteners was unchanged by quinine inhibition or decreases in sweetener concentration. Taste-bud processing, possibly between-cell inhibition and within-cell negative feedback, must modify signals initiated by T1 receptors before they are transmitted to the brain.
The analysis of physiological processes in brain by position emission tomography (PET) is facilitated when images are spatially normalized to a standard coordinate system. Thus, PET activation studies of human brain frequently employ the common stereotaxic coordinates of Talairach. We have developed an analogous stereotaxic coordinate system for the brain of the Gottingen miniature pig, based on automatic co-registration of magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained in 22 male pigs. The origin of the pig brain stereotaxic space (0, 0, 0) was arbitrarily placed in the centroid of the pineal gland as identified on the average MRI template. The orthogonal planes were imposed using the line between stereotaxic zero and the optic chiasm. A series of mean MR images in the coronal, sagittal and horizontal planes were generated. To test the utility of the common coordinate system for functional imaging studies of minipig brain, we calculated cerebral blood flow (CBF) maps from normal minipigs and from minipigs with a syndrome of parkisonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-poisoning. These maps were transformed from the native space into the common stereotaxic space. After global normalization of these maps, an undirected search for differences between the groups was then performed using statistical parametric mapping. Using this method, we detected a statistically significant focal increase in CBF in the left cerebellum of the MPTP-lesioned group. We expect the present approach to be of general use in the statistical parametric mapping of CBF and other physiological parameters in living pig brain.
Defining the life span of specific human cell populations is limited by our inability to mark the exact time when cells are born in a way that can be detected over many years. In this issue of Cell, Spalding et al. (2005) describe a clever strategy for retrospectively birth dating human cells in vivo, based on their incorporation of 14C during a peak in atmospheric levels of this isotope resulting from above-ground nuclear arms testing in the 1950s.
The homeobox gene Hb9 is expressed selectively by motor neurons (MNs) in the developing CNS. Previous studies have identified a 9-kb 5' fragment of the mouse Hb9 gene that is sufficient to direct gene expression to spinal MNs in vivo. Here, we sought to identify more discrete MN-specifying elements, using homology searches between genomic sequences of evolutionarily distant species. Based on homology screening of the mouse and human Hb9 promoters, we identified a 3.6-kb Hb9 enhancer that proved sufficient to drive MN-specific lacZ expression. We then compared mouse, human, and pufferfish (Fugu rubripes) genomic sequences, and identified a conserved 438-bp sequence, consisting of noncontiguous 313-bp and 125-bp fragments, residing within the 3.6-kb Hb9 enhancer. The zebrafish (Danio rerio) Hb9 genomic region was then found to have two identical copies of the 125-bp sequence, but no counterpart for the 313-bp sequence. Transgenic analysis showed that the 125-bp alone was both necessary and sufficient to direct spinal MN-specific lacZ expression, whereas the 313-bp sequence had no such enhancer activity. Moreover, the 125-bp Hb9 enhancer was found to harbor two Hox/Pbx consensus-binding sequences, mutations of which completely disrupted thoracolumbar Hb9 expression. These data suggest that Hox/Pbx plays a critical role in the segmental specification of spinal MNs. Together, these results indicate that the molecular pathways regulating Hb9 expression are evolutionarily conserved, and that MN-specific gene expression may be directed and achieved using a small 125-bp 5' enhancer.
Neural progenitor cells can be derived from a variety of developmental stages when they are preferentially proliferating, undergoing neurogenesis or undergoing gliogenesis. We used FACS sorting and the LeX surface marker to enrich neural progenitor cells from different embryonic stages and adult and compared their gene expression profiles using Affymetrix Microarrays. Our results show that, while there are common genes expressed in the progenitor cell population from all stages, there are also significant differences in gene expression patterns that correlate with stage-related behaviors. These data indicate that progenitor cells change during development and that adult and embryonic neural progenitor cells are intrinsically different.
Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domains of the Dbl family occur in a variety of proteins that include multiple protein-protein and protein-lipid interaction domains. We used an epithelial-derived cell line to investigate the mechanisms by which the two GEF domains of Kalirin, a neuronal Rho GEF, influence morphology. As expected, Kal-GEF1, an efficient GEF for Rac1 and RhoG, induced the formation of lamellipodia resembling those induced by active Rac1. Although Kal-GEF1 activated Rac and Pak, its ability to induce formation of lamellipodia was not blocked by dominant negative Rho GTPases or by catalytically inactive Pak. Consistent with this, a catalytically inactive mutant of Kal-GEF1 induced formation of lamellipodia and activated Pak. Active Pak was required for the GEF-activity independent effect of Kal-GEF1 and the lamellipodia produced were filled with ribs of filamentous actin. Kal-GEF1 and a GEF-dead mutant co-immunoprecipitated with Pak. The interaction of Kal-GEF1 with Pak is indirect and requires the regulatory protein binding domain of Pak. Filamin A, which is known to interact with and activate Pak, binds to both catalytically active and inactive Kal-GEF1, providing a link by which catalytically inactive Kal-GEF1 can activate Pak and induce lamellipodia. Together, our results indicate that Kal-GEF1 induces lamellipodia through activation of Pak, where GEF activity is not required. GEF-activity-independent effects on downstream targets may be a general property of RhoGEFs.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is almost always caused by silencing of the FMR1 gene. The defects observed in FXS indicate that the normal FMR1 gene has a range of functions and plays a particularly prominent role during development. However, the mechanisms regulating FMR1 expression in vivo are not known. Here, we have tested the role of the transcription factor AP-2alpha in regulating Fmr1 expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that AP-2alpha associates with the Fmr1 promoter in vivo. Furthermore, Fmr1 transcript levels are reduced &gt;4-fold in homozygous null AP-2alpha mutant mice at embryonic day 18.5 when compared with normal littermates. Notably, AP-2alpha exhibits a strong gene dosage effect, with heterozygous mice showing approximately 2-fold reduction in Fmr1 levels. Examination of conditional AP-2alpha mutant mice indicates that this transcription factor plays a major role in regulating Fmr1 expression in embryos, but not in adults. We further investigated the role of AP-2alpha in the developmental regulation of Fmr1 expression using the Xenopus animal cap assay. Over-expression of a dominant-negative AP-2alpha in Xenopus embryos led to reduced Fmr1 levels. Moreover, exogenous wild-type AP-2alpha rescued Fmr1 expression in embryos where endogenous AP-2alpha had been suppressed. We conclude that AP-2alpha associates with the Fmr1 promoter in vivo and selectively regulates Fmr1 transcription during embryonic development.
Defects of mitochondrial polymerase gamma (POLG) underlie neurological diseases ranging from myopathies to parkinsonism and infantile Alpers syndrome. The most severe manifestations have been associated with mutations of the 'spacer' region of POLG, the function of which has remained unstudied in humans. We identified a family, segregating three POLG amino acid variants, A467T, R627Q and Q1236H. The first two affect the spacer region and the third is a polymorphism, allelic with R627Q. Three grades of disease severity appeared to correlate with the genotypes. The patient with the most severe outcome, cerebellar ataxia syndrome, had all three variants, those with R627Q and Q1236H had juvenile-onset ptosis and gait disturbance and those with a single A467T allele had late-onset ptosis. To evaluate the molecular pathogenesis of these spacer defects, we expressed and purified the mutant proteins and studied their catalytic properties in vitro. The A467T substitution resulted in clearly decreased activity, DNA binding and processivity of the polymerase. Our biochemical data, the dominant manifestation of A467T and its previously reported high frequency in the Belgian population (0.6%), emphasize the role of this mutation as a common cause of neurological disease. Further, biochemical evidence that a polymorphic variant may modify the function of a mutant POLG, if occurring in the same polypeptide, is shown here. Finally, and surprisingly, other pathogenic spacer mutants showed DNA-binding affinities and processivities similar to or higher than the controls, suggesting that the disease-causing mechanisms of spacer mutations extend beyond the basic catalytic functions of POLG.
Several peptides, including penetratin and Tat, are known to translocate across the plasma membrane. Dynorphin opioid peptides are similar to cell-penetrating peptides in a high content of basic and hydrophobic amino acid residues. We demonstrate that dynorphin A and big dynorphin, consisting of dynorphins A and B, can penetrate into neurons and non-neuronal cells using confocal fluorescence microscopy/immunolabeling. The peptide distribution was characterized by cytoplasmic labeling with minimal signal in the cell nucleus and on the plasma membrane. Translocated peptides were associated with the endoplasmic reticulum but not with the Golgi apparatus or clathrin-coated endocytotic vesicles. Rapid entry of dynorphin A into the cytoplasm of live cells was revealed by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. The translocation potential of dynorphin A was comparable with that of transportan-10, a prototypical cell-penetrating peptide. A central big dynorphin fragment, which retains all basic amino acids, and dynorphin B did not enter the cells. The latter two peptides interacted with negatively charged phospholipid vesicles similarly to big dynorphin and dynorphin A, suggesting that interactions of these peptides with phospholipids in the plasma membrane are not impaired. Translocation was not mediated via opioid receptors. The potential of dynorphins to penetrate into cells correlates with their ability to induce non-opioid effects in animals. Translocation across the plasma membrane may represent a previously unknown mechanism by which dynorphins can signal information to the cell interior.
Distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSP) is currently the most common neurological complication of HIV infection in the developed world and is characterized by sensory neuronal injury accompanied by inflammation, which is clinically manifested as disabling pain and gait instability. We previously showed that feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection of cats caused DSP together with immunosuppression in cats, similar to that observed in HIV-infected humans. In this study, we investigated the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the development of FIV-induced DSP using feline dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cultures, consisting of neurons, Schwann cells, and macrophages. FIV-infected cultures exhibited viral Ags (p24 and envelope) in macrophages accompanied by neuronal injury, indicated by neurite retraction, neuronal loss and decreased soma size, compared with mock-infected (control) cultures. FIV infection up-regulated inducible NO synthase (iNOS), STAT-1, and TNF-alpha mRNA levels in DRG cultures. Increased STAT-1 and iNOS mRNA levels were also observed in DRGs from FIV-infected animals relative to mock-infected controls. Similarly, immunolabeling studies of DRGs from FIV-infected animals showed that macrophages were the principal sources of STAT-1 and iNOS protein production. The iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine reduced nitrotyrosine and protein carbonyl levels, together with preventing neuronal injury in FIV-infected DRG cultures. The present studies indicate that FIV infection of DRGs directly contributes to axonal and neuronal injury through a mechanism involving macrophage immune activation, which is mediated by STAT-1 and iNOS activation.
IL-12p40 cytokines have been implicated in the development of organ-specific autoimmune diseases as well as pathogen-specific adaptive immunity. In addition to inducing IFN-gamma, IL-12 stimulates effector CD4(+) T cells to express adhesion molecules and homing receptors that facilitate their migration to sites of inflammation. In this study, we expand upon those observations by demonstrating an alternative pathway by which IL-12 could promote Th1 inflammatory responses in mice, namely, by restoring proliferation and cytokine expression by effector T cells in the presence of CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Treg). This effect of IL-12 was not replicated by IL-23 or IFN-gamma and was dependent on signaling through the IL-12R expressed on CD25(-) responder cells, but not on Treg. Our studies suggest that IL-12 could act in concert with other proinflammatory factors to stimulate CD4(+)CD25(-) T cell activation in the presence of Treg.
This report describes magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods we have developed at 9.4 T for observing internal organs and the nervous system of an invertebrate organism, the crayfish, Cherax destructor. We have compared results acquired using two different pulse sequences, and have tested manganese (Mn(2+)) as an agent to enhance contrast of neural tissues in this organism. These techniques serve as a foundation for further development of functional MRI and neural tract-tracing methods in non-vertebrate systems.
We describe a new method for measuring skin conductance responses, designed to overcome the problem of overlapping skin conductance responses. The method relies on the assumptions that the underlying sudomotor nerve signal has a shorter time-constant than the skin conductance signal itself, and that the sudomotor bursts arrive as discrete, separated events. By converting the skin conductance signal into a time-series with a shorter time-constant, we are able to extract the separated peaks in the estimated underlying driver signal. The separated driver peaks are then used to re-estimate each individual skin conductance response. The method is automated and applied to a normative database of 735 subjects, for which skin conductance was measured during an auditory oddball paradigm.
In an attempt to establish a thrombotic middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion model using cynomolgus monkeys, we measured the blood flow in the main MCA tract and cerebral cortex, brain damage, and neurological deficits, and compared them with those of mechanical MCA occlusion model. Thrombotic occlusion was induced photochemically by green light application on the MCA following rose bengal treatment; mechanical occlusion was induced by MCA clipping for 3h. Patency of the main MCA tract showed two patterns in the thrombotic model: permanent occlusion or cyclical flow reduction (CFR). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) decreased during occlusion followed by post-ischemic hyperperfusion in the clipping model, whereas rCBF reduction expanded time-dependently in the thrombotic occlusion model. Brain infarction and neurological scores in the thrombotic occlusion model were significantly larger than those in the clipping occlusion model. In histological assessment, microthrombi containing myeloperoxidase- and fibrinogen-positive cells were observed in the cortex following the thrombotic but not clipping occlusion. These results collectively suggest that this thrombotic MCA occlusion model, because it shows impairment of cerebral microcirculation, could provide a vital platform for understanding progressive ischemia as well as for evaluating potential therapeutic drugs.
Catalepsy tests performed in rodents treated with drugs that interfere with dopaminergic transmission have been widely used for the screening of drugs with therapeutic potential in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The basic method for measuring catalepsy intensity is the &quot;standard&quot; bar test. We present here an easy to use microcontroller-based automatic system for recording bar test experiments. The design is simple, compact, and has a low cost. Recording intervals and total experimental time can be programmed within a wide range of values. The resulting catalepsy times are stored, and up to five simultaneous experiments can be recorded. A standard personal computer interface is included. The automated system also permits the elimination of human error associated with factors such as fatigue, distraction, and data transcription, occurring during manual recording. Furthermore, a uniform criterion for timing the cataleptic condition can be achieved. Correlation values between the results obtained with the automated system and those reported by two independent observers ranged between 0.88 and 0.99 (P&lt;0.0001; three treatments, nine animals, 144 catalepsy time measurements).
Laser Doppler imaging (LDI) signal and noise characteristics can vary significantly depending upon the underlying vascular caliber. Further, noise characteristics are not constant over time (non-stationary) and can vary during resting and activated conditions in a typical experiment. Since only a limited number of images can be acquired in a single run, concatenation of data from similar experimental trials becomes necessary which can induce further variation in temporal noise due to instrumental response. In conventional statistical analysis methods such as cross-correlation, a fixed significance threshold is generally used (for the entire image) to detect activation assuming constant noise over time and a normal distribution. As a consequence, statistical significance can become strong or weak due to temporal differences in baseline LD noise, which can possibly deviate from a normal distribution. The main emphasis of this study was the application of bootstrap resampling in conjunction with cross-correlation to estimate the confidence intervals on a pixel-by-pixel basis to avoid distributional specifications on the additive measurement error leading to reliable whisker activation-induced CBF changes. At a 95% confidence level, bootstrap resampling followed by confidence intervals for the correlation coefficient distribution increased the number of active pixels by almost 45% when compared to conventional cross-correlation. These pixels were mostly confined to areas with intermediate and large baseline LD flux with considerable deviation from normality. It is suggested that confidence intervals of the bootstrap estimates can lead to unbiased detection of CBF change in the cerebral cortex, particularly in regions with large temporal variation in noise and low CNR.
The most commonly used method to analyze colocalization of fluorescent signal in paired images is based on superimposition of images (&quot;merging&quot;) and visual inspection. A method based on the comparison of the mean deviation of fluorescent signal intensity has recently been proposed to quantify colocalization within a user-defined area [Li Q, Lau A, Morris TJ, Guo L, Fordyce CB, Stanley EF. A syntaxin 1, Galpha(o), and N-type calcium channel complex at a presynaptic nerve terminal: analysis by quantitative immunocolocalization. J Neurosci 2004;24:4070-81]. Unfortunately, the latter quantification method does not provide a spatial representation of the correlation between the two fluorescent signals. Here we propose a new method that combines quantification and imaging of colocalization. We describe an algorithm based on edge detection and calculation of signal intensity deviation. The method is illustrated and validated on both simulated images and experimental data. This new and automated method calculates a correlation index (I(corr)) and generates an image of the correlated signals from the two original images. In addition to help in comparing and quantifying colocalization between two fluorescent stainings, this method can be adapted to measure the distribution of ions, proteins, organelles and cells in a large array of techniques.
Investigating the properties of light responsive neurons and their networks requires appropriate control of stimulus parameters, such as intensity, spectral composition, spatial and temporal profile. In the present paper, we describe how to build a simple, versatile and low-cost light source for use in visual neuroscience. The light source is a InGaN-based ultrabright light-emitting diode (LED), which may generate conventional light flashes as well as a variety of time varying stimuli to be used in quantitative studies of the visual system. In particular, with this instrument one may generate light stimuli sinusoidally modulated in time at frequencies ranging from 0.05 to 50 Hz, with less than 1% harmonic distortion at a contrast exceeding 85%. The relationship between applied voltage and energy emitted by the source is linear over an intensity range that exceeds 4.5 log-units, up to the full suppression of the light-sensitive currents in mammalian rods. The light source has minimal space requirement and does not generate appreciable radiating heat and hum, allowing its use for single cell work &quot;in vitro&quot; as well as for &quot;in vivo&quot; recording of the electroretinogram (ERG).
Cl- ions are known regulators of Ca2+ -dependent secretory activity in many endocrine cells. The suggested mechanisms of Cl- action involve the modulation of GTP-binding proteins, voltage-activated calcium channels or maturation of secretory vesicles. We examined the role of cytosolic Cl- ([Cl-]i) and Cl- currents in the regulation of secretory activity in mouse melanotrophs from fresh pituitary tissue slices by using the whole-cell patch-clamp. We confirmed that elevated [Cl-]i augments Ca2- -dependent exocytosis and showed that Cl- acts on secretory vesicle maturation. The latter process was abolished by a V-type H- -ATPase blocker (bafilomycin), intracellular 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid (DIDS), a Cl- channel blocker, and tolbutamide, a sulphonylurea implicated in secretory vesicle maturation. In a small subset of cells, block of plasmalemmal Cl- current by DIDS reversibly enhanced endocytosis. The direct activation of G-proteins by GTP-gamma-S, a non-hydrolysable GTP analogue, did not restore the impaired secretion observed in low [Cl-]i conditions. The amplitude of voltage-activated calcium currents was unaffected by the [Cl-]i. Furthermore, two Cl- -permeable channels, calcium-activated Cl- channels and GABAA receptors, appeared as major regulators of intracellular Cl- homeostasis. In conclusion, the predominant underlying mechanism of Cl- action is mediated by intracellular Cl- fluxes during vesicle maturation, rather than activation of G-proteins or modulation of voltage-activated Ca2+channels.
Face recognition across different viewing conditions is strongly improved by familiarity. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the neural basis of this effect is a less view-dependent representation of familiar faces in ventral visual cortex by assessing priming-related fMRI repetition effects. 15 healthy volunteers made male/female judgements on familiar (famous) and unfamiliar (novel) faces preceded by the same image, a different image of the same face, or another (unprimed) face. Reaction times revealed priming by same and different images independent of familiarity and more pronounced for same than different images. In the imaging data, a main effect of prime condition was found in bilateral fusiform and orbitofrontal regions. A right anterior fusiform region expressed stronger response decreases to repetition of familiar than unfamiliar faces. Bilateral mid-fusiform areas showed stronger response decreases to repetition of same than different images. A regions-of-interest analysis focussing specifically on face responsive regions suggested differences in the degree of image dependency across fusiform cortex. Collapsing across familiarity, there was greater image dependency of repetition effects in right than left anterior fusiform, replicating previous imaging findings obtained with common objects. For familiar faces alone, there was greater generalisation of repetition effects over different images in anterior than middle fusiform. This suggests a role of anterior fusiform cortex in coding image-independent representations of familiar faces.
The in vivo analysis of dopaminergic degeneration in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), using pinhole single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), ideally should afford a serial study design, enabling the analysis of the degenerative process as well as the potential neuroprotective and/or restorative properties of drugs over time in living animals. Previously, we demonstrated that striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) levels in rats could be analyzed reproducibly, using pinhole SPECT with the DAT probe [(123)I]N-omega-fluoropropyl-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-{4-iodophenyl}nortropane (FP-CIT). However, the capacity of this approach to accurately detect a range of striatal DAT levels in the most widely used animal model of PD, i.e., the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mouse, remains to be determined. For this purpose, various levels of DAT were induced by treating c57BL/6J mice for 1, 3, or 5 days with MPTP (25 mg/kg ip), respectively. [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans were performed 5 days after the last MPTP injection. Mice were perfused 6 days after the last MPTP injection, and the SPECT data were compared to ex vivo striatal and nigral DAT levels as measured by immunohistochemistry within the same animals. The analysis of striatal DAT levels using SPECT and DAT immunohistochemistry yielded highly comparable results on the percentage of DAT reduction in each MPTP group. The in vivo data showed a decrease of specific striatal to non-specific binding ratios by 59%, 82%, and 76% in mice treated for 1, 3, and 5 days, respectively. Moreover, a strong, positive correlation was observed between the in vivo and ex vivo parameters. The present study provides the first evidence that [(123)I]FP-CIT pinhole SPECT allows the accurate detection of a range of striatal DAT (i.e., losses of approximately 60-80%) levels in mice. Since such large dopaminergic lesions could be detected, this SPECT method may at least be useful for analyzing neuroprotective treatment with a clear-cut positive (i.e., complete protection) or negative (i.e., not any protection) effect. Whether this method is also useful for analyzing more subtle effects of neuroprotective treatment (partial protection) remains to be established, by studying mice with small dopaminergic lesions.
The objective of this study was to investigate phonological processing in the brain by using sub-syllabic speech units with rapidly changing frequency spectra. We used isolated stop consonants extracted from natural speech consonant-vowel (CV) syllables, which were digitized and presented through headphones in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm. The stop consonants were contrasted with CV syllables. In order to control for general auditory activation, we used duration- and intensity-matched noise as a third stimulus category. The subjects were seventeen right-handed, healthy male volunteers. BOLD activation responses were acquired on a 1.5-T MR scanner. The auditory stimuli were presented through MR compatible headphones, using an fMRI paradigm with clustered volume acquisition and 12 s repetition time. The consonant vs. noise comparison resulted in unilateral left lateralized activation in the posterior part of the middle temporal gyrus and superior temporal sulcus (MTG/STS). The CV syllable vs. noise comparison resulted in bilateral activation in the same regions, with a leftward asymmetry. The reversed comparisons, i.e., noise vs. speech stimuli, resulted in right hemisphere activation in the supramarginal and superior temporal gyrus, as well as right prefrontal activation. Since the consonant stimuli are unlikely to have activated a semantic-lexical processing system, it seems reasonable to assume that the MTG/STS activation represents phonetic/phonological processing. This may involve the processing of both spectral and temporal features considered important for phonetic encoding.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies in schizophrenia demonstrate lower anisotropic diffusion within white matter due either to loss of coherence of white matter fiber tracts, to changes in the number and/or density of interconnecting fiber tracts, or to changes in myelination, although methodology as well as localization of such changes differ between studies. The aim of this study is to localize and to specify further DTI abnormalities in schizophrenia by combining DTI with magnetization transfer imaging (MTI), a technique sensitive to myelin and axonal alterations in order to increase specificity of DTI findings. 21 chronic schizophrenics and 26 controls were scanned using Line-Scan-Diffusion-Imaging and T1-weighted techniques with and without a saturation pulse (MT). Diffusion information was used to normalize co-registered maps of fractional anisotropy (FA) and magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) to a study-specific template, using the multi-channel daemon algorithm, designed specifically to deal with multidirectional tensor information. Diffusion anisotropy was decreased in schizophrenia in the following brain regions: the fornix, the corpus callosum, bilaterally in the cingulum bundle, bilaterally in the superior occipito-frontal fasciculus, bilaterally in the internal capsule, in the right inferior occipito-frontal fasciculus and the left arcuate fasciculus. MTR maps demonstrated changes in the corpus callosum, fornix, right internal capsule, and the superior occipito-frontal fasciculus bilaterally; however, no changes were noted in the anterior cingulum bundle, the left internal capsule, the arcuate fasciculus, or inferior occipito-frontal fasciculus. In addition, the right posterior cingulum bundle showed MTR but not FA changes in schizophrenia. These findings suggest that, while some of the diffusion abnormalities in schizophrenia are likely due to abnormal coherence, or organization of the fiber tracts, some of these abnormalities may, in fact, be attributed to or coincide with myelin/axonal disruption.
The volatile anesthetic isoflurane both prolongs and reduces the amplitude of GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) recorded in neurons. To explore the latter effect, we investigated isoflurane-induced inhibition of steady-state desensitized GABA currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing wild-type alpha(1)beta(2), alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2s), mutant alpha(1)(S270H)beta(2) (serine to histidine at residue 270) or alpha(1)(S270H)beta(2)gamma(2s) receptors. The alpha(1) serine 270 site in TM2 (second transmembrane domain of the subunit) is postulated as a binding site for some volatile agents and is critical for positive modulation of sub-maximal GABA responses by isoflurane. For all receptor combinations, at &lt; or =0.6 mM isoflurane (&lt; or =2 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC)) current inhibitions were not pronounced ( approximately 10%) with block reaching half-maximal levels at supraclinical concentrations ( approximately 2 mM isoflurane, 6 MAC). Comparisons with other GABA(A) receptor blockers indicated that isoflurane blocks in a similar manner to picrotoxin, possibly via the pore of the receptor. The extent of isoflurane-induced inhibition was significantly attenuated by inclusion of the gamma(2s)-subunit but was unaffected by introduction of the S270H mutation in the alpha(1)-subunit. In conclusion, isoflurane binds with low affinity and with subunit-specificity to an inhibitory site on the GABA(A) receptor that is distinct from the site that facilitates positive modulation at the extracellular end of the pore.
Pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2; PARK8) have been implicated in autosomal dominant, late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). The LRRK2 4321C&gt;G (R1441G) mutation was originally identified in Spanish families originating from the Basque region. Within this ethnicity, Lrrk2 R1441G substitutions have been suggested as a frequent cause of disease. Herein we have assessed another referral-based series of 225 patients with PD from the neighboring region of Asturias, Northern Spain. The LRRK2 4321C&gt;G mutation was found in 5 (2.7%) of sporadic, late-onset patients and was not present in control subjects. Although patients with a Lrrk2 R1441G substitution are apparently unrelated, they share a chromosome 12q12 haplotype not found in controls and indicative of a common founder.
This investigation studied the temporal changes in the expression of GDNF and FGF-2 in the left sixth lumbar (L6) dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after acupuncture in adult cats subjected to unilateral removal of adjacent DRG. The cats were divided into three groups. Group I were normal control animals. Group II cats were subjected to removal of DRG associated with the left L1-L5 and L7-S2 spinal nerves, sparing the L6 DRG. Group III cats received similar treatment as Group II ones, but in addition were subjected to acupuncture on the left side at acupuncture points (xuewei) the day after the operation. Both Groups II and III animals were perfused under anesthesia at 7 and 14 days post-operation (dpo) and their left DRG were processed for the immunohistochemical demonstration of GDNF and FGF-2. Following removal of adjacent DRG, the average number of all GDNF stained neurons in L6 DRG was decreased at 7 dpo and more so at 14 dpo. Acupuncture reversed this trend, as demonstrated in the increased average number of immunopositive small-to-medium sized neurons. FGF-2 expression was also less marked at 7 dpo but returned to normal at 14 dpo. Acupuncture significantly increased the average number of FGF-2 positive neurons compared with that in operated animals. This increase was observed in both large and small-to-medium sized neurons. In conclusion, our results demonstrated that the average number of GDNF and FGF-2 neurons in L6 DRG was decreased after unilateral removal of adjacent DRG but acupuncture could reverse some of the changes.
Genome scans in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) have revealed a possible susceptibility locus on chromosome 12. The low density lipoprotein receptor related protein (LRP1) gene lies within this area of linkage. Eighteen previous AD case-control studies have investigated the C766T polymorphism in LRP1 with conflicting results, including a protective effect on AD of the T allele, an increased susceptibility towards AD with both the C and T alleles, or no association at all. We have now performed a case-control study based on a large UK cohort of 477 AD patients and 466 matched controls, and have included these data, with those drawn from the 18 previous studies, into in a meta-analysis of 4668 AD patients and 4473 controls. We find no evidence for influence on the risk for AD in either our own present cohort or in the combined data set. Furthermore, we investigated whether the C766T polymorphism might modify the clinical and pathological phenotype in our cohort. We found no association with AD when the cohort was stratified into those with early (&lt;65 years) or late (&gt;65 years) onset, or when split into Apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 bearers and epsilon4 non-bearers. In addition, the C766T polymorphism was shown not to influence the age onset of AD. In a separate autopsy-confirmed cohort of 130 AD cases, no association with genotype or allele was observed for tissue levels of beta-amyloid 40, beta-amyloid 42, total beta-amyloid, pathological tau proteins, microglial cells or extent of astrocytic activity. Therefore, in this present study, we find no evidence for the involvement of this polymorphism either in increasing the susceptibility to AD, or by acting as a phenotypic modifier.

Expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors in human SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells was investigated. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that Y1, Y4, and Y5 receptors were expressed in these cells. Expression was confirmed by Western blot and immunocytochemistry demonstrated abundant presence of all three receptors on cell membranes. NPY peptide was also expressed in these cells, but other members of the larger peptide family (peptide YY and pancreatic polypeptide) were not expressed. Incubation with U0126, a specific mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor, decreased cell number in serum-free medium culture. Since NPY activates MAPK via different subtypes of NPY receptors, results suggest that endogenously expressed NPY may control proliferation of these cells through a paracrine/autocrine mechanism.
The mitral cells (MCs) of the olfactory bulb (OB) are relay neurons between the periphery and the central nervous structures. MCs receive in turn a centrifugal control from several higher brain centers that depends on the nutritional state. In this study, we investigated the effects of orexin A (ORX), a novel molecule known to regulate food intake and whose receptors are present in the OB, on the electrophysiological activity of single MCs. Using icv-injections and direct applications on the OB, we determined the respective central and local effects of this molecule on the MCs' spontaneous firing activity and responsiveness to different odors. Icv-injections and local OB-applications were found to induce a significant decrease in spontaneous firing activity in 14% and 50% of the recorded MCs, respectively. In one case, ORX application on the OB caused a significant firing increase. Effects of OB-applications had shorter delays. The responsiveness of some MCs to food and non-food odors was also changed, but the proportion of changes was not statistically significant. Icv-injection effects likely resulted from a local action of ORX on the OB. Changes of spontaneous firing activity and odor responsiveness are discussed in terms of regulation of the functioning of the olfactory system.



A substantial decrease in the number of synapses occurs in the mammalian brain from the late postnatal period until the end of life. Although experience plays an important role in modifying synaptic connectivity, its effect on this nearly lifelong synapse loss remains unknown. Here we used transcranial two-photon microscopy to visualize postsynaptic dendritic spines in layer I of the barrel cortex in transgenic mice expressing yellow fluorescent protein. We show that in young adolescent mice, long-term sensory deprivation through whisker trimming prevents net spine loss by preferentially reducing the rate of ongoing spine elimination, not by increasing the rate of spine formation. This effect of deprivation diminishes as animals mature but still persists in adulthood. Restoring sensory experience after adolescent deprivation accelerates spine elimination. Similar to sensory manipulation, the rate of spine elimination decreases after chronic blockade of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors with the antagonist MK801, and accelerates after drug withdrawal. These studies of spine dynamics in the primary somatosensory cortex suggest that experience plays an important role in the net loss of synapses over most of an animal's lifespan, particularly during adolescence.
Behavioral sensitization of psychostimulant-induced locomotor activity in rats has been proposed as a model of addiction and is accompanied by neuroadaptations in the nucleus accumbens and related circuits. Here, we used in vivo intracellular recordings to examine electrophysiological properties of accumbens neurons from animals that did or did not exhibit behavioral sensitization after repeated methamphetamine (5.0 mg/kg; 5 d). Although spontaneous activity of accumbens neurons was virtually unchanged, multiple synaptic interactions controlling membrane potential states were disrupted in sensitized animals. For example, stimulation of the ventral tegmental area attenuated accumbens responses to prefrontal cortex activation in nonsensitized and saline-treated animals, but not in sensitized animals. Acute methamphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) abolished accumbens up and down states in nonsensitized and saline-treated animals, suggesting a disruption of normal information processing in this area. However, acute methamphetamine failed to affect this pattern in accumbens neurons from sensitized animals. These results suggest that both acute and repeated methamphetamine administration can disrupt synaptic interactions in the nucleus accumbens; however, the nature of these alterations depends critically on the extent of behavioral sensitization. It is speculated that the response to acute methamphetamine in nonsensitized and saline-treated animals may be functionally adaptive, whereas the neuroadaptations observed in sensitized animals may be maladaptive and detrimental to accumbens information processing.
The structural determinants of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) trafficking have yet to be fully elucidated. Hydrophobic residues occur within short motifs important for endoplasmic reticulum (ER) export or endocytotic trafficking. Hence, we tested whether highly conserved hydrophobic residues, primarily leucines, in the cytoplasmic domain of the alpha4beta2 AChR subunits were required for cell surface expression of alpha4beta2 AChRs. Mutation of F350, L351, L357, and L358 to alanine in the alpha4 AChR subunit attenuates cell surface expression of mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs. Mutation of F342, L343, L349, and L350 to alanine at homologous positions in the beta2 AChR subunit abolishes cell surface expression of mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs. The hydrophobic nature of the leucine residue is a primary determinant of its function because mutation of L343 to another hydrophobic amino acid, phenylalanine, in the beta2 AChR subunit only poorly inhibits trafficking of mutant alpha4beta2 AChR to the cell surface. All mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs exhibit high-affinity binding for [3H]epibatidine. In both tsA201 cells and differentiated SH-SY5Y neural cells, wild-type alpha4beta2 AChRs colocalize with the Golgi marker giantin, whereas mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs fail to do so. The striking difference between mutant alpha4 versus mutant beta2 AChR subunits on cell surface expression of mutant alpha4beta2 AChRs points to a cooperative or regulatory role for the alpha4 AChR subunit and an obligatory role for the beta2 AChR subunit in ER export. Collectively, our results identify, for the first time, residues within AChR subunits that are essential structural determinants of alpha4beta2 AChR ER export.
Casein kinase 1 (CK1) is a highly conserved serine/threonine kinase, present in virtually all cell types, in which it phosphorylates a wide variety of substrates. So far, no role has been found for this ubiquitous protein kinase in the physiology of nerve cells. In the present study, we show that CK1 regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain. Through the use of CK1 inhibitors, we present evidence that activation of CK1 decreases NMDA receptor activity in the striatum via a mechanism that involves activation by this kinase of protein phosphatase 1 and/or 2A and resultant increased dephosphorylation of NMDA receptors. Indeed, inhibition of CK1 increases NMDA-mediated EPSCs in medium spiny striatal neurons. This effect is associated with an increased phosphorylation of the NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor and is occluded by the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. The mGluR1, but not mGluR5, subclass of metabotropic glutamate receptors uses CK1 to inhibit NMDA-mediated synaptic currents. These results provide the first evidence for a role of CK1 in the regulation of synaptic transmission in the brain.
Tau is a major microtubule-associated protein of axons and is also the principal component of the paired helical filaments (PHFs) that comprise the neurofibrillary tangles found in Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. Besides phosphorylation of tau on serine and threonine residues in both normal tau and tau from neurofibrillary tangles, Tyr-18 was reported to be a site of phosphorylation by the Src-family kinase Fyn. We examined whether tyrosine residues other than Tyr-18 are phosphorylated in tau and whether other tyrosine kinases might phosphorylate tau. Using mass spectrometry, we positively identified phosphorylated Tyr-394 in PHF-tau from an Alzheimer brain and in human fetal brain tau. When wild-type human tau was transfected into fibroblasts or neuroblastoma cells, treatment with pervanadate caused tau to become phosphorylated on tyrosine by endogenous kinases. By replacing each of the five tyrosines in tau with phenylalanine, we identified Tyr-394 as the major site of tyrosine phosphorylation in tau. Tyrosine phosphorylation of tau was inhibited by PP2 (4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine), which is known to inhibit Src-family kinases and c-Abl. Cotransfection of tau and kinases showed that Tyr-18 was the major site for Fyn phosphorylation, but Tyr-394 was the main residue for Abl. In vitro, Abl phosphorylated tau directly. Abl could be coprecipitated with tau and was present in pretangle neurons in brain sections from Alzheimer cases. These results show that phosphorylation of tau on Tyr-394 is a physiological event that is potentially part of a signal relay and suggest that Abl could have a pathogenic role in Alzheimer's disease.
In vertebrate and invertebrate brains, nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) is frequently expressed in extensive meshworks (plexuses) of exceedingly fine fibers. In this paper, we investigate the functional implications of this morphology by modeling NO diffusion in fiber systems of varying fineness and dispersal. Because size severely limits the signaling ability of an NO-producing fiber, the predominance of fine fibers seems paradoxical. Our modeling reveals, however, that cooperation between many fibers of low individual efficacy can generate an extensive and strong volume signal. Importantly, the signal produced by such a system of cooperating dispersed fibers is significantly more homogeneous in both space and time than that produced by fewer larger sources. Signals generated by plexuses of fine fibers are also better centered on the active region and less dependent on their particular branching morphology. We conclude that an ultrafine plexus is configured to target a volume of the brain with a homogeneous volume signal. Moreover, by translating only persistent regional activity into an effective NO volume signal, dispersed sources integrate neural activity over both space and time. In the mammalian cerebral cortex, for example, the NOS plexus would preferentially translate persistent regional increases in neural activity into a signal that targets blood vessels residing in the same region of the cortex, resulting in an increased regional blood flow. We propose that the fineness-dependent properties of volume signals may in part account for the presence of similar NOS plexus morphologies in distantly related animals.

In this study, we tested the hypothesis that exposure to a maternal infection during fetal life can lead to the appearance of alterations in the brain later in life. C57BL/6 mice were infected intranasally with influenza A/WSN/33 virus on day 14 of gestation. The levels of transcripts encoding neuroleukin and fibroblast growth factor 5 were significantly elevated in the brains of the virus-exposed offspring at 90 and 280 days of age, but not at earlier time-points. For neuroleukin, this difference could also be observed at the protein level. Thus, a maternal influenza A virus infection can give rise to alterations in gene expression in the brain that become apparent only after a prepubertal latency period.
In saccade experiments, each trial (e.g. prosaccade/antisaccade) is by definition followed by a saccade, which returns the gaze back to the center (retrosaccade). This event can complicate brain-imaging results when using a simple block-design. We used an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging design involving prosaccades and antisaccades (testsaccades) to examine brain activation associated with retrosaccades. Testsaccades activated visual and oculomotor-related brain areas. During retrosaccades, these areas were less active than during testsaccades. In the supplementary eye fields, the insula, and striatum, the retrosaccades gave rise to negative blood oxygenation level-dependent responses. In the striatum, these negative responses were equal in size to the positive responses of the testsaccades. This could mask brain activity of testsaccades when not taken into account.
We have previously shown that brain serotonin depletion by lesions of the median raphe nucleus (MRN) causes enhancement of phencyclidine-induced locomotor hyperactivity [S. Kusljic, D.L. Copolov, M. van den Buuse, Differential role of serotonergic projections arising from the dorsal and median raphe nuclei in locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition, Neuropsychopharmacology 28 (2003) 2138-2147]. In this study, we extend our previous work by (1) comparing the effect of phencyclidine with that of another NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801); (2) investigate behavioral changes in more detail; (3) assess in detail the effect of raphe lesions on regional serotonin levels in the brain. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received microinjection of the serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the MRN or dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). The effects of treatment with saline, phencyclidine and MK-801 on locomotor activity were determined 2 weeks after the surgery. MRN lesions caused serotonin depletion in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas DRN lesions caused serotonin depletion in the frontal cortex, striatum and ventral hippocampus. There was a significant increase in phencyclidine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in the MRN-lesioned group compared to sham-operated controls. Further analysis of behavior showed that phencyclidine-induced hyperambulation, but not stereotypy or rearing, was significantly higher in MRN-lesioned rats compared to controls. In contrast, there was no significant effect of the lesions on the psychotomimetic effect of MK-801. These results indicate that a hyposerotonergic state induced by destruction of projections from the MRN leads to altered brain circuitry that is responsible for the regulation of phencyclidine-but not MK-801-induced locomotor hyperactivity. Thus, MRN projections may play an inhibitory role in mechanisms involved in symptoms of schizophrenia.
We examined in Sprague-Dawley rats whether intranigral administration of complex-I inhibitor, rotenone, produces biochemical lesions in the striatum similar to those observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). Unilateral stereotaxic infusion of rotenone (2-12 mug in 1 mul) into substantia nigra (SN) pars compacta caused significant inhibition of complex-I activity and increased production of hydroxyl radicals in vivo as measured employing spectrophotometric and HPLC-electrochemical procedures, respectively. It also caused a significant time- and dose-dependent reduction of dopamine level, but not serotonin, in the ipsilateral striatum when assayed using an HPLC electrochemical method. This effect was found to be progressive for 90 days. A dose-dependent decrease in nigral glutathione level, as measured fluorimetrically, was also observed to be progressive till 90th day. A significant decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum (73 +/- 8.4% as assessed by densitometric studies) or in SN ipsilateral to the side of infusion suggested nigrostriatal neuronal degeneration. A dose of rotenone (6 microg in 1 microl) that caused 55% striatal dopamine depletion when infused into the SN failed to affect serotonin levels in the terminal regions when infused into the nucleus raphe dorsalis, indicating rotenone's specificity of action towards dopaminergic neurons. Our findings suggest that unilateral infusion of rotenone reproduces neurochemical and neuropathological features of hemiparkinsonism in rats and indicate an active involvement of oxidative stress in rotenone-induced nigrostriatal neurodegeneration. The present study also demonstrates more sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons towards rotenone and establishes mitochondrial complex-I damage as one of the major contributory components of neurodegeneration in PD. The progressive nature of pathology in this model closely mimics idiopathic PD, and absence of mortality warrants the use of this model in drug discovery programs.


In a patient with damage of the left cerebellar cortex (SCA territory), the authors tested four combinations of exposure to optical shift (leftward prisms, right hand; rightward prisms, right hand; leftward prisms, left (ataxic) hand; rightward prisms, left (ataxic) hand). He adapted to rightward but not leftward prisms, independent of which hand was used during exposure. This suggests a role of anterior cerebellar cortex in the computation or compensation of ipsidirectional visual error.
Rhazes was born at Ray near modern Teheran in 864 AD. He wrote over 200 scientific treatises, many of which had a major impact on European medicine. His best known manuscript is Liber Continens, a medical encyclopedia. Herein are described Rhazes's contributions to neurology, focusing on his description of cranial and spinal cord nerves and his clinical case reports, which illustrate his use of neuroanatomy to localize lesions. Relevant passages from facsimiles of the manuscripts Kitab al-Hawi (Liber Continens) and Al-Mansuri Fi At-Tibb (Liber Al Mansoori) were translated, reviewed, and used as references. In addition, Medline, Web, and manuscript searches on Rhazes and the history of medieval and Islamic medicine and neurology were conducted. Rhazes stated that nerves had motor or sensory functions, describing 7 cranial and 31 spinal cord nerves. He assigned a numerical order to the cranial nerves from the optic to the hypoglossal nerves. He classified the spinal nerves into 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 3 sacral, and 3 coccygeal nerves. Rhazes showed an outstanding clinical ability to localize lesions, prognosticate, and describe therapeutic options and reported clinical observations, emphasizing the link between the anatomic location of a lesion and the clinical signs. Rhazes was a pioneer in applied neuroanatomy. He combined a knowledge of cranial and spinal cord nerve anatomy with an insightful use of clinical information to localize lesions in the nervous system.

Reactive microglia in the CNS have been implicated in the pathogenesis of white matter disorders, such as periventricular leukomalacia and multiple sclerosis. However, the mechanism by which activated microglia kill oligodendrocytes (OLs) remains elusive. Here we show that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced death of developing OLs is caused by microglia-derived peroxynitrite, the reaction product of nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide anion. Blocking peroxynitrite formation with nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, superoxide dismutase mimics, or a decomposition catalyst abrogated the cytotoxicity. Only microglia, but not OLs, expressed inducible NO synthase (iNOS) after LPS challenge; microglia from iNOS knockout mice were not cytotoxic upon activation. The molecular source for superoxide was identified as the superoxide-generating enzyme NADPH oxidase. The oxidase was activated upon LPS exposure, and its inhibition prevented microglial toxicity toward OLs. Furthermore, microglia isolated from mice deficient in the catalytic component of the oxidase, gp91(phox), failed to induce cell death. Our results reveal a role for NADPH oxidase in LPS-induced OL death and suggest that peroxynitrite produced by iNOS and NADPH oxidase in activated microglia may play an important role in the pathogenesis of white matter disorders.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative syndrome associated with 114 mutations in the gene encoding the cytosolic homodimeric enzyme Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD). In this article, we report that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-associated SOD mutations with distinctly different disease progression can be rationalized in terms of their folding patterns. The mutations are found to perturb the protein in multiple ways; they destabilize the precursor monomers (class 1), weaken the dimer interface (class 2), or both at the same time (class 1 + 2). A shared feature of the mutational perturbations is a shift of the folding equilibrium toward poorly structured SOD monomers. We observed a link, coupled to the altered folding patterns, between protein stability, net charge, and survival time for the patients carrying the mutations.
This study determined the in vitro functional profile of 1-[3-[4-(3-chlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]propyl]-5-methoxy-3,4-dihydro-2-quinolinone monomethanesulfonate (OPC-14523) at rat and human serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT1A receptors and binding affinity of OPC-14523 at human frontocortical 5-HT1A receptors. OPC-14523 (1 microM) increased guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)-triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding to 5-HT1A receptor-containing regions of rat brain tissue sections (approximately 53% of the effect of 1 microM (+)8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin ((+)8-OH-DPAT) that were blocked by the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY-100635). OPC-14523 also behaved as a partial agonist in its stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to membranes from rat hippocampus (pEC50=7.60+/-0.23, Emax=41.1% of the effect of 10 microM (+)8-OH-DPAT), human frontal cortex (pEC50=7.89+/-0.08; Emax=64% of the effect of 10 microM (+)8-OH-DPAT), and Chinese Hamster Ovary cells expressing cloned human 5-HT1A receptors (pEC50=8.0+/-0.11; Emax=85.5% of the effect of 10 microM 5-HT), and all of these effects of OPC-14523 were blocked by WAY-100635. Taken together, these data support the development of OPC-14523 as an antidepressant whose mechanism of action involves potent partial agonist activity at 5-HT1A receptors.
Hemispheric fine-grain maps of primary auditory cortex (AI) were derived from microelectrode penetrations in the temporal gyrus of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to 1) compare the functional organization of AI in the marmoset with other mammalian species and 2) compare the right and left AI maps in individual monkeys. Frequency receptive fields (FRFs) were recorded with pure tones. Five FRF parameters were analyzed: characteristic frequency, threshold, sharpness of tuning 10 dB and 40 dB above threshold, and minimum response latency. The present study confirms that the functional organization of AI is characterized by a robust tonotopic frequency gradient overlaid with spatially clustered distributions of other FRF parameters. Globally, this functional organization of AI in the common marmoset is similar to that in other mammalian species. With respect to within-subject hemispheric comparisons of the five FRF parameters, a coherent pattern of asymmetry is not evident in marmoset AI. The overall results indicate that the basic functional organization between hemispheres is similar but not identical.
Taste and salivary secretion disorders have been linked to zinc deficiency, indeed zinc is found in secretory granules in the salivary gland. The signaling role for the zinc release in this tissue, however, is poorly understood. Here, we address the signaling pathways and physiological role of the zinc-sensing receptor, ZnR, in the ductal salivary gland cell line, HSY. Exposure of these cells to zinc triggered intracellular Ca2+ release from thapsigargin-sensitive stores. The G alpha q inhibitor, YM-254890 (1 microM), eliminated the Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ response, demonstrating that ZnR is a G alpha q-coupled receptor. Dose-response curves yielded an apparent K0.5 of 36 microM and a Hill coefficient of 7 in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, and K0.5 of 55 microM with a Hill coefficient of 3 in its presence. This indicates that although Zn2+ is essential for ZnR activation, Ca2+ may affect the receptor co-operativity. The homologous desensitization pattern of ZnR was characterized by pre-exposure of cells to Zn2+ at concentrations found to activate the receptor. Re-exposure of cells to Zn2+ elicited an attenuated Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ response for at least 3 h, indicating that the ZnR is strongly desensitized by Zn2+. Finally, we studied the paracrine affects of ZnR using a co-culture consisting of the HSY cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). While no Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ release was observed in VSMC alone, application of Zn2+ to the co-culture induced a Ca2+ rise in both HSY cells and VSMC. This Ca2+ rise was inhibited by the ATP scavenger, apyrase. Taken together, our results demonstrate that ZnR activity is monitored in salivary cells and is modulated by extracellular Ca2+. We further show that ZnR enhances secretion of ATP, thereby linking zinc to key signaling pathways involved in modification of salivary secretions by the ductal cells.
The pituitary contains professional secretory cells, devoting a large fraction of their energy to the synthesis of hormones that are stored for secretion in response to a complex mixture of inputs. Ba2+, a substitute for Ca2+, and phorbol ester, a mimic for diacylglycerol, have a synergistic effect on exocytosis. By using these secretagogues, we developed a paradigm in which phorbol ester potentiation of Ba2+-evoked exocytosis produces a robust secretory response in multiple pituitary cell types. Because cells subjected to this stimulatory paradigm remain healthy despite their greatly reduced hormone content, we used this paradigm to study the fate of granule membrane proteins. We examined the turnover of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a membrane enzyme involved in the final maturation of many peptides, and VAMP2, a vesicle soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE). The stability of recently synthesized PAM was increased by sustained exocytosis. Biotinylation studies established that the appearance of integral membrane PAM at the plasma membrane was stimulated along with hormone secretion. PAM biotinylated on the cell surface undergoes cleavage to yield soluble peptidylglycine-alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase that can then be secreted in a regulated fashion. Consistent with a kiss-and-run or cavicapture mode of secretion (Taraska, J. W., Perrais, D., Ohara-Imaizumi, M., Nagamatsu, S., and Almers, W. (2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 100, 2070-2075), biotinylated prolactin was also retained by the cells and later released in response to secretagogues. Thus, pituitary cells can retrieve and reuse components of the machinery involved in the final stages of exocytosis (the SNAREs) as well as soluble and membrane granule proteins.
Different modalities of sensation interact in a synergistic or antagonistic manner during sensory perception, but whether there is also interaction during memory acquisition is largely unknown. In Drosophila reinforcement learning, we found that conditioning with concurrent visual and olfactory cues reduced the threshold for unimodal memory retrieval. Furthermore, bimodal preconditioning followed by unimodal conditioning with either a visual or olfactory cue led to crossmodal memory transfer. Crossmodal memory acquisition in Drosophila may contribute significantly to learning in a natural environment.


Figure-ground organization is a process by which the visual system identifies some image regions as foreground and others as background, inferring 3D layout from 2D displays. A recent study reported that edge responses of neurons in area V2 are selective for side-of-figure, suggesting that figure-ground organization is encoded in the contour signals (border ownership coding). Here, we show that area V2 combines two strategies of computation, one that exploits binocular stereoscopic information for the definition of local depth order, and another that exploits the global configuration of contours (Gestalt factors). These are combined in single neurons so that the &quot;near&quot; side of the preferred 3D edge generally coincides with the preferred side-of-figure in 2D displays. Thus, area V2 represents the borders of 2D figures as edges of surfaces, as if the figures were objects in 3D space. Even in 3D displays, Gestalt factors influence the responses and can enhance or null the stereoscopic depth information.
Olfaction is required at birth for survival; however, little is known about the maturation of olfactory cortical circuits. Here we show that in vivo sensory experience mediates the development of excitatory transmission in pyramidal neurons of rat olfactory cortex. We find a postnatal critical period during which there is an experience-dependent increase in the contribution of AMPARs versus NMDARs to transmission at primary sensory synapses but not associational inputs. The shift in receptors underlying transmission is mediated by a strong activity-dependent downregulation of NMDARs and modest increase in AMPARs. Sensory activity leads to a loss of &quot;silent&quot; NMDAR-only synapses and an increase in threshold for inducing long-term plasticity. These results indicate the importance of early olfactory experience in the establishment of cortical circuits and could reflect mechanisms governing early olfactory &quot;imprinting.&quot;
Neurabin and spinophilin are homologous protein phosphatase 1 and actin binding proteins that regulate dendritic spine function. A yeast two-hybrid analysis using the coiled-coil domain of neurabin revealed an interaction with Lfc, a Rho GEF. Lfc was highly expressed in brain, where it interacted with either neurabin or spinophilin. In neurons, Lfc was largely found in the shaft of dendrites in association with microtubules but translocated to spines upon neuronal stimulation. Moreover, expression of Lfc resulted in reduction in spine length and size. Both the translocation and the effect on spine morphology depended on the coiled-coil domain of Lfc. Coexpression of neurabin or spinophilin with Lfc resulted in their clustering together with F-actin, a process that depended on Rho activity. Thus, interaction between Lfc and neurabin/spinophilin selectively regulates Rho-dependent organization of F-actin in spines and is a link between the microtubule and F-actin cytoskeletons in dendrites.
We present evidence for a specific role of p53 in the mitochondria-associated cellular dysfunction and behavioral abnormalities of Huntington's disease (HD). Mutant huntingtin (mHtt) with expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) binds to p53 and upregulates levels of nuclear p53 as well as p53 transcriptional activity in neuronal cultures. The augmentation is specific, as it occurs with mHtt but not mutant ataxin-1 with expanded polyQ. p53 levels are also increased in the brains of mHtt transgenic (mHtt-Tg) mice and HD patients. Perturbation of p53 by pifithrin-alpha, RNA interference, or genetic deletion prevents mitochondrial membrane depolarization and cytotoxicity in HD cells, as well as the decreased respiratory complex IV activity of mHtt-Tg mice. Genetic deletion of p53 suppresses neurodegeneration in mHtt-Tg flies and neurobehavioral abnormalities of mHtt-Tg mice. Our findings suggest that p53 links nuclear and mitochondrial pathologies characteristic of HD.
Selective olfactory learning is essential for survival in most newborn mammals. Findings by Franks and Isaacson in this issue of Neuron suggest that early olfactory learning might be selective, in part because olfactory experience downregulates NMDA receptors at primary inputs to the olfactory cortex.
Transplants of fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue are known to contain a mixture of two major dopamine (DA) neuron types: the A9 neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and the A10 neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Previous studies have suggested that these two DA neuron types may differ in their growth characteristics, but, because of technical limitations, it has so far been difficult to identify the two subtypes in fetal ventral mesencephalon (VM) grafts and trace their axonal projections. Here, we have made use of a transgenic mouse expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter. The expression of the GFP reporter allowed for visualization of the grafted DA neurons and their axonal projections within the host brain. We show that the SNpc and VTA neuron subtypes in VM grafts can be identified on the basis of their morphology and location within the graft, and their expression of a G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K+ channel subunit (Girk2) and calbindin, respectively, and also that the axonal projections of the two DA neuron types are markedly different. By retrograde axonal tracing, we show that dopaminergic innervation of the striatum is derived almost exclusively from the Girk2-positive SNpc cells, whereas the calbindin-positive VTA neurons project to the frontal cortex and probably also other forebrain areas. The results suggest the presence of axon guidance and target recognition mechanisms in the DA-denervated forebrain that can guide the growing axons to their appropriate targets and indicate that cell preparations used for cell replacement in Parkinson's disease will be therapeutically useful only if they contain cells capable of generating the correct nigral DA neuron phenotype.
Neuronal cell death occurs during many neurodegenerative disorders and stroke. The aberrant, excessive activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), especially MMP-9, contributes directly to neuron apoptosis and brain damage (Rosenberg et al., 1996; Asahi et al., 2001; Gu et al., 2002; Horstmann et al., 2003). We determined that MMP-9 degrades the extracellular matrix protein laminin and that this degradation induces neuronal apoptosis in a transient focal cerebral ischemia model in mice. We also determined that the highly specific thiirane gelatinase inhibitor SB-3CT blocks MMP-9 activity, including MMP-9-mediated laminin cleavage, thus rescuing neurons from apoptosis. We conclude that MMP-9 is a highly promising drug target and that SB-3CT derivatives have significant therapeutic potential in stroke patients.
Withdrawal from chronic cocaine reduces extracellular glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens by decreasing cystine/glutamate exchange (xc-). Activating xc- with N-acetylcysteine restores extracellular glutamate and prevents cocaine-induced drug seeking. It was hypothesized that the activation of xc- prevents drug seeking by increasing glutamatergic tone on presynaptic group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) and thereby inhibiting excitatory transmission. In the first experiment, the capacity of glutamate derived from xc- to regulate excitatory transmission via mGluR2/3 was determined. Physiological levels of cystine (100-300 nm) were restored to acute tissue slices from the nucleus accumbens or prefrontal cortex. Cystine increased glutamate efflux and decreased miniature EPSC (mEPSC) and spontaneous EPSC (sEPSC) frequency as well as evoked EPSC amplitude. These effects of cystine were presynaptic, because there was no change in mEPSC or sEPSC amplitude, and an increase in the evoked EPSC paired-pulse facilitation ratio. The cystine-induced reduction in EPSCs was reversed by blocking either xc- or mGluR2/3. In the second experiment, blocking mGluR2/3 prevented the ability of N-acetylcystine to inhibit the reinstatement of drug seeking in rats trained to self-administer cocaine. These data demonstrate that nonsynaptic glutamate derived from xc- modulates synaptic glutamate release and thereby regulates cocaine-induced drug seeking.
Functional imaging studies of olfaction have consistently reported odorant-induced activation of the cerebellum. However, the cerebellar role in olfaction remains unknown. We examined the olfactory and olfactomotor abilities of patients with unilateral cerebellar lesions, comparing performance within subjects across nostrils, as well as between subjects with age-matched and young controls. Regarding olfactory performance, initial testing revealed that patients had a contralesional impairment in olfactory identification but not olfactory detection threshold. However, when tested under conditions that prevented compensatory sniffing strategies, the patients also exhibited a contralesional olfactory detection impairment. Regarding olfactomotor function, a healthy olfactomotor system generates sniffs that are (1) sufficiently vigorous and (2) inversely proportional to odorant concentration in sniff mean airflow velocity, maximum airflow velocity, volume, and duration. Patients' sniffs were lower in overall airflow velocity and volume in comparison with control participants. Furthermore, reduced sniff velocity predicted poorer detection thresholds in patients. Finally, whereas young controls used concentration-dependent sniffs, there was a trend in that direction only for age-matched controls. Patients used sniffs that were concentration invariant. In conclusion, cerebellar lesions impacted olfactory and olfactomotor performance. These findings strongly implicate an olfactocerebellar pathway prominent in odor identification and detection that functionally connects each nostril primarily to the contralateral cerebellum.
ATP is released in a vesicular manner from nerve terminals mainly at higher stimulation frequencies. There is a robust expression of ATP (P2) receptors in the brain, but their role is primarily unknown. We report that ATP analogs biphasically modulate the evoked release of glutamate from purified nerve terminals of the rat hippocampus, the facilitation being mediated by P2X1, P2X2/3, and P2X3 [antagonized by 8-(benzamido)naphthalene-1,3,5-trisulfonate and 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl)-ATP] and the inhibition by P2Y1, P2Y2, and/or P2Y4 [antagonized by reactive blue 2 and 2'deoxy-N6-methyladenosine-3',5'-bisphosphate and mimicked by P1-(urinine 5'-),P4-(inosine 5'-) tetraphosphate and 2-methylthio-ADP] receptors. The combination of single-cell PCR analysis of rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons, Western blot analysis of purified presynaptic active zone fraction, and immunocytochemical analysis of hippocampal glutamatergic terminals revealed that the P2 receptors expressed in glutamatergic neurons, located in the active zone and in glutamatergic terminals, were precisely P2X1, P2X2, and P2X3 subunits and P2Y1, P2Y2, and P2Y4 receptors. This provides coincident functional and molecular evidence that P2 receptors are present and act presynaptically as a modulatory system controlling hippocampal glutamate release.
&quot;Fierce&quot; mice, homozygous for the deletion of nuclear receptor 2E1 (NR2E1), show abnormal brain-eye development and pathological aggression. To evaluate functional equivalency between mouse and human NR2E1, we generated mice transgenic for a genomic clone spanning the human NR2E1 locus and bred these animals to fierce mice deleted for the corresponding mouse gene. In fierce mutants carrying human NR2E1, structural brain defects were eliminated and eye abnormalities ameliorated. Excitingly, behavior in these &quot;rescue&quot; mice was indistinguishable from controls. Because no artificial promoter was used to drive transgene expression, promoter and regulatory elements within the human NR2E1 clone are functional in mouse. Normal behavior in rescue animals suggests that mechanisms underlying the behavioral abnormalities in fierce mice may also be conserved in humans. Our data support the hypothesis that variation at NR2E1 may contribute to human behavioral disorders. Use of this rescue paradigm with other genes will permit the direct evaluation of human genes hypothesized to play a causal role in psychiatric disease but for which evidence is lacking or equivocal.
Associations between attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and genetic variants within the dopamine D4 receptor gene have been much reported. Variants investigated include the 7-repeat allele of a VNTR within the third exon, and two SNPs (-521 and -616) located with the promoter region. We investigated the relationship between the VNTR, -521, and -616 SNPs and sustained attention performance in 54 ADHD probands, relative to a non-genotyped control group. Participants performed the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART) in which the response to an unpredictably occurring target digit must be inhibited. This task, therefore, challenged sustained attention and included a response inhibition component. Consistent with previous reports, ADHD participants possessing the 7-repeat allele of the VNTR outperformed those children not possessing this allele, both in terms of errors and response variability. In family based analyses, better performance on the SART tended to predict biased transmission of the 7-repeat allele from heterozygous parents. For the -521 SNP, A allele homozygotes showed greater impairment than heterozygotes or those not possessing this allele, both in terms of total errors and response variability. Family based analysis showed that higher total errors on the SART predicted transmission of the A allele from heterozygous parents. There were no effects of the -616 SNP. Our results suggest dissociable effects of the &quot;associated alleles&quot; of DRD4 gene variants on sustained attention: while the 7-repeat allele of the VNTR is associated with relatively better performance, the A allele of the -521 SNP is associated with poorer performance.
The aggravating effect of high glucose levels during cerebral ischemia has been extensively documented in clinical studies and in vivo models of global and focal ischemia. Detailed mechanistic studies of hyperglycemic ischemia have so far been hampered by the lack of in vitro models since glucose during anoxia in vitro is highly protective. We have previously reported glucose toxicity in murine hippocampal organotypic slice cultures exposed to anoxia in an acidotic medium containing high potassium and low calcium. In the present study, we compared the importance of calcium, nitric oxide and free radicals during in vitro ischemia (IVI) and hyperglycemic (40 mM) IVI. Extracellular calcium was a ubiquitous factor for cell death after IVI, but its removal from the medium had no effect on cell death after hyperglycemic IVI. When intracellular calcium was chelated by the 1,2-Bis(2-amino-5-fluorophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetrakis(acetoxymethyl) ester (BAPTA-AM) cell death appeared earlier but was mitigated in hyperglycemic IVI, while it was increased in glucose-free IVI. Addition of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(omega)-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME) or the free radical scavengers N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN), deferoxamine and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) did not affect cell damage in either paradigm. We conclude that the aggravating effect of hyperglycemia during in vitro ischemia is partially mediated by calcium ions released from intracellular stores.
We previously described that vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) increases synaptic transmission to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells at concentrations known to activate VIP-selective receptors (VPAC1 and VPAC2) but not the PACAP-selective PAC1 receptor. We now investigated the involvement of VPAC1 and VPAC2 receptors in the effects elicited by VIP as well as the transduction pathways activated by VIP to cause enhancement of synaptic transmission. Blockade of either VPAC1 or VPAC2 receptors with PG 97-269 (100 nM) or PG 99-465 (100 nM) inhibited VIP-induced enhancement of synaptic transmission. Selective activation of VPAC1 receptors with [K15, R16, L27] VIP(1-7)/GRF(8-27) (10 nM) or of VPAC2 receptors with RO 25-1553 (10 nM) increased synaptic transmission to CA1 pyramidal cells, and this increase was larger when both agonists were applied together. Inhibition of either PKA with H-89 (1 microM) or PKC with GF109203X (1 microM) attenuated the effect of VIP (1 nM). GF109203X (1 microM) abolished the effect of the VPAC1 agonist [K15, R16, L27] VIP(1-7)/GRF(8-27) (10 nM) on hippocampal synaptic transmission but that effect was not changed by H-89 (1 microM). The effect of RO 25-1553 (100 nM) obtained in the presence of both the PAC1 and VPAC1 antagonists, M65 (30 nM) and PG 97-269 (100 nM), was strongly inhibited by H-89 (1 microM) but not GF109203X (1 microM). It is concluded that VIP enhances synaptic transmission to CA1 pyramidal cell dendrites through VPAC1 and VPAC2 receptor activation. VPAC1-mediated actions are dependent on PKC activity, and VPAC2-mediated actions are responsible for the PKA-dependent actions of VIP on CA1 hippocampal transmission.
Biological information storage events are often rapid transitions between discrete states. In neural systems, the initiation of bidirectional plasticity by all-or-none events may help confer robustness on memory storage. Here, we report that at CA3-CA1 hippocampal synapses, individual potentiation and depression plasticity events are discrete and heterogeneous in nature. Individual synapses began from extreme high and low strength states. Unitary plasticity events were all-or-none and drove synaptic strength between extremes in &lt;1 min. Under nave conditions, approximately three-fourths of synapses began in a low-strength state. The timing of these unitary events can account for the time course of macroscopic synaptic plasticity.
The RET receptor tyrosine kinase controls kidney organogenesis and development of subpopulations of enteric and sensory neurons in different vertebrate species, including humans, rodents, chicken and zebrafish. RET is activated by binding to a ligand complex formed by a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of neurotrophic factors bound to its cognate GFRalpha GPI-linked co-receptor. Despite the absence of GDNF or GFRalpha molecules in the Drosophila genome, a RET orthologue (dRET) has recently been described in this organism and shown to be expressed in subpopulations of cells of the excretory, digestive and nervous systems, thus resembling the expression pattern of RET in vertebrates. In this study, we report on the initial biochemical and functional characterization of the dRET protein in cell culture systems. Full-length dRET could be produced in mammalian and insect cells. Similar to its human counterpart (hRET), overexpression of dRET resulted in its ligand-independent tyrosine phosphorylation, indicating that it bears an active tyrosine kinase. Unlike hRET, however, the extracellular domain of dRET was unable to interact with mammalian GDNF and GFRalpha1. Self association between dRET molecules could neither be detected, indicating that dRET is incapable of mediating cell adhesion by homophilic interactions. A chimeric molecule comprising the extracellular domain of hRET and the kinase domain of dRET was constructed and used to probe ligand-mediated downstream activities of the dRET kinase in PC12 cells. GDNF stimulation of cells transfected with the hRET/dRET chimera resulted in neurite outgrowth comparable to that obtained after transfection of wild-type hRET. These results indicate significant conservation between the biological effects elicited by the human and Drosophila RET kinases, and suggest functions for dRET in neuronal differentiation in the fly.
This paper explores the relationship between Bax and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP). Isolated human colon tumor (HCT116) Bax- mitochondria exposed to recombinant Bax exhibited a slow, cyclosporin A-sensitive swelling, but only at [Bax]&gt;200 nM. The amount of Bax incorporated was much higher than that found in organelles isolated from HCT116 Bax+ staurosporine- or etoposide-treated apoptotic cells, casting doubts on the significance of the putative PT induction for apoptosis. Bax did not influence the electrophysiological properties of an approximately 1 nS channel ascribed to the Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore. These observations indicate that the PTP is independent of Bax.
The Trk receptor family plays diverse roles in both development and plasticity of the vertebrate nervous system. Ltrk is a related receptor that is expressed in the CNS of the mollusk Lymnaea, although little is known of its cellular distribution. This study provides three independent lines of evidence (based on RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry) that Ltrk is universally expressed by neurons and dorsal body cells of both the juvenile and the adult Lymnaea CNS. The highest level of expression by neuronal somata occurs in the late juvenile stage, whereas axon collaterals express high levels throughout the animal's life span. Our data support multifunctional roles for Ltrk that parallel those of its mammalian counterparts.




Recent studies have demonstrated that treatment with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(B)) receptor agonist, baclofen, reduces alcohol intake in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats tested under the homecage two-bottle &quot;alcohol versus water&quot; choice regimen. This study was designed to investigate whether baclofen also reduces alcohol-reinforcing effects in Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. To this aim, sP rats were trained to lever press for oral alcohol (15%, vol/vol) or sucrose (0.3%, wt/vol; included as alternative reinforcer to evaluate the specificity of baclofen effect on alcohol reinforcement) under a fixed ratio schedule of 4. Once steady levels of alcohol or sucrose self-administration behavior were established, the effects of acutely administered baclofen (0, 1.7, and 3 mg/kg, intraperitoneal [ip]) and naloxone (0, 1, and 3 mg/kg, ip; included as reference compound) on alcohol- or sucrose-reinforced responding were evaluated. Baclofen administration dose dependently, although not specifically, reduced alcohol-reinforced responding to an extent comparable to that of naloxone. Baclofen also produced a dose-dependent and specific delay in the onset of alcohol-reinforced responding, suggesting that it suppressed the rats' motivation to start drinking alcohol. These data are discussed in terms of adding further support to the hypothesized involvement of the GABA(B) receptor in the neural system mediating alcohol reinforcement. These data are also in agreement with the results of recent preliminary clinical studies suggesting that baclofen may have therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of alcohol dependence.






Necdin (Ndn) is one of a cluster of genes deleted in the neurodevelopmental disorder Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). Ndntm2Stw mutant mice die shortly after birth because of abnormal respiratory rhythmogenesis generated by a key medullary nucleus, the pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC). Here, we address two fundamental issues relevant to its pathogenesis. First, we performed a detailed anatomical study of the developing medulla to determine whether there were defects within the preBtC or synaptic inputs that regulate respiratory rhythmogenesis. Second, in vitro studies determined if the unstable respiratory rhythm in Ndntm2Stw mice could be normalized by neuromodulators. Anatomical defects in Ndntm2Stw mice included defasciculation and irregular projections of axonal tracts, aberrant neuronal migration, and a major defect in the cytoarchitecture of the cuneate/gracile nuclei, including dystrophic axons. Exogenous application of neuromodulators alleviated the long periods of slow respiratory rhythms and apnea, but some instability of rhythmogenesis persisted. We conclude that deficiencies in the neuromodulatory drive necessary for preBtC function contribute to respiratory dysfunction of Ndntm2Stw mice. These abnormalities are part of a more widespread deficit in neuronal migration and the extension, arborization, and fasciculation of axons during early stages of central nervous system development that may account for respiratory, sensory, motor, and behavioral problems associated with PWS.
Neuron and synapse loss are important features of the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, we observed substantial age-related hippocampal neuron loss in APP751SL/PS1M146L transgenic mice but not in PS1M146L mice. Here, we investigated APP751SL mice, PS1M146L mice, and APP751SL/PS1M146L mice for age-related alterations in synaptic integrity within hippocampal stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus (SM), stratum lucidum of area CA3 (SL), and stratum radiatum of area CA1-2 (SR) by analyzing densities and numbers of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic boutons (SIPBs). Wild-type mice, APP751SL mice and PS1M146L mice showed similar amounts of age-related SIPB loss within SM, and no SIPB loss within SL. Both APP751SL mice and PS1M146L mice showed age-related SIPB loss within SR. Importantly, APP751SL/PS1M146L) mice displayed the severest age-related SIPB loss within SM, SL, and SR, even in regions free of extracellular Abeta deposits. Together, these mouse models offer a unique framework to study the impact of several molecular and cellular events caused by mutant APP and/or mutant PS1 on age-related alterations in synaptic integrity. The observation of age-related SIPB loss within SR of PS1M146L mice supports a role of mutant PS1 in neurodegeneration apart from its contribution to alterations in Abeta generation.
In addition to its well-established role in gamma-secretase cleavage, presenilin (PS) also plays a role in regulating the stability of cytosolic beta-catenin, a protein involved in Wnt signaling. Several familial Alzheimer's disease-associated PS1 mutations have been shown to increase the stability of the signaling pool of beta-catenin, correlating with enhanced cell proliferation. Accordingly, we hypothesized that in the setting of PS1 mutations, abnormal activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling leads to increased cell division. We tested this hypothesis by examining whether there is evidence of increased neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult transgenic mice that overexpress the PS1 A246E mutation. In PS1/PS2-deficient fibroblasts, expression of PS1 A246E Familial AD mutation failed to restore the rapid turnover of beta-catenin compared with wild-type PS1. We then examined whether the same mutation enhanced neurogenesis in vivo in adult hippocampus of PS1-deficient mice when restored by wild-type human PS1 (PS1(-/-)WT) or A246E PS1 mutation (PS1(-/-)AE). The PS1 A246E mutation stimulated the proliferation of progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus of adult mice, as assessed by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation, but did not influence their survival or differentiation. These observations suggest that the PS1 A246E mutation influences cell growth putatively via abnormal beta-catenin signaling in vivo.
Progressive cone dystrophies are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by early deterioration of visual acuity and color vision, together with psychophysical and electrophysiological evidence of abnormal cone function and cone degeneration. Recently, three mutations in the gene encoding the CNGA3 subunit of cone photoreceptor cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels have been linked to progressive cone dystrophy in humans. To investigate the functional consequences of these mutations, we expressed mutant human CNGA3 subunits in Xenopus oocytes, alone or together with human CNGB3, and studied these channels using patch-clamp recording. Compared with wild-type channels, homomeric and heteromeric channels containing CNGA3-N471S or CNGA3-R563H subunits exhibited an increase in apparent affinity for cGMP and an increase in the relative agonist efficacy of cAMP compared with cGMP. In contrast, R277C subunits did not form functional homomeric or heteromeric channels. Cell surface expression levels, determined using confocal microscopy of green fluorescent protein-tagged subunits and patch-clamp recording, were significantly reduced for both R563H and R277C but unchanged for N471S. Overall, these results suggest that the plasma membrane localization and gating properties of cone CNG channels are altered by progressive cone dystrophy-associated mutations, providing evidence that supports the pathogenicity of these mutations.
Nicotine increases the permeability of the blood-brain barrier in vivo. This implies a possible role for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the regulation of cerebral microvascular permeability. Expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits in cerebral microvessels was investigated with immunofluorescence microscopy. Positive immunoreactivity was found for receptor subunits alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, and beta2, but not subunits alpha4, beta3, or beta4. Blood-brain barrier permeability was assessed via in situ brain perfusion with [14C]sucrose. Nicotine increased the rate of sucrose entry into the brain from 0.3 +/- 0.1 to 1.1 +/- 0.2 microl.g(-1).min(-1), as previously described. This nicotine-induced increase in blood-brain barrier permeability was significantly attenuated by both the blood-brain barrier-permeant nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine and the blood-brain barrier-impermeant nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium to 0.5 +/- 0.2 and 0.3 +/- 0.2 microl.g(-1).min(-1), respectively. These data suggest that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors expressed on the cerebral microvascular endothelium mediate nicotine-induced changes in blood-brain barrier permeability.
Fasting has widespread physiological and behavioral effects such as increases in arcuate nucleus neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene expression in rodents, including Siberian hamsters. Fasting also stimulates foraging and food hoarding (appetitive ingestive behaviors) by Siberian hamsters but does relatively little to change food intake (consummatory ingestive behavior). Therefore, we tested the effects of third ventricular NPY Y1 ([Pro(34)]NPY) or Y5 ([D-Trp(34)]NPY) receptor agonists on these ingestive behaviors using a wheel running-based food delivery system coupled with simulated burrow housing. Siberian hamsters had 1) no running wheel access and free food, 2) running wheel access and free food, or 3) foraging requirements (10 or 50 revolutions/pellet). NPY (1.76 nmol) stimulated food intake only during the first 4 h postinjection ( approximately 200-1,000%) and mostly in hamsters with a foraging requirement. The Y1 receptor agonist markedly increased food hoarding (250-1,000%), increased foraging as well as wheel running per se, and had relatively little effect on food intake (&lt;250%). Unlike NPY, the Y5 agonist significantly increased food intake, especially in foraging animals ( approximately 225-800%), marginally increased food hoarding (250-500%), and stimulated foraging and wheel running 4-24 h postinjection, with the distribution of earned pellets favoring eating versus hoarding across time. Across treatments, food hoarding predominated early postinjection, whereas food intake tended to do so later. Collectively, NPY stimulated both appetitive and consummatory ingestive behaviors in Siberian hamsters involving Y1/Y5 receptors, with food hoarding and foraging/wheel running (appetitive) more involved with Y1 receptors and food intake (consummatory) with Y5 receptors.
A primary reason for poor characterization of microsomal transport to date is the limitations of the measurement techniques used. Radiodetection provides sufficient sensitivity, but it can be applied only when labeled analogue is available. In this article, we report the novel application of high-performance liquid chromatography and electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in &quot;rapid filtration&quot; transport assays. The method was developed using glucuronides, but it is adaptable to any compound that can be measured with LC-MS/MS. Because of the high sensitivity and accuracy of this detection technique, the substrates can be used at their physiological concentration in the experiments. The new methodology does not require radiolabeling, so it remarkably widens the range of possible substrates to investigate and allows simultaneous detection as well as monitoring of substrate stability during the experiments.
During the interim between the 2003 and 2004 academic years, the cell and tissue biology and integrated medical neuroscience courses at the Medical College of Wisconsin made a complete and rapid switch from light microscopy- to virtual microscopy-based histology laboratories. This switch was prompted by the difficulties in maintaining and the cost of replacing the college's microscopes and microscope slides, and primarily by the desire to promote and streamline learning for our large classes (n &gt; 200) of first-year medical students. A group of students who used the virtual microscope, another group of students who used the light microscope, and faculty with experience using both tools rated the effectiveness of the virtual microscope for learning and teaching. Also, to determine whether virtual microscopy affected student learning, laboratory examination scores for the 2004 class (n = 209) were compared with those of four previous classes that used light microscopes exclusively (n = 811). The switch from light microscopy to virtual microscopy was very favorably received by both students and faculty. More importantly, data from examination scores and course evaluation surveys indicated that use of the virtual microscope may significantly improve student performance and learning efficiency. Procedures for successfully implementing this change are described.
The cadaver continues to be the primary tool to teach human gross anatomy. However, cadavers are not available to students outside of the teaching laboratory. A solution is to make course content available through computer-assisted instruction (CAI). While CAI is commonly used as an ancillary teaching tool for anatomy, use of screen space, annotations that obscure the image, and restricted interactivity have limited the utility of such teaching tools. To address these limitations, we designed a Web-based CAI tool that optimizes use of screen space, uses annotations that do not decrease the clarity of the images, and incorporates interactivity across different operating systems and browsers. To assess the design and utility of our CAI tool, we conducted a prospective evaluation of 43 graduate students enrolled in neuroanatomy taught by the Divisions of Physical and Occupational Therapy at the University of Utah, College of Health. A questionnaire addressed navigation, clarity of the images, benefit of the CAI tool, and rating of the CAI tool compared to traditional learning tools. Results showed that 88% of the respondents strongly agreed that the CAI tool was easy to navigate and overall beneficial. Eighty-four percent strongly agreed that the CAI tool was educational in structure identification and had clear images. Furthermore, 95% of the respondents thought that the CAI tool was much to somewhat better than traditional learning tools. We conclude that the design of a CAI tool, with minimal limitations, provides a useful ancillary tool for human neuroanatomy instruction.
Past studies of galliform anti-predator behavior show that they discriminate between aerial and ground predators, producing distinctive, functionally referential vocalizations to each class. Within the category of aerial predators, however, studies using overhead models, video images and observations of natural encounters with birds of prey report little evidence that galliforms discriminate between different raptor species. This pattern suggests that the aerial alarm response may be triggered by general features of objects moving in the air. To test whether these birds are also sensitive to more detailed differences between raptor species, adult chickens with young were presented with variously sized trained raptors (small, intermediate, large) under controlled conditions. In response to the small hawk, there was a decline in anti-predator aggression and in aerial alarm calling as the young grew older and less vulnerable to attack by a hawk of this size. During the same developmental period, responses to the largest hawk, which posed the smallest threat to the young at all stages, did not change; there were intermediate changes at this time in response to the middle-sized hawk. Thus the anti-predator behavior of the adult birds varied in an adaptive fashion, changing as a function of both chick age and risk. We discuss these results in light of current issues concerning the cognitive mechanisms underlying alarm calling behavior in animals.
To understand how the oblique and transverse heads of the adductor hallucis muscle of the human foot are phylogenitically and ontogenetically developed, it is essential to know nerve supplies of these two heads of the muscle. In the present study, we dissected seven feet of five Japanese cadavers in detail to clarify the ramification patterns of the deep branch of the lateral plantar nerve by peeling off its epineurium (the nerve fascicle analysis method). We found that the muscular branch to the oblique head of the adductor hallucis muscle directly separated from nerve fascicles constituting the deep branch of the lateral plantar nerve, whereas the muscular branch to the transverse head arose in common with branches which innervated other intrinsic muscles of the foot, i.e., the 2nd and 3rd lumbrical muscles and the 1st and 2nd dorsal interossei muscles. The present study revealed that two heads of the adductor hallucis muscle, the oblique and transverse, had different innervating patterns, suggesting that two heads of the human adductor hallucis muscle develop from different primordia, and not from common ancestors.
Lacunar infarcts are commonly found in the basal ganglia, though little is known about the organization of small-scale microvascular territories that presumably subtend lacunae. We investigated microvascular territories of the lenticulostriate arteries, the recurrent artery of Heubner, the anterior choroidal artery, and striate branches of the anterior cerebral and anterior communicating arteries in perfusion-fixed human brains by simultaneous injection of fluorescent dyes and a radio-opaque substance in 5% gelatin. Territories were defined by ultraviolet illumination of dye and high-resolution mammography of radio-opaque substance. Brains were sectioned coplanar with the Talairach proportional grid system and vascular data were plotted, allowing for application to any human brain. The data suggest first that the lenticulostriate artery, recurrent artery of Heubner, and anterior choroidal artery supply distinct territories of the basal ganglia with minimal overlap and sparse anastomoses between major penetrating vessels. Individual territories are spatially consistent across brains and match the extent of major/minor infarcts. Second, branching patterns of parental, second-, and third-order vessels leading to circumscribed terminal vascular beds could account structurally for &quot;lacunar&quot; infarcts.

Protein thiolation is elicited by oxidation by different mechanisms and is involved in a variety of biological processes. Thiols, protein SH (PSH) and non-protein SH groups (NPSH, namely GSH), are in competition in all biological environments in the regulation of oxidant homeostasis because oxidants thiolate proteins, whereas GSH dethiolates them (e.g., GSSG + PSH --&gt; GSSP + GSH). Although poorly investigated, the elimination of disulfides from thiolated proteins to regenerate critical PSH is important. These aspects are poorly known in cells, where glutaredoxin and peroxiredoxin operate as enzymes or potential chaperones to accelerate dethiolation. On the contrary, studies with plasma or albumin have highlighted the importance of protein conformation in dethiolation processes and have clarified the reason why homocysteine (thiol with potential toxicity) is preferentially bound to albumin as protein-thiol mixed disulfide with respect to other NPSH. Here we provide an overview of protein thiolation/dethiolation processes, with an emphasis on recent developments and future perspectives in this field.
S-Nitrosation of protein sulfhydryl groups is an established response to oxidative/nitrosative stress. The transient nature and reversibility of S-nitrosation, as well as its specificity, render this posttranslational modification an attractive mechanism of regulation of protein function and signal transduction, in analogy to S-glutathionylation. Several feasible mechanisms for protein S-nitrosation have been proposed, including transnitrosation by S-nitrosothiols, such as S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), where the nitrosonium moiety is directly transferred from one thiol to another. The reaction between GSNO and protein sulfhydryls can also produce a mixed disulfide by S-glutathionylation, which involves the nucleophilic attack of the sulfur of GSNO by the protein thiolate anion. In this study, we have investigated the possible occurrence of S-glutathionylation during reaction of GSNO with papain, creatine phosphokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, alcohol dehydrogenase, bovine serum albumin, and actin. Our results show that papain, creatine phosphokinase, and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase were significantly both S-nitrosated and S-glutathionylated by GSNO, whereas alcohol dehydrogenase, bovine serum albumin, and actin appeared nearly only S-nitrosated. The susceptibility of the modified proteins to denitrosation and deglutathionylation by reduced glutathione was also investigated.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter dopamine. Peroxynitrite (ONOO-) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) inhibit TH catalytic function and cause nitration of protein tyrosine residues. Exposure of TH to either ONOO- or NO2 in the presence of cysteine (or glutathione) prevents tyrosine nitration and results in S-thiolation instead. TH catalytic activity is suppressed by S-thiolation. Dithiothreitol prevents and reverses the modification of TH by S-thiolation, and returns enzyme activity to control levels. S-Nitrosothiols, which are known to S-thiolate proteins, can be formed in the reaction of cysteine or glutathione with reactive nitrogen species. Therefore, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) was tested for its ability to modify TH. Fresh solutions of GSNO did not modify TH, whereas decomposed GSNO resulted in extensive S-thiolation of the protein. Dimedone, a sulfenic acid trap, prevents S-thiolation of TH when included with GSNO during its decomposition. Taken together, these results show that TH is S-thiolated by ONOO- or NO2 in the presence of cysteine. S-Thiolation occurs at the expense of tyrosine nitration. Glutathione disulfide S-oxide, which forms spontaneously in the decomposition of GSNO and which is found in tissue undergoing oxidative stress, may be the species that S-thiolates TH.







Habituation (a form of non-associative learning) was measured by assessing locomotion in novel activity monitors in CB1 receptor knockout mice and juxtaposed to habituation measured in muscarinic M2, M4, and double M2/M4 receptor knockout mice. M2 and M2/M4, but not M4, receptor knockout mice appeared to have an impaired ability to habituate, whereas CB1 receptor knockout mice showed enhanced habituation compared to wild-type animals. We conclude that CB1 receptor gene invalidation improves habituation tentatively through an increase in cholinergic neurotransmission.
Several variables, including age, are known to influence anxiety. Previous exposure to the elevated-plus maze (EPM) is known to modify emotional behaviour as retesting in the EPM at a standard age of 3 months increases open-arm avoidance and attenuates the effects of anxiolytic drugs. This study analysed whether similar results are obtained when older animals are subjected to these experimental paradigms. Overall, increasing age was associated with more signs of anxiety. Additionally, we observed a paradoxical behaviour pattern in aged-subjects that were re-exposed to the EPM, with mid-aged and old rats failing to display open arm avoidance (OAA) in the second trial; this qualitative shift in emotional behaviour was not associated with decreased locomotion. An examination of how age influences responsiveness to anxiolytic drugs, with or without previous maze experience, was also conducted. Midazolam (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) proved anxiolytic in maize-naive young animals; in marked contrast, in older animals midazolam at 1 mg/kg resulted in sedation but not anxiolyis. One trial tolerance to midazolam was evident in animals of both ages that were subjected to a second EPM trial; the latter phenomenon was apparently accentuated in older animals as they do not show open arm avoidance upon re-exposure to the EPM. These data suggest that the age-associated 'resistance' to anxiolytic drugs might be related to a qualitative shift in emotional behaviour.
Initial functional impairments after cerebral ischemia often improve considerably during the early period after the insult. Although pathological changes associated with post-lesion improvements have been widely investigated, it has not been resolved whether behavioral improvement represents true restoration of function (recovery) or development of new strategies (compensation). This study investigated whether early motor improvements after focal cerebral ischemia reflect recovery or compensation. Adult female Wistar rats were trained to retrieve food pellets in a skilled reaching task prior to receiving a unilateral cortical infarction induced by photothrombosis in forelimb motor cortex. Animals were continuously tested in the reaching task up to 3 weeks after lesion. The end point measures revealed that reaching success rates remained at pre-lesion levels, however, qualitative analysis of reaching movements indicated permanent changes in forelimb movement patterns. Similar observations were made in a skilled walking task and a test for forelimb asymmetry. These data indicate that lesion animals adopted alternative movement strategies in order to successfully perform the tasks. The changes in postoperative performance were compared to anatomical data in individual animals. The finding that reaching success was not related to lesion size supports the idea that the degree of adaptive behavior after cortical ischemia depends on plastic properties of the remaining intact tissue.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders. Several toxin-induced animals models simulate the motor deficits occurring in PD. Among them, the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model is frequently used in rats and has the advantage of presenting side-biased motor impairments. However, the behavioral consequences of a unilateral 6-OHDA-lesion have, so far, not been described in detail in mice. The aim of this study was to characterize mice with unilateral 6-OHDA-lesions placed in the median forebrain bundle using several motor behavioral tests in order to identify the most suitable predictor of nigral cell loss. Mice underwent various drug-induced (amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotation) and spontaneous motor tests (cylinder, rotarod, elevated body swing, and stride length test). The amphetamine-induced rotation test, the cylinder and the rotarod test were most sensitive and reliable in detecting loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra. This study demonstrates that substantial and stable unilateral 6-OHDA-induced lesions can be established in mice, and that these lesions can be functionally assessed using several different side-bias-based behavioral tests. This mouse model offers the opportunity to use transgenic mouse strains and study the interactions between genes of interest and toxins in relation to Parkinson's disease etiology in the future.
Lateralization of various functions is well established in the domestic chick and other vertebrates. The function of lateralization is a question under investigation now. In a previous study, it was shown that chicks incubated in the dark (Da), which prevents the development of lateralization of visual foraging and predator detection, did not perform well when two tasks requiring simultaneous use of the expertise of the right and left eye systems were presented. Performance of a task requiring the chick to find grains against a background of pebbles deteriorated in the Da chicks in the presence of a predator. In the study reported here, the two simultaneous tasks were tested in both binocular and monocular conditions to establish the role of each eye system. Learning of the pebble-floor task was poor in Da chicks tested binocularly or monocularly and in the light-exposed (Li) chicks using the left eye (LE). The time taken to complete the pebble-floor task in the presence of a predator was significantly longer for the Da chicks. This was because pecking was interrupted for longer times when the predator was presented, and the Da chicks made more distress calls than the Li. The latency to detect the predator was longest in the Li chicks using the right eye (RE) (i.e., the Li were lateralized). In the Li chicks, sustained initial viewing of the predator was by the LE. There was no LE/RE difference in the Da chicks. The intensity of responses decreased with continued presentation of the predator but forced use of the RE slowed this habituation. Exposure to light before hatching affects lateralization of both learning of the pebble-floor task and the detection of an overhead predator. Attending to the foraging and predator vigilance tasks simultaneously is impaired in the Da chicks and the superior ability of Li (lateralized) chicks is due to a specific effect of light stimulation of the RE prior to hatching. We have shown that superior performance on the dual task results from the ability to allocate food searching to one hemisphere (left) and predator vigilance to the other (right) hemisphere, achieved only by Li chicks.
To assess whether gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) modulation of dopamine is important in mediation of the discriminative stimulus effects of methamphetamine, the GABA compounds chlordiazepoxide (benzodiazepine site agonist), pentobarbital (barbiturate site agonist), bicuculline and pentylenetetrazol (GABA(A) receptor antagonists) were tested in Sprague-Dawley rats trained to discriminate methamphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) from saline. Each of the compounds produced modest amounts of methamphetamine-appropriate responding (20-35%) when tested alone. When tested in combination with methamphetamine, the antagonists (bicuculline and pentylenetetrazol) failed to shift the methamphetamine dose-effect curve. In contrast, chlordiazepoxide (25 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced methamphetamine-appropriate responding at each dose of methamphetamine tested, and pentobarbital (10 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently decreased the discriminative stimulus effects of 1 mg/kg methamphetamine. In conclusion, GABA(A) antagonists and positive modulators likely do not produce methamphetamine-like stimulus effects. However, activation of GABA(A) receptors can interfere with the discriminative stimulus effects of methamphetamine.
Models of auditory processing, particularly of speech, face many difficulties. Included in these are variability among speakers, variability in speech rate, and robustness to moderate distortions such as time compression. We constructed a system based on ensembles of feature detectors derived from fragments of an onset-sensitive sound representation. This method is based on the idea of 'spectro-temporal response fields' and uses convolution to measure the degree of similarity through time between the feature detectors and the stimulus. The output from the ensemble was used to derive segmentation cues and patterns of response, which were used to train an artificial neural network (ANN) classifier. This allowed us to estimate a lower bound for the mutual information between the class of the input and the class of the output. Our results suggest that there is significant information in the output of our system, and that this is robust with respect to the exact choice of feature set, time compression in the stimulus, and speaker variation. In addition, the robustness to time compression in the stimulus has features in common with human psychophysics. Similar experiments using feature detectors derived from fragments of non-speech sounds performed less well. This result is interesting in the light of results showing aberrant cortical development in animals exposed to impoverished auditory environments during the developmental phase.

Diurnal temporal variations of emotional reactivity were investigated in relationship with fluctuations of psychophysiological state, evaluated by tonic autonomic activity. Neutral and unpleasant pictures, selected to constitute seven matched sets, were evaluated by 12 participants during seven sessions in the course of daytime. Skin conductance level (SCL) was recorded at the beginning of each session, whereas skin conductance responses (SCRs), affective evaluation and emotional experience were measured during or after each session. Data show significant temporal variations for SCL, SCRs and emotional experience which follow similar patterns during the daytime. Discussion highlights the role of temporal patterns of autonomic activity as an interesting basis to better understand the emotional regulation and affective disorders.
Ubiquitination is required throughout all developmental stages of mammalian spermatogenesis. Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH) L1 is thought to associate with monoubiquitin to control ubiquitin levels. Previously, we found that UCHL1-deficient testes of gad mice have reduced ubiquitin levels and are resistant to cryptorchid stress-related injury. Here, we analyzed the function of UCHL1 during the first round of spermatogenesis and during sperm maturation, both of which are known to require ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. Testicular germ cells in the immature testes of gad mice were resistant to the early apoptotic wave that occurs during the first round of spermatogenesis. TUNEL staining and cell quantitation demonstrated decreased germ cell apoptosis and increased numbers of premeiotic germ cells in gad mice between Postnatal Days 7 and 14. Expression of the apoptotic proteins TRP53, Bax, and caspase-3 was also significantly lower in the immature testes of gad mice. In adult gad mice, cauda epididymidis weight, sperm number in the epididymis, and sperm motility were reduced. Moreover, the number of defective spermatozoa was significantly increased; however, complete infertility was not detected. These data indicate that UCHL1 is required for normal spermatogenesis and sperm quality control and demonstrate the importance of UCHL1-dependent apoptosis in spermatogonial cell and sperm maturation.
Two-solution bone cement consists of methyl methacrylate monomer and poly(methyl methacrylate) polymer dissolved together to yield a viscous solution. Two solutions are used such that the initiator, benzoyl peroxide (BPO), is placed in one solution and the activator, N,N, dimethyl-para-toluidine, is placed in the other. This approach to bone cement provides for a simplified use during surgery and eliminates some of the sources of porosity formation. However, the BPO-containing solution cement will spontaneously polymerize over time and will limit the useful shelf life of this component of the system. The activator-containing component is much more stable and is not as susceptible to spontaneous polymerization. In making two-solution cements, it is envisioned that antibiotics may be incorporated and that the polymer may be sterilized using gamma(gamma)-irradiation. Therefore, this study investigated the shelf life of the initiator-containing solution bone cement and studied the effects of initiator concentration, gamma-irradiation, gentamicin addition, and the role of storage temperature. Isothermal differential scanning calorimetry (Iso-DSC) techniques were used to monitor the polymerization of BPO-containing solutions. It was found that the shelf life was highly temperature dependent and followed an Arrhenius expression where refrigeration storage (4 degrees C) yielded approximately a 12-month storage time, while 70 degrees C storage results in setting in about 5-7 min. gamma-irradiation and gentamicin addition did not significantly affect the shelf life. Initiator concentration affected storage time with higher levels resulting in shorter shelf life.
In the central nervous system (CNS), glutamate rapidly upregulates the activities of different excitatory amino-acid transporter subtypes (EAATs) in order to help protect neurons from excitotoxicity. Since human platelets display a specific sodium-dependent glutamate uptake activity, and express the three major glutamate transporters, which may be affected in neurological disorders, we investigated whether platelets are subject to substrate-induced modulation as described for CNS. A time- and dose-dependent upregulation of [3H]-glutamate uptake (up to two-fold) was observed in platelets preincubated with glutamate. There was an increase in maximal velocity rate without affinity changes. Glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists did not modulate this upregulation and preincubation with glutamate analogues failed to mimic the glutamate effect. Only aspartate preincubation increased the uptake, albeit approximately 35% less with respect to glutamate. The effect of glutamate preincubation on the expression of the three major transporters was studied by Western blotting, showing an increase of approximately 70% in EAAT1 immunoreactivity that was completely blocked by cycloheximide (CEM). However, L-serine-O-sulphate, at a concentration (200 microM) known to block EAAT1/3 selectively, did not completely inhibit the effect of glutamate stimulation, indicating the possible involvement of EAAT2. In fact, glutamate stimulation was completely abolished only when, following CEM pre-incubation, the experiment was run in the presence of the selective EAAT2 inhibitor dihydrokainic acid. Since surface biotinylation experiments failed to show evidence of EAAT2 translocation, our results suggest the existence of a different way of regulating EAAT2 activity. These findings indicate that human platelets display a substrate-dependent modulation of glutamate uptake mediated by different molecular mechanisms and confirm that ex vivo platelets are a reliable model to investigate the dysfunction of glutamate uptake regulation in patients affected by neurological disorders.

We report the first post-mortem analysis of two patients with Parkinson's disease who received fetal midbrain transplants as a cell suspension in the striatum, and in one case also in the substantia nigra. These patients had a favourable clinical evolution and positive 18F-fluorodopa PET scans and did not develop motor complications. The surviving transplanted dopamine neurons were positively identified with phenotypic markers of normal control human substantia nigra (n = 3), such as tyrosine hydroxylase, G-protein-coupled inward rectifying current potassium channel type 2 (Girk2) and calbindin. The grafts restored the cell type that provides specific dopaminergic innervation to the most affected striatal regions in the parkinsonian brain. Such transplants were able to densely reinnervate the host putamen with new dopamine fibres. The patients received only 6 months of standard immune suppression, yet by post-mortem analysis 3-4 years after surgery the transplants appeared only mildly immunogenic to the host brain, by analysis of microglial CD45 and CD68 markers. This study demonstrates that, using these methods, dopamine neuronal replacement cell therapy can be beneficial for patients with advanced disease, and that changing technical approaches could have a favourable impact on efficacy and adverse events following neural transplantation.
Relatives of people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) may be at increased risk of SAH, but precise data on the level of risk and which relatives are most likely to be affected are lacking. We studied two samples: 5478 relatives of patients from the whole of Scotland who had a SAH in one year and 3213 relatives of patients with a SAH admitted to the West of Scotland regional neurosurgical unit 10 years previously. Overall, 2% of all relatives in each sample had a SAH. In the Scotland-wide sample, the absolute lifetime risk of SAH (from birth to 70 years) was higher for first-degree relatives [4.7%; 95% confidence interval (CI): 3.1-6.3%] than for second-degree (1.9%; 95% CI: 1.0-2.9%). In the West of Scotland sample, the lifetime risks were very similar to the Scotland-wide sample. The 10-year prospective risk for first-degree relatives alive at the time of the index patient's SAH was 1.2% (95% CI: 0.4-2%) and for second-degree was 0.5% (95% CI: 0.1-0.8%). There was a trend for risk to be highest in families with two first-degree relatives affected and lowest with only one second-degree affected. Most living relatives of patients who suffer a SAH are at low absolute risk of a future haemorrhage; screening is inappropriate except for the few families in whom two or more first-degree relatives, i.e. index case plus one extra have been affected.
In this study, we describe a new form of synaesthesia in which visual perception of touch elicits conscious tactile experiences in the perceiver. We describe a female subject (C) for whom the observation of another person being touched is experienced as tactile stimulation on the equivalent part of C's own body. Apart from this clearly abnormal synesthetic experience, C is healthy and normal in every other way. In this study, we investigate whether C's 'mirrored touch' synesthetic experience is caused by overactivity in the neural system that responds to the observation of touch. A functional MRI experiment was designed to investigate the neural system involved in the perception of touch in a group of 12 non-synesthetic control subjects and in C. We investigated neural activity to the observation of touch to a human face or neck compared with the observation of touch to equivalent regions on an object. Furthermore, to investigate the somatosensory topography of the activations during observation of touch, we compared activations when observing a human face or neck being touched with activations when the subjects themselves were touched on their own face or neck. The results demonstrated that the somatosensory cortex was activated in the non-synesthetic subjects by the mere observation of touch and that this activation was somatotopically organized such that observation of touch to the face activated the head area of primary somatosensory cortex, whereas observation of touch to the neck did not. Moreover, in non-synesthetic subjects, the brain's mirror system-comprising premotor cortex, superior temporal sulcus and parietal cortex-was activated by the observation of touch to another human more than to an object. C's activation patterns differed in three ways from those of the non-synesthetic controls. First, activations in the somatosensory cortex were significantly higher in C when she observed touch. Secondly, an area in left premotor cortex was activated in C to a greater extent than in the non-synesthetic group. Thirdly, the anterior insula cortex bilaterally was activated in C, but there was no evidence of such activation in the non-synesthetic group. The results suggest that, in C, the mirror system for touch is overactive, above the threshold for conscious tactile perception.

Central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) networks are recruited by chronic stressors and elevated glucocorticoids (GCs) that initiate recruitment of central CRF activity in the amygdala. Increased central activity of the CRF network stimulates all monoaminergic cell groups, as well as premotor autonomic and other limbic structures resulting in the typical arousal, behavioral changes, autonomic, and neuroendocrine changes that accompany the chronic imposition of a stressor. By contrast, elevated GCs appear, through a variety of means to counteract the effects of central CRF, which they have initiated. Together with insulin, the GCs stimulate drive for and ingestion of &quot;comfort foods&quot; that may directly result in reduction of the negative effects of the chronic stressor in the nucleus Accumbens, through stimulation of the anterior, more pleasure-associated part of this cell group, thus reducing the weight of the stress-stimulated posterior, more defensive part. Furthermore, the shift in caloric intake from chow to preference for &quot;comfort foods,&quot; together with elevated GCs and insulin, reorganize energy stores from a peripheral to a central distribution, primarily as abdominal fat. A signal associated with this fat depot appears, as with eating &quot;comfort foods,&quot; to reduce the influence of the chronic stress network on behaviors, autonomic, and neuroendocrine outflow.
White matter astrocytes have physiological functions which are distinct from those of astrocytes in gray matter. White matter becomes highly non-permissive to neurite growth after injury, but the role of white matter astrocytes in this process is incompletely understood. Current protocols for making primary astroglial cultures are inadequate for exploring the specific properties of white matter astrocytes in vitro. We describe a procedure for obtaining cultures of white matter astrocytes from the rodent corpus callosum. In this procedure, we take advantage of our previous finding that white, but not gray matter astrocytes express the calcium-binding protein S100A4. S100A4 expressing astrocytes are abundant in the corpus callosum, and we show that cultures, highly enriched in S100A4 expressing white matter astrocytes, can be reproducibly generated from this area. Key factors for successful cultures are (i) meticulous dissection of the corpus callosum from 4-day-old rats, and (ii) Percoll density gradient centrifugation to purify astrocytes. As a means of exploring the possible role of S100A4 in white matter astrocytes, we describe the use of the siRNA technique to eliminate the expression of S100A4 in our in vitro system.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) and its precursors, 1,4-butanediol (1,4-BD) and gamma-butyrolactone (GBL), are recreational drugs widely abused in the US, Europe and Australasia. A severe withdrawal syndrome from GHB, 1,4-BD and GBL has been increasingly documented over the last years, necessitating the development of a reliable animal model for investigations of potential therapeutic approaches. The present study describes the induction and occurrence of audiogenic seizures as a sign of withdrawal from GHB and 1,4-BD in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats, treated with escalating doses of GHB (1.5-3.5 g/kg, twice daily; i.g.) or 1,4-BD (500-1000 mg/kg, twice daily; i.g.) for 9 consecutive days. Acute administration of the selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist, SCH 50911, dramatically increased seizure occurrence. We propose that the inherent sensitivity of sP rats to different GHB-associated responses may have contributed to the unraveling of a phenomenon which was otherwise not recognizable in other rat strains.
Despite dyslexia affecting a large number of people, the mechanisms underlying the disorder remain undetermined. There are numerous theories about the origins of dyslexia. Many of these relate dyslexia to low-level, sensory temporal processing deficits. Another group of theories attributes dyslexia to language-specific impairments. Here, we show that dyslexics perform worse than controls on an auditory perceptual grouping task. The results show differences in performance between the groups that depend on sound frequency and not solely on parameters related to temporal processing. Performance on this task suggests that dyslexics' deficits may result from impaired attentional control mechanisms. Such deficits are neither modality nor language-specific and may help to reconcile differences between theories of dyslexia.
Semantic processing of numbers and animals was contrasted with PET in two different tasks (comparison and classification) to test the hypothesis that knowledge about numbers is associated with increased activation in the parietal cortices, regardless of the semantic task (i.e. Classification: is seven odd? Comparison: is seven larger than 5?). By contrast, processing animal names was expected to produce activation in inferior temporal areas. Task-independent activation was observed in the left and right intraparietal sulci for number names, whereas task-independent activation of the left inferior temporal gyrus was found for animal names. No significant interaction between the category (numbers or animals) and the semantic task (comparison or classification) was observed. Accordingly, the IPS activation classically observed during numerical processing appears to be related to category-specific semantic knowledge about numbers. Likewise, the activation of the inferior temporal gyrus associated with the processing of animal names is probably related to category-specific knowledge about animals. The results strongly support the hypothesis that different brain regions are important for storing conceptual knowledge about different semantic categories.
The processing of global and local elements and of low- and high-spatial frequencies are thought to be interrelated. Evidence for this stems from findings showing that brain localizations for global/local elements and for low/high spatial frequencies seem to overlap. The present study aimed to provide direct evidence that topographical differences between the processing of global and local visual elements can directly be explained by their spatial frequency content, and to study at which point in time this relation is present. This was done by studying the event-related potentials (ERPs) and source models elicited by unfiltered, low- or high-pass filtered hierarchical stimuli. Results showed that performance for global and local targets was affected by removing low and high spatial frequencies, respectively. ERP data indicated that at 250 ms, there was an interaction between the processing of global/local targets and of spatial frequencies because at this time-point removal of low spatial frequencies decreased activity associated with the processing of global targets. When localizing this effect, we found evidence implying that spatial frequency content indeed affected the brain region in which local/global targets were processed. Results implicated that the processing of global information depended on its low spatial frequency content, which was processed more laterally. Instead, processing of local information seemed to depend on its high spatial frequency content, which was processed more medially. Thereby, present results extend former results showing that global and local processing is dependent on spatial frequency and mapped retinotopically in the visual cortex.
This study examined cerebral asymmetry, especially in the hierarchical visual system, when reading Chinese characters. Twelve right-handed Chinese children (mean age = 11.6 years) were scanned while performing semantic and phonological tasks. Strong leftward asymmetry was found in the left inferior frontal cortex (BA44/45/47), the parietal lobule (BA40), and the cingulate cortex (BA24/32). In the visual system, we found significant left-hemispheric dominance in the fusiform cortex (BA19/37), but no asymmetry was found in the primary visual cortex (BA17/18). The differential results for the primary visual cortex versus high-order visual cortex (i.e., the fusiform cortex) are discussed in terms of the contribution of the logographic nature of Chinese characters to the asymmetry pattern in the hierarchical visual system.
In cognitive neuroscience, optically tracked frameless stereotaxic navigation has been successfully used to precisely guide transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to desired cortical areas for brain-mapping purposes. Thereby, potential sources of imprecision are the fixation of a reference frame to the head of the subject and the referencing procedure according to certain landmarks (LM). The aim of our study was to evaluate the accuracy of frameless stereotaxic coil positioning in a standard experimental setting. A parameter for accuracy is the reproducibility of LM coordinates. In order to test the stability of the referencing for stereotaxic positioning within a single TMS session (within-session stability), the coordinates of six predefined facial LM in nine subjects were recorded first after the initial registration and second after a 20 minutes TMS session. The two sets of coordinates were then compared. The reliability of the positioning coordinates between different TMS sessions (inter-session repeatability) was addressed by registering the subjects LM coordinates in two independent TMS sessions. The variance of the recorded coordinates was analyzed. Altogether, LM were registered 1728 times (192 measures per subject). Within-session stability: The mean Euclidean distance (MED) between the LM position coordinates before and after a TMS session was 1.6 mm, when pooling over all LM. Inter-session repeatability: The MED between the LM positions recorded after the reference procedures of two different sessions showed an average deviation of 2.5 mm. In conclusion, optically tracked frameless stereotaxic coil positioning is from the technical viewpoint of high stability and repeatability. It is therefore a precise method for TMS brain mapping studies or for repeated TMS treatments, with the need of topographically exact stimulation.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is increasingly used as a research tool for functional brain mapping in cognitive neuroscience. Despite being mostly tolerable, side effects of TMS could influence task performance in behavioural TMS studies. In order to test this issue, healthy subjects assessed the discomfort caused by the stimulation during a verbal working memory task. We investigated the relation between subjective disturbance and task performance. Subjects were stimulated during the delay period of a delayed-match-to-sample task above cortical areas that had been identified before to be involved in working memory. Task performance and subjective disturbance due to side effects were monitored. The subjects' grade of discomfort correlated with the error rates: the higher the discomfort, the more errors were made. Conclusively, TMS side effects may bias task performance in cognitive neuroscience studies and may thereby lead to misinterpretation of results. We emphasize the importance of controlling side effects of the stimulation as a source of biasing effects in TMS studies.
Expression of the neurotrophin-3 receptor, tyrosine kinase C (TrkC), is associated with favorable prognosis in medulloblastoma patients. This may be due to increased tumor apoptosis induced by TrkC activation. Neurotrophin-3/TrkC-induced apoptosis is inhibited by the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase (MAPK) pharmacologic antagonists SB203580 and PD98059. In addition to extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-1/2, PD98059 also inhibits the more recently identified neurotrophin-responsive MAPK, ERK5 (big MAPK 1). In the present study, we investigate the contribution of ERK5 and its target myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) to neurotrophin-3/TrkC-induced medulloblastoma cell death. Neurotrophin-3 not only enhanced ERK5 phosphorylation but also significantly enhanced the transcriptional activity of MEF2, a specific target of ERK5. Overexpression of both ERK5 and MEF2 induced a statistically significant increase in cell death of neurotrophin-3-responsive and nonresponsive medulloblastoma cell lines (Daoy-trkC and Daoy) and primary cultures of patched heterozygous mouse medulloblastomas. Only those cells expressing MAP/ERK kinase 5 (MEK5) plus ERK5 or MEF2 constructs underwent apoptosis, indicating that overexpression of either is sufficient to induce medulloblastoma cell death. Expression of a dominant-negative MEF2 or small interfering RNA for the ERK5 activator, MEK5, significantly inhibited neurotrophin-3-induced cell death. The dominant-negative MEF2 construct also blocked MEK5/ERK5-induced cell death, supporting a role for MEF2 downstream of ERK5. Co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed direct interaction of phosphorylated ERK5 with MEF2 in response to neurotrophin-3. Our investigation of the mechanism of neurotrophin-3/TrkC-induced apoptosis has identified a novel role for both MEK5/ERK5 and MEF2 in cell death, suggesting that these molecules can be exploited to induce apoptosis in both TrkC-expressing and non-expressing medulloblastoma cells.
The alpha-subunit of dystroglycan, a member of the dystrophin associated protein complex, binds to extracellular laminin-alpha2, while its beta-subunit interacts with cytoskeletal dystrophin. The exact biological role of dystroglycan, especially during human skeletal muscle development, has not been fully explored. Here, we analysed the distribution and expression characteristics of both dystroglycan subunits and laminin-alpha2 in primary human skeletal muscle cells. During development, expression levels of all three proteins increased with differentiation. The proteins were relocated from the sarcoplasm to the sarcolemma. The size of alpha-dystroglycan decreased from 150-220 kDa at the proliferation stage to 100-120 kDa at the late developmental stage. Both alpha- and beta-dystroglycan were involved in forming a complex with their respective partners laminin-alpha2 and dystrophin/utrophin. Our data show that, during development, cells may employ tightly regulated post-translational species-specific modification to produce different isoforms of alpha-dystroglycan to participate in appropriate functions.
In Galpha(z)-deficient mice, survival of sympathetic neurons is significantly attenuated in the presence of pertussis toxin (PTX). This suggests that G(i/o) proteins may have distinct roles in neuronal survival. Here, we investigated the possible involvement of G(i/o) proteins in nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced pro-survival phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Treatment of PC12 cells with NGF increased the Akt phosphorylation level in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The NGF-dependent Akt activation was partially attenuated by PTX or overexpression of regulators of G protein signaling Z1 (RGSZ1) and Galpha-interacting protein (GAIP)), indicating the participation of G(i/o) proteins. In contrast, epidermal growth factor (EGF)-mediated Akt phosphorylation was unaffected by PTX or RGSZ1 and GAIP. Expression of PTX-resistant mutants of Galpha(i1), Galpha(i3), Galpha(oA), and Galpha(oB), but not Galpha(i2), abolished the inhibitory effect of PTX on NGF-induced Akt activation. The use of transducin as a Gbetagamma scavenger further revealed that Gbetagamma subunits rather than Galpha(i/o) acted as the signal transducer. The activation profiles of Akt-regulated downstream effectors such as Bad, IKK, and nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) were also examined. NGF-stimulated phosphorylation of Bad and IKK and transcriptional activity of NFkappaB were indeed sensitive to treatments with PTX. This is the first study that demonstrates the involvement of G(i/o) proteins in NGF-induced Akt signaling.
For the identification of regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) modulators, previously, we developed a luciferase based yeast pheromone response (YPhR) assay to functionally investigate RGS4 (K.H. Young, Y. Wang, C. Bender, S. Ajit, F. Ramirez, A. Gilbert, B.W. Nieuwenhuijsen, in: D.P. Siderovski (Ed.), Meth. Enzymol. 389 Regulators of G_protein Signaling, Part A, 2004.). To extend the diversity of this assay, additional RGS proteins were evaluated for functional complementation in a RGS (sst2Delta) knockout yeast strain. For RGS proteins that did not function in their native form, a series of chimeric constructs were generated with the N terminus of RGS4 fused in frame with the partial or full-length RGS cDNA of interest. RGS4 N terminus fused to either full-length or the C terminus of RGS7 successfully complemented sst2Delta. On the contrary, the RGS7N/RGS4C chimera (N terminus of RGS7 in frame with RGS domain of RGS4) was not effective, showing that N terminus of RGS4 helps in targeting. RGS10 exists as two splice variants, differing only by 8 amino acids (aa) in the N terminus, being either 168 aa (RGS10S), or 174 aa (RGS10). While RGS10 was functional in yeast, RGS10S required the presence of the N terminus of RGS4 for its activity. Although the same RGS4 N terminus domain was present in chimeras generated, the GTPase accelerating protein (GAP) function observed was not similar, suggesting differences in the RGS domain function. In conclusion, the use of RGS4 N terminus chimeric constructs enabled us to develop a selectivity assay for different RGS proteins.
Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we addressed the contribution of both hemispheres to the visuomotor control of each hand. The subjects had to press one of two buttons as quickly as possible after the go-signal. A precue preceding this conveyed full, partial or no advance information (hand and/or button), such that reaction time (RT) shortened with increasing amount of information. We gave TMS over each hemisphere at various time intervals (100-350 ms) after the go-signal and before the expected onset of response, and measured its effect on RT, movement time (MT) and error rate. At short intervals (100-200 ms), left hemisphere TMS delayed RT and prolonged MT of both hands, while right hemisphere TMS delayed RT only of the right hand, without affecting error rates. At long intervals (250-350 ms), TMS produced slightly more pronounced RT delays of the contralateral hand. RT was delayed more if the precues were less informative. The results suggest the importance of interhemispheric transmission of visuomotor information for motor implementation. The right hemisphere may play a role mainly in calculating target and effector information, determining RT, while the left hemisphere may play a role in elaborating the motor program and determining MT.
Multisensory interactions are observed in species from single-cell organisms to humans. Important early work was primarily carried out in the cat superior colliculus and a set of critical parameters for their occurrence were defined. Primary among these were temporal synchrony and spatial alignment of bisensory inputs. Here, we assessed whether spatial alignment was also a critical parameter for the temporally earliest multisensory interactions that are observed in lower-level sensory cortices of the human. While multisensory interactions in humans have been shown behaviorally for spatially disparate stimuli (e.g. the ventriloquist effect), it is not clear if such effects are due to early sensory level integration or later perceptual level processing. In the present study, we used psychophysical and electrophysiological indices to show that auditory-somatosensory interactions in humans occur via the same early sensory mechanism both when stimuli are in and out of spatial register. Subjects more rapidly detected multisensory than unisensory events. At just 50 ms post-stimulus, neural responses to the multisensory 'whole' were greater than the summed responses from the constituent unisensory 'parts'. For all spatial configurations, this effect followed from a modulation of the strength of brain responses, rather than the activation of regions specifically responsive to multisensory pairs. Using the local auto-regressive average source estimation, we localized the initial auditory-somatosensory interactions to auditory association areas contralateral to the side of somatosensory stimulation. Thus, multisensory interactions can occur across wide peripersonal spatial separations remarkably early in sensory processing and in cortical regions traditionally considered unisensory.
Mice lacking dopamine D2 and D3 receptors and wildtype littermates were tested in a two-choice perceptual discrimination test that is dependent upon optimal functioning of the prefrontal cortex. Both mutants showed no deficits in attending to the perceptual stimuli or in shifting attention between stimulus dimensions. However, the performance of both mutants differed from the wildtype in different test phases. D2 mutants exhibited significant impairment in the first compound discrimination, indicating deficits in the initial acquisition of the task-governing rules. In contrast, D3 mutants performed significantly better in a set-shifting phase that required reversal learning. The higher response accuracy of D3 mutants was also accompanied by significantly increased response latency. A stereological assessment of test-induced expression of the c-fos gene in neurons of the anterior cingulate and prelimbic/infralimbic cortices revealed highest activation in D3 mutants, intermediate activation in wildtype and lowest activation in D2 mutants, indicating that response accuracy in the cognitive test correlates with the magnitude of prefrontal cortical activation regardless of which test phases revealed different performances. The study illustrates that dopamine differentially modulates prefrontal cortical activity during tasks requiring attention depending upon the type of D2-like receptor that is activated.
Long-term plasticity, in the forms of long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP), of synaptic transmission are thought to underlie memory. Biogenic amino acids modulate the expression of LTD and LTP. The serotonergic 5-hydroxytryptamine4 (5-HT4) receptor has been shown to influence learning and memory. However, little is known about the role of this receptor in synaptic plasticity. Here we show that although induction of LTP is unaffected by either pharmacological activation or inhibition of 5-HT4, application of the 5-HT4 receptor agonist, RS67333, completely blocks learning-induced depotentiation of LTP in the hippocampal CA1 region of freely moving rats, suggesting a role for 5-HT4 receptors in behavioural metaplasticity. In addition, the 5-HT4 antagonist RS39604 enhances the intermediate phase of LTD and converts short-term depression into persistent LTD (&gt;24 h), suggesting a significant role for 5-HT4 receptors in the expression of LTD in CA1. Stimulation at 10 Hz causes transient synaptic depression. However, 5-HT4 antagonist application prior to 10 Hz stimulation leads to LTD, whereas agonist application leads to LTP expression. 5-HT4 receptors thus shift the frequency-response relationship for induction of plasticity. Together, these findings suggest a key role for 5-HT4 receptors in the regulation of synaptic plasticity and the determination of the particular properties of stored synaptic information.
Brain research is yielding new information about the development of cognitive and behavioral traits in children--and how development can go off track. This is information parents, teachers, and others will use to help with problems from dyslexia to drug abuse. But with this information, often technical, come many questions. Will knowledge from brain scans be used to label children early in life? How will confidentiality be maintained as diverse providers, some of them commercial, compete for patients? Should government pay for scanning all children to identify not only potential problems but also extraordinary potential? These are questions about values and mutual responsibilities in neuroscience--the domain of neuroethics. The authors consider what an ethical framework for applying the fruits of neuroscience to children--a pediatric neuroethics--might look like.
There are large individual differences in the self-reported ability to form vivid olfactory mental imagery. Based on such self-reports, subjects have been classified as 'bad' or 'good' imagers. The present study examined whether a differential strategy in re-enacting the olfactomotor response during imagery may explain the dissociation between 'bad' and 'good' olfactory imagers. As previously reported, odor imagery was accompanied by sniffing. Although 'bad' and 'good' olfactory imagers did not differ in their overall sniffing volume, they used different strategies when re-enacting the motor component of olfaction during imagery. Particularly, as in real perception, 'good' but not 'bad' imagers generated bigger sniffs when imagining a pleasant smell compared with an unpleasant smell (P&lt;0.02). Furthermore, preventing sniffing significantly hampered mental imagery of pleasant odors in 'good' but not 'bad' imagers (P&lt;0.03). Taken together, these results suggest (i) the validity of the dissociation between 'bad' and 'good' olfactory imagers as revealed by self-report; (ii) that sniffing may be a causal factor in the creation of olfactory imagery; and (iii) that sniff measurements may serve as a reliable non-verbal tool in exploring individual differences in odor imagery.
Our previous electrophysiological study demonstrated that amiloride-sensitive (AS) and -insensitive (AI) components of NaCl responses recovered differentially after the mouse chorda tympani (CT) was crushed. AI responses reappeared earlier (at 3 weeks after the nerve crush) than did AS ones (at 4 weeks). This and other results suggested that two salt-responsive systems were differentially and independently reformed after nerve crush. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of formation of the salt responsive systems, we examined expression patterns of three subunits (alpha, beta and gamma) of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial Na(+) channel (ENaC) in mouse taste cells after CT nerve crush by using in situ hybridization (ISH) analysis. The results showed that all three ENaC subunits, as well as alpha-gustducin, a marker of differentiated taste cells, were expressed in a subset of taste bud cells from an early stage (1-2 weeks) after nerve crush, although these taste buds were smaller and fewer in number than for control mice. At 3 weeks, the mean number of each ENaC subunit and alpha-gustducin mRNA-positive cells per taste bud reached the control level. Also, the size of taste buds became similar to those of the control mice at this time. Our previous electrophysiological study demonstrated that at 2 weeks no significant response of the nerve to chemical stimuli was observed. Thus ENaC subunits appear to be expressed prior to the reappearance of AI and AS neural responses after CT nerve crush. These results support the view that differentiation of taste cells into AS or AI cells is initiated prior to synapse formation.
Gurmarin (Gur) is a peptide that selectively inhibits responses of the chorda tympani (CT) nerve to sweet compounds in rodents. In mice, the sweet-suppressing effect of Gur differs among strains. The inhibitory effect of Gur is clearly observed in C57BL/6 mice, but only slightly, if at all, in BALB/c mice. These two mouse strains possess different alleles of the sweet receptor gene, Sac (Tas1r3) (taster genotype for C57BL/6 and non-taster genotype for BALB/c mice), suggesting that polymorphisms in the gene may account for differential sensitivity to Gur. To investigate this possibility, we examined the effect of Gur in another Tas1r3 non-taster strain, 129 X 1/Sv mice. The results indicated that unlike non-taster BALB/c mice but similar to taster C57BL/6 mice, 129 X 1/Sv mice exhibited significant inhibition of CT responses to various sweet compounds by Gur. This suggests that the mouse strain difference in the Gur inhibition of sweet responses of the CT nerve may not be associated with polymorphisms of Tas1r3.






Mildronate (3-(2,2,2-trimethylhydrazinium)propionate; MET-88; meldonium, quaterine) is an antiischemic drug developed at the Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis. Mildronate was designed to inhibit carnitine biosynthesis in order to prevent accumulation of cytotoxic intermediate products of fatty acid beta-oxidation in ischemic tissues and to block this highly oxygen-consuming process. Mildronate is efficient in the treatment of heart ischemia and its consequences. Extensive evaluation of pharmacological activities of mildronate revealed its beneficial effect on cerebral circulation disorders and central nervous system (CNS) functions. The drug is used in neurological clinics for the treatment of brain circulation disorders. It appears to improve patients' mood; they become more active, their motor dysfunction decreases, and asthenia, dizziness and nausea become less pronounced. Since the brain does not utilize fatty acids as fuel other mechanisms of action of mildronate in CNS should be considered. Several reports indicate the possible existence of an alternative, non-carnitine dependent mechanism of action of mildronate. Our recent findings suggest that CNS effects of mildronate could be mediated by stimulation of the nitric oxide production in the vascular endothelium by modification of the gamma-butyrobetaine and its esters pools. It is hypothesized that mildronate may increase the formation of the gamma-butyrobetaine esters. The latter are potent cholinomimetics and may activate eNOS via acetylcholine receptors or specific gamma-butyrobetaine ester receptors. This article summarizes known pharmacological effects of mildronate, its pharmacokinetics, toxicology, as well as the proposed mechanisms of action.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ modulates various biological functions at central and peripheral levels by selectively activating a G-protein coupled receptor named N/OFQ peptide (NOP) receptor. For extending our knowledge on the biological roles of the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system the identification of selective NOP ligands, especially antagonists, is mandatory. [Nphe1, Arg14, Lys15] N/OFQ-NH2 (UFP-101) is a novel NOP ligand that was designed by combining, in the same molecule, the [Nphe1] chemical modification which eliminates efficacy and the [Arg14, Lys15] substitution which increases ligand potency and duration of action in vivo. In the present article, we summarize the pharmacological features of UFP-101 as determined in a series of in vitro and in vivo assays. Moreover, some biological actions and possible therapeutic indications of NOP ligands are discussed on the basis of results obtained with UFP-101. Data obtained with this compound were compared with those generated using other NOP antagonists, especially J-113397 and [Nphe1]N/OFQ(1-13)-NH2, receptor or peptide knockout mice and other pharmacological tools useful for blocking N/OFQ - NOP receptor signaling. The analysis of the available data demonstrates that UFP-101 is a useful pharmacological tool for the investigation of the central and peripheral biological functions regulated by the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system and for defining the therapeutic potential of NOP receptor ligands.
We investigated the specific contribution of efferent information in a self-recognition task. Subjects experienced a passive extension of the right index finger, either as an effect of moving their left hand via a lever ('self-generated action'), or imposed externally by the experimenter ('externally-generated action'). The visual feedback was manipulated so that subjects saw either their own right hand ('view own hand' condition) or someone else's right hand ('view other's hand' condition) during the passive extension of the index finger. Both hands were covered with identical gloves, so that discrimination on the basis of morphological differences was not possible. Participants judged whether the right hand they saw was theirs or not. Self-recognition was significantly more accurate when subjects were themselves the authors of the action, even though visual and proprioceptive information always specified the same posture, and despite the fact that subjects judged the effect and not the action per se. When the passive displacement of the participants right index finger was externally generated, and only afferent information was available, self-recognition performance dropped to near-chance levels. Differences in performance across conditions reflect the distinctive contribution of efferent information to self-recognition, and argue against a dominant role of proprioception in self-recognition.
Visual short-term memory (VSTM) and attention are both thought to have a capacity limit of four items [e.g. Luck, S. J., &amp; Vogel, E. K. (1997). The capacity of visual working memory for features and conjunctions. Nature, 309, 279-281; Pylyshyn, Z. W., &amp; Storm, R. W. (1988). Tracking multiple independent targets: evidence for a parallel tracking mechanism. Spatial Vision, 3, 179-197.]. Using the multiple object visual tracking paradigm (MOT), it has recently been shown that twice as many items can be simultaneously attended when they are separated between two visual fields compared to when they are all presented within the same hemifield [Alvarez, G. A., &amp; Cavanagh, P. (2004). Independent attention resources for the left and right visual hemifields (Abstract). Journal of Vision, 4(8), 29a.]. Does VSTM capacity also increase when the items to be remembered are distributed between the two visual fields? The current paper investigated this central issue in two different tasks, namely a color and spatial location change detection task, in which the items were displayed either in the two visual fields or in the same hemifield. The data revealed that only memory capacity for spatial locations and not colors increased when the items were separated between the two visual fields. These findings support the view of VSTM as a chain of capacity limited operations where the spatial selection of stimuli, which dominates in both spatial location VSTM and MOT, occupies the first place and shows independence between the two fields.


Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)--amide (GLP-1) is an endogenous insulinotropic peptide that is secreted from the gastrointestinal tract in response to food. It enhances pancreatic islet beta-cell proliferation, glucose-dependent insulin secretion, and lowers blood glucose and food intake in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. GLP-1 receptors, are coupled to the cyclic AMP second messenger pathway, and are expressed throughout the brain of rodents and humans. We previously reported that GLP-1 and exendin-4, a naturally occurring, long-acting analogue of GLP-1 that binds the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R), possess neurotrophic properties. GLP-1R agonists protect neurons against amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) and glutamate-induced apoptosis in cell culture studies and attenuate cholinergic neuron atrophy in the basal forebrain of the rat following an excitotoxic lesion. The biochemical cascades activated by neural GLP-1R stimulation are discussed in comparison to those activated by pancreatic receptors, and, additionally, are compared to signaling pathways associated with the classical neurotrophins. GLP-1R stimulation promotes pathways that favour cell survival over apoptosis. GLP-1 readily enters brain, and its diverse physiological actions, which include insulinotropic, cardiovascular as well as neurotrophic ones, may prove beneficial in a variety of diseases prevalent in aging, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Its ability to lower brain levels of Abeta in mice would appear to be particularly pertinent in this regard. Furthermore, the ready availability of clinical material and the clinical history of its long term use in subjects with type 2 diabetes would support testing the value of GLP-1R agonists in AD trials.
Existing cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD), while effective in improving cognitive, behavioral and functional impairments, do not alter disease progression. Novel drug design studies have focused on the classical ChE inhibitor, (-)-physostigmine, producing alterations in chemical composition and three-dimensional structure, which may offer an improved therapeutic index. The phenylcarbamate derivative, (-)-phenserine, is a selective, non-competitive inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In vivo, (-)-phenserine produces rapid, potent, and long-lasting AChE inhibition. As a possible result of its preferential brain selectivity, (-)-phenserine is significantly less toxic than (-)-physostigmine. In studies using the Stone maze paradigm, (-)-phenserine has been shown to improve cognitive performance in both young learning-impaired and elderly rats. In addition to reducing inactivation of acetylcholine in the brain, (-)-phenserine appears to have a second mode of action. Reduced secretion of beta-amyloid (Abeta) has been observed in cell lines exposed to (-)-phenserine, occurring through translational regulation of beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) mRNA via a non-cholinergic mechanism. These in vitro findings appear to translate in vivo into animal models and humans. In a small study of patients with AD, (-)-phenserine treatment tended to reduce beta-APP and Abeta levels in plasma samples. Clinical studies also reveal that (-)-phenserine (5-10 mg b.i.d.) had a favorable safety and pharmacological profile, produced significant improvements in cognitive function and was well tolerated in patients with AD treated for 12 weeks. Further randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III studies assessing the efficacy, safety/tolerability and potential disease-modifying effects of (-)-phenserine in patients with AD are currently ongoing.
Cerebrovascular disease is common in cancer patients and often arises from mechanisms unique to malignancy. Direct tumor effects include intratumoral hemorrhage, arterial and venous sinus invasion by tumor mass or leptomeningeal infiltrates, and tumor emboli. Complications of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and hematopoietic stem-cell transplantion for cancer can occur before, during, or years after treatment. Coagulopathic conditions involve disseminated intravascular coagulation, thrombocytopenia, nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis, and cerebral intravascular coagulation. Finally, septic infarction from fungal or bacterial sepsis and infectious vasculitis manifest in cancer patients immunocompromised by malignancy or cancer therapy. In many cases a combination of mechanisms is causative, and both hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke can occur simultaneously. Stroke type and mechanism, as well as the stage and pathology of the neoplasm, dictate proper management and help delineate prognosis.


Itch is propagated by complex mechanisms located both peripherally and within the central nervous system. For decades, novel treatments of itch have been slow to emerge, with the majority of focus on antagonism of histamine. Recently, with a new understanding of the pathophysiology of itch transmission, new treatment strategies have been elucidated. Opiate receptor antagonists, antidepressants, antiepileptics, and thalidomide are currently available therapeutic options that have benefited many patients with variegated sources of itch. In addition, research focused on the neuromediators of itch transmission has led to the development of novel targets for itch reduction and great potential for future therapies.
This study investigated sex and age differences in standing balance. Movement of the centre of pressure (COP) was calculated from ground reaction force data collected from a force platform during bipedal stance with eyes open and eyes closed. Three groups of 60 children, with 30 girls and 30 boys in each, were assessed. Mean ages of each group were as follows: 9 years 11 months (standard deviation [SD] 3mo); 12 years 11 months (SD 2mo); and 15 years 11 months (SD 3mo) respectively. Summary sway parameters and frequency domain variables were calculated in the anteroposterior and mediolateral directions. Boys exhibited greater COP movement than girls at 9 to 10 years of age. Age-related 'improvements' in sway occurred in boys, thus some aspects of postural control are still developing after 9 to 10 years of age. As very little age-related difference was seen in girls, boys may lag behind somewhat in terms of developing postural control. Thus there is a need to study the sexes separately when investigating balance in children.


Four models of psychopathy (frontal lobe dysfunction, response set modulation, fear dysfunction, and violence inhibition mechanism hypotheses) are reviewed from the perspective of cognitive neuroscience. Each model is considered both with respect to the psychopathy data and, more importantly, for the present purposes, with respect to the broader cognitive neuroscience fields to which the model refers (e.g., models of attention with respect to the response set modulation account and models of emotion with respect to the fear dysfunction and violence inhibition mechanism models). The paper concludes with an articulation of the more recent integrated emotion systems model, an account inspired both by recent findings in affective cognitive neuroscience as well as in the study of psychopathy. Some directions for future work are considered.
From an affective neuroscience perspective, the goal of achieving a deeper, more mechanistic understanding of the development of depression will require rigorous models that address the core underlying affective changes. Such an understanding will necessitate developing and testing hypotheses focusing on specific components of the complex neural systems involved in the regulation of emotion and motivation. In this paper, we illustrate these principles by describing one example of this type of approach: examining the role of disruptions in neural systems of positive affect in major depressive disorder in school-age children and adolescents. We begin by defining positive affect, proposing that positive affect can be distinguished from negative affect by its neurobehavioral features. We provide an overview of neural systems related to reward and positive affect, with a discussion of their potential involvement in depression. We describe a developmental psychopathology framework, addressing developmental issues that could play a role in the etiology and maintenance of early-onset depression. We review the literature on altered positive affect in depression, suggesting directions for future research. Finally, we discuss the treatment implications of this framework.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a behavioral syndrome that arises in early childhood, often co-occurs with conduct disorder and leads, developmentally, to antisocial behavior and substance abuse. Models from cognitive and affective neuroscience have been invoked in an effort to understand the development of ADHD, leading to a broad array of interrelated theories and hypothesized mechanisms. In this paper, we highlight core mechanisms that may cut across several theories and constructs, and thus provide some leverage for further study and conceptualization from a neuroscience perspective. We emphasize the joint operations of frontostriatal and frontocerebellar neural loops in detecting and predicting what and when important events in the environment will occur and their interaction with frontoamygdala loops in assigning emotional significance to these events. We note that weaknesses in the development of these basic operations could lead to decrement in the development of cognitive and affective control and other mental operations mediated by prefrontal cortex during development. In turn, such decrement could lead to many of the phenotypic cognitive and neuropsychological features seen in children with ADHD.
Interest in the effects of early adversity on children's development reflects contemporary emphases on early experience in the behavioral sciences and plasticity in the neurosciences. Over the past decade, powerful new tools and approaches for understanding the neural circuitry involved in emotion have become increasingly available. Yet, research in developmental psychopathology has not reaped the full benefits of affective neuroscience approaches and methods. Integration of affective neuroscience approaches can excavate developmental mechanisms, thereby advancing knowledge about the etiology, prevention, and treatment of mental health problems in children. Here, we consider two general principles that can guide understanding of plasticity in the neural circuitry of emotion systems and the development of psychopathology.
The circumplex model of affect proposes that all affective states arise from cognitive interpretations of core neural sensations that are the product of two independent neurophysiological systems. This model stands in contrast to theories of basic emotions, which posit that a discrete and independent neural system subserves every emotion. We propose that basic emotion theories no longer explain adequately the vast number of empirical observations from studies in affective neuroscience, and we suggest that a conceptual shift is needed in the empirical approaches taken to the study of emotion and affective psychopathologies. The circumplex model of affect is more consistent with many recent findings from behavioral, cognitive neuroscience, neuroimaging, and developmental studies of affect. Moreover, the model offers new theoretical and empirical approaches to studying the development of affective disorders as well as the genetic and cognitive underpinnings of affective processing within the central nervous system.

Morphogenesis requires coordination of cell surface activity and cytoskeletal architecture. During the initial stage of morphogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans, the concerted movement of surface epithelial cells results in enclosure of the embryo by the epidermis. We report that Fer-related kinase-1 (FRK-1), an ortholog of the mammalian non-receptor tyrosine kinase Fer, is necessary for embryonic enclosure and morphogenesis in C. elegans. Expression of FRK-1 in epidermal cells is sufficient to rescue a chromosomal deficiency that removes the frk-1 locus, demonstrating its autonomous requirement in the epidermis. The essential function of FRK-1 is independent of its kinase domain, suggesting a non-enzymatic role in morphogenesis. Localization of FRK-1 to the plasma membrane requires beta-catenin, but not cadherin or alpha-catenin, and muscle-expressed beta-integrin is non-autonomously required for this localization; in the absence of these components FRK-1 becomes nuclear. Mouse FerT rescues the morphogenetic defects of frk-1 mutants and expression of FRK-1 in mammalian cells results in loss of adhesion, implying a conserved function for FRK-1/FerT in cell adhesion and morphogenesis. Thus, FRK-1 performs a kinase-independent function in differentiation and morphogenesis of the C. elegans epidermis during embryogenesis.
The retinotectal projection is a premier model system for the investigation of molecular mechanisms that underlie axon pathfinding and map formation. Other important features, such as the laminar targeting of retinal axons, the control of axon fasciculation and the intrinsic organization of the tectal neuropil, have been less accessible to investigation. In order to visualize these processes in vivo, we generated a transgenic zebrafish line expressing membrane-targeted GFP under control of the brn3c promoter/enhancer. The GFP reporter labels a distinct subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which project mainly into one of the four retinorecipient layers of the tectum and into a small subset of the extratectal arborization fields. In this transgenic line, we carried out an ENU-mutagenesis screen by scoring live zebrafish larvae for anatomical phenotypes. Thirteen recessive mutations in 12 genes were discovered. In one mutant, ddl, the majority of RGCs fail to differentiate. Three of the mutations, vrt, late and tard, delay the orderly ingrowth of retinal axons into the tectum. Two alleles of drg disrupt the layer-specific targeting of retinal axons. Three genes, fuzz, beyo and brek, are required for confinement of the tectal neuropil. Fasciculation within the optic tract and adhesion within the tectal neuropil are regulated by vrt, coma, bluk, clew and blin. The mutated genes are predicted to encode molecules essential for building the intricate neural architecture of the visual system.
High-fat diet intake often leads to obesity, insulin resistance and hypertension, which present a common and detrimental health problem. However, precise mechanism underlying tissue damage due to high-fat diet-induced obesity has not been carefully elucidated. The present study was designed to examine the effect of high-fat diet intake on visceral advanced glycation end products (AGEs) formation, nuclear O-Glc-NAc modification and apoptosis in heart, liver and kidney. Adult male Sprague-Dawley weight-matched rats were fed for 12 weeks with a high-fat diet (45% kcal from fat) or an isocaloric low-fat diet (10% kcal from fat). High-fat diet feeding significantly elevated body weight. Blood pressure and heart rate were comparable between the two rat groups. Competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed significantly elevated serum AGE levels, visceral AGE formation, caspase-3 activation and cytoplasmic DNA fragmentation in heart and liver but not kidney samples of high-fat diet fed rats compared with those from low-fat diet fed group. Western blot analysis further revealed that high-fat diet feeding induced overt nuclear O-Glc-NAc modification and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in heart and liver although not in kidney samples of the high-fat diet-fed rats. Collectively, our results indicated that high-fat diet intake is associated with obesity accompanied by elevated serum and visceral AGEs, visceral post-translational nuclear O-Glc-NAcylated modification and apoptosis, which may contribute to high-fat diet-induced tissue damage.

Although it is evident that estrogen has important physiological effects in the brain, the signaling mechanisms mediating these effects remain unclear. We recently showed that estrogen mediates attenuated blood pressure responses to psychological stress in ovariectomized female rats through brain nitric oxide (NO). An area likely to mediate these effects is the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), because here NO exerts inhibitory effects on autonomic output to the periphery. Because little is known about how estrogen acts on the NO system in the PVN, our aim was to study the effects of estrogen on the NO system in the PVN of hypothalamic slices cultures. We show that 17beta-estradiol (E2; 1 nm) increases endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) protein expression and decreases the numbers of neuronal NOS (nNOS)-positive neurons in the PVN after 8 and 24 h, respectively. Using the nonselective estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182,780 (10 nm), we determined that E2-induced changes in NOS expression in the PVN are ER dependent. Using the ERbeta agonist, genistein (0.1 microm), we determined that activation of ERbeta induces increased eNOS expression and a decreased number of nNOS-positive neurons. We used the selective ERalpha agonist, propyl-pyrazole-triol (10 nm), and antagonist, methyl-piperidino-pyrazole (1 microm), to exclude the possibility that ERalpha is involved in the E2-induced increase in eNOS and nNOS in the PVN. These results demonstrate that E2 induces changes in NOS expression in the PVN and that these effects are ERbeta dependent.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a mysterious reproductive disorder that results in subfertility. The underlying causes are not known, and even the definition is a moving target. Women with epilepsy have features of PCOS at a higher than expected rate, and polycystic ovaries (PCO) also are present at high rates in this population. Valproate is associated with weight gain and increased androgen levels, two features of PCOS. This review proposes that epilepsy, with its known adverse effects on luteinizing hormone pulsatility, could be a cause of PCOS and that valproate could be an imitator, if not also a cause of the syndrome.
Recent studies conducted in our laboratory have demonstrated marked increases in both serum leptin levels and colony numbers in bone marrow progenitor cells following long-term kindled seizures in rats. The present study sought to determine whether such changes in hematopoietic functions following kindling are linked to increased serum leptin levels. Kindled stage V seizures were induced for 30 days in Sprague-Dawley rats by stimulation of the basal complex of amygdala. The results revealed colony numbers in colony forming units-granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM) cultures from kindled rats increased significantly, an effect that was blocked by the presence of an anti-leptin antibody. The results further demonstrated that the addition of serum obtained from kindled rats to CFU-GM cultures from control rats significantly increased the numbers of colonies relative to non-serum added cultures. Moreover, the proliferative effects of serum from kindled rats were also blocked by adding an anti-leptin antibody. These findings were confirmed from the observations that the long isoform of the leptin receptor, which is capable of signal transduction, was present only in kindled, but not in control rats. Thus, the results provide evidence that the hematopoietic changes observed following long-term kindling are directly associated with elevated serum leptin levels.

Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the primary motor hand area (M1) can produce lasting polarity-specific effects on corticospinal excitability and motor learning in humans. In 16 healthy volunteers, O positron emission tomography (PET) of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) at rest and during finger movements was used to map lasting changes in regional synaptic activity following 10 min of tDCS (+/-1 mA). Bipolar tDCS was given through electrodes placed over the left M1 and right frontopolar cortex. Eight subjects received anodal or cathodal tDCS of the left M1, respectively. When compared to sham tDCS, anodal and cathodal tDCS induced widespread increases and decreases in rCBF in cortical and subcortical areas. These changes in rCBF were of the same magnitude as task-related rCBF changes during finger movements and remained stable throughout the 50-min period of PET scanning. Relative increases in rCBF after real tDCS compared to sham tDCS were found in the left M1, right frontal pole, right primary sensorimotor cortex and posterior brain regions irrespective of polarity. With the exception of some posterior and ventral areas, anodal tDCS increased rCBF in many cortical and subcortical regions compared to cathodal tDCS. Only the left dorsal premotor cortex demonstrated an increase in movement related activity after cathodal tDCS, however, modest compared with the relatively strong movement-independent effects of tDCS. Otherwise, movement related activity was unaffected by tDCS. Our results indicate that tDCS is an effective means of provoking sustained and widespread changes in regional neuronal activity. The extensive spatial and temporal effects of tDCS need to be taken into account when tDCS is used to modify brain function.
The vanilloid TRPV1 receptor, present on primary afferent fibres, is activated by noxious heat, low pH and endogenous vanilloids. Changes in the function or distribution of TRPV1 receptors may play an important role in pain induced by inflammation or neuropathy. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of peripheral TRPV1 receptors in thermal nociception in rat models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Here, we have determined the effects of peripheral administration of the potent TRPV1 receptor antagonist iodoresiniferatoxin (IRTX) on noxious heat (45 degrees C)-evoked responses of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in nave, carrageenan-inflamed, sham-operated and L5/6 spinal nerve-ligated (SNL) anaesthetized rats in vivo. In addition, effects of peripheral administration of IRTX on mechanically evoked responses of WDR neurons were determined in sham-operated and SNL rats. Carrageenan inflammation significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased the 45 degrees C-evoked responses of WDR neurons. Intraplantar injection of the lower dose of IRTX (0.004 microg) inhibited (P&lt;0.05) 45 degrees C-evoked responses of WDR neurons in carrageenan-inflamed, but not in nave, rats. The higher dose of IRTX (0.4 microg) significantly (P&lt;0.05) inhibited 45 degrees C-evoked responses in both inflamed and nave rats. In sham-operated and SNL rats, IRTX (0.004 and 0.4 microg) significantly (P&lt;0.05) inhibited 45 degrees C-evoked, but had no effect on mechanically evoked responses of WDR neurons. These data support the role of peripheral TRPV1 receptors in noxious thermal transmission in nave, inflamed and neuropathic rats, and suggest that there is an increased functional contribution of peripheral TRPV1 receptors following acute inflammation.
A brief global ischemic insult to the brain leads to a selective degeneration of the pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region while the neurons in the neighbouring CA3 region are spared. The reason for this difference is not known. The selective vulnerability of CA1 neurons to ischemia can be reproduced in vitro in murine organotypic slice cultures, if the ion concentrations in the medium during the anoxic/aglycemic insult are similar to that in the brain extracellular fluid during ischemia in vivo. As acidosis develops during ischemia, we studied the importance of extracellular pH for selective vulnerability. We found that cell death in the CA1 and CA3 regions was equally prevented by removal of calcium from the medium or following blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor by D-2 amino-5-phosphonopentanoic-acid (D-APV). On the other hand, damage to the CA3 neurons markedly decreased with decreasing pH following in vitro ischemia, while the degeneration of CA1 neurons was less pH dependent. Patch-clamp recordings from pyramidal neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions, respectively, revealed a pronounced inhibition of NMDA-receptor mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) at pH 6.5 that was equally pronounced in the two regions. However, when changing pH from 6.5 to 7.4 the recovery of the EPSCs was significantly slower in the CA3 region. We conclude that acidosis selectively protects CA3 pyramidal neurons during in vitro ischemia, and differentially affects the kinetics of NMDA receptor activation, which may explain the difference in vulnerability between CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons to an ischemic insult.
Synchronization of neuronal activity evident in the local field potential (LFP) recorded in the subthalamic region of patients with Parkinson's disease occurs at low frequencies (&lt; 30 Hz) and, in some patients following treatment with levodopa, at high frequencies between 65 and 85 Hz. Here we investigate the functional relationship between these different activities by determining whether spontaneous fluctuations in their strength are correlated across time. To this end, we analysed recordings of LFPs from macroelectrodes inserted in the subthalamic area of 16 patients with Parkinson's disease, after treatment with anti-parkinsonian medication. Time-evolving autospectra of LFPs with significant 65-85 Hz peaks (from 21 sides) were computed and correlations between frequency components determined over time. LFP activity in the 5-32 Hz band was significantly negatively correlated with that in the 65-85 Hz band in data averaged across all 21 sides, as well as in 15 (71%) of the individual records. Negative correlations were relatively selective for interactions between these frequency bands and occurred over time epochs of as little as 40 s. They occurred about 50 min after levodopa and were recorded concurrently with contralateral levodopa-induced dyskinesias in all but four cases. Positive correlations were not seen between activities in the 5-32 Hz and 65-85 Hz bands. The spontaneous negative correlations suggest a reciprocal relationship between population synchrony in the high- and low-frequency ranges, and raise the possibility that spontaneous fluctuations in the balance between these activities may contribute to levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Speed of drug onset is assumed to be an important determinant of the abuse liability of a drug. Studies in human and non-human primates suggest that the subjective and reinforcing effects of cocaine can be influenced by route of administration and/or speed of intravenous injection. Sensitization to the reinforcing effects of cocaine was studied in rats and the effects of various injection durations (i.e. speed of injection) on the development of sensitization was examined using a progressive ratio schedule. In addition, the effects of cocaine dose on sensitization and the effects of injection duration on the acute reinforcing effects of cocaine were examined. The initial study demonstrated that the development of sensitization (i.e. progressive increases in breakpoints) was dose-dependent. A robust sensitization of the reinforcing effects of cocaine was replicated in animals receiving cocaine at the highest rate (i.e. shortest duration; 5 s), but not in animals receiving the same dose over 25 or 50 s. Subsequent testing revealed that injection duration did not have profound effects on the acute reinforcing effects of cocaine (assessed by breakpoints or rate of responding on a fixed ratio schedule). These findings are similar to recent studies demonstrating that the development of sensitization, but not the acute responsivity, to cocaine's locomotor-activating effects are influenced by rate of intravenous injection. Taking these findings together, we hypothesize that the process of drug addiction involves both the acute reinforcing effects and the development of sensitization.
Memory impairments, which occur regularly across species as a result of ageing, disease (such as diabetes mellitus) and psychological insults, constitute a useful area for investigating the neurobiological basis of learning and memory. Previous studies in rats found that induction of diabetes (with streptozotocin, STZ) impairs long-term potentiation (LTP) but enhances long-term depression (LTD) induced by high- (HFS) and low-frequency stimulations (LFS), respectively. Using a pairing protocol under whole-cell recording conditions to induce synaptic plasticity at Schaffer collateral synapses in hippocampal CA1 slices, we show that LTD and LTP have similar magnitudes in diabetic and age-matched control rats. But, in diabetic animals, LTD is induced at more polarized and LTP more depolarized membrane potentials (V(ms)) compared with controls: diabetes produces a 10 mV leftward shift in the threshold for LTD induction and 10 mV rightward shift in the LTD-LTP crossover point of the voltage-response curve for synaptic plasticity. Prior repeated short-term potentiations or LTP are known to similarly, though reversibly, lower the threshold for LTD induction and raise that for LTP induction. Thus, diabetes- and activity-dependent modulation of synaptic plasticity (referred to as metaplasticity) display similar phenomenologies. In addition, compared with nave synapses, prior induction of LTP produces a 10 mV leftward shift in Vms for inducing subsequent LTD in control but not in diabetic rats. This could indicate that diabetes acts on synaptic plasticity through mechanisms involved in metaplasticity. Persistent facilitation of LTD and inhibition of LTP may contribute to learning and memory impairments associated with diabetes mellitus.
Imaging of intrinsic optical signals has become an important tool in the neurosciences. To better understand processes underlying changes in intrinsic optical signals, we studied electrical stimulation at varying strengths in hippocampal slices of adult Wistar rats. Following serial stimulation we observed an increase in light transmittance in all tested slices. During antidromic stimulation at minimum stimulation strength the increase in light transmittance was 75 +/- 8% (P &lt; 0.05), and during orthodromic minimum stimulation 19.6 +/- 5.6% (P &lt; 0.001) in the stratum pyramidale of the CA1-region. During orthodromic stimulation no significant difference between submaximum, maximum and supramaximum stimulation was found, indicating saturation. In contrast, submaximum antidromic stimulation yielded 56.2 +/- 12% (P &lt; 0.05) of maximum stimulation strength, indicating recruitment. In a further set of experiments serial stimulation was carried out under glial blockade with fluoroacetate (FAC) or blockage of mitochondrial function. Amplitude and slope of the intrinsic optical signal significantly decreased in the presence of FAC (amplitude: 36 +/- 6%, P &lt; 0.01; slope: 37 +/- 11% as compared with baseline conditions, P &lt; 0.05). This suggests a glial participation in signal generation. Rotenone, an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I, yielded decreased amplitudes of the intrinsic optical signal (27 +/- 7% after 40 min, P &lt; 0.01). Our data indicate that the intrinsic optical signal change reflects type and strength of neuronal activation and point to glia and mitochondria as important participants in signal generation.
Organotypic hippocampal slices were prepared from postnatal day 4 rats and maintained in culture for &gt;6 weeks. Cultured slices exhibited from 12 days in vitro spontaneous events which closely resembled giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) recorded in neonatal hippocampal slices. GDP-like events occurred over the entire hippocampus with a delay of 30-60 ms between two adjacent regions as demonstrated by pair recordings from CA3-CA3, CA3-CA1 and interneurone-CA3 pyramidal cells. As in acute slices, spontaneous recurrent events were generated by the interplay of GABA and glutamate acting on AMPA receptors as they were reversibly blocked by bicuculline and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione but not by dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentaoic acid. The equilibrium potentials for GABA measured in whole cell and gramicidin-perforated patch from interconnected interneurones-CA3 pyramidal cells were -70 and -56 mV, respectively. The resting membrane potential estimated from the reversal of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced single-channel currents in cell-attach experiments was -75 mV. In spite of its depolarizing action, in the majority of cases GABA was still inhibitory as it blocked the firing of principal cells. The increased level of glutamatergic connectivity certainly contributed to network synchronization and to the development of interictal discharges after prolonged exposure to bicuculline. In spite of its inhibitory action, in a minority of cells GABA was still depolarizing and excitatory as it was able to bring principal cells to fire, suggesting that a certain degree of immaturity is still present in cultured slices. This was in line with the transient bicuculline-induced block of GDPs and with the isoguvacine-induced increase of GDP frequency.
Locus coeruleus (LC) neurons respond to autonomic and visceral stimuli and discharge in parallel with peripheral sympathetic nerves. The present study characterized the synaptic organization of hypothalamic afferents with catecholaminergic neurons in the LC using electron microscopy. Peroxidase labeling of axon terminals that were anterogradely labeled from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) was combined with gold-silver labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase in the LC. Approximately 19% of the anterogradely labeled axon terminals formed synaptic specializations with tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dendrites in the LC. Retrograde transport from the LC combined with immunocytochemical detection of enkephalin and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) suggested that most of the LC-projecting PVN neurons (30%) were CRF immunoreactive and few (2%) were enkephalin immunoreactive. Finally, dual retrograde tracing from the LC and median eminence revealed that PVN neurons that project to the LC are a population distinct from that projecting to the median eminence. The present data suggest that a population of hypothalamic neurons is poised to directly modulate the activity of LC neurons and may integrate autonomic responses in brain by influencing LC neurons. Moreover, PVN neurons that use CRF as a neurohormone are distinct from those that use CRF as a neuromodulator to impact on the LC.
Agonist stimulated [35S]guanosine 5'-gamma-thiotriphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding autoradiography was established for the examination of dopamine-D2/D2 receptors in human brain sections. The distribution of G proteins activated by dopamine-D2/D3 receptors was studied in whole hemisphere cryosections. Dopamine stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in brain regions with high densities of dopamine D2-like receptors, i.e. putamen (23 +/- 2%, mean +/- SEM,% stimulation over basal binding), caudate (20 +/- 0%) and substantia nigra (22 +/- 2%), but also in regions with lower receptor densities such as amygdala (17 +/- 8%), hippocampus (16 +/- 6%), anterior cingulate (13 +/- 3%), and thalamus (12 +/- 2%). Dopamine stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding to significantly higher levels in the dorsal than in the ventral part of the striatum. Dopamine caused low or very low stimulation in all cortical areas. Raclopride, a selective D2/D3 receptor antagonist, potently inhibited dopamine stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding, whereas R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390), a selective D1 antagonist, did not block the [35S]GTPgammaS binding response stimulated by dopamine. Hence, the stimulatory effect of dopamine was primarily mediated by D2/D3 receptors. Quinpirole stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in the same regions as dopamine. The maximal level of stimulation induced by dopamine and quinpirole was not significantly different. The present study demonstrates that agonist stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding autoradiography could be a suitable technique for the examination of dopamine-D2/D3 receptors in the human brain. This functional assay could provide useful new information about dopamine receptor/G protein coupling in the postmortem human brain, and reveal possible disease related alterations of the interaction between D2/D3 receptors and G proteins.
The focus of the present study is the molecular and functional characterization of four splice variants of the human Nav1.3 alpha subunit. These subtypes arise due to the use of alternative splice donor sites of exon 12, which encodes a region of the alpha subunit that resides in the intracellular loop between domains I and II. This region contains several important phosphorylation sites that modulate Na+ channel kinetics in related sodium channels, i.e. Nav1.2. While three of the four Nav1.3 isoforms, 12v1, 12v3 and 12v4 have been previously identified in human, 12v2 has only been reported in rat. Herein, we evaluate the distribution of these splice variants in human tissues and the functional characterization of each of these subtypes. We demonstrate by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) that each subtype is expressed in the spinal cord, thalamus, amygdala, cerebellum, adult and fetal whole brain and heart. To investigate the functional properties of these different splice variants, each alpha subunit isoform was cloned by RT-PCR from human fetal brain and expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Each isoform exhibited functional voltage-dependent Na+ channels with similar sensitivities to tetrodotoxin (TTX) and comparable current amplitudes. Subtle shifts in the V 1/2 of activation and inactivation (2-3 mV) were observed among the four isoforms, although the functional significance of these differences remains unclear. This study has demonstrated that all four human splice variants of the Nav1.3 channel alpha subunit are widely expressed and generate functional TTX-sensitive Na+ channels that likely modulate cellular excitability.
A physically active lifestyle incurs many health benefits. One recently recognized benefit of regular moderate exercise is stress reduction. The current review develops the hypothesis that physical activity may prevent stress-induced suppression of the immune system and suggests an immunophysiological mechanism (sympathetic nervous system constraint) for this effect.
The substantial morphological transformations that occur during human development present the nervous system with a considerable challenge in terms of motor control. Variability of skilled motor performance is a hallmark of a developing system. In adults, the jaw stretch reflex contributes to the functional stability of the jaw. We have investigated the response properties of the jaw stretch reflex in two groups of young children and a group of young adults. Response latencies increased with development, and all age groups produced stimulus-magnitude-dependent increases in reflex gain and resulting biting force. Reflex gain was largest for the older children (9-10 years), yet net increases in resulting biting force were comparable across age groups. These data and earlier experiments suggest that oral sensorimotor pathways mature throughout childhood in concert with the continued acquisition of complex motor skills.
Numerous studies have shown that when people encounter a sudden and novel sensorimotor transformation that alters perceived or actual movement, they gradually adapt and can later recall what they have learned if they encounter the transformation again. In this study, we tested whether retention and recall of learning is also observed when kinematic and dynamic transformations are introduced incrementally such that participants never experience large movement errors. Participants adapted their reaching movements to either a visuomotor rotation of hand position (kinematic transformation) or a rotary viscous force-field applied to the hand (dynamic transformation). These perturbations were introduced either incrementally or instantaneously. Thus, four groups of participants were tested with an incremental and an instantaneous group for both the kinematic and dynamic perturbations. To evaluate retention of learning, participants from all four groups were tested a day later on the same kinematic or dynamic perturbation presented instantaneously (at full strength). As expected, we found that subjects in the instantaneous group retained learning across days. We also found that, for both kinematic and dynamic perturbations, retention was equally good or better when the transformation was introduced incrementally. Because large and clearly detectable movement errors were not observed during adaptation to incremental perturbations, we conclude that such errors are not required for the learning and retention of internal models of kinematic and dynamic sensorimotor transformations.
Immediate early gene expression in the cerebellar vermis of cats and squirrel monkeys was stimulated by prolonged whole body rotations. Continuous, earth-horizontal axis rotations that excited only otoliths or high velocity vertical axis rotations that excited only semicircular canals resulted in c-fos immunoreactive nuclei concentrated in the granular layer of lobules X and ventral IX (the nodulus and ventral uvula), which represent the medial parts of the vestibulo-cerebellum. Large clusters of labeled nuclei consisting mainly of granule cells and calretinin-positive unipolar brush cells were present in the granular layer, whereas Purkinje cell nuclei were unlabeled, and labeled basket and stellate cell nuclei were scattered in the molecular layer. In other vermal lobules there was a significant but less dense label than in the nodulus and ventral uvula. Generally, the extent of c-fos labeling of molecular layer interneurons was in relation to nuclear labeling of granular layer neurons: labeling of both basket and stellate cells accompanied nuclear labeling of neurons throughout the depth of the granular layer, whereas only stellate cells were labeled when nuclear labeling was restricted to the superficial granular layer. Yaw horizontal or roll vertical rotations each stimulated c-fos expression in the cat medial vestibulo-cerebellum to approximately the same extent. Low-velocity rotations resulted in much less c-fos expression. Similar, albeit less intense, patterns of c-fos activation were observed in monkeys. Concentrated c-fos expression in the medial vestibulo-cerebellum after exposure to a strong head velocity signal that could originate from either otolith or canal excitation suggests that granule and unipolar brush cells participate in a neuronal network for estimating head velocity, irrespective of the signal source.
According to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is caused by the production and aggregation of beta-amyloid (Abeta), and the production of Abeta has recently been linked to the metabolism of cholesterol. We have previously published clinical studies where the effect of statin treatment on Abeta production has been investigated. No effect on Abeta was found, which is in disagreement with cell and animal studies. In the present study we investigated the effect of statin treatment on a disease-specific pattern consisting of a C-terminally-truncated quintet of Abeta peptides. Nineteen patients with AD were treated with simvastatin for 12 months and the quintet of Abeta peptides were analysed in cerebrospinal fluid before and after treatment. Also included was a group of 15 untreated patients with AD. We found that the Abeta peptide pattern at baseline was in agreement with earlier findings; however, we did not find any change in the Abeta peptide pattern after statin treatment. We suggest that clinical studies with extended treatment periods are performed where higher dosages of statins are used. We also believe that the pleiotropic effects of statins should be investigated further in order to elucidate the connection between Alzheimer's disease and statin treatment.
Humans display accurate limb behavior when they move in familiar environments composed of many simultaneously-acting forces. Little is known about how multi-force environments are represented and whether this process partitions between the underlying force components, reflects the net forces present, or is cued to the force-context. We tested between these three main alternatives by examining how reaching movements adapt to a novel multi-force field composed of a velocity-dependent force and a constant force. These hypotheses were dissociated first by making the constant force larger and oppositely-oriented to the velocity-dependent force; thereby, the net force was always opposite the velocity-dependent component. Second, we tested adaptation with all novel forces removed to eliminate any potential cues for the force-context. In two experiments that used forces perpendicular or parallel to the forward movement direction, we found adaptation aftereffects consistent with a mechanism that partitioned the velocity-dependent component from the net force field. Specifically, we found aftereffects opposite the rightward or resistive velocity-dependent component of the multi-force field, even though the net force imposed was leftward or assistive, respectively. An additional experiment suggested that the velocity-dependent component is partitioned relative to the background load in a limb-based coordinate frame.

Pointing with an unseen hand to a visual target that disappears prior to movement requires maintaining a memory representation about the target location. The target location can be transformed either into a hand-centered frame of reference during target presentation and remembered under that form, or remembered in terms of retinal and extra-retinal cues and transformed into a body-centered frame of reference before movement initiation. The main goal of the present study was to investigate whether the target is stored in memory in an eye-centered frame, a hand-centered frame or in both frames of reference concomitantly. The task was to locate, memorize, and point to a target in a dark environment. Hand movement was not visible. During the recall delay, participants were asked to move their hand or their eyes in order to disrupt the memory representation of the target. Movement of the eyes during the recall delay was expected to disrupt an eye-centered memory representation whereas movement of the hand was expected to disrupt a hand-centered memory representation by increasing movement variability to the target. Variability of movement amplitude and direction was examined. Results showed that participants were more variable on the directional component of the movement when required to move their hand during recall delay. On the contrary, moving the eyes caused an increase in variability only in the amplitude component of the pointing movement. Taken together, these results suggest that the direction of the movement is coded and remembered in a frame of reference linked to the arm, whereas the amplitude of the movement is remembered in an eye-centered frame of reference.
We identified a potential novel site of action for nicotine (NIC) since (a) systemic injection of NIC led to a dose-dependent decrease in the amplitude of the sleep state-dependent, vertex-recorded, P13 midlatency auditory evoked potential (generated by the reticular activating system, RAS), (b) localized injections of a nicotinic receptor antagonist into the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN, the cholinergic arm of the RAS) blocked the effects of systemic NIC on the P13 potential (a measure of level of arousal), and (c) localized injection of a nicotinic receptor agonist into the PPN also led to a decrease in the amplitude of the P13 potential, an effect blocked by PPN injection of a nicotinic receptor antagonist. There were minor changes in the manifestation of the startle response (SR) at the concentrations used; however, NIC did decrease the hippocampal N40 potential, although its effects were not affected by antagonist or agonist injections into the PPN. These results suggest a potential mechanism underlying the anxiolytic effects of NIC-suppression of the cholinergic arm of the RAS.
MCP-1 and RANTES are molecules that regulate monocyte and T-lymphocyte recruitment towards sites of inflammation. We sought to evaluate the role of these chemokines in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the effect of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AchEI) therapy on their release from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). MCP-1 and RANTES mRNA expressions were determined by RT-PCR and the amount of secreted chemokines was assayed using specific ELISA methods from purified PBMC from each AD patients (n = 40) at the time of enrolment (T0) and after 1 month of treatment with AchEI (T1) and from 20 healthy age and sex-matched subjects (HC). We found that expression and production of MCP-1 in AD patients was significantly lower than in HC subjects. After 1 month of therapy with AchEI (Donepezil), MCP-1 levels increased in each patient. However, higher levels were detected for RANTES in AD patients compared to control subjects and in AD patients treated with Donepezil. MCP-1 and RANTES have a compensatory role in balancing the impaired mechanisms involved in immune response during ageing. Our present findings suggest that these two chemokines are both involved in AD pathogenesis and might reflect different states of activation and/or responsiveness of PBMC from AD patients, contributing to the impaired of the peripheral immune system in these patients.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are potent trophic factors for dorsal root ganglion cells. In addition, these factors are produced in subsets of dorsal root ganglion cells and transported anterogradely to their terminals in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord, where they constitute the only source of GDNF and BDNF. We investigated the effect of 10 mug GDNF and BDNF injected by lumbar puncture on the expression of the immediate early gene (IEG) products c-Fos, c-Jun, and Krox-24 in the adult rat dorsal horn. In the dorsal horn of S1 spinal segments, GDNF and BDNF induced a strong increase in IEG expression, which was most pronounced in laminae I and II (2.9- to 4.5-fold). More distal from the injection site, in the dorsal horn of L1/L2 spinal segments, the increase in IEG expression was less pronounced, suggesting a concentration-dependent effect. In order to explain the effects of intrathecally injected GDNF, we investigated whether lumbo-sacral dorsal horn neurons expressed RET protein, the signal-transducing element of the receptor complex for GDNF. It was found that several of these neurons contained RET immunoreactivity and that some of the RET-labeled neurons had the appearance of nociceptive-specific cells, confirming their presumed role in pain transmission. Additionally, using double-labeling immunofluorescence combined with confocal microscopy, it was found that after intrathecal GDNF injection 35% of c-Fos-labeled cells were also labeled for RET. These results demonstrate that intrathecally administered GDNF and BDNF induce IEG expression in dorsal horn neurons in the adult rat, supposedly by way of their cognate receptors, which are present on these neurons. We further suggest that the endogenous release of GDNF and BDNF, triggered by nociceptive stimuli, is involved in the induction of changes in spinal nociceptive transmission as in various pain states.
We studied the effects of osmotic stimulation on the expression of FosB and c-Fos in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Adult male rats were divided into two groups that were injected with lidocaine (0.1-0.2 ml sc) followed by either 0.9% or 6% NaCl (1 ml/100 g bw sc). After the NaCl injections, the rats were anesthetized and perfused 2, 6, or 8 h after the injections. Their brains were prepared for immunocytochemistry and stained with FosB and c-Fos antibodies. The number of c-Fos-positive cells was significantly increased only at 2 h in the SON and PVN. In contrast, the number of FosB-positive cells was significantly increased at 6, and 8 h in both the SON and PVN. In a second experiment, the effect of water availability on FosB staining 8 h after injections of 6% NaCl was tested in 3 groups of rats: water ad libitum, rats that had no access to water, and rats that were given water 2 h prior to perfusion. FosB staining was significantly reduced in both the SON and the PVN of rats that had ad libitum water compared to the two water-restricted groups. In the third experiment, rats were injected with either 0.9% NaCl or 6% NaCl and were either given ad libitum access to water or water restricted for 6 h after the injections and perfused 24 h after the saline injections. FosB staining was not increased when water was available ad libitum. FosB staining was significantly increased at 24 h in the rats injected with 6% NaCl when water was restricted. Thus, FosB may continue to influence protein expression in the SON and PVN for at least 24 h following acute osmotic stimulation.
Approximately 50% of human spinal cord injuries (SCI) are at the cervical level, resulting in impairments in motor function of the upper extremity. Even modest recovery of upper extremity function could have an enormous impact on quality of life for quadriplegics. Thus, there is a critical need to develop experimental models for cervical SCI and techniques to assess deficits and recovery of forelimb motor function. Here, we analyze forelimb and forepaw motor function in rats after a lateral hemisection at C5 and assessed the relationship between the functional impairments and the extent of damage to one descending motor system, the corticospinal tract (CST). Female Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on various behavioral tasks that require the forelimb, including a task that measures gripping ability by the hand (as measured by a grip strength meter, GSM), a food reaching task, and horizontal rope walking. After 8 weeks of post-injury testing, the distribution of the CST was evaluated by injecting BDA into the sensorimotor cortex either ipsi- or contralateral to the cervical lesion. Complete unilateral hemisection injuries eliminated the ability to grip and caused severe impairments in food retrieval by the forepaw ipsilateral to the lesion. There was no indication of recovery in either task. In cases in which hemisections spared white matter near the midline, there was some recovery of forelimb motor function over time. Assessment of rope climbing ability revealed permanent impairments in forelimb use and deficits in hindlimb use and trunk stability. Sensory testing using a dynamic plantar aesthesiometer revealed that there was no increase in touch sensitivity in the affected forelimb. For the cases in which both histological and behavioral data were available, spared forelimb motor function was greatest in rats in which there was sparing of the dorsal CST.
The sympathetic innervation of lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and the possible presence of spinal cord circuits connecting primary sensory afferents to the sympathetic outflow to DRGs were investigated. We used simultaneous tracing of the sympathetic input to and sensory output from DRGs. Adult male rats received unilateral microinjections of the Bartha strain of pseudorabies virus into four lumbar DRGs. At 24 h post-inoculation, productive infection was detected in both DRG neurons and sympathetic postganglionic neurons. Infection of spinal cord neurons was first observed in sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the intermediolateral column. Subsequently, the infection spread to the contralateral intermediolateral column, the area around the central canal and the superficial dorsal horn layers. To investigate the relationship between infected spinal cord neurons and primary afferents from the corresponding DRGs, we injected pseudorabies virus for retrograde tracing together with cholera toxin B for anterograde tracing. We found that infected LIV/LV and LX neurons were in close apposition to cholera toxin B labeled afferents. Importantly, immunohistochemical detection of bassoon, a pre-synaptic zone protein, identified such contacts as synapses. Together, this suggests synaptic contacts between primary sensory afferents and neurons regulating sympathetic outflow to corresponding DRGs.
Suprasacral spinal cord injury induces changes in the mechanical and neuronal properties of the bladder resulting in bladder areflexia followed by bladder-sphincter dyssynergia and detrusor muscle hypertrophy, which lead to urinary retention and increased bladder size. These changes are most often quantified using highly skilled urodynamic techniques that involve catheterization. We investigated whether a hand-held digital ultrasound imaging system could monitor urinary retention in the bladder following spinal cord injury in adult rats. Our findings indicate that contusive spinal cord injury resulted in high residual bladder volumes that decreased and stabilized by 2 weeks post-injury but remained significantly higher than control bladder volumes up to 46 days post-injury (the longest time point examined). Post hoc analysis indicated that the degree of bladder function recovery recorded at the end of the study correlated with the degree of bladder function recovery recorded at 6 days post-injury, indicating that bladder function recovery can be predicted by analyzing bladder volume as early as 6 days post-injury. Bladder function recovery correlated with locomotor recovery as assessed using the BBB locomotor rating scale. While providing a noninvasive assessment of bladder function with no detrimental impact on locomotor function or assessment, this protocol provides researchers with a clinically relevant outcome measure for quantifying bladder function recovery after spinal cord injury or after experimental treatments for spinal cord injury.
Dyskinesia (abnormal involuntary movements) is a common complication of l-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease, and is thought to depend on abnormal cell signaling in the basal ganglia. Dopamine (DA) denervated mice can exhibit behavioral and cellular signs of dyskinesia when they are treated with l-DOPA, but the clinical relevance of this animal model remains to be established. In this study, we have examined the pharmacological profile of l-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the mouse. C57BL/6 mice sustained unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the striatum. The animals were treated chronically with daily doses of l-DOPA that were sufficient to ameliorate akinetic features without inducing overt signs of dyskinesia upon their first administration. In parallel, other groups of mice were treated with antiparkinsonian agents that do not induce dyskinesia when administered de novo, that is, the D2/D3 agonist ropinirole, and the adenosine A2a antagonist KW-6002. During 3 weeks of treatment, l-DOPA-treated mice developed AIMs affecting the head, trunk and forelimb on the side contralateral to the lesion. These movements were not expressed by animals treated with ropinirole or KW-6002 at doses that improved forelimb akinesia. The severity of l-DOPA-induced rodent AIMs was significantly reduced by the acute administration of compounds that have been shown to alleviate l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia both in parkinsonian patients and in rat and monkey models of Parkinson's disease (amantadine, -47%; buspirone, -46%; riluzole, -33%). The present data indicate that the mouse AIMs are indeed a functional equivalent of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Nitric oxide (NO) signalling is at the forefront of intense research interest because its many effects remain controversial and seemingly contradictory. This paper examines its role as a potential mediator of pain and tolerance. Within this context discussion covers endogenous morphine, documenting its ability to be made in animal tissues, including nervous tissue, and in diverse animal phyla. Supporting morphine as an endogenous signalling molecule is the presence of the newly cloned mu3 opiate receptor subtype found in animal (including human) immune, vascular and neural tissues, which is coupled to NO release. Importantly, this mu opiate receptor subtype is morphine-selective and opioid peptide-insensitive, further highlighting the presence of morphinergic signalling coupled to NO release. These findings provide novel insights into pain and tolerance as morphinergic signalling exhibits many similarities with NO actions. Taken together, a select morphinergic signalling system utilising NO opens the gate for the development of novel pharmaceuticals and/or the use of old pharmaceuticals in new ways.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor escitalopram is the active enantiomer of citalopram and has proven efficacy in the treatment of major depression, panic disorder and social phobia. Accumulating data indicate that it is also efficacious in the treatment of patients with generalized anxiety disorder. This drug profile summarizes the current evidence-base for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder, describes the findings of a series of randomized placebo-controlled and comparator-controlled trials of escitalopram, examines the strengths and weaknesses of current treatment approaches and considers potential new therapies for the treatment of this common, chronic and impairing anxiety disorder. In summary, escitalopram is effective and well tolerated in both the short- and long-term treatment of generalized anxiety disorder, and has advantages over benzodiazepines and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine.
Functional diversity of potassium channels in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells suggests multiple levels of regulation. Posttranslational regulation includes differential subunit assembly of homologous pore-forming subunits. In addition, a variety of modulatory subunits may interact with the pore complex either statically or dynamically. Kv2.1 is a delayed rectifier potassium channel isolated by expression cloning. The native polypeptide has not been purified, hence composition of the Kv2.1 channel complexes was not well understood. Here we report a biochemical characterization of Kv2.1 channel complexes from both recombinant cell lines and native rat brain. The channel complexes behave as large macromolecular complexes with an apparent oligomeric size of 650 kDa as judged by gel filtration chromatography. The molecular complexes have distinct biochemical populations detectable by a panel of antibodies. This is indicative of functional heterogeneity. Despite mRNA distribution in a variety of tissues, the native Kv2.1 polypeptides are more abundantly found in brain and have predominantly Kv2.1 subunits but not homologous Kv2.2 subunits. The proteins precipitated by anti-Kv2.1 and their physiological relevance are of interest for further investigation.
It has previously been reported that men with developmental stuttering showed reduced concentration of copper in the blood, and a negative correlation between the copper level and the severity of stuttering. Disorders of copper metabolism may result in dysfunction of the basal ganglia system and dystonia, a motor disorder sharing some traits of stuttering. It has been shown that copper ions affect the dopamine and the GABA systems. With this background we investigated the plasma level of copper, the copper binding protein ceruloplasmin, and the estimated level of free copper in stuttering adults. Sixteen men with developmental stuttering were compared with 16 men without speech problems. The samples were assayed in one batch in a pseudorandom and counterbalanced order. No significant differences were found between stuttering men and the control group in any of the biological variables, and no negative correlation between copper and the general severity of stuttering was shown. On the contrary, an explorative analysis resulted in a positive correlation between high plasma copper and superfluous muscular activity during stuttering (r=0.51, p=0.04). This result indicates that there is no relation between developmental stuttering and low plasma copper in the main population of stuttering adults.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is the most common form of muscular dystrophy affecting adults. The genetic basis of DM1 consists of a mutational expansion of a repetitive trinucleotide sequence (CTG). The number of triplets expansion divides patients in four categories related to the molecular changes (E1, E2, E3, E4). The pathogenic mechanisms of multi-systemic involvement of DM1 are still unclear. DM1 has been suspected to be due to premature aging, that is known to be sustained by increased free radicals levels and/or decreased antioxidants activities in neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, the gain-of-function at RNA level hypothesis has gained great attention, but oxidative stress might act in the disease progression. We have investigated 36 DM1 patients belonging to 22 unrelated families, 10 patients with other myotonic disorders (OMD) and 22 age-matched healthy controls from the clinical, biochemical and molecular point of view. Biochemical analysis detected blood levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), malonilaldehyde (MDA), vitamin E (Vit E), hydroxyl radicals (OH) and total antioxidant system (TAS). Results revealed that DM1 patients showed significantly higher levels of SOD (+40%; MAL (+57%; RAD 2 (+106%; and TAS (+20%; than normal controls. Our data support the hypothesis of a pathogenic role of oxidative stress in DM1 and therefore confirm the detrimental role played by free radicals in this pathology and suggest the opportunity to undertake clinical trials with antioxidants in this disorder.
Substantial interindividual variability exists in the propensity to develop opiate addiction. Genetic variation in opiate reward may contribute to this variability. A large body of evidence indicates genetic variation in mice for several effects of opiate drugs. The present study examined heroin-induced place conditioning and locomotor sensitization in the two strains of mice employed most frequently in the generation of transgenic animals, C57BL/6J (B6) and 129X1/sVJ (129), as well as in groups of B6-129 hybrid mice, differing in their amount of B6 genetic background. Four pairings of 100 microg/kg of heroin elicited robust place conditioning and locomotor sensitization in B6 controls and in N(10) congenic B6-129 hybrid mice. In comparison, the identical treatment produced no locomotor sensitization and induced place aversion in 129 controls. No heroin-induced changes in the behaviour of N(3) congenic B6-129 hybrid mice or F5-8 non-congenic B6-129 hybrid mice were observed. The expression of place conditioning was not facilitated in any group by the administration of a heroin-priming injection prior to testing. These data indicate that genetic variation exists in mice for the rewarding and locomotor-sensitizing effects of heroin and that the capacity of heroin to induce conditioned reward and locomotor sensitization can be modulated in a B6 strain dose-dependent manner in B6-129 hybrid mice. Thus, strain differences in heroin responsiveness should be considered when examining transgenic lines on B6-129 backgrounds for opiate-induced changes in behaviour that may be relevant for addiction.
Vasopressin regulates complex behaviors such as anxiety, parenting, social engagement and attachment and aggression in a species-specific manner. The capacity of vasopressin to modulate these behaviors is thought to depend on the species-specific distribution patterns of vasopressin 1a receptors (V1aRs) in the brain. There is considerable individual variation in the pattern of V1aR binding in the brains of the prairie vole species, Microtus ochrogaster. We hypothesize that this individual variability in V1aR expression levels is associated with individual variation in a polymorphic microsatellite in the 5' regulatory region of the prairie vole v1ar gene. Additionally, we hypothesize that individual variation in V1aR expression contributes to individual variation in vasopressin-dependent behaviors. To test these hypotheses, we first screened 20 adult male prairie voles for behavioral variation using tests that measure anxiety-related and social behaviors. We then assessed the brains of those animals for V1aR variability with receptor autoradiography and used polymerase chain reaction to genotype the same animals for the length of their 5' microsatellite polymorphism in the v1ar gene. In this report, we describe the results of this discovery-based experimental approach to identify potential gene, brain and behavior interrelationships. The analysis reveals that V1aR levels, in some but not all brain regions, are associated with microsatellite length and that V1aR levels in those and other brain regions correlate with anxiety-related and social behaviors. These results generate novel hypotheses regarding neural control of anxiety-related and social behaviors and yield insight into potential mechanisms by which non-coding gene polymorphisms may influence behavioral traits.
Homer proteins are involved in the functional assembly of postsynaptic density proteins at glutamatergic synapses and are implicated in learning, memory and drug addiction. Here, we report that Homer1-knockout (Homer1-KO) mice exhibit behavioral and neurochemical abnormalities that are consistent with the animal models of schizophrenia. Relative to wild-type mice, Homer1-KO mice exhibited deficits in radial arm maze performance, impaired prepulse inhibition, enhanced 'behavioral despair', increased anxiety in a novel objects test, enhanced reactivity to novel environments, decreased instrumental responding for sucrose and enhanced MK-801- and methamphetamine-stimulated motor behavior. No-net-flux in vivo microdialysis revealed a decrease in extracellular glutamate content in the nucleus accumbens and an increase in the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, in Homer1-KO mice, cocaine did not stimulate a rise in frontal cortex extracellular glutamate levels, suggesting hypofrontality. These behavioral and neurochemical data derived from Homer1 mutant mice are consistent with the recent association of schizophrenia with a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the Homer1 gene and suggest that the regulation of extracellular levels of glutamate within limbo-corticostriatal structures by Homer1 gene products may be involved in the pathogenesis of this neuropsychiatric disorder.
Traditionally, astrocytes have been considered less susceptible to injury than neurons. Yet, we have recently shown that astrocyte death precedes neuronal death in a rat model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) (Zhao et al.: Glia 44:140-152, 2003). A main mechanism hypothesized to contribute to cellular injury and death after TBI is elevated intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i). Since calcium regulation is also influenced by regulation of intracellular sodium ([Na+]i), we used an in vitro model of strain-induced traumatic injury and live-cell fluorescent digital imaging to investigate alterations in [Na+]i in cortical astrocytes after injury. Changes in [Na+]i, or [Ca2+]i were monitored after mechanical injury or L-glutamate exposure by ratiometric imaging of sodium-binding benzofuran isophthalate (SBFI-AM), or Fura-2-AM, respectively. Mechanical strain injury or exogenous glutamate application produced increases in [Na+]i that were dependent on the severity of injury or concentration. Injury-induced increases in [Na+]i were significantly reduced, but not completely eliminated, by inhibition of glutamate uptake by DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA). Blockade of sodium-dependent calcium influx through the sodium-calcium exchanger with 2-[2-[4-(4-Nitrobenzyloxy)phenyl]ethyl]isothiourea mesylate (KB-R7943) reduced [Ca2+]i after injury. KB-R7943 also reduced astrocyte death after injury. These findings suggest that in astrocytes subjected to mechanical injury or glutamate excitotoxicity, increases in intracellular Na+ may be a critical component in the injury cascade and a therapeutic target for reduction of lasting deficits after traumatic brain injury.

The present study provides new data on perceptual and physiological modifications associated with hearing aid (HA) fitting. Eight sensorineural hearing-impaired (SNHI) listeners participated. They had symmetrical hearing loss and were being fitted with binaural HAs for the first time. Perceptual performances were measured four times during auditory rehabilitation, using an intensity discrimination task and a loudness-scaling task. Pure tones of two different frequencies were used, one well amplified by HAs and the other weakly amplified. Two intensity levels were also tested, one rated 'soft' by SNHI listeners and the other 'loud'. Auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) to click stimulation were recorded. All measures were performed without HA. Results were consistent with the auditory acclimatization effect: most modifications induced by HA fitting were found at loud intensity levels and at high frequency, i.e., for acoustic information that was newly available to the listener. While both ears had similar hearing loss and aided gains, some differences between ears appeared in both perceptual tasks and in ABRs. In the right ear, a shortening of wave V latency paralleled perceptual modifications. The present results suggest that HA-fitting induces functional plasticity at the peripheral level of the auditory system.
This investigation compared the encoding of naturally-produced, whispered and normally-voiced vowels by auditory nerve fibers. Speech syllables containing the vowels /open o/ and /ae/ were produced by two female speakers and presented at three intensities to ketamine-anesthetized chinchillas. Six different representations of the spectral components in the vowels in the responses of the auditory nerve fibers were evaluated. For both normal and whispered vowels over a 30 dB range, the formant peaks in the vowel were best displayed using rate-place representations. The spectral detail in the vowel was revealed by average localized synchronized rates (ALSR) and autocorrelations of individual peristimulus time histograms. The average localized interval rates (ALIR), autocorrelations of ensemble responses, and autocorrelations of individual spike trains demonstrated poor representations of vowel spectra, although the frequency components of normally-voiced vowels had better representations than those of whispered vowels. These analyses suggest that rate-based and synchronization-based measures yields two very different pieces of information, but only a normalized rate-based measure consistently identified the formants of both the whispered and normally-voiced vowels.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the role of the striatum in inhibitory motor control. Subjects had to refrain from responding to designated items (STOP trials) within a similar series of motor stimuli. Striatal activation was increased significantly compared to that when responding to all targets within a series of motor stimuli, indicating that the striatum is more active when inhibitory motor control over responses is required. The likelihood of a STOP trial was varied parametrically by varying the number of GO trials before a STOP trial. We could thus measure the effect of expecting a STOP trial on the fMRI response in the striatum. We show for the first time in humans that the striatum becomes more active when the likelihood of inhibiting a planned motor response increases. Our findings suggest that the striatum is critically involved in inhibitory motor control, most likely by controlling the execution of planned motor responses.
The cortical representation of the trunk zone in the human first somatosensory area was studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to establish whether the cutaneous regions close to the midline are represented in this area of both hemispheres. Cortical activation foci evoked by unilateral tactile stimulation of ventral trunk regions were detected in the postcentral gyrus of the contralateral hemisphere slightly medial to or just behind the omega-shaped region of the central sulcus and in the anterior bank of the postcentral sulcus. These regions probably correspond to the trunk ventral midline representation zones of areas 3a-3b and 1-2, respectively. Stimulation of cutaneous regions adjacent to the midline evoked activation foci also in the ipsilateral postcentral gyrus in regions symmetrical to those activated in the contralateral hemisphere. These data demonstrate that in humans, as in nonhuman primates, the cutaneous regions adjacent to the trunk midline are represented bilaterally in the first somatic sensory cortex. Whether the ipsilateral activation depends on callosal or extracallosal inputs remains to be elucidated.
Presenilins 1 and 2 (PS1/2), causative molecules for familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), are multipass transmembrane proteins localized predominantly in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus. Heteromeric protein complexes containing PS1/2 are thought to participate in several functions, including intramembrane proteolysis mediated by their gamma-secretase activities. Previous studies have shown that PS1/2 are also involved in the regulation of apoptotic cell death, although the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that FKBP38, an immunophilin family member residing in the mitochondrial membrane, is an authentic PS1/2-interacting protein. PS1/2 and FKBP38 form macromolecular complexes together with anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. PS1/2 promote the degradation of FKBP38 and Bcl-2 and sequester these proteins in the ER/Golgi compartments, thereby inhibiting FKBP38-mediated mitochondrial targeting of Bcl-2 via a gamma-secretase-independent mechanism. Thus, PS1/2 increase the susceptibility to apoptosis by antagonizing the anti-apoptotic function of FKBP38. In contrast, C-terminal fragments of caspase-processed PS1/2 redistribute Bcl-2 to the mitochondria by abrogating the activity of full-length PS1/2, resulting in a dominant-negative anti-apoptotic effect. In cultured cells and mutant PS1-knockin mice brains, FAD-linked PS1/2 mutants enhance the pro-apoptotic activity by causing a more efficient reduction in mitochondrial Bcl-2 than wild-type PS1/2. These results suggest a novel molecular mechanism for the regulation of mitochondria-mediated apoptosis by competition between PS1/2 and FKBP38 for subcellular targeting of Bcl-2. Excessive pro-apoptotic activity of PS1/2 may play a role in the pathogenesis of FAD.


Dementia is characterized clinically by progressive cognitive decline, often with impairment of memory. The pathology of dementias is either focal as with infarcts in Vascular Dementia or diffuse as typified by Alzheimer's disease. In many cases of Alzheimer's disease there is a mixture of focal infarcts and diffuse changes. Diffuse pathology in dementias comprises mainly intracellular and extracellular protein deposits. Intracellular inclusions are of tau protein (Alzheimer's disease; and some frontotemporal dementias), alpha-synuclein (Dementia with Lewy bodies) and huntingtin (Huntington's disease). Soluble and insoluble peptides also accumulate in the extracellular spaces of brain parenchyma in dementias with diffuse pathology, mainly amyloid-beta (Abeta) in parenchymal plaques and in artery walls as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (Alzheimer's disease and Dementia with Lewy bodies). Insoluble prion protein (PrP) is deposited in brain parenchyma in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and other insoluble amyloid peptides accumulate in brain and vessel walls infamilial dementias. The pattern of extracellular deposits in brain and artery walls suggests that there is a failure of elimination of peptides, such as Abeta along perivascular interstitial fluid drainage pathways (&quot;lymphatics&quot;) from the aged brain and in Alzheimer's disease. Such failure may be due to reduced pulsations as arteries stiffen with age and cerebrovascular disease. Immunization against Abeta removes insoluble deposits of Abeta from brain parenchyma and may allow improved clearance of soluble Abeta. Reducing cerebrovascular disease and facilitating elimination of Abeta along perivascular drainage routes may offer long-term preventative measuresfor both Vascular Dementia and for Alzheimer's disease.
Folie  deux is defined as an identical or similar mental disorder affecting two or more individuals, usually the members of a close family. Two case reports of this condition are presented with a brief review of the literature. Prompt recognition of this condition is an essential step in the management. The majority of patients with folie  deux require multiple treatments including separation, antipsychotics, individual and group psychotherapy, and family therapy.
Acute spinal cord injury (ASCI) occurs as a result of physical disruption of spinal cord axons through the epicenter of injury leading to deficits in motor, sensory, and autonomic function. This is a debilitating neurological disorder common in young adults that often requires life-long therapy and rehabilitative care, placing a significant burden on our healthcare system. While no cure exists, research has identified various pharmacological compounds that specifically antagonize primary and secondary mechanisms contributing to the etiology of ASCI. Several compounds including methylprednisolone (MPSS), GM-1 ganglio-side, thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), nimodipine, and gacyclidine have been tested in prospective randomized clinical trials of ASCI. MPSS and GM-1 ganglioside have shown evidence of modest benefits. Clearly trials of improved neuroprotective agents are required. Promising potential therapies for ASCI include riluzole, minocycline, erythropoietin, and the fusogen polyethylene glycol, as well as mild hypothermia.
Suicide in adolescents and young adults is a serious medical and social problem. One factor that has been consistently implicated in suicide is alcohol use. This study examined the relation between rates of suicide in 15-24-year-olds and per capita consumption of alcohol beverages in European countries. Data on suicide rates in 15-24-year-olds and per capita consumption of alcohol beverages were obtained from the World Health Organization databases. Correlations were computed to examine relationships between suicide rates in 15-24-year-old males and females and per capita consumption of beer, wine, and spirits in the general population in 34 European countries. Suicide rates in males and females were compared using t-test. There was a negative correlation between suicide rates in 15-24-year-old males and per capita consumption of wine. There was also a trend towards a negative correlation between suicide rates in 15-24-year-old females and per capita consumption of wine. No correlations between suicide rates in 15-24-year-olds and per capita consumption of beer or spirits were found. As expected, suicide rates in males were significantly higher than in females. Lower suicide rates in 15-24-year-olds are associated with higher per capita consumption of wine in the general population. It is possible that the observed relationship is a result of a third factor affecting both suicide rates in 15-24-year-olds and consumption of wine. Further studies are necessary to clarify the relation between suicide rates in different age groups and consumption of alcohol beverages.
The rate of suicide in the United States among prepubertal children and young adolescents had increased by 120% from 1980 to 1992. From 1992 to the present the rate has decreased slightly by 33%. We address a brief review of the most relevant findings in literature that are related to the risk of suicide. Although the most reported findings were child mood disorder, any type of family distress and family history of suicide attempts, the severity of those does not seem to increase the risk of suicide. However, there were other environmental factors that may influence the risk of suicide, such as the access to firearms. It is critical to detect risk factors and triggers in prepubertal populations in order to reduce the incidence of suicide in this age group and older age groups.
Impulsivity has been identified as a key factor in risk of suicidal behavior in adolescent and adult patients. However, a lack of consensus about the definition of impulsivity has led to difficulty in its measurement. Impulsivity self-report scales exhibit low intercorrelations, are subject to response bias, and incorporate multiple subfactors. Performance tests may be less sensitive to response biases, as well as be more precise measures of dimensions of impulsivity, but each test alone does not provide a comprehensive measure of the trait. Assessing impulsivity in child and adolescent groups presents additional methodological problems, such as an overlap between limited impulse control due to developmental factors and psychopathology. A multiple measures approach to assessing impulsivity is suggested.
Adolescent suicide is a major public health problem. In this review, the authors discuss different aspects of the relation between alcohol abuse and suicidal behavior in adolescents, including epidemiology, role of family history, comorbidity, gender differences, neurobiology, treatment, and prevention. In the general population, about 2,000 adolescents in the United States die by suicide each year. Suicide continually ranks as the second or third leading cause of death of persons between the ages of 15 and 34 years old. The suicide rate in young people has more than doubled during the period from 1956 to 1993. This increasing suicide rate has been blamed on the increase of adolescent alcohol abuse. Availability of alcohol and guns at home may contribute to suicide risk in adolescents. Comorbid psychopathology, which is common among adolescent alcohol abusers, substantially increases risk for suicide completions and attempts. Depressed adolescents may use alcohol to self-medicate depressive symptoms. Alcohol abuse and suicidal behavior in adolescents and in adults has been found to have biochemical, genetic, and psychological correlates. Ideally, treatment of adolescents who receive a diagnosis of an alcohol use disorder and co-occurring suicidality should follow an integrated protocol that addresses both conditions. Future studies of psychological and neurobiological mechanisms of suicidality in adolescents with alcohol and/or substance abuse are merited.

The objective of the experiment was to investigate three aspects that might contribute to the benefit of fast-acting compression seen in normal-hearing listeners. Six normal-hearing listeners were tested with speech recognition in a fully modulated noise (FUM) either through a fast-acting compressor or through linear amplification. In the first experiment, three different presentation levels of the FUM noise (15, 30, and 45 dB SL) were tested. The second experiment manipulated the control signal of the compressor independently of the audio input signal at four signal-to-noise ratios (-15, 10, -5, and 0 dB). A signal correlated noise version of the speech signal was tested in the third experiment at three speech-to-noise ratios (-20, -15 and -10 dB). Results showed that performance was better with compression than with linear amplification through all of the tested conditions at least when the signal-to-noise ratio was negative. The results suggest that other aspects of the hearing impairment than those simulated here are involved in the degraded performance seen for some hearing-impaired listeners with fast-acting compression.

Pseudomigraine with pleocytosis (PMP) is an uncommon disease in Japan. The diagnostic criteria include at least one episode of transient neurological deficit accompanied or followed by migraine-like severe headache, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lymphocytosis, and normal neuroimaging. Both the etiology and the pathophysiology of PMP is not yet well defined. We report a 40-year-old man with a PMP-like syndrome. He came to our clinic because of severe throbbing headache and amnesia, and the examination showed CSF lymphocytosis of 23/mm3, a transient decrease of cerebral blood flow in the left thalamus. All the symptoms were completely resolved within 2 months.


Much of Freud's theoretical work rests on his metapsychological assumption that split the mind from the brain. In recent decades, this assumption has increasingly constrained the progress of psychodynamic science. During those same decades rapid progress in the traditional sciences, particularly neuroscience, evolution, and brain imaging, has set the stage for major advances in our understanding of the mind, and the brain. Leaders in both traditional and psychodynamic science have identified the reintegration of the mind-brain split, and its related problems of consciousness and knowledge, as a focus of 21st century discovery. Following Freud's revolutionary discovery of the unconscious and psychoanalysis, the period after World War II saw a second, post-Freudian psychoanalytic revolution. Psychopharmacology and the therapeutic use of empathy became widespread. Much of classical theory became increasingly obsolescent. We are thus entering the early stages of a third psychoanalytic revolution seeking a reintegration of mind and body that was not possible in Freud's time. The implications for theory, vocabulary, and technique present exciting and daunting challenges. Bowlby, who early rejected metapsychology, was a brilliant leader in these efforts. More recently, neuroanatomy and MRI studies of separation and empathy, reviewed here, have supported many of the most important clinical hypotheses of modern psychoanalysis. This progress illuminates a royal road to reuniting traditional and psychoanalytic science through solution of the problem of knowledge.
This study identified ethyl sulfate (EtS) in human urine and compared the excretion characteristics of EtS with that of ethanol and ethyl glucuronide (EtG). Urine samples were collected from healthy subjects after a single ethanol dose, and also selected from routine clinical samples. Simultaneous analysis of EtS and EtG was performed by direct electrospray liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in the negative ion mode, with selected-ion monitoring of the pseudomolecular ions at m/z 125 for EtS (M(w) 126 g/mol) and m/z 221 for EtG (M(w) 222 g/mol). The identity of EtS in authentic urine specimens was established by co-chromatography with reference substance, the presence of product ions (m/z 97 and 80 from m/z 125) with correct relative intensity, and a correct sulfur isotope ratio for (34)S (m/z 127). After healthy subjects drank ethanol, EtS showed a much longer, dose-dependent elimination half-life than the parent compound. No EtS was detected in urines collected after abstention from ethanol for several days prior to sampling. Among 354 consecutive clinical samples, 86 were positive for both EtS and EtG with a mean EtG/EtS molar ratio of 2.3 (median 1.7). Another three urine samples were only positive for EtS and four only for EtG. The present results confirm that sulfate conjugation is a normal but minor metabolic pathway for ethanol in humans, and EtS a common constituent in the urine after alcohol intake. It is also indicated that the concurrent determination of EtS and EtG will improve sensitivity, when being used as biomarkers of recent drinking.
Functional imaging techniques have allowed researchers to look within the brain, and revealed the cortical representation of pain. Initial experiments, performed in the early 1990s, revolutionized pain research, as they demonstrated that pain was not processed in a single cortical area, but in several distributed brain regions. Over the last decade, the roles of these pain centres have been investigated and a clearer picture has emerged of the medial and lateral pain system. In this brief article, we review the imaging literature to date that has allowed these advances to be made, and examine the new frontiers for pain imaging research: imaging the brainstem and other structures involved in the descending control of pain; functional and anatomical connectivity studies of pain processing brain regions; imaging models of neuropathic pain-like states; and going beyond the brain to image spinal function. The ultimate goal of such research is to take these new techniques into the clinic, to investigate and provide new remedies for chronic pain sufferers.
A patient who presented with recurrent venous thrombosis is reported. Following an episode of spontaneous deep vein thrombosis of the lower limb he was started on oral anticoagulant therapy, which he discontinued. He presented with cerebral venous thrombosis and improved partially with anticoagulant therapy. Evaluation for hypercoagulable states revealed factor V Leiden mutation by polymerized chain reaction method. Long-term anticoagulation has been planned. Evaluation for factor V Leiden mutation is always warranted in patients presenting with spontaneous thrombosis, especially if there is recurrent thrombosis.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor mutants from patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism are frequently misrouted proteins that exert a dominant-negative (DN) effect on human (h) wild-type (WT) receptor, due to oligomerization and retention in the endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacologic chaperones restore correct folding, rescuing mutants and WT receptor from this oligomer. Rat WT retains the ability to oligomerize (since human and mouse mutants exert a DN effect on rat (r) WT sequence) but, unlike human or mouse, escapes the DN effect of GnRH receptor (Gn-RHR) mutants because rGnRHR mutants route to the plasma membrane with higher efficiency than mouse or human mutants. These distinct behaviors of mouse and rat GnRHRs (distinguished by only four semi- or non-conservative amino acid differences) led us to assess the role of each amino acid. The difference in both routing and the DN effect appears mediated primarily by Ser(216) in the rGnRHR. The homologous amino acid in the hGn-RHR is also Ser and is compensated for by the primate-unique insertion of Lys(191) that, alone, dramatically decreases routing of the receptor. These studies establish the relation between the DN effect and altered receptor trafficking and explain why hGnRHR is more susceptible to defective trafficking by disease-related point mutations than rodent counterparts.
Alzheimer's disease is the third biggest killer in the developed world after cancer and heart disease. Although the first description dates back to almost a century ago, we still do not understand the cellular-molecular mechanisms that lead to the development of the brain pathology. There is no efficient treatment for the patients. And even the symptomatic relief comes too late, because there is no diagnostic method that could identify patients before severe clinical symptoms develop. Almost every aspect of Alzheimer's research, whether on pathogenesis, diagnosis, risk factors or treatment strategies, seem to spark controversy nowadays. Studies that apparently contradict one another or propose alternate explanations are published monthly. Patients' hopes are raised with the announcement of each new drug trial. Then hope is lost when the trials fail. Ironically, while progressive research is hampered by apparent contradictions and lack of funding, the old dogmas survive in the textbooks and no real progress is made in terms of therapy. The purpose of this review is to take stock of the most discussed and most strongly opposing views on the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. These views shape the Alzheimer field currently and some will hopefully one day shape the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to the disease.

