Converging evidence suggests that temporal representations of brief durations are derived subcortically. We tested split-brain patient JW in order to investigate whether these representations project bilaterally or unilaterally to cortex. Using visual stimuli to signal time intervals, JW was asked to compare the duration of a pair of standard stimuli that were presented bilaterally with a comparison stimulus that was presented to either the left or right visual field. Assuming the hand of response is controlled by the contralateral cerebral hemisphere, a hand by visual field interaction was predicted if the representation of stimulus duration was restricted to the cerebral hemisphere receiving the lateralized stimulus. However, we failed to observe this interaction for two different ranges of stimulus durations, both in the hundred (Experiment 2) to hundreds (Experiment 1) of milliseconds range. Instead, there was a consistent right hemisphere advantage in task performance. When the task then required a discrimination based on the physical size of the stimuli rather than their duration, an interaction between response hand and visual field was obtained (Experiment 3). Taken together, these results suggest that (1) even though the comparison stimulus was presented unilaterally, the representation of its duration was available to both cerebral hemispheres, and (2) a right hemisphere advantage in psychophysical tasks requiring the comparison of successive stimuli is observed for temporal and non-temporal judgments.
A technique by Rogers-Ramachandran and Ramachandran [Vis. Res. 38 (1998) 71-77] was adapted to evaluate magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) visual processing efficiency, with identical task structure, in normal and dyslexic children. A battery of phonological, orthographic and cognitive tasks was administered to assess reading ability and component reading skills in both groups. For the visual processing experiment, children identified shapes created by patterns of dots flickering in counter-phase. The dots were black and white in the M condition, versus isoluminant red and green in the P condition. A staircase procedure determined the children's threshold flicker rate for shape identification. Dyslexics displayed selectively slower visual processing in the M condition but not in the P condition. Across all subjects, performance in the M condition was correlated with measures of orthographic skill, consistent with previous findings linking M processing and orthographic skill. Within the dyslexic group, processing in the M condition was negatively correlated with level of phonological awareness. The results are not consistent with the argument that dyslexics with phonological impairments suffer from deficits across all sensory modalities, as those children with the poorest phonological awareness displayed magnocellular processing well within the normal range.
The thalamus plays a crucial role in memory, executive functioning and attention. It remains, however, unclear whether thalamic structures have specific roles in each of these functions. We tested 22 cases of thalamic infarction, proven with MR imaging, using experimental and established neuropsychological tests. We performed a lesion-overlap study in standardised stereotactic space of patients sharing a certain deficit, corrected for the lesion distribution of patients without such deficits and determined the regions of interest using an atlas of the human thalamus. We checked for additional, non-thalamic, damage and for deficient comprehension and perception that would preclude interpretation of the results. Non-thalamic damage such as white matter lesions, hippocampal atrophy, sulcal widening and infarctions occur significantly more often in patients aged over 60. The patients with additional damage overlapped to a major degree with those who showed loss of orientation, or lack of comprehension of the test requirements. In the 10 patients judged 'clean', we observed a deficit of episodic long-term memory with relative sparing of intellectual capacities and short-term memory when the mammillo-thalamic tract was damaged. Lesions including the medial dorsal nucleus, midline nuclei and/or intralaminar nuclei accompany executive dysfunctioning. Reduced simple processing speed and attention are associated with age, but not with a particular structure in the thalamus. Complex attention deficits follow damage to the intralaminar nuclei.We conclude that the analysis of structure-function relationships must take into account extra-structure damage which may explain cognitive deficits. Separate thalamic structures are involved in memory, executive functioning and attention.
Bilateral damage to the human amygdala impairs recognition of negatively valenced emotions from facial expressions, but it is unclear if this finding generalizes to richer visual stimuli that contain cues in addition to faces. We investigated this issue in 4 subjects with bilateral amygdala damage, 23 with unilateral amygdala damage, 22 brain-damaged controls and 16 normal individuals. Subjects were shown two blocks of complex social scenes; all stimuli in the two blocks were identical, except that the first block had all facial expressions in the image erased. While control subjects were more accurate in recognizing emotions when facial expressions were present, subjects with bilateral amygdala damage did not show the same benefit for negative emotions, often performing equivalently across the two conditions. Most striking, subjects with bilateral amygdala damage were more accurate in recognizing scenes showing anger with faces erased than with faces present, an effect resulting in part from highly abnormal recognition of certain angry facial expressions. All four subjects with bilateral amygdala damage were impaired in recognizing angry faces shown in isolation, and frequently mistook expressions of anger for smiles, a mistake never made by any control subject. Bilateral amygdala damage thus disproportionately impairs recognition of certain emotions from complex visual stimuli when subjects utilize information from facial expressions.
Delusions of alien control, or passivity experiences, are symptoms associated with schizophrenia in which patients misattribute self-generated actions to an external source. In this study hypnosis was used to induce a similar misattribution of self-generated movement in normal, healthy individuals. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) was employed to investigate the neural correlates of active movements correctly attributed to the self, compared with identical active movements misattributed to an external source. Active movements attributed to an external source resulted in significantly higher activations in the parietal cortex and cerebellum than identical active movements correctly attributed to the self. We suggest that, as a result of hypnotic suggestion, the functioning of this cerebellar-parietal network is altered so that self-produced actions are experienced as being external. These results have implications for the brain mechanisms underlying delusions of control, which may be associated with overactivation of the cerebellar-parietal network.
The perception of action is associated with increased activity in motor regions, implicating such regions in the recognition, understanding and imitation of actions. We examined the possibility that perception of speech, both auditory and visual, would also result in changes in the excitability of the motor system underlying speech production. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was applied to the face area of primary motor cortex to elicit motor-evoked potentials in the lip muscles. The size of the motor-evoked potentials was compared under the following conditions: listening to speech, listening to non-verbal sounds, viewing speech-related lip movements, and viewing eye and brow movements. Compared to control conditions, listening to and viewing speech enhanced the size of the motor-evoked potential. This effect was only seen in response to stimulation of the left hemisphere; stimulation of the right hemisphere produced no changes in motor-evoked potentials in any of the conditions. In a control experiment, the size of the motor-evoked potentials elicited in the muscles of the right hand did not differ among conditions, suggesting that speech-related changes in excitability are specific to the lip muscles. These results provide evidence that both auditory and visual speech perception facilitate the excitability of the motor system involved in speech production.
Using the H(2)(15)O PET method, we investigated whether previous findings of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes in the polar and superior rostral aspects of the frontal lobes (principally Brodmann's area (BA) 10) during prospective memory (PM) paradigms (i.e. those involving carrying out an intended action after a delay) can be attributed merely to the greater difficulty of such tasks over the baseline conditions typically employed. Three different tasks were administered under four conditions: baseline simple RT; attention-demanding ongoing task only; ongoing task plus a delayed intention (unpracticed); ongoing task plus delayed intention (practiced). Under prospective memory conditions, we found significant rCBF decreases in the superior medial aspects of the rostral prefrontal cortex (BA 10) relative to the baseline or ongoing task only conditions. However more lateral aspects of area 10 (plus the medio-dorsal thalamus) showed the opposite pattern, with rCBF increases in the prospective memory conditions relative to the other conditions. These patterns were broadly replicated over all three tasks. Since both the medial and lateral rostral regions showed: (a) instances where rCBF was lower during a more effortful condition (as estimated by increased RTs and error rates) than in a less effortful one; and (b) there was no correlation between rCBF and RT durations or number of errors in these regions, a simple task difficulty explanation of the rCBF changes in the rostral aspects of the frontal lobes during prospective memory tasks is rejected. Instead, the favoured explanation concentrates upon the particular processing demands made by these situations irrespective of the precise stimuli used or the exact nature of the intention. Moreover, the results suggest different roles for medial and lateral rostral prefrontal cortex, with the former involved in suppressing internally-generated thought, and the latter in maintaining it.
The neural correlates of naming stimuli presented through the auditory modality have scarcely been studied. Using a PET experiment in 10 normal subjects, we began to address this issue by testing the hypothesis that naming animals from their characteristic sounds will engage bilateral primary auditory and auditory association cortices, bilateral early visual association cortices, left inferotemporal (IT) cortices, and left frontal operculum. Subjects listened to characteristic animal sounds (e.g. a rooster crowing), and named the animals making the sounds. When contrasted with a baseline task that involved saying up/down to the direction of pitch change in tone sequences, the naming task produced activation in mesial occipital cortices, the left ventral IT region, and the left frontal operculum. We interpret the activation in visual association cortices to reflect the process of retrieving conceptual knowledge (e.g. physical structure) pertinent to the animals being named, as in visual images. The left IT activation is interpreted to reflect activation of a mediation system for word retrieval, that operates to link conceptual knowledge retrieval to word production, and whose triggering is independent of the sensory modality in which a stimulus is presented.
Four split-brained subjects, two subjects with agenesis of the corpus callosum, and 14 normal subjects performed two tasks requiring responses to red or green disks, briefly presented either singly in the left visual field, singly in the right visual field, or simultaneously in both visual fields. In Experiment 1, simple reaction times to these stimuli, regardless of colour, were recorded (the Go-Both Task), and found to be faster to bilateral-redundant stimulus pairs, than to single stimuli. This so-called &quot;redundancy gain&quot; was much larger for acallosal or split-brained subjects than for normal subjects and exceeded the predictions of a race model, implying neural summation. Experiment 2 used the same stimuli, but subjects were required to respond only to stimuli of a designated colour (the Go/No-Go Task). Redundant target stimuli produced neural summation, while stimuli pairs that included a non-target stimulus did not. These results suggest that neural summation in the acallosal or split brain involves the convergence of response-associated activation, and that redundant sensory processes are not sufficient.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Huntington's disease (HD) are degenerative disorders, with predominant involvement, respectively of frontal neocortex and striatum. Both conditions give rise to altered social conduct and breakdown in interpersonal relationships, although the factors underlying these changes remain poorly defined. The study used tests of theory of mind (interpretation of cartoons and stories and judgement of preference based on eye gaze) to explore the ability of patients with FTD and HD to interpret social situations and ascribe mental states to others. Performance in the FTD group was severely impaired on all tasks, regardless of whether the test condition required attribution of a mental state. The HD group showed a milder impairment in cartoon and story interpretation, and normal preference judgements. Qualitative differences in performance were demonstrated between groups. FTD patients made more concrete, literal interpretations, whereas HD patients were more likely to misconstrue situations. The findings are interpreted as demonstrating impaired theory of mind in FTD, as one component of widespread executive deficits. In HD the evidence does not suggest a fundamental loss of theory of mind, but rather a tendency to draw faulty inferences from social situations. It is concluded that social breakdown in FTD and HD may have a different underlying basis and that the frontal neocortex and striatum have distinct contributions to social behaviour.
Ideomotor limb apraxia, a disorder of goal-directed movement, has been attributed to lesions in the frontal and parietal lobes, but the role of subcortical structures is less certain. In order to determine its prevalence in a disorder affecting the basal ganglia and corticostriatal connections, we examined imitation of hand gestures in Huntington's disease (HD) patients. We also assessed the relationship between apraxia and cognitive and motor dysfunction in an effort to better understand the neural underpinnings of apraxia in HD. If damage restricted to the basal ganglia produces ideomotor limb apraxia, then we would expect to find evidence of apraxia in patients who were early in the disease course when selective striatal damage is most common. Such a pattern, however, was not found in our sample. Instead, patients with greater neurological impairment and with a longer duration of disease were more likely than less affected patients to demonstrate apraxia. Apraxia was not related to severity of chorea, but was associated with greater impairment in eye movements, voluntary movements, and verbal fluency. These findings suggest that apraxia in HD results from damage to the corticostriate pathways and the basal ganglia rather than from damage restricted to the basal ganglia.
Variable etiology, limited testing of emotions and inclusion of patients in acute and chronic phases have made it difficult to specify the extent of right hemisphere involvement in the processing of emotional material. In addition, there is an absence of data concerning CVA patients' long-term abilities to process emotional information. Two groups of subjects with unilateral brain damage (15 RBD, 17 LBD), matched for chronicity (minimum 12 months post-CVA), etiology (ischemic CVA), duration of hospitalization and other variables, and an appropriate control group participated in two experiments to address these concerns. In the first experiment, subjects were given a series of tasks (discrimination, identification, imitation, production on request) to assess their processing of facial expressions of the six universal emotions [P. Ekman, W. Friesen, Unmasking the face, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, 1975]. The results showed that three emotions (surprise, happiness, fear) discriminate between RBD and LBD patients and controls, with RBD subjects performing worse than the other groups on the identification task only. Using tasks of the same nature, the second experiment investigated the processing of emotional prosody. The results showed that three emotions (fear, sadness, anger) discriminate between RBD and LBD patients and controls, with RBD subjects again performing worse than the others on the discrimination, imitation and production on request tasks. LBD subjects performed as well as normal controls on almost all tasks. The RBD subjects were the only ones who showed relatively consistent impairment in the processing of both facial and prosodic emotional information. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that the right hemisphere is preferentially involved in processing emotional information in the chronic phase of brain damage.
There have been suggestions that Theory of Mind (ToM) impairment might lead to aggressive behaviour and psychopathy. Psychopathic and matched non-psychopathic individuals, as defined by the Hare Psychopathy Checklist [The Hare Psychopath Checklist-Revised, 1991] completed the 'Reading the Mind in the Eyes' ToM Test [Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 1997;38:813]. This test requires the self-paced identification of mental states from photographs of the eye region alone. Results indicated that the psychopathic individuals did not present with any generalised impairment in ToM. The data are discussed with reference to the putative neural system mediating performance on this task and models of psychopathy.
Prior studies from our laboratory [Journal of Neuroscience 18 (1998) 2188; Cognitive Neuropsychology 17 (2000) 221] have demonstrated that discrete regions of the superior temporal sulcus (STS) are activated when a subject views a face in which the eyes shift their gaze. Here we investigated the degree to which activity in the STS and other brain regions is modulated by the context of the perceived gaze shift; that is, when the shift correctly or incorrectly acquires a visual target. Fifteen subjects participated in an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment in which they viewed an animated face that remained present throughout each run. On each of 21 trials within each run, a small checkerboard appeared and flickered at one of six locations within the character's visual field. On &quot;correct&quot; trials, the character shifted its gaze towards the checkerboard after a delay of 1 or 3s. On &quot;incorrect&quot; trials, the character shifted its gaze towards empty space after the same delays. On &quot;no shift&quot; trials, the character's eyes did not move. Significantly larger hemodynamic responses (HDR) were evoked by gaze shifts compared to no gaze shifts in primarily right hemisphere STS. The gaze-evoked HDR was significantly delayed in peak amplitude for 3s compared to 1s shifts. For 1s shifts, a strong effect of context was observed in which errors evoked a HDR with extended duration. Although this study focused upon STS, similar effects were also observed in the intraparietal sulcus and fusiform gyrus.
The attractiveness of a face is a highly salient social signal, influencing mate choice and other social judgements. In this study, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate brain regions that respond to attractive faces which manifested either a neutral or mildly happy face expression. Attractive faces produced activation of medial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), a region involved in representing stimulus-reward value. Responses in this region were further enhanced by a smiling facial expression, suggesting that the reward value of an attractive face as indexed by medial OFC activity is modulated by a perceiver directed smile.
Social cognitive neuroscience is a fledgling discipline that has already accrued an impressive body of data, but important questions remain regarding the theoretical constructs and methodological approaches that it utilizes. An overview of the papers in this special issue points to several key issues facing the field. We need a theoretical vocabulary that bridges three domains: our intuitive &quot;folk&quot; conceptions of other people, the explanations offered by social psychology, and the explanations offered by cognitive neuroscience. And we need a method that can extract common patterns across multiple studies, to complement strict hypothesis testing of individual studies. These issues can be addressed, in part, by giving theory and experiment equal time, and by fostering an interdisciplinary approach that includes neuroscience, psychology, philosophy, anthropology and allied disciplines.
In functional neuroimaging studies of episodic retrieval (ER), activations in prefrontal, parietal, anterior cingulate, and thalamic regions are typically attributed to episodic retrieval processes. However, these activations are also frequent during visual attention (VA) tasks, suggesting that their role in ER may reflect attentional rather than mnemonic processes. To investigate this possibility, we directly compared brain activity during ER and VA tasks using event-related fMRI. The ER task was a word recognition test with a retrieval mode component, and the VA task was a target detection task with a sustained attention component. The study yielded three main findings. First, a common fronto-parietal-cingulate-thalamic network was found for ER and VA, suggesting that the involvement of these regions during ER reflects general attentional processes. This idea is compatible with some of the interpretations proposed in the ER literature (e.g. postretrieval monitoring), which may be rephrased in terms of attentional processes. Second, several subregions were differentially involved in ER versus VA. For example, the frontopolar cortex and the precuneus were more activated for ER than for VA, possibly reflecting retrieval mode and processing of internally generated stimuli, respectively. Finally, the study yielded an unexpected finding: some medial temporal lobe regions were similarly activated for ER and VA. This finding suggests that the medial temporal lobes may be involved in indexing representations within the focus of consciousness, regardless of whether they are mnemonic or perceptual. Overall, the present results suggest that many of the activations attributed to specific cognitive processes, such as episodic memory, may actually reflect more general cognitive operations.
Many recent neuroimaging studies have highlighted the role of prefrontal regions in the sustained maintenance and manipulation of information over short delays, or working memory (WM). In addition, neuroimaging findings have highlighted the role of prefrontal regions in the formation and retrieval of memories for events, or episodic long-term memory (LTM), but it remains unclear whether these regions are distinct from those that support WM. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify patterns of prefrontal activity associated with encoding and recognition during WM and LTM tasks performed by the same subjects. Results showed that the same bilateral ventrolateral prefrontal regions (at or near Brodmann's Areas [BA] 6, 44, 45, and 47) and dorsolateral prefrontal regions (BA 9/46) were engaged during encoding and recognition within the context of WM and LTM tasks. In addition, a region situated in the left anterior middle frontal gyrus (BA 10/46) was engaged during the recognition phases of the WM and LTM tasks. These results support the view that the same prefrontal regions implement reflective processes that support both WM and LTM.
Repeated stimulus processing is often associated with a reduction in neural activity, as measured by single-cell recording or by haemodynamic imaging techniques like PET and fMRI. These reductions are sometimes linked to the behavioural phenomenon of priming. In this article, we discuss issues relevant to theories that attempt to relate these phenomena, concentrating in particular on the interpretative limitations of current imaging techniques.
Mirror writing occurs when individual letters and whole word strings are produced in reverse direction. By analogy, mirror reading refers to the preference to read mirror reversed over normally written words. These phenomena appear rarely after brain damage and offer insight into the nervous system's organization of visual-spatial and visual-motor representations. We present the case of a 51-year-old patient with persistent mirror writing and reading following traumatic brain injury. She preferred to write in the mirror direction with either hand. She drew asymmetric pictures with the same directional bias as normal right-handed subjects, and she did not exhibit left-right confusion regarding other pictures. By contrast, on picture-word matching and lexical decision tasks, she was faster and more accurate with mirrored than normally written words. This pattern of performance suggests that her behavior was not accounted for by reflected motor programs, or by the mirroring of visual-spatial representations in general. Rather, we suggest that her behavior was produced by privileged access to mirrored graphemes. Furthermore, because she seemed better able to read irregular words in mirrored than in normal formats, we suggest that mirrored representations may exist at the whole word level and not simply at the letter level.
Positron emission tomography was used to investigate whether signed languages exhibit the same neural organization for lexical retrieval within classical and non-classical language areas as has been described for spoken English. Ten deaf native American sign language (ASL) signers were shown pictures of unique entities (famous persons) and non-unique entities (animals) and were asked to name each stimulus with an overt signed response. Proper name signed responses to famous people were fingerspelled, and common noun responses to animals were both fingerspelled and signed with native ASL signs. In general, retrieving ASL signs activated neural sites similar to those activated by hearing subjects retrieving English words. Naming famous persons activated the left temporal pole (TP), whereas naming animals (whether fingerspelled or signed) activated left inferotemporal (IT) cortex. The retrieval of fingerspelled and native signs generally engaged the same cortical regions, but fingerspelled signs in addition activated a premotor region, perhaps due to the increased motor planning and sequencing demanded by fingerspelling. Native signs activated portions of the left supramarginal gyrus (SMG), an area previously implicated in the retrieval of phonological features of ASL signs. Overall, the findings indicate that similar neuroanatomical areas are involved in lexical retrieval for both signs and words.
Event-related fMRI was employed to contrast the neural activity elicited in prefrontal cortex during recognition memory and exclusion tests. The study phases preceding each memory test were identical, involving the presentation of study items (visually presented words) in one of two study contexts. For the recognition test subjects were required to respond positively to all old items regardless of study context, and to respond negatively to new items. For the exclusion task, positive responses were required to old items presented in one of the study contexts only; negative responses were required both to unstudied items and studied items from the alternative context (non-targets). No prefrontal region demonstrated greater activity for new items in the exclusion task. Thus, there was no evidence that retrieval cues were processed differently according to the specificity of the sought-for information. In several regions, most notably bilateral anterior prefrontal cortex, activity was greater for old than for new items regardless of task. Activity in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was also greater for old than for new items; these effects however were larger in the exclusion task. The findings are consistent with previous reports that activity in anterior prefrontal cortex elicited by recognition retrieval cues is sensitive to retrieval success, and extend these findings to the exclusion task. The findings for the right dorsolateral cortex add further weight to the proposal that this region supports post-retrieval monitoring of retrieved information.
Parkinson's disease (PD) has been associated with a general impairment of procedures and with an impairment of syntactic procedures in particular. The present study investigated comprehension processes in PD using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). PD patients and controls listened to sentences that were either correct or syntactically or semantically incorrect. The language-related ERP component correlated with semantic processes (N400) was present in both groups. In the syntactic domain, early automatic processes (early negativity) appeared normal in PD, whereas late integrational processes (P600) were modulated by this disease. The present findings suggest that the basal ganglia primarily do not support early automatic syntactic processes during comprehension but rather support processes of syntactic integration.
The 5-HT(1B) receptor has been implicated in several psychopathologies, including pathological aggression, alcoholism and suicide. To test these and related potential genetic relationships in a single population, the human 5-HT(1B) receptor (h5-HTR(1B)) genotype for the G861C polymorphism was determined in 394 psychiatric patients and 96 healthy volunteers. Structured clinical interviews generated DSM III-R diagnoses. No significant association of the genotype or allele frequencies of the h5-HTR(1B) G861C locus was observed with diagnoses of alcoholism, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia or a history of a suicide attempt. Exploratory analyses indicated an association of the genotype and allele frequencies of the h5-HTR(1B) G861C locus with a history of substance abuse disorder (chi(2) = 9.51, df = 2, p = 0.009; chi(2) = 7.31, df = 1, p = 0.007, respectively) and with a diagnosis of a major depressive episode (chi(2) = 6.83, df = 2, p = 0.033; chi(2) = 5.81, df = 1, p = 0.016, respectively). Significant gene dose effects on the risk for substance abuse disorder and a major depressive episode were observed with the 861C allele (Armitage linearity tendency test: chi(2) = 7.20, df = 1, p = 0.008; chi(2) = 6.80, df = 1, p = 0.009, respectively). Substance abuse disorder and major depression appear to be associated with the h5-HTR(1B) G861C locus in the patient population, but other psychopathologies such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, alcoholism, and suicide attempts were not found to be associated with this polymorphism. This preliminary result will need replication, given the limitations of association studies.
Chronic stress exposure can alter central noradrenergic function. Previously, we reported that in chronically cold-exposed rats the release of norepinephrine and electrophysiological activation of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons is enhanced in response to multiple excitatory stimuli without alterations in basal activity. In the present studies, we used in vitro intracellular recording techniques to explore the effect of chronic cold exposure on the basal and evoked electrophysiological properties of LC neurons in horizontal slices of the rat brainstem. Consistent with our findings from in vivo experiments, chronic cold exposure did not affect basal firing rate. Furthermore, gross morphology of LC neurons and spike waveform characteristics were similar in slices from control and previously cold-exposed rats. However, excitability in response to intracellular current injection and input resistance were larger in slices from previously cold-exposed rats. In addition, the accommodation of spike firing in response to sustained current injection was smaller and the period of postactivation inhibition appeared to be less in LC neurons from cold-exposed rats. These data demonstrate that the stress-evoked sensitization of LC neurons observed in vivo is at least in part maintained in the slice preparation and suggest that alterations in electrophysiological properties of LC neurons contribute to the chronic stress-induced sensitization of central noradrenergic function observed in vivo. Furthermore, the present data suggest that an alteration in autoinhibitory control of LC activity is involved in the chronic stress-induced alterations. The enhanced functional capacity of LC neurons following cold exposure of rats may represent a unique model to study the mechanisms underlying the alterations in central noradrenergic function observed in humans afflicted with mood and anxiety disorders.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the hallucinogen 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) enhances glutamatergic transmission in the prefrontal cortex. This increase can be suppressed by metabotropic glutamate2/3 (mGlu2/3) receptor activation. In addition to enhancing glutamatergic transmission, DOI increases cortical c-fos expression. We tested if a reduction in glutamate release produced by mGlu2/3 receptor activation attenuates DOI-induced c-fos expression in the cortex. Similar to previous studies, DOI produced a robust increase in c-fos mRNA throughout the cortex, including the prefrontal, frontoparietal, and somatosensory regions. Pretreatment with the mGlu2/3 agonist LY379268 attenuated the DOI-induced increase in the prefrontal cortex. This suppression was blocked by the mGlu2/3 antagonist LY341495. In contrast, the DOI-induced increase in c-fos mRNA in the frontoparietal and somatosensory cortex was unaffected by the mGlu2/3 agents. These findings suggest that Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists are capable of modulating postsynaptic function preferentially in the limbic cortex under conditions of enhanced glutamate release.

A multifunction cognitive orthotic system is designed to assist people with cognitive disorders in the performance of ecologically relevant activities. This personal computer-based compensatory approach applies neuroscience and technology to the rehabilitation needs and challenges of people with chronic brain damage. The primary goal of this approach is the independent accomplishment of practical, applied tasks integral to daily living, at home, at work, at school and in the community. This paper will describe the &quot;Essential Steps&quot; cognitive orthotic system, and describe its potential to facilitate skill acquisition and enhance self-sufficient life management. The software was designed to guide and protect the user as he or she progresses through each &quot;essential step&quot; in the progression required for completion of a targeted task. The discussion will explicate the underlying principles promoting skill acquisition with this application of a cognitive orthotic. Data have shown that this compensatory aid can promote rapid skill acquisition and support reliable performance, even long past the time when rapid recovery and progress are customarily expected. Discussion will focus on issues of design for people with brain damage, the significance of this system's prototypical structure, and research findings and clinical observations made with people using &quot;Essential Steps&quot;.
The present review deals mainly with the ontogenesis of two important phenomena involved in vulnerability to several neuropsychiatric disorders, namely with drug-induced sensitization (both contextual and non-contextual) and with conditioned place preference. The term 'infancy' covers the first three postnatal weeks during development in rats and mice. Conversely, the term 'adolescence' may cover the whole postnatal period ranging from weaning (PND 21) to adulthood (at least PND 60) or specifically the period around the onset of puberty (animals aged 33-44 days). Recent studies in rats demonstrated that the establishment of a context-dependent sensitization appears during the first (for repeated drug administration) or during the second (for a single drug administration) postnatal week. However, the memory of drug-context association is transient in developing pups (lasting one or two days following the drug pretreatment). The long-term retention of drug-context associations matures progressively, and is complete by the third week of postnatal life. Finally, those mechanisms responsible for an adult-like profile of context-independent pharmacological sensitization appear later during ontogenesis, being mature by the fourth week of postnatal life. Another set of experiments extended this ontogenetic characterization by comparing adolescent and adult mice. When compared to the latter, the former subjects exhibit a greater amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization, almost no sensitization of aversive stereotyped behaviors, and a less marked place conditioning. The strength of the drug-induced place conditioning was also directly compared with the unconditioned novelty-seeking drive. In conclusion, neonatal rats are able to show a relatively short-lasting retention of sensitized drug effects (short-term sensitization), whereas the ability to exhibit relatively long-lasting sensitized effects matures progressively during infancy (long-term sensitization). On the other hand, adolescent mice show a reduced sensitization of drug-induced psychotic symptoms, together with a more marked sensitization of arousing and euphorigenic properties of the drug and a reduced incentive memory of its hedonic effects. These age-related changes do imply very different degrees of vulnerability to drug addiction and several other neuropsychiatric disorders.
The effects of mild food deprivation (7 days of food restricted to once daily feeding to maintain body weights at 85% of free-feeding weights) were examined in adult male and female and adolescent female rats tested in the elevated plus maze and social interaction tests of anxiety. In adult male rats, food deprivation appeared to have an anxiolytic effect in the plus-maze as it significantly increased the percentage of entries onto open arms and the percentage of time spent on the open arms, without changing the number of closed arm entries. There were no effects of food deprivation in adult females, although in adolescent females food deprivation significantly increased the percentage of open arm entries rats. Adolescent female rats have female brains, but do not have circulating gonadal hormones and thus these results suggest that circulating female gonadal hormones are able to suppress some of the effects of mild food deprivation in the plus-maze. In the social interaction test, there were no effects of food deprivation in any group on the time spent in social interaction. There were opposite effects on locomotor activity in the adult male and female rats, with deprivation increasing activity in males and decreasing it in females. There were no effects of food deprivation on locomotor activity in the adolescent females, suggesting that circulating gonadal hormones were responsible for the bidirectional effects in the adult rats. In both tests there were age-associated differences in the female rats, with the adolescent females being less anxious (higher percentage of open arm entries and increased social interaction) than the adults.
Long-term effects of early experiences have been well documented in rodents, non-human primates and humans. The influence of early experiences on the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal has demonstrated that this biological system is highly plastic and is permanently modified by early experiences. The effects of brief periods of maternal separation in rodents tend to result in a reduction of the stress response, whereas longer periods of maternal separation produce an animal that is hyperresponsive. The effect of disruptions of mother-infant interactions on the HPA axis in non-human primates has not been clearly established. However, the primate research has primarily focused on more permanent separation paradigms and thus it is difficult to compare the rodent studies with those conducted in primates. The present study attempted to use a separation procedure in monkeys that more closely resembled the rodent model. Intermittent separation during infancy followed by reunion with the mother were shown to lead to a significant reduction in both the cortisol response and the response of the noradrenergic system following social isolation in juvenile squirrel monkeys at 2 and 3 years of age. The behavioral response (vocalizations) was also reduced.
Early severe stress and maltreatment produces a cascade of neurobiological events that have the potential to cause enduring changes in brain development. These changes occur on multiple levels, from neurohumoral (especially the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal [HPA] axis) to structural and functional. The major structural consequences of early stress include reduced size of the mid-portions of the corpus callosum and attenuated development of the left neocortex, hippocampus, and amygdala. Major functional consequences include increased electrical irritability in limbic structures and reduced functional activity of the cerebellar vermis. There are also gender differences in vulnerability and functional consequences. The neurobiological sequelae of early stress and maltreatment may play a significant role in the emergence of psychiatric disorders during development.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity is increased within and around amyloid plaques, which are present in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patient's brain. In this study, using cultured retinal cells as a neuronal model, we analyzed the effect of the synthetic peptide Abeta(25-35) on the activity of AChE, the degradation enzyme of acetylcholine, as well as the involvement of oxidative stress in this process. The activity of AChE was increased when retinal cells were incubated with Abeta(25-35) (25 microM, 24 h) and antioxidants such as alpha-tocopherol acetate and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors were capable of preventing this effect. Despite Abeta(25-35) did not affect cell membrane integrity, the redox capacity of cells decreased. The incubation with this amyloidogenic peptide led to an increment of reactive oxygen species formation (20%), of lipid peroxidation (65%), and basal intracellular calcium levels (40%). The data obtained show that the enhancement of AChE activity induced by Abeta(25-35) is mediated by oxidative stress, and that vitamin E and NOS inhibitors, by preventing the compromise of the enzyme activity, can have an important role in the maintenance of acetylcholine synaptic levels, thus preventing or improving cognitive and memory functions of AD patients.
There are two types of expiratory neurons with augmenting firing patterns (E-AUG neurons), those in the Btzinger complex (BOT) and those in the caudal ventral respiratory group (cVRG). We studied their axonal projections morphologically using intracellular labeling of single E-AUG neurons with Neurobiotin, in anesthetized, paralyzed and artificially-ventilated rats. BOT E-AUG neurons (n = 11) had extensive axonal projections to the brainstem, but E-AUG neurons (n = 5) of the cVRG sent axons that descended the contralateral spinal cord without medullary collaterals. In addition to these somewhat expected characteristics, the present study revealed a number of new projection patterns of the BOT E-AUG neurons. First, as compared with the dense projections to the ipsilateral brainstem, those to the contralateral side were sparse. Second, several BOT E-AUG neurons sent long ascending collaterals to the pons, which included an axon that reached the ipsilateral parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei and distributed boutons. Third, conspicuous projections from branches of these ascending collaterals to the area dorsolateral to the facial nucleus were found. Thus, the present study has shown an anatomical substrate for the extensive inhibitory projections of single BOT E-AUG neurons to the areas spanning the bilateral medulla and the pons.
The majority of neurons in the magnocellular basal forebrain are wakefulness-active with highest discharge activity during wakefulness and a marked reduction in activity just before and during the entry to non-rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. We have hypothesized that the reduction of discharge activity of wakefulness-active neurons and a consequent facilitation of the transition from wakefulness to sleep is due to an increase in the extracellular concentration of adenosine during wakefulness. To test the hypothesis, the present study employed microdialysis perfusion of adenosinergic pharmacological agents combined with single unit recording in freely moving cats, so as to determine: 1). if there were dose-dependent effects on behaviorally identified wakefulness-active neurons; 2). whether effects were mediated by the A1 receptor, as contrasted to the A2a receptor; and 3). if effects were specific to wakefulness-active neurons, and not present in sleep-active neurons, those preferentially discharging in nonREM sleep. Both adenosine and the A1 receptor-specific agonist N6-cyclo-hexyl-adenosine reduced the discharge activity of wakefulness-active neurons (n=16) in a dose-dependent manner but had no effect on sleep-active neurons (n=4). The A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1-3-dimethylxanthine increased the discharge of wakefulness-active neurons (n=5), but the A2a receptor agonist, CGS-16284, had no effect (n=3). Recording sites were histologically localized to the cholinergic basal forebrain. These data support our hypothesis that adenosine acts via the A1 receptor to reduce the activity of wakefulness-promoting neurons, thus providing a cellular mechanism explaining why the increased adenosine concentrations observed in the basal forebrain following prolonged wakefulness act to induce sleep.
Accumulating evidence suggests that tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) may be the endogenous ligand of the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor. The vast majority of TIP39-containing neurons are localized in two regions, the subparafascicular area at the thalamic-midbrain junction, and the medial paralemniscal nucleus in the rostral pons. In contrast to the restricted localization of TIP39-containing cell bodies, TIP39-containing fibers have a widespread distribution. TIP39 neurons were lesioned electrolytically to determine the origin of TIP39-containing fibers within different parts of the rat CNS. Following bilateral lesions of the medial subparafascicular area including the subparafascicular nucleus, TIP39-immunoreactive fibers almost completely disappeared from forebrain regions including the anterior limbic cortical areas, the shell and cone portions of the nucleus accumbens, the lateral septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the amygdaloid nuclei, the fundus striati, the subiculum, the thalamic paraventricular nucleus, and the hypothalamic paraventricular, dorsomedial and arcuate nuclei. Unilateral lesions of the medial and the lateral subparafascicular area demonstrated that the projections are ipsilateral and that medial lesions produce higher reductions in the density of TIP39 fibers except in the amygdala and the hypothalamus. Following lesions of the medial paralemniscal nucleus, TIP39-immunoreactive fibers disappeared from the medial geniculate body, the periaqueductal gray, the deep layers of the superior colliculus, the external cortex of the inferior colliculus, the cuneiform nucleus, the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, the lateral parabrachial nucleus, the locus coeruleus, the subcoeruleus area, the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, the periolivary nuclei, and the spinal cord, suggesting that these regions receive TIP39-containing fibers from the medial paralemniscal nucleus, and unilateral lesions demonstrated that the projections are ipsilateral. The projections of the TIP39-containing cells in the subparafascicular area suggest their involvement in limbic and endocrine functions, while the projections of the TIP39-containing cells in the medial paralemniscal nucleus suggest their involvement in auditory and nociceptive functions.
Several studies suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) can exacerbate seizure development during status epilepticus (S.E.) and subsequent epileptogenesis in the adult brain. On the other hand, evidence exists for the protective effect of BDNF. To study this controversy, we induced S.E. with kainate in transgenic mice with increased BDNF signaling due to trkB overexpression. Transgenic mice experienced a more severe S.E. than wild type animals did. Furthermore, they had increased acute hippocampal neuronal loss when assessed at 48 h after S.E. The effect of trkB overexpression on the development of epilepsy, chronic neuronal death, mossy fiber sprouting, and neurogenesis were studied at 4.5 months after kainate-induced S.E. No differences were found in the rate of epileptogenesis, severity of epilepsy, or cellular markers of network reorganization between transgenic and wild type mice. No differences between genotypes were observed in TUC-4 staining, indicating no effect of trkB overexpression to immature neuron numbers. Instead, in Cresyl Violet-stained preparations, the highest density of neurons was found in untreated transgenic mice suggesting a favorable effect of trkB overexpression on the survival of neurons in the hippocampus. Our data support the role of BDNF and trkB signaling in seizure generation and acute cellular damage after S.E. Long-term outcome was not, however, exacerbated by trkB overexpression.
Central nervous system (CNS) inflammation in cases such as head trauma, infection and stroke has been associated with the occurrence of epileptic seizures. Microglia, the principal immune cells in the brain, readily become activated in response to injury, infection or inflammation. The bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces the activation of microglia and the production of proinflammatory factors including nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins (PGs). We examined the effect of LPS on seizure susceptibility of mice, by using the sensitive test, threshold of clonic seizures induced by i.v. infusion of pentylenetetrazole. LPS decreased the seizure threshold in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Pretreatment of mice with the NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or cyclooxygenase inhibitor, piroxicam or the opioid receptor antagonist, (-)-naloxone completely reversed the proconvulsant effect of LPS. These results indicate that NO, PGs and endogenous opioid peptides seem to be involved in LPS-induced decrease in seizure threshold.
In previous studies electrically-evoked release of acetylcholine in septal slices was demonstrated. The present experiment aimed at verifying if this release involved intrinsic neurons bearing p75(NTR) receptors. Long-Evans rats sustained injections of 192 IgG-saporin into the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (0.8 microg). Sham-operated rats served as controls. Two to 3.5 weeks later, the electrically-evoked release of acetylcholine ([(3)H]ACh) was measured in slices from the lateral septum (LS), medial septum (MS) and diagonal band of Broca (DBB). Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and monoamine concentrations were measured in the septum, cortex and hippocampus. The lesion extent was also assessed by ChAT immunostaining in a separate series of rats. In the septum, the number of ChAT-positive neurons was depleted dramatically (&gt;90% at the level of the injection site). In the hippocampus, the lesions reduced ChAT and AChE activity by 91% and 84%, respectively. In the cortex, this reduction was weaker (-55% and -47%). In the septal region, the reduction was either weak or not significant. The evoked release of acetylcholine in septal slices was not reduced, except in the slices from the LS (-64%). The effects of physostigmine and atropine confirmed the presence of autoreceptors. Our data exclude that a major part of the acetylcholine released by MS and DBB slices derived from intrinsic neurons bearing p75(NTR) receptors. In the LS, part of the released acetylcholine might be from projections of such neurons located in the LS, MS and/or DBB. These data also suggest that the MS and the DBB may be the target of extrinsic cholinergic innervation that does not bear p75(NTR) receptors.
Transgenic mice expressing exon 1 of the human Huntington's disease (HD) gene carrying a 115 CAG repeat (line R6/1) are characterized by a neurologic phenotype involving molecular, behavioral and motor disturbances. We have characterized the R6/1 to establish a set of biomarkers, which could be semi-quantitatively compared. We have measured motor fore- and hindlimb coordination, fore- and hindpaw footprinting, general activity and anxiety, feetclasping, developmental instability. Molecular investigations involved measurements of cannabinoid receptor 1 mRNA, met-enkephalin peptide, dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoroprotein 32 kDa and neuronal inclusions. Molecular and behavioral testing was performed on female hemizygotic R6/1 transgenic mice and female wildtype littermates between 6 and 36 weeks of age. We show that the cannabinoid receptor 1 receptor is severely and rapidly downregulated in the R6/1 mouse between the 8(th) to the 10(th) week of age. At 14 weeks of age the first transgenic mice showed a behavioral phenotype measured by feetclasping. However, there was great variation between the individual animals. At 11 weeks of age the mice demonstrated progressively increasing developmental instability as measured by fluctuating asymmetry. Weight differences were evident by 22 weeks of age. Mice tested at 23 and 24 weeks of age showed significant impairments in open field and plus-maze analysis respectively. We observed no significant abnormalities in stride length of the R6/1 mouse model. As the analyzed parameters are easily detected and measured, the R6/1 mouse appears to be a good model for evaluating new drugs or types of therapy for HD.
The distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate- (NMDA) and kainic acid- (KA) sensitive ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluR) in the zebrafish olfactory bulb was assessed using an activity-dependent labeling method. Olfactory bulbs were incubated with an ion channel permeant probe, agmatine (AGB), and iGluR agonists in vitro, and the labeled neurons containing AGB were visualized immunocytochemically. Preparations exposed to 250 microM KA in the presence of a NMDA receptor antagonist (D-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid) and an alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist (sym 2206), revealed KA receptor-mediated labeling of approximately 60-70% of mitral cells, juxtaglomerular cells, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells and granule cells. A higher proportion of ventral olfactory bulb neurons were KA-sensitive. Application of 333 microM NMDA in the presence of an AMPA/KA receptor antagonist (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione) resulted in NMDA receptor-mediated labeling of almost all neurons. The concentrations eliciting 50% of the maximal response (effective concentration: EC(50)s) for NMDA-stimulated labeling of different cell types were not significantly different and ranged from 148 microM to 162 microM. These results suggest that while NMDA receptors with similar binding affinities are widely distributed in the neurons of the zebrafish olfactory bulb, KA receptors are heterogeneously expressed among these cells and may serve unique roles in different regions of the olfactory bulb.
To identify possible intracellular mediators of hair cell (HC) death due to ototoxins, we treated basal-turn, neonatal, rat HCs in vitro with several intracellular signaling inhibitors, prior to and during gentamicin exposure. The general guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein) inhibitor, GDP-betaS (1 mM), provided potent HC protection, suggesting involvement of G-proteins in the intracellular pathway linking gentamicin exposure to HC death. ADP-betaS had minimal effect, indicating that the protection is specific to guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-binding, rather than a general reaction to nucleotides. Azido-GTP(32) photolabeling and gel electrophoresis indicated activation of an approximately 21 kDa G-protein in HCs after exposure to gentamicin. Spectroscopic analysis of peptide fragments from this band matched its sequence with H-Ras. The Ras inhibitors B581 (50 microM) and FTI-277 (10 microM) provided potent protection against damage and reduced c-Jun activation in HC nuclei, suggesting that activation of Ras is functionally involved in damage to these cells due to gentamicin.
Dynorphin A (1-17), an endogenous opioid neuropeptide, can have pathophysiological consequences at high concentrations through actions involving glutamate receptors. Despite evidence of excitotoxicity, the basic mechanisms underlying dynorphin-induced cell death have not been explored. To address this question, we examined the role of caspase-dependent apoptotic events in mediating dynorphin A (1-17) toxicity in embryonic mouse striatal neuron cultures. In addition, the role of opioid and/or glutamate receptors were assessed pharmacologically using dizocilpine maleate (MK(+)801), a non-equilibrium N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist; 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, a competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/kainate antagonist; or (-)-naloxone, a general opioid antagonist. The results show that dynorphin A (1-17) (&gt;or=10 nM) caused concentration-dependent increases in caspase-3 activity that were accompanied by mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and the subsequent death of cultured mouse striatal neurons. Moreover, dynorphin A-induced neurotoxicity and caspase-3 activation were significantly attenuated by the cell permeable caspase inhibitor, caspase-3 inhibitor-II (z-DEVD-FMK), further suggesting an apoptotic cascade involving caspase-3. AMPA/kainate receptor blockade significantly attenuated dynorphin A-induced cytochrome c release and/or caspase-3 activity, while NMDA or opioid receptor blockade typically failed to prevent the apoptotic response. Last, dynorphin-induced caspase-3 activation was mimicked by the ampakine CX546 [1-(1,4-benzodioxan-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine], which suggests that the activation of AMPA receptor subunits may be sufficient to mediate toxicity in striatal neurons. These findings provide novel evidence that dynorphin-induced striatal neurotoxicity is mediated by a caspase-dependent apoptotic mechanism that largely involves AMPA/kainate receptors.
The present study investigated the effects of iberiotoxin (IbTx), a peptide toxin blocker of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK(Ca)) channels and NS1619, a BK(Ca) channel opener, on action potential firing of small and medium size afferent neurons from L6 and S1 dorsal root ganglia of adult rats. Application of IbTx (100 nM) reduced whole-cell outward currents in 67% of small and medium size neurons. Analysis of action potential profile revealed that IbTx significantly prolonged the duration of action potential and increased firing frequency of afferent neurons. IbTx did not significantly alter the resting membrane potential, threshold for action potential activation and action potential amplitude. The benzimidazolone NS1619 (10 microM) increased opening activity of a Ca(2+)-dependent channel as assessed by single channel measurements. In contrast to IbTx, NS1619 reversibly suppressed action potential firing, attributable to increases in threshold for evoking action potential, reduction in action potential amplitude and increases in amplitude of afterhyperpolarization. The effect of NS1619 on neuronal firing was sensitive to IbTx, indicating the attenuation of neuronal firing by NS1619 was mediated by opening BK(Ca) channels. NS1619 also reduced neuronal hyperexcitability evoked by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a transient-inactivated K(+) channel (A-current) blocker, in an IbTx-sensitive manner. These results indicate that IbTx-sensitive BK(Ca) channels exist in both small and medium diameter dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and play important roles in the repolarization of action potential and firing frequency. NS1619 modulates action potential firing and suppresses 4-AP-evoked hyperexcitability in DRG neurons, in part, by opening BK(Ca) channels. These results suggest that opening BK(Ca) channels might be sufficient to suppress hyperexcitability of afferent neurons as those evoked by stimulants or by disease states.
Chronic opiate applications produce long-term impacts on many functions of the brain and induce tolerance, dependence, and addiction. It has been demonstrated that opioid drugs are capable to induce apoptosis of neuronal cells, but the mechanism is not clear. c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3), specifically expressed in brain, has been proved to mediate neuronal apoptosis and is involved in opiate-induced cell apoptosis in vitro. The present study investigated the effect of opioid administration on expression of JNK3, an important mediator involved in apoptosis of neurons, in rat brain. Our results showed that single or chronic injection of morphine resulted in a 45-50% increase in the level of JNK3 mRNA in frontal cortex, while no significant change was detected in other brain regions such as thalamus, hippocampus and locus coeruleus. Similar to what was observed after the acute or chronic morphine administration, no significant change in JNK3 expression was detected in locus coeruleus following cessation of the chronic morphine administration. However, interestingly, sustained elevation of JNK3 expression peaked on day 14 after cessation of morphine treatment was observed in the brain regions such as hippocampus and thalamus, where acute or chronic morphine treatment did not cause any significant change in JNK3 gene expression. The increased JNK3 mRNA in these brain areas returned to the control levels in 28 days following cessation of chronic morphine treatment. Taken together, these results demonstrated for the first time that the expression of JNK3 gene is regulated by opioids and that chronic opioid administration and withdrawal could induce sustained elevation of JNK3 mRNA in many important brain areas. The changes in JNK3 gene expression in brain induced by chronic opioid treatment may play a role in opioid-induced apoptosis and neurotoxicity.
Cell surface glycoconjugates are thought to mediate cell-cell recognition and to play roles in neuronal development and functions. We demonstrated here that exposure of neuronal cells to nanomolar levels of glyco-chains with an N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue at the non-reducing termini (GalNAc-S) such as GalNAcbeta4(Neu5Acalpha3)Galbeta4GlcCer (GM2) ganglioside, its oligosaccharide portion, GalNAcbeta4Galbeta4GlcCer (Gg(3)) Cer, GalNAcalpha3GalNAcbeta3Galalpha4Galbeta4GlcCer (Gb(5)) Cer (Forssman hapten) and alpha1-4 linked oligomers of GalNAc, induced a rapid and transient activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in subplasmalemma. The treatment was accompanied by peripheral actin polymerization and filopodia formation in NG108-15 cells and primary cultured hippocampal neurons, but not in glial cells. A cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) selective inhibitor and an adenylate cyclase inhibitor blocked both PKA activation and the subsequent filopodia formation. A small GTPase cdc42 was a potential downstream target of GalNAc-S-activated PKA. These results suggest that extracellular GalNAc-S serve as potential regulators of the filopodia formation in neuronal cells by triggering the activation of PKA followed by cdc42 up-regulation via a cell surface receptor-like component. Filopodia formation induced by GalNAc-S may have a physiological relevance because long-term exposure to GalNAc-S enhanced F-actin-rich dendrite generation of primary cultured hippocampal neurons, and PKA-dependent dendritic outgrowth and branch formation of primary cultured cerebellar Purkinje neurons, in which actin isoforms were localized to motile structures in dendrites. These findings provide evidence for a novel GalNAc/PKA-signaling cascade in regulating some neuronal maturation.
The aim of this study was to investigate the mRNA expression of the two GABA(B1) receptor isoforms and the GABA(B2) subunit, in human postmortem control hippocampal sections and in sections resected from epilepsy patients using quantitative in situ hybridisation autoradiography. Utilising human control hippocampal sections it was shown that the oligonucleotides employed were specific to the receptor. Hippocampal slices from surgical specimens obtained from patients with hippocampal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy were compared with neurologically normal postmortem control subjects for neuropathology and GABA(B) mRNA expression. Neuronal loss was observed in most of the hippocampal subregions, but in the subiculum no significant difference was detected. The localisation of GABA(B1a) and GABA(B1b) isoform mRNAs in human control hippocampal sections supported and extended earlier studies using the GABA(B1) pan probe, which does not distinguish between the two GABA(B1) isoforms. Moreover, the GABA(B2) mRNA location confirmed the heterodimerisation of the receptor. Thus, although there was an apparent correlation between GABA(B1b) and GABA(B2), GABA(B1a) exhibited no such relationship. GABA(B1b) and GABA(B2) showed a similar intensity of expression whilst GABA(B1a) displayed a lower hybridisation signal. Comparison of the expression of the three mRNAs between control and epileptic subjects showed significant decreases or increases in different hippocampal subregions.GABA(B) isoforms and subunit mRNA expression per remaining neuron was significantly increased in the hilus and dentate gyrus. These results demonstrate that altered GABA(B) receptor mRNA expression occurs in human TLE; possibly the observed changes may also serve to counteract ongoing hyperexcitability.
Myelin was previously shown to possess neurotransmitter and cytokine receptors that trigger well-defined signaling mechanisms within the multilamellar structure. The present study reveals the presence of an interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor in isolated mouse CNS myelin that responds to recombinant mouse IL-2 by activating diacylglycerol kinase (DAGK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K); additional evidence suggests participation by protein tyrosine kinase. Activation of myelin DAGK by IL-2 occurred in brain stem tissue mince and was blocked by chelerythrin chloride, indicating an essential role for myelin-localized protein kinase C. Two inhibitors of PI3K, wortmannin and LY294002, blocked endogenous PI3K as well as that enhanced by IL-2. Activation of PI3K by IL-2 was also blocked by tyrphostin A25, a selective inhibitor of PTK, suggesting activation of the latter by IL-2 is upstream to PI3K activation. This reaction resulted in tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein tentatively identified as the p85 subunit of PI3K. Developmental changes were noted in that receptor density and signaling activity were robust during the period of rapid myelination and declined rapidly thereafter.
A control circuit is proposed to model the command of saccadic eye movements. Its wiring is deduced from a mathematical constraint, i.e. the necessity, for motor orders processing, to compute an approximate inverse function of the bio-mechanical function of the moving plant, here the bio-mechanics of the eye. This wiring is comparable to the anatomy of the cerebellar pathways. A predicting element, necessary for inversion and thus for movement accuracy, is modeled by an artificial neural network whose structure, deduced from physical constraints expressing the mechanics of the eye, is similar to the cell connectivity of the cerebellar cortex. Its functioning is set by supervised reinforcement learning, according to learning rules aimed at reducing the errors of pointing, and deduced from a differential calculation. After each movement, a teaching signal encoding the pointing error is distributed to various learning sites, as is, in the cerebellum, the signal issued from the inferior olive and conveyed to various cell types by the climbing fibers. Results of simulations lead to predict the existence of a learning site in the glomeruli. After learning, the model is able to accurately simulate saccadic eye movements. It accounts for the function of the cerebellar pathways and for the final integrator of the oculomotor system. The novelty of this model of movement control is that its structure is entirely deduced from mathematical and physical constraints, and is consistent with general anatomy, cell connectivity and functioning of the cerebellar pathways. Even the learning rules can be deduced from calculation, and they reproduce long term depression, the learning process which takes place in the dendritic arborization of the Purkinje cells. This approach, based on the laws of mathematics and physics, appears thus as an efficient way of understanding signal processing in the motor system.
Texture information is an elementary feature utilized by the human visual system to automatically, or pre-attentively, segment the visual scene. The neural substrate underlying human texture processing as well as the basic computational mechanisms remains largely unknown up to now. We propose a neural model of texture processing which integrates the data obtained by a variety of methods into a common computational framework. It consists of a hierarchy of bi-directionally linked visual areas each containing topographical maps of mutually interconnected cells. It builds upon the two key hypotheses that (i). texture segmentation is based on boundary detection and that (ii). texture border detection is mainly a function of higher visual cortical areas such as V4. This model, while attempting to explain the processing of textures, is embedded in a more general neural model architecture of the infero-temporal pathway of form processing.The model allows to link human performance in texture segmentation with model cell activation patterns, in turn permitting to trace back fundamental psychophysical results on texture processing to their putative neural origins. Most importantly, it enables us to identify and evaluate the functional role of feedback connections between cortical areas in the context of texture processing, namely the suppression of ambiguous cell activities leading to a sharply localized detection of texture boundaries. One of the likely neural origins of modulatory effects on V1 cell activation levels, as observed in electrophysiological studies using single- and multi-unit recordings, can be resolved.
The 5-HT(2A) serotonin receptor represents an important molecular target for atypical antipsychotic drugs and for most hallucinogens. In the mammalian cerebral cortex, 5-HT(2A) receptors are enriched in pyramidal neurons, within which 5-HT(2A) receptors are preferentially sorted to the apical dendrites. In primary cortical cultures, 5-HT(2A) receptors are sorted to dendrites and not found in the axons of pyramidal neurons. We identified a sorting motif that mediates the preferential targeting of 5-HT(2A) receptors to the dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons in vitro. We constructed green fluorescent protein-tagged 5-HT(2A) receptors wherein potential sorting motifs were disrupted, and subsequently employed either the Semliki Forest virus or calcium phosphate for the transient expression of recombinant 5-HT(2A) receptors in cultured cortical pyramidal neurons. Using dual-labeling immunofluorescent confocal microscopy, we quantified the axonal and dendritic sorting patterns of endogenous and recombinant 5-HT(2A) receptors. We discovered that disruption of the PDZ-binding domain of the 5-HT(2A) receptor greatly attenuates the dendritic targeting of 5-HT(2A) receptors without inappropriately sorting 5-HT(2A) receptors to axons. The PDZ-binding domain is therefore a necessary signal for the preferential targeting of the 5-HT(2A) receptor to the dendritic compartment of cultured cortical pyramidal neurons, the first such role ascribed to this protein-protein interaction motif of any G protein-coupled receptor.
In some disorders of the peripheral nervous system, it is relevant to understand how sensory neurons respond to selective ganglion ischemia. Sensory dorsal root ganglia may be susceptible to ischemic damage and irretrievable neuron loss because of their metabolic requirements. In diabetes, heightened sensitivity to ischemia associated with elevated endothelin levels might render ganglia particularly vulnerable. In this work, we created a model of local sensory ganglion ischemia by generating intense local vasoconstriction from applied endothelin-1 (ET). In this model, we compared relative vulnerability of L5 ganglia microvessels and neurons to ET in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and nondiabetic controls. Diabetic ganglia had reductions in baseline core ganglion blood flow (GBF) measured using microelectrode hydrogen clearance polarography and ET induced particularly profound declines. Serial GBF measurements made using a laser Doppler flowmetry probe also indicated that diabetic ganglia exposed to ET had a marked prolongation in its action. Neuron perikarya and proximal axon segments were more vulnerable in diabetes. Neurons exhibited loss of neurofilament labeling, dissolution of the neurons, replacement of neurons with &quot;nests of Nageotte,&quot; displacement of nuclei to the periphery of perikarya, and nuclear labeling with TUNEL. Both intraganglionic axons and downstream sural sensory axons developed evidence of axonal degeneration. Local endothelin-induced vasoconstriction of microvessels supplying dorsal root ganglia provides a selective model of ischemia. Diabetic vessels and neurons, exposed to a greater depth and duration of ischemia from endothelin, are especially vulnerable.
S-allyl-L-cysteine (SAC), one of the organosulfur compounds found in aged garlic extract, has been shown to possess various biological effects including neurotrophic activity. In our previous experiments, we found that SAC could protect against amyloid beta-protein (Abeta)- and tunicamycin-induced cell death in differentiated PC12 cells. In the study described here, we characterized the neuronal death induced by Abeta, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), tunicamycin, and trophic factor deprivation, and investigated whether and how SAC could prevent this in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Treatment with SAC protected these cells against Abeta- and tunicamycin-induced neuronal death, which is mediated predominantly through caspase-12-dependent pathway in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, it afforded no protection against HNE- and trophic factor-deprivation-induced cell death, which has been shown to be mediated by caspase-3-dependent pathway. SAC also attenuated the Abeta-induced increase of intracellular reactive oxygen species in hippocampal neurons. SAC had no effect on Abeta-induced cell death in cultured cerebellar granule neurons, which was prevented by a caspase-3 inhibitor. These results suggest that SAC could protect against the neuronal cell death that is triggered by ER dysfunction in the hippocampus, and that it has no effect on neuronal cell death that is dependent upon the caspase-3 mediated pathway.
The neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) is widely distributed in the CNS. We herein investigated the immunocytochemical localization of CCK in the glutamatergic excitatory pathways in the mouse hippocampus, with particular reference to the dorsoventral difference. The intense CCK-like immunoreactivity (CCK-LI) was found in the mossy fiber pathway (stratum lucidum and dentate hilus) and in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In the mossy fiber pathway, the CCK-LI was more intense at the ventral level than at the dorsal level. On the other hand, the CCK-LI in the stratum lucidum was more intense in the distal portion than in the proximal portion, both at the dorsal and ventral levels. High-resolution three-dimensional image analysis revealed the coexpression of CCK and synaptoporin (SPO) in the single mossy terminal, where they were spatially segregated but adjacent to each other. Quantitative image analysis indicated the difference in the amount of CCK within the mossy terminals along the dorsoventral and transverse axes of the hippocampus. On the other hand, in the inner molecular layer, CCK- and SPO-positive elements appeared to have little relation to each other. We also examined the postnatal development of the CCK-LI in the mouse hippocampus. The CCK-LI was detected in the inner molecular layer of the ventral dentate gyrus at postnatal day (P) 7. In the mossy fiber pathway, the CCK-LI was first evident at P 14, but it was restricted to the distal portion of the stratum lucidum in the ventral hippocampus. Interestingly, the distributions of the SPO immunoreactivity at P 7 were already similar to those of adult mice. The patterns of expression of CCK-LI at P 28 were almost similar to those of adult mice. The present data demonstrate the heterogeneous expression of CCK-LI in the mouse hippocampus, and provide a baseline to understand the role of CCK in the mouse brain.
The formation of edema after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is in part associated with the disruption of the blood-brain barrier. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these phenomena have not been fully understood. One possible factor involved in edema formation is vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This growth factor has previously been demonstrated to increase the blood-brain barrier permeability to the low molecular weight markers and macromolecules. In this study, we analyzed the temporal changes in VEGF expression after TBI in rats. In the intact brain, VEGF was expressed at relatively low levels and was found in the cells located close to the cerebrospinal fluid space. These were the astrocytes located under the ependyma and the pia-glial lining, as well as the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus. In addition, several groups of neurons, including those located in the frontoparietal cortex and in all hippocampal regions, were VEGF-positive. The pattern of VEGF-immunopositive staining of neurons and choroidal epithelium suggested that in these cells, VEGF binds to the cell membrane-associated heparan sulfate proteoglycans. Following TBI, there was an early (within 4 h post-injury) increase in VEGF expression in the traumatized parenchyma associated with neutrophilic invasion. The ipsilateral choroid plexus appeared to play a role in facilitating the migration of neutrophils from blood into the cerebrospinal fluid space, from where many of these cells infiltrated the brain parenchyma. VEGF-immunopositive staining of neutrophils resembled haloes and was found ipsilaterally within the frontoparietal cortex and around the velum interpositum, a part of the subarachnoid space. These haloes likely represent the deposition of neutrophil-derived VEGF within the extracellular matrix, from where this growth factor may be gradually released during an early post-traumatic period. The maximum number of VEGF-secreting neutrophils was observed between 8 h and 1 day after TBI. In addition, from 4 h post-TBI, there was a progressive increase in the number of VEGF-immunoreactive astrocytes in the ipsilateral frontoparietal cortex. The maximum number of astrocytes expressing VEGF was observed 4 days after TBI, and then the levels of astroglial VEGF expression declined gradually. Early invasion of brain parenchyma by VEGF-secreting neutrophils together with a delayed increase in astrocytic synthesis of this growth factor correlate with the biphasic opening of the blood-brain barrier and formation of edema previously observed after TBI. Therefore, these findings suggest that VEGF plays an important role in promoting the formation of post-traumatic brain edema.
Anatomical studies demonstrated that neurons located in the superficial layers of the medial and lateral aspects of the rat entorhinal cortex (EC) project to temporal and septal portions of both the dentate gyrus (DG) and the CA1 region of the hippocampus, respectively. In the present study we investigated with electrophysiological techniques the propagation pattern of different EC subfields to the DG of the in vitro isolated brain of the guinea-pig. Laminar field potential profiles from different portions of the DG were recorded with multi-channel silicon probes following direct stimulation of the ipsilateral EC surface performed in different positions under direct visual control. Current source density analysis of laminar profiles demonstrated that i) stimulation of the rostral-medial EC induced monosynaptic responses exclusively in the temporal pole of the DG, ii) stimulation of both the lateral and the caudal portions of the EC determined a diffuse monosynaptic activation of both the intermediate and septal DG. The regions of the EC that project to different sectors of the DG in the guinea-pig do not correlate to the EC subfields identified on the basis of cytoarchitectonic criteria. The EC-evoked monosynaptic DG potentials were followed by disynaptic responses coupled with sinks located in the inner molecular layer, proximal to the EC-induced sink, where intra-DG associative synapses were demonstrated by anatomical studies. The present detailed topographical study of the EC connections with the DG in the guinea-pig demonstrates with an electrophysiological approach a projection pattern similar, even if not identical, to that described with tracer techniques in the rat. This report is essential for future studies of the dynamic parahippocampal-hippocampal interactions in the guinea-pig, and in particular in the isolated guinea-pig brain preparation.
In order to test whether glycinergic inhibition is essential for the in vivo respiratory rhythm, we analysed the discharge properties of neurones in the medullary respiratory network after blockade of glycine receptors in the in situ perfused brainstem preparation of mature wild type and oscillator mice with a deficient glycine receptor. In wild type mice, selective blockade of glycine receptors with low concentrations of strychnine (0.03-0.3 microM) provoked considerable changes in neuronal discharge characteristics: The cycle phase relationship of inspiratory, post-inspiratory and expiratory specific patterns of membrane potential changes was altered profoundly. Inspiratory, post-inspiratory and expiratory neurones developed a propensity for fast voltage oscillations that were accompanied by multiple burst discharges. These burst discharges were followed by &quot;after-burst&quot; hyperpolarisations that were capable of triggering secondary burst discharges. Blockade of glycine receptors and the &quot;big&quot; Ca2+-dependent K+-conductance by charybdotoxin (3.3 nM) resulted in loss of the respiratory rhythm, whilst only tonic discharge activity remained. In contrast, rhythmic activity was only weakened, but preserved after the &quot;small&quot; Ca2+-dependent activated K+ conductance was blocked with apamin (8 nM). Also low concentrations of pentobarbital sodium (6 mg/kg) abolished rhythmic respiratory activity after blockade of glycine receptors in the wild type mice and in glycine receptor deficient oscillator mice. The data imply that failure of glycine receptors provokes enhanced bursting behaviour of respiratory neurones, whilst the additional blockade of BKCa channels by charybdotoxin or with pentobarbital abolishes the respiratory rhythm.
In vivo, in vitro and computational studies were used to investigate the impact of the synaptic background activity observed in neocortical neurons in vivo. We simulated background activity in vitro using two stochastic Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes describing glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic conductances, which were injected into a cell in real time using the dynamic clamp technique. With parameters chosen to mimic in vivo conditions, layer 5 rat prefrontal cortex cells recorded in vitro were depolarized by about 15 mV, their membrane fluctuated with a S.D. of about 4 mV, their input resistances decreased five-fold, their spontaneous firing had a high coefficient of variation and an average firing rate of about 5-10 Hz. Brief changes in the variance of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) synaptic conductance fluctuations induced time-locked spiking without significantly changing the average membrane potential of the cell. These transients mimicked increases in the correlation of excitatory inputs. Background activity was highly effective in modulating the firing-rate/current curve of the cell: the variance of the simulated gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and AMPA conductances individually set the input/output gain, the mean excitatory and inhibitory conductances set the working point, and the mean inhibitory conductance controlled the input resistance. An average ratio of inhibitory to excitatory mean conductances close to 4 was optimal in generating membrane potential fluctuations with high coefficients of variation. We conclude that background synaptic activity can dynamically modulate the input/output properties of individual neocortical neurons in vivo.
This study investigated the contribution of sub-cortical afferent input to the effects of testosterone (T) on spine synapse density in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus, in adult male rats. Gonadectomized (GDX) male rats exhibited a considerably lower density of spine synapses in the CA1 region than control, intact males. The effects of GDX were reversed by treatment with testosterone propionate (TP; 500 microg/day, for 2 days). Transection of the fimbria/fornix (FF) had no significant effect on the synaptic density in non-GDX males. However, FF transection partially inhibited the responses to TP in GDX animals. These data suggest that the effects of T on spine synapse density in the CA1 region of the male rat hippocampus are partially, but not completely, dependent on afferent sub-cortical input.
Peripheral inflammation may induce long-lasting sensitization in the central nociceptive system. Neurons in lamina I of the spinal dorsal horn play a pivotal role in the integration and relay of pain-related information. In rats we studied whether changes in passive and active membrane properties and/or alteration of glycine receptor-mediated inhibitory control of spinal lamina I neurons may contribute to central sensitization in a model of peripheral long-lasting inflammation (complete Freund's adjuvant, hindpaw). Spontaneously occurring glycine receptor-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (GlyR-mediated mIPSCs) were recorded in lumbar spinal lamina I neurons. Miniature IPSC rise, decay kinetics and mean GlyR-mediated mIPSC amplitude were not affected by peripheral inflammation. The mean frequency of GlyR-mediated mIPSCs of lamina I neurons ipsilateral to the inflamed hindpaw was, however, significantly reduced by peripheral inflammation when compared with neurons from noninflamed animals. Principal passive and active membrane properties and firing patterns of spinal lamina I neurons were not changed by inflammation. These results indicate that long-lasting peripheral inflammation leads to a reduced glycinergic inhibitory control of spinal lamina I neurons by a presynaptic mechanism.
We examined synaptic transmission between rods or cones and horizontal cells, using perforated patch recording techniques in salamander retinal slices. Experimental conditions were established under which horizontal cells received nearly pure rod or pure cone input. The response-intensity relation for both photoreceptors and horizontal cells was described by a Michaelis-Menten function with an exponent close to 1. A dynamic model was developed for the transduction from photoreceptor voltage to postsynaptic current. The basic model assumes that: (i) photoreceptor light-evoked voltage controls Ca2+ entry according to a Boltzmann relation; (ii) the rate of glutamate release depends linearly on the voltage-gated Ca2+ current (ICa) in the synaptic terminal; (iii) glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft reflects the balance of release and reuptake in which reuptake obeys first order kinetics; (iv) the binding of glutamate to its receptor and channel gating are fast compared with glutamate kinetics in the synaptic cleft. The good fit to the model confirms that these are the key features of synaptic transmission from rods and cones. The model accommodated changes in kinetics induced by the glutamate uptake blocker, dihydrokainate. The match between model and response was not improved by including an estimate of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor desensitization or by making glutamate uptake voltage dependent.
Gephyrin is a postsynaptic clustering molecule that forms a protein scaffold to anchor inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynaptic membrane of neurons. Gephyrin was first identified as a protein component of the glycine receptor complex and is also colocalized with several GABAA receptor subunits in rodent brain. We have studied the distribution of gephyrin and glycine receptor subunits in the human brainstem and spinal cord using immunohistochemistry at light and confocal laser scanning microscopy levels. This study demonstrates the novel localization of gephyrin with glycine receptors in the human brainstem and spinal cord. Colocalization of immunoreactivities for gephyrin and glycine receptor subunits was detected in the dorsal and ventral horns of the spinal cord, the hypoglossal nucleus and the medial vestibular nucleus of the medulla. The results clearly establish that gephyrin is ubiquitously distributed and is colocalized, with a large proportion of glycine receptor subunits in the human brainstem and spinal cord. We therefore suggest that gephyrin functions as a clustering molecule for major subtypes of glycine receptors in the human CNS.
The serotonergic and dopaminergic inputs to the corpus striatum in human and non-human primates participate in diverse sensorimotor, cognitive, and affective functions, are implicated in dysfunction in diseases such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, and are targets for many of the drugs used to treat these disorders. Sex differences in the incidence and/or clinical course of these disorders and in the effectiveness of related dopaminergic and serotonergic drug therapies suggest that primate striatal indolamines and catecholamines are also influenced by gonadal hormones. However, while well studied in rats, relatively little is known about precisely how gonadal steroids modulate stratial dopamine and serotonin systems in primates. To begin to address this issue, the present studies explored the effects of ovarian steroids on the serotonergic and dopaminergic innervation densities of the caudate, putamen, and the nucleus accumbens in young adult rhesus monkeys. Using densitometry to quantify immunoreactivity for serotonin and for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, innervation densities were compared in identified, functionally specialized striatal subdomains across animals that were either ovariectomized or ovariectomized and supplemented with estradiol and/or progesterone, i.e. in a primate model of surgical menopause, with and without hormone replacement therapy. These analyses revealed clear examples of structure-, hemisphere-, and replacement regimen-specific effects of changes in circulating steroids on the densities of each afferent system examined. Further, the predominantly stimulatory effects observed occurred in striatal areas analogous to those suspected as sites of localized dopamine and/or serotonin compromise in Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. Thus, the hormone actions identified in this study could hold relevance for some of the sex differences identified in relation to these disorders, including the findings of decreased incidence and/or symptom severity in women that have led to hypotheses of protective effects for estrogen.
Overactivity of the striatopallidal pathway, associated with an enhancement of enkephalin expression, has been suggested to contribute to the development of parkinsonian symptoms. The aim of the present study was to examine whether the blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors: subtypes 1 and 5 (mGluR1/5), or stimulation of group II: subtypes 2 and 3 (mGluR2/3) may normalize enkephalin expression in the striatopallidal pathway in an animal model of parkinsonism. The proenkephalin mRNA level measured by in situ hybridization in the striatum was increased by pretreatments with haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg s.c., three times, 3 h apart). Triple (3 h apart), bilateral, intrastriatal administration of selective antagonists of mGluR1: (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid (3 x 5 microg/0.5 microl) or 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate (3 x 2.5 microg/0.5 microl), reversed the haloperidol-induced increases in proenkephalin mRNA levels in the rostral and central regions of the striatum. Similarly, repeated (6 times, 1.5 h apart), systemic injections of an antagonist of mGluR5, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (6 x 10 mg/kg i.p.) counteracted an increase in the striatal proenkephalin mRNA expression elicited by haloperidol. None of the abovementioned antagonists of mGluR1 and mGluR5 per se influenced the proenkephalin expression. Differential effects were induced by agonists of the group II mGluRs, viz. (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine administered intraventricularly (3 times at 0.1-0.2 microg/4 microl, 3 h apart) increased both the normal and haloperidol-increased proenkephalin mRNA level, whereas (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate injected intrastriatally (3 times at 15 microg/0.5 microl, 3 h apart) was ineffective. The present study indicates that the blockade of striatal glutamate receptors belonging to the group I (mGluR1 and mGluR5) but not stimulation of the group II mGluRs may normalize the function of the striatopallidal pathway in an animal model of parkinsonism, which may be important for future antiparkinsonian therapy in humans.
Administration of haloperidol in rats leads to a robust induction of immediate-early genes including c-Fos throughout the striatum, which is significantly attenuated by pretreatment with the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, MK-801. The striatum expresses mainly NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B subtypes of NMDA receptors, each having different functional and pharmacological properties. In this study, rats were pretreated with Ro 25-6981, a selective antagonist for NR2B-containing NMDA receptors, in order to determine the relative contribution of this NMDA receptor subtype in NMDA-dependent haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression. Furthermore, to determine whether NMDA receptor subtype dependence of haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression is unique to the binding profile of haloperidol or whether it is a property of D2 receptor antagonism, the selective D2/D3 dopamine receptor antagonist, raclopride, was also used. Pretreatment with Ro 25-6981 led to a significant reduction in the number of nuclei showing c-Fos immunoreactivity in both the medial and lateral parts of the striatum. In the medial part of the striatum, this attenuation was almost as marked as that seen following pretreatment with MK-801; however, in the lateral part MK-801 pretreatment led to a significantly greater reduction in the number of c-Fos positive nuclei than did Ro 25-6981 pretreatment. This suggests that NR2B-containing NMDA receptors are involved in mediating most of the NMDA-dependent c-Fos expression in the medial striatum, but only responsible for mediating part of this induction in the lateral striatum. Furthermore, the pattern of attenuation of raclopride-induced c-Fos expression following Ro 25-6981 pretreatment was similar to that of haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression, indicating that the NMDA receptor subtype dependence of haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression is a property of D2 antagonism. The results indicate that NR2B-containing NMDA receptors are mainly involved in mediating haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression in the medial or &quot;limbic&quot; striatum, and suggest that NR2A-containing NMDA receptors may preferentially mediate haloperidol induced c-Fos expression in the lateral or &quot;motor&quot; striatum. This may have implications in the treatment of schizophrenia because co-administration of a selective blocker of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors may be able to reduce the severity of extrapyramidal motor symptoms caused by haloperidol treatment without interfering with its therapeutic effect that is presumably mediated via the medial part of the striatum.
To investigate the role of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in the globus pallidus (GP), whole-cell recordings were performed using rat brain slice preparations. Application of the group III mGluRs specific agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) suppressed the amplitude of striatal stimulation-induced IPSCs and internal capsule stimulation-induced EPSCs in most of the GP neurons that were capable of generating repetitive firing without spike accommodation. The suppression of IPSCs and EPSCs was accompanied by an increase in the paired-pulse ratio. The L-AP4 effects were antagonized by (R,S)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphophenylglycine, a blocker for group II/III mGluRs. L-AP4 reduced the frequency of mIPSCs and mEPSCs without changing their amplitude distribution. L-AP4 failed to change iontophoretic glutamate induced responses. These results suggest that the subthalamo-pallidal glutamatergic input might homo- and hetero-synaptically control GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission in the GP.
The pathophysiologic basis of tardive dyskinesia remains unclear, but several lines of evidence suggest that persistent neuronal changes in the basal ganglia produced by oxidative stress or glutamate toxicity may play a role, especially in the elderly. In the present study we examined whether histopathological alterations in substantia nigra are related to oral dyskinesia in a rodent model of tardive dyskinesia. Haloperidol decanoate (38 mg/kg/4 weeks) was administered to young (8 weeks) and old (38 weeks) rats for a total period of 28 weeks, and the development of vacuous chewing movements (VCM) was observed. Rats with high and low levels of VCM and saline-treated controls were analyzed for histopathological alterations. Reduced nerve cell number and atrophic neurons were prominent features in the substantia nigra of old rats with high levels of VCM. Some alterations were also present in the substantia nigra of the old rats with low levels of VCM and young rats with high VCM levels, but these were significantly less affected than the high VCM rats. These results show that the development of haloperidol-induced oral dyskinesias in old rats is associated with histopathological alterations in the substantia nigra. This suggests that nigral degeneration induced by neuroleptics may contribute to the development of persistent VCM in rats and possibly irreversible tardive dyskinesia in humans.
The tumor suppressor gene p53 is a potent transcriptional regulator for genes involved in many cellular activities including cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. In this study, we examined the role of p53 in neuronal death induced by the sodium channel modulator veratridine. We also analyzed the involvement of Ca2+, mitochondria and reactive oxygen species in p53 activation. Exposure of hippocampal neurons to veratridine (0.3-100 microM) resulted in a dose-dependent neuronal death, measured 24 h after treatment. p53-Like immunoreactivity, undetectable in neurons under control conditions, was observed in about 25% of neurons, 7 h after veratridine exposure. Treatments that modified the alkaloid-induced Ca2+ influx including tetrodotoxin or Ca2+ removal, prevented either veratridine-induced cell death or p53 immunoreactivity. Mitochondria were involved in veratridine-induced cell death, as the alkaloid collapsed inner transmembrane mitochondrial potential in a Ca2+ influx dependent manner. Treatments of neuronal cultures with the permeability transitory pore blockers cyclosporin A and bongkrekic acid prevented veratridine-induced p53 immunoreactivity and neuronal death, placing mitochondria upstream of veratridine-induced p53 immunoreactivity. Reactive oxygen species also participated in veratridine-induced neurotoxicity and p53 activation. Antisense knockdown of p53 resulted in a significant increase in neuronal survival after veratridine treatment. This protective effect was maintained on N-methyl-D-aspartate or ischemia-induced death but not on staurosporine cytotoxicity. These results together suggest that p53-expression is involved in veratridine-induced neuronal death and that p53 might be a link between toxic stimuli of different types and neuronal death.
In this study we investigated the functional implications of GABAA receptor alpha1 subunit deletion on dendritic arborization and spine maturation in the visual cortex. This subunit is normally strongly upregulated during early postnatal development. Our main finding is that mice lacking the GABAA receptor alpha1 subunit displayed an increased density of dendritic filopodia during the second and third postnatal weeks. However, there was a concomitant decreased density of mature mushroom-shaped spines, which became more pronounced in adults. In contrast, dendritic arborization was not altered in these mice. We propose that an increased efficacy of the inhibitory synaptic transmission in the alpha1 knock out mice may lead to an enhancement of the outgrowth of filopodia around eye opening, but to a failure in spine maturation at later stages.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dysfunction has been strongly suggested to link with the abnormalities seen in fetal alcohol syndrome. Thus, the effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the total expression of NR1 splice variants and the cell surface expression of both NR1 and NR2 subunits in brain were investigated in rats. Western blot studies of membrane homogenates from cerebral cortices at postnatal days 1 through 21 indicate that prenatal ethanol treatment does not alter total NR1 expression or differential expression of NR1 splice variants during development. However, immunoprecipitation studies using PSD95 suggest that both C2'-terminal variants and NR2A subunits at the cortical postsynaptic membrane of postnatal day 21 were significantly reduced after prenatal ethanol treatment. Moreover, C1-terminal variants were decreased in both pair-fed and ethanol-treated groups, while no significant differences in the levels of total NR1 subunits, NR1 splice variants containing the N- or C2-terminal cassettes, or NR2B subunits were observed. Thus, these results suggest that prenatal exposure to ethanol may influence neuronal function by selective regulation of expression of C2'-terminal variants and NR2A subunits at the cell surface.
Monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs) play an important role in the metabolism of all cells. They mediate the transport of lactate and pyruvate but also some other substrates such as ketone bodies. It has been proposed that glial cells release monocarboxylates to fuel neighbouring neurons. A key element in this hypothesis is the existence of neuronal MCTs. Amongst the three MCTs known to be expressed in the brain (MCT1, 2 and 4) only MCT2 has been found in neurons. Here we have studied the expression pattern of MCT2 during postnatal development. By use of immunoperoxidase and double immunofluorescence microscopy we report that neuronal MCT2 occurs in most brain areas, including the hippocampus and cerebellum, from birth to adult. MCT2 is also expressed in specific subpopulations of astrocytes. Neuronal MCT2 is most abundant in the first 3 postnatal weeks and thereafter decreases toward adulthood. In contrast to MCT2, MCT4 is exclusively present in astroglia during all stages of development. Furthermore, MCT4 expression is very low at birth and reaches adult level by P14. Our results are consistent with previous data suggesting that in the immature brain much of the energy demand is met by monocarboxylates and ketone bodies.
Converging evidence in schizophrenia suggests prefrontal cortical neuronal deficits that correlate with exaggerated subcortical dopamine (DA) functions: Excitotoxic lesion of the ventral hippocampus (VH) in neonatal rats is widely considered a putative animal model of schizophrenia as they lead to characteristic post-pubertal emergence of behavioral and cognitive abnormalities suggesting a developmental change in the neural circuits comprising the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and subcortical DA. Nerve growth factor inducible-B (NGFI-B, also known as Nur77), an orphan nuclear receptor and transcriptional regulator, is constitutively expressed in the target structures of DA pathways. It acts as an immediate early gene with rapid modulation of its mRNA expression by stress, DA and antipsychotic drugs. The present study assessed the effects of neonatal VH (nVH) lesion and amphetamine treatment on the expression of NGFI-B mRNA in pre- and post-pubertal rats. Sprague-Dawley rat pups received bilateral injection of ibotenic acid or phosphate buffered saline in VH at postnatal (PD) 7. At PD35 and PD56, groups of sham and lesioned animals were administered with D-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) or saline and killed 20 min later. In situ hybridization analyses showed that the basal level of NGFI-B mRNA in saline-treated lesioned rats was significantly reduced in the medial PFC (mPFC) and cingulate cortex (CC) only at post-pubertal (PD56) age. No significant difference in NGFI-B mRNA levels was seen in the dorsal striatum or nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Amphetamine treatment increased the expression of NGFI-B mRNA in the mPFC, CC, striatum and NAcc in both control and lesioned animals of both ages. Interestingly, however, striatal and NAcc regions of lesioned rats showed a significantly greater effect of amphetamine at PD56. The data suggest that nVH lesions lead to delayed changes in PFC gene expression along with functional DAergic hyperactivity in subcortical regions.
Although much progress has been made in understanding synapse formation, little is known about the mechanisms underlying synaptic maintenance and loss. The formation of agrin-induced AChR clusters on cultured myotubes requires both activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase MuSK and intracellular calcium fluxes. Here, we provide evidence that such AChR clusters are maintained by agrin/MuSK-induced intracellular calcium fluxes. Clamping intracellular calcium fluxes after AChR clusters have formed leads to rapid MuSK and AChR tyrosine dephosphorylation and cluster dispersal, even in the continued presence of agrin. Both the dephosphorylation and the dispersal are inhibited by the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor pervanadate. In contrast, clamping intracellular calcium at the time of initial agrin stimulation has no effect on agrin-induced MuSK or AChR phosphorylation, but blocks AChR cluster formation. These findings suggest an avenue by which postsynaptic stability can be regulated by modification of intracellular signaling pathways that are distinct from those used during synapse formation.
This study was designed to identify molecular mechanisms by which exercise affects synaptic-plasticity in the hippocampus, a brain area whose function, learning and memory, depends on this capability. We have focused on the central role that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may play in mediating the effects of exercise on synaptic-plasticity. In fact, this impact of exercise is exemplified by our finding that BDNF regulates the mRNA levels of two end products important for neural function, i.e. cAMP-response-element binding (CREB) protein and synapsin I. CREB and synapsin I have the ability to modify neuronal function by regulating gene-transcription and affecting synaptic transmission, respectively. Furthermore, we show that BDNF is capable of concurrently increasing the mRNA levels of both itself and its tyrosine kinaseB (TrkB) receptor, suggesting that exercise may employ a feedback loop to augment the effects of BDNF on synaptic-plasticity. The use of a novel microbead injection method in our blocking experiments and Taqman reverse transcription polymerase reaction (RT-PCR) for RNA quantification, have enabled us to evaluate the contribution of different pathways to the exercise-induced increases in the mRNA levels of BDNF, TrkB, CREB, and synapsin I. We found that although BDNF mediates exercise-induced hippocampal plasticity, additional molecules, i.e. the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II and the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, modulate its effects. Since these molecules have a well-described association to BDNF action, our results illustrate a basic mechanism through which exercise may promote synaptic-plasticity in the adult brain.
Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha), a member of the epidermal growth factor family, has neurotrophic actions on postmitotic neurons. We examined the chronic effects of TGFalpha on the electrophysiological properties of one type of GABAergic neuron, identified by its bipolar morphology, in neocortical primary culture. Approximately 85% of the bipolar neurons were GABA-immunoreactive. In response to depolarizing current injection, the bipolar neurons usually showed tonic firing of action potential under control conditions. After treatment with TGFalpha (20 ng/ml) for 2 days, these neurons failed to generate trains of action potentials. Furthermore, the treatment altered the action potential waveforms of the bipolar neurons, including the duration and amplitude of the fast after-hyperpolarization, which implies a reduction in voltage-gated potassium currents. In contrast, TGFalpha did not affect the firing properties of pyramidal-shaped non-GABAergic neurons. Voltage-clamp recordings from the bipolar neurons indicated that chronic treatment with TGFalpha markedly decreased the current densities of slow delayed rectifier (IK) and transient voltage-gated potassium currents, whereas the treatment had no effect on voltage-gated sodium current and fast delayed rectifier potassium current densities. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of potassium channel mRNA in the bipolar neurons revealed that the reduction in the IK current density was caused by Kv2.2 mRNA down-regulation. Thus, chronic treatment with TGFalpha down-regulated slow delayed rectifier and transient voltage-gated potassium currents, and in parallel, suppressed repetitive generation of action potentials in the cortical GABAergic neurons.
Biogenic amines have a trophic-like role for the formation and the maintenance of synapses in the CNS. We examined the changes in the number of synaptic profiles in the developing and adult rat visual cortex following selective depletion of noradrenaline and/or serotonin. By the drug-induced decreases in levels of noradrenaline or serotonin between 1 and 2 weeks after birth, the number of synaptic profiles was decreased by 29-55% compared with that of control animals. The magnitude of reduction in the number of synaptic profiles was virtually the same following simultaneous depletion of both noradrenaline and serotonin compared with the depletion of noradrenaline or serotonin alone. Later in the developmental period, the function of noradrenaline and serotonin in facilitating synapse formation and maintenance became less prominent than that in younger animals. In the control animals, the number of axosomatic synapses was the highest at around 2 weeks after birth, and decreased with development. The number of axodendritic synapses was the highest between 2 and 7 weeks after birth, and decreased to 50% at 11 weeks after birth. These data demonstrate that synapses in the rat visual cortex are overproduced during the early developmental period. We suggest that both serotonin and noradrenaline are necessary for synapse formation during the early stages of development of the rat visual cortex.
The length and thinness of neurites render them greatly susceptible to a variety of insults. Accumulating evidence suggests that neurite degeneration is not a passive, but an active and causative, event in some neurodegenerative diseases. Nonetheless, the mechanisms underlying neurite degeneration remain largely unknown. To elucidate the relevant mechanisms, we employed a mutant C57BL/Wld mouse with a unique phenotype of resistance to Wallerian degeneration, and separately analyzed the destruction of cell soma and neurites following treatment with vinblastine, a microtubule-disrupting agent, in superior cervical ganglion neurons. Vinblastine induced macromolecular synthesis-dependent cell death, which was indistinguishable between the wild-type and mutant mice. Evidence for a loss of mitochondrial cytochrome c, caspase activation, and nuclear fragmentation, has indicated that this type of cell death is entirely apoptotic. Consistent with this, the ATP level in the cell soma was well maintained and indistinguishable between wild-type and mutant mice. In neurites of wild-type neurons, vinblastine induced an early loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and ATP depletion preceding caspase-independent degeneration, suggesting that this type of neurite degeneration is principally non-apoptotic. In contrast, neurites of mutant neurons were markedly resistant to vinblastine-induced degeneration, and both the MMP and the ATP content in the neurites were well maintained. Exposure of mutant neurons to carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl-hydrazone, an uncoupler, caused extreme neurite degeneration following rapid MMP loss. Collectively, our findings suggest that: 1) neurite degeneration is regulated through a non-apoptotic process achieved by mitochondrial dysfunction in neurites; 2) the mitochondrial functional status is controlled separately in neurites and in the neuronal soma.
Short-term exposure of adult rats to nitrous oxide (N2O), an inhalational anesthetic and NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) antagonist, causes a reversible neurotoxic vacuole reaction in neurons of the posterior cingulate/retrosplenial cortex (PC/RSC) which resembles that caused by low doses of other NMDA antagonists. Since high doses or prolonged exposure to other NMDA antagonists can cause neurons to die, we assessed whether prolonged N2O exposure might also cause neuronal cell death. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 150-vol% N2O (approximately EC50 for N2O anesthesia in rats) for various durations from 1 to 16 h. The time course for onset and disappearance of the reversible vacuole reaction was studied, as was the time course and dose requirement for triggering cell death. A maximum vacuole reaction was observed in PC/RSC neurons in brains examined immediately after 3 h of 150-vol% N2O exposure and the same magnitude of vacuole reaction was observed when brains were examined immediately after a longer period of N2O exposure. When N2O was terminated at 3 h and the rats were killed 1 h later, the vacuole reaction was markedly diminished and if the rats were killed 3 h later the vacuole reaction had completely disappeared. Prolonged exposure to 150-vol% N2O (for 8 h or more) caused neuronal cell death which was detectable by silver staining 32 h later. Concurrently administered GABAergic agents, diazepam (an i.v. anesthetic), or isoflurane (an inhalational anesthetic), prevented this cell death reaction. Our findings demonstrate that short-term exposure of adult rats to N2O causes injury to PC/RSC neurons that is rapidly reversible, and prolonged N2O exposure causes neuronal cell death. These neurotoxic effects, including the cell death reaction, can be prevented by coadministration of GABAmimetic anesthetic agents. Duration of NMDA receptor blockade appears to be an important determinant of whether neurons are reversibly injured or are driven to cell death by an NMDA antagonist drug.
The Coolidge effect is a phenomenon in which males show renewed sexual interest in a novel female following copulation to satiety with another female. In golden hamsters, this phenomenon depends on the ability to recognize conspecifics using chemosensory cues processed through the main olfactory system. Here we tested whether olfactory targets in the hippocampal system support this natural form of recognition memory. Male hamsters received ibotenic acid lesions of the perirhinal-entorhinal cortex (PR-ENT) or hippocampus (H) and were allowed to copulate to satiety with a female conspecific, then were presented with two anesthetized females, the familiar mate and an unfamiliar female that copulated with another male. Sham-operated and H-lesioned subjects preferentially investigated the novel female, indicating intact recognition of individual identity. By contrast, PR-ENT-lesioned males failed to discriminate familiar and novel females, and this deficit could not be attributed to abnormal copulatory behavior during mating. All subjects were able to detect and discriminate between female odors when presented in isolation during a habituation-discrimination test, indicating that behavioral deficits shown by PR-ENT males were not due to anosmia or a general investigatory deficit. Thus, the perirhinal-entorhinal cortex, but not the hippocampus, is critical for the recognition of familiar conspecifics in this naturalistic situation. This study reveals an essential role for the perirhinal-entorhinal cortex, but not the hippocampus, in a natural form of recognition memory within the social behavior of hamsters. The findings show a strikingly similar pattern to the effects of selective damage to the same brain regions on performance in standard recognition memory tasks by rats and monkeys. Therefore, the present data extend our understanding of the differential role of structures of the hippocampal memory system, showing continuity across species and between formal laboratory tests and the function of memory in natural social behavior.
The mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus controls many physiological and behavioral rhythms. The SCN is compartmentalized in two functionally distinct subregions: a dorsomedial subregion that rhythmically expresses clock genes, and a ventrolateral subregion which, in contrast, mainly expresses clock genes at a constant level. In the golden hamster, this ventrolateral part of the SCN contains a subpopulation of neurons expressing calbindin D28k. This subpopulation has recently been implicated in the control of locomotor rhythmicity. Because both the pattern and level of locomotor activity are affected by day-length, we investigated whether photoperiod also affects calbindin expression. We show that calbindin expression is negatively correlated to the day-length. The number of calbindin immunopositive neurons and calbindin mRNA levels were markedly increased in hamsters exposed to short photoperiods (light/dark cycle [LD] 6:18 and LD10:14) when compared with hamster exposed to long photoperiods (LD18:6 and LD14:10). This suggests that calbindin neurons are involved in the encoding of seasonal information by the SCN.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH) during sleep, a characteristic feature of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) is associated with time-dependent apoptosis and spatial learning deficits in the adult rat. The mechanisms underlying such neurocognitive deficits remain unclear. Activation of the cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) transcription factor mediates critical components of neuronal survival and memory consolidation in mammals. CREB phosphorylation and DNA binding, as well as the presence of apoptosis in the CA1 region of the hippocampus were examined in Sprague-Dawley male rats exposed to IH. Spatial reference task learning was assessed with the Morris water maze. IH induced significant decreases in Ser-133 phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) without changes in total CREB, starting as early as 1 h IH, peaking at 6 h-3 days, and returning toward normoxic levels by 14-30 days. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry for pCREB and Neu-N (a neuronal marker) confirmed these findings. The expression of cleaved caspase 3 (cC3) in the CA1, a marker of apoptosis, peaked at 3 days and returned to normoxic values at 14 days. Initial IH-induced impairments in spatial learning were followed by partial functional recovery starting at 14 days of IH exposure. We postulate that IH elicits time-dependent changes in CREB phosphorylation and nuclear binding that may account for decreased neuronal survival and spatial learning deficits in the adult rat. We suggest that CREB changes play an important role in the neurocognitive morbidity of SDB patients.
Repeated exposure to cocaine during sensitive periods of forebrain development produces specific, long-lasting changes in the structure and function of maturing neural circuits. Similar regimens of drug exposure in adult animals with mature, homeostatically regulated nervous systems produce neuroadaptations that appear to be quite different in nature and magnitude. We studied the ability of cocaine to induce behavioral sensitization and/or tolerance following repeated administration of i.v. cocaine (3 mg/kg, twice daily) to pregnant rabbits during the period of peak differentiation within the rabbit cerebral cortex (embryonic day [E] 16-E25). Offspring and the adult mothers were behaviorally tested following acute administration of amphetamine 2 months after the litters were born. The offspring, having received cocaine during the prenatal sensitive period, showed profound behavioral tolerance to the amphetamine challenge. In contrast, the mothers of these offspring, who received cocaine at the same dose and duration, and experienced the same period of withdrawal, exhibited robust behavioral sensitization. These data indicate that specific adaptive changes in neural signaling and/or circuitry that occur in response to repeated exposure to psychostimulants are highly dependent upon the maturational state of the brain during which the exposure occurs.
Testosterone has been shown to have multiple beneficial effects on neuronal viability in developing and adult animals. Most often, testosterone promotes neural health indirectly via enzymatic conversion to estradiol by aromatase. Unclear is whether androgens can directly modulate vulnerability to neuronal insults in adult animals. We investigated this issue by modulating androgen status in rats prior to challenge with the excitotoxin kainate. Adult male rats were maintained in the following conditions: i) gonadectomized (GDX) to deplete endogenous androgens, ii) GDX+replacement with dihydrotestosterone (DHT) the active and non-aromatizable testosterone metabolite, iii) sham-GDX. Animals were then lesioned with kainate and surviving hippocampal neurons quantified. In the CA2/3 and hilar regions of the hippocampus, a modest lesion was observed in sham-GDX animals corresponding to approximately 25% cell loss in comparison to non-lesioned rats. The depletion of endogenous androgens by GDX significantly augmented lesion severity, consistent with the hypothesis that androgens are involved in maintaining cell viability. Importantly, DHT hormone replacement in GDX rats significantly attenuated kainate-induced neuron loss in CA2/3, suggesting direct androgen neuroprotection. These results demonstrate that androgens act as endogenous modulators of neuron viability, a function that may be compromised in aging men as a consequence of normal, age-related androgen depletion.
Neonatal posterior cingulate cortex lesions spare the spatial deficits that characterize adult lesions. The present experiments examined the possibility that the anterior cingulate cortex mediates the spared spatial behavior. Rats were given bilateral lesions of the posterior cingulate cortex or anterior plus posterior cingulate cortex on postnatal days 4 (P4), 10 (P10), or in adulthood (P120). All groups were tested for spatial learning on the Morris place task in adulthood. Adult animals were impaired on place learning relative to controls whereas place learning was spared in all the neonatal groups and sparing was complete in the group receiving day 10 lesions. The results are discussed in relation to neural mechanisms, including fiber rerouting, synaptic changes and generation of new neurons, that may mediate spared spatial following neonatal posterior cingulate cortex lesions. Also discussed is evidence indicating that the neonatal brain, especially the day 10, has a special ability to compensate for injury.
Genetic influences contribute to susceptibility to seizures and to excitotoxic injury, but it is unclear if/how these susceptibilities are linked. This study assessed the impact of genetic background on mouse strain seizure susceptibility, seizure phenotype, mortality, and hippocampal histopathology. A subcutaneous (s.c.) kainic acid multiple injection protocol was developed. Five mouse strains were tested: a and b) C57BL/6J and 129/SvJ, strains commonly used in gene targeting experiments; c) C3HeB/FeJ, a strain with reported sensitivity to the convulsant effects of kainic acid (KA); d) 129/SvEms, a strain reportedly susceptible to hippocampal excitotoxic cell death; and e) a mixed genetic background strain (129/SvJXC57BL/6J) from which targeted gene deletion experiments have been carried out. Histopathological features were examined at early (7-10 day), delayed (2-4 month), and late (6-13 month) time points.Mouse background strains can be genetically segregated based on excitotoxin sensitivity, seizure phenotype, mortality, and hippocampal histopathology. When injected with KA, C3HeB/FeJ and C57BL/6J strains were resistant to cell death and synaptic reorganization despite severe behavioral seizures, while 129/SvEms mice developed marked pyramidal cell loss and mossy fiber sprouting despite limited seizure activity. The mixed background 129/SvJXC57BL/6J group exhibited features of both parental strains. In the mouse strains tested, the duration or severity of seizure activity was not predictive of subsequent hippocampal pyramidal cell death and/or synaptic reorganization. Unlike rats, mice exhibiting prolonged high-grade KA-induced seizure activity did not develop subsequent spontaneous behavioral seizures.
The viral transneuronal labeling method was used to demonstrate that orexin-containing neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) are linked via multisynaptic connections to different sympathetic outflow systems. Two different types of transneuronal tracing experiments were performed: single- and double-virus studies. In the first series of experiments, Bartha pseudorabies virus (PRV), a retrograde transneuronal tracer, was injected into single sympathetic targets, viz., stellate ganglion, adrenal gland, celiac ganglion, and kidney. Six to 7 days post-injection, orexin (hypocretin) neurons were transneuronally labeled. In a second set of experiments, the double-virus tracing method was used to determine whether single orexin LHA neurons are linked to two different sympathetic outflow systems. Two isogenic forms of Bartha PRV were used that differed by a single gene. beta-Galactosidase Bartha PRV was injected into the stellate ganglion and green fluorescent protein Bartha PRV into the adrenal gland of the same rat. The reverse placement of viral injections was made in another set of rats. In both paradigms, some orexin LHA neurons were transneuronally labeled with both viruses, indicating that they are capable of modulating multiple sympathetic outflow systems. These findings raise the possibility that orexin LHA neurons regulate general sympathetic functions, such as those that occur during arousal or the fight-or-flight response.
Discharge properties in response to intracellularly applied, rectangular currents were measured in units of the mid (lateralis dorsalis and centrolateral nuclei) and posterolateral (lateralis posterior and pulvinar nuclei) thalamus of conscious cats. A separate aim was to determine if neuronal excitability changed in association with changes in stimulus-evoked activity after the animals were trained to discriminate between two acoustic stimuli when performing a conditioned motor response. Low threshold spike (l.t.s.) discharges were observed in three of 272 cells given 1 nA intracellular, hyperpolarizing current pulses of 40 ms duration. This finding supports the view that thalamic neurons of conscious animals operate mainly in the relay as opposed to the oscillatory mode. Application of larger and longer hyperpolarizing currents in the cells produced rebound l.t.s. discharges, supporting the expectation that most thalamic neurons are capable of producing this type of discharge. Decrements of spike afterhyperpolarizations (AHP) and broadening of spike bases upon repeated discharge also were observed in each area of the thalamus studied. After conditioning, changes were found in the posterolateral thalamus (but not in the mid-thalamus) in the proportions of cells with spontaneous, rapid (&gt;/=50 Hz), repetitive, discharges (RRD) and rapid, sustained discharges at rates &gt;/=100 Hz during application of depolarizing current (RSD). In the posterolateral thalamus the percentage of units responding to 1 nA depolarization with RSD fell from 71% before conditioning to 45% after conditioning. The percentage of cells with RRD decreased from 69% to 46%. The changes were accompanied by a 3 mV hyperpolarization of the membrane potentials of the cells and a decrease in baseline activity. After conditioning, increases in excitability were found in cells of the mid thalamus that responded selectively to the click conditioned stimulus (CS) that elicited the conditioned response, and decreases in excitability were found in cells of the posterolateral thalamus that responded to the discriminative acoustic stimulus (DS) to which the animals were trained not to respond. An earlier study showed a potentiation of discharge in response to the CS in units of the midthalamus after similar conditioning and a reduction of the proportion of DS responsive units and peak discharge to the DS in units of the posterolateral thalamus. We conclude that the discharge properties of units of the mid and posterolateral thalamus can change to support discrimination between acoustic stimuli of different functional significance after conditioning.
Spatiotemporal patterns of forebrain neural activity associated with auditory perception of biologically relevant complex acoustic stimuli can be conveniently studied in the songbird zebra finch. Here we present a time-frequency analysis of averaged slow auditory-evoked potentials (sAEPs) obtained at electrode locations overlying the main song control nucleus, high vocal center. Gabor spectrograms of these sAEPs show a prolonged response time course consisting of unimodal frequency peaks in the theta/alpha range (4-17 Hz). There is a stimulus-dependent modulation of the duration of the response and of the total number of its constituent frequency peaks, an effect that is bilateral in 75% of the birds and lateralized to the left side in the remaining 25%. Since the state of alertness of birds modulates these parameters along a similar continuum, these findings suggest that modulation of sAEP frequency profile may be dependent on attentional mechanisms. The presence and modulation of neurobiologically ubiquitous dominant frequency components also implicate the possible role of induced cerebral neuronal circuit oscillations in songbird auditory perception.
The neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) are involved in several processes in brain including nicotine dependence and cognitive disorders. While the number of nAChRs in the brain of tobacco smokers is up-regulated, the receptors are reduced in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to investigate nAChR mRNA and protein levels in brain of smoking and non-smoking controls and AD patients. Western blotting and RT-PCR techniques were used to quantify different nAChR subunits in autopsy brain. The alpha4 and alpha7 but not the alpha3 nAChR protein levels were significantly increased in the temporal cortex of smoking (SC) compared with non-smoking controls (NSC). The alpha4-protein level was significantly higher in the temporal cortex of smoking AD (SAD) patients compared with non-smoking AD (NSAD). No changes in the alpha3, alpha4 or alpha7 subunits protein level were found in the hippocampus in any of the smoking groups. For both SADs and NSADs the protein levels for the alpha3 and alpha4 in temporal cortex and hippocampus and alpha7 in the hippocampus were significantly lower compared with non-smoking controls. No significant differences in alpha4 and alpha7 mRNA levels were detected in the hippocampus or temporal cortex of smokers compared with non-smokers. In conclusion this study showed an increased level of alpha4 and alpha7 nAChRs subunits in the temporal cortex of SC compared with NSC. This up-regulation was also seen in SAD although the protein levels of nAChR subunits were still lower in smoking AD brain compared with the NSC. The up-regulation of nAChRs in smoking groups and the loss of these receptors in AD patients were not correlated to any changes at the mRNA level suggesting that these changes may reflect post-transcriptional events.
We examined the effects of methamphetamine (METH) on monoaminergic (i.e. dopamine and serotonin) axonal markers and glial cell activation in the rat brain. Our findings indicate that the loss of dopamine transporters (DAT), serotonin transporters (5-HTT), vesicular monoamine transporter type-2 (VMAT-2) and glial cell activation induced by METH in the striatum and in the central gray are consistent with a degenerative process. Our novel finding of METH effects on monoaminergic neurons in the central gray may have important implications on METH-induced hyperthermia. In other brain regions examined, DAT and 5-HTT deficits after METH administration were present in the absence of lasting changes in VMAT-2 levels or glial cell activation. Brain regions exhibiting protracted deficits in DAT and/or 5-HTT and VMAT-2 levels also expressed increased levels of [(3)H]-R-PK11195 binding to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, a quantitative marker of glial cell activation. Immunohistochemical assessment of microglia and astrocytes confirmed the PBR results. Microglia activation was more pronounced than astrocytosis in affected regions in most METH-exposed brains with the exception of a small number of rats that were most severely affected by METH based on loss of body weight. In these rats, both microglia and astrocytes were highly activated and expressed a distinct regional pattern suggestive of widespread brain injury. The reason for the pattern of glial cell activation in this group of rats is not currently known but it may be associated with METH-induced hyperthermia. In summary, our findings suggest two neurotoxic endpoints in the brain of METH-exposed animals. Brain regions exhibiting DAT and 5-HTT deficits that co-localize with decreased VMAT-2 levels and glial cell activation may represent monoaminergic terminal degeneration. However, the DAT and 5-HTT deficits in brain regions lacking a deficit in VMAT-2 and glial cell activation may reflect drug-induced modulation of these plasma membrane proteins.
Development of serotonin (5HT(1B/1D)) agonists for the acute attack of migraine resulted in considerable interest in their action. The superior sagittal sinus (SSS) was isolated in alpha-chloralose (60 mg/kg, i.p. and 20 mg/kg i.v.i. supplementary 2 hourly) anaesthetised cats. The SSS was stimulated electrically (100 V, 250 micros duration, 0.3 Hz) and neurons of the trigeminocervical complex monitored using electrophysiological methods. To test 5-HT(1B) receptor-mediated activity common carotid blood flow (CCF) was monitored with a transonic flow probe placed around the vessel. Naratriptan (5-HT(1B/1D/1F) receptor agonist) and alniditan (5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist) produced reductions in carotid blood flow of 38+/-5% and 42+/-6%, respectively. These effects were attenuated by the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist SB224289 (P&lt;0.05). LY344864 (5-HT(1F) receptor agonist) had no effect on CCF. Naratriptan inhibited SSS-evoked activity (61+/-7%), an effect partially inhibited by the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist SB224289 (30+/-5%), or by the 5-HT(1D) receptor antagonist BRL-15572 (37+/-6%). There remained an inhibitory effect of naratriptan after both 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptor blockade (22+/-5%). Alniditan inhibited SSS-evoked trigeminal activity (53+/-6%), an effect abolished after 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptor blockade. LY344864 (5-HT(1F) receptor agonist) inhibited SSS-evoked trigeminal activity (28+/-5%), an effect unaltered by either SB224289 or BRL-15572. It can be concluded that there are inhibitory 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(1D) and 5-HT(1F) receptors in the trigeminocervical complex of the cat. 5-HT(1B) receptor-mediated inhibition is the most potent of the three in terms of inhibition of trigeminovascular nociceptive traffic.
The role of endogenous opioid peptides and receptors has recently been investigated using knockout mice. Although the affinities of opioid peptides for opioid receptors has been known for many years there is still some uncertainty over which receptor is the endogenous target for each peptide. To address this issue we have studied using quantitative autoradiography the levels of all four opioid receptor subtypes (micro, delta, kappa and opioid receptor-like 1 [ORL1]) in brains sectioned from enkephalin and dynorphin knockouts, as well as from double knockouts. Because receptor up-regulation has been observed when its cognate ligand-peptide is genetically ablated, regional changes in receptor binding in knockout mice may reflect areas where the peptide ligand is tonically active at its receptor or played a role in receptor regulation. In addition, the study aimed to correlate previously observed behaviour in these animals with receptor modulation. Marked region-specific up-regulation of the micro, delta, and kappa opioid receptors but not ORL1 receptors was observed in proenkephalin and prodynorphin knockouts. In proenkephalin knockouts this was most pronounced for the micro- and delta-receptor and in prodynorphin knockouts for the kappa-receptor. Combinatorial double knockouts did not show any changes in addition to those observed in single knockouts. The largest changes were observed in limbic regions and our results suggest that proenkephalin peptides are tonically active at micro and delta-receptors predominantly in these areas. Prodynorphin peptides appear to regulate mostly the kappa-receptor but they are also modulators of micro- and delta-receptors.
The effect of the i.c.v. administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides directed against the alpha subunit of different Gi-proteins (anti-Gialpha(1), anti-Gialpha(2), anti-Gialpha(3), anti-Goalpha(1), anti-Goalpha(2)) on the amnesia induced by the H(1)-antihistamine diphenhydramine (20 mg kg(-1) s.c.) was evaluated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Pretreatment with anti-Gialpha(1) (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Gialpha(2) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.), administered 24 and 18 h before test, prevented antihistamine-induced amnesia. By contrast, pretreatment with an anti-Gialpha(3) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Goalpha(1) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Goalpha(2) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) did not modify the detrimental effect induced by diphenhydramine. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination, as revealed by the rota rod test, nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, as revealed by the hole board test. These results suggest the important role played by the Gi(1)- and Gi(2)-protein pathway in the transduction mechanism involved in the impairment of memory processes produced by the H(1)-antihistamine diphenhydramine.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) and ventro-basal (VB) thalamus in slices of rat midbrain in vitro. Electrical stimulation of the medial lemniscus or TRN resulted in the generation of complex synaptic potentials containing disynaptic inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) in VB thalamocortical neurones. Analysis of the excitatory synaptic responses in TRN neurones indicates they can produce burst output response irrespective of the level of sub-threshold membrane potential. This suggests that network-evoked IPSPs in VB thalamocortical neurones occur following a burst of TRN action potentials. Using ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, the activation of these disynaptic events was blocked, and the monosynaptic IPSPs that resulted from the direct activation of the TRN could be isolated. The selective Group II agonists LY354740 (1-10 microM) and N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG; 100-500 microM) both caused a reversible depression of these monosynaptic TRN IPSPs without any effect on membrane potential or input resistance. Likewise, the specific Group III agonist L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate (10-500 microM), but not (RS)-4-phosphonophenylglycine (1 and 30 microM) also caused a reversible depression of these IPSPs, again without any effect on membrane potential or input resistance.Thus, the IPSPs recorded in VB thalamocortical neurones, evoked by TRN activation, can be depressed by the activation of either Group II or III metabotropic glutamate receptors. This is consistent with the location of these receptor types on the presynaptic terminals of TRN axons in the VB thalamus. This raises the possibility that, during periods of intense excitatory activity, glutamate release could influence the release of GABA from TRN axon terminals in the thalamus. In addition, as NAAG is located in the axons and terminals arising from the TRN, there is the possibility that this dipeptide is also released by these terminals to control the release of GABA during periods of high activity in the TRN.
Alpha subunits of the inhibitory glycine receptor (GlyR) display genetic heterogeneity in mammals and zebrafish. This diversity is increased in mammals by the alternative splicing mechanism. We report here in zebrafish, the characterization of a new alphaZ1 subunit likely arising from alphaZ1 gene by an alternative splice process (alphaZ1L). This novel cDNA possesses 45 supplementary nucleotides at the putative exon2/exon3 boundary. The corresponding protein contains 15 additional amino acids in the NH2-terminal domain. Heterologous expression of homomeric GlyRalphaZ1L in human embryonic kidney-293 cells generates glycine-gated strychnine-sensitive chloride channels with no obvious discrepancy with pharmacological properties of GlyRalphaZ1. Moreover, zinc modulation of glycine-induced currents is identical in alphaZ1 and alphaZ1L glycine receptors. During ontogenesis, simultaneous alphaZ1 and alphaZ1L mRNA synthesis have been observed. Embryonic and adult alphaZ1 and alphaZ1L mRNA expressions are restricted to the CNS. Embryonic alphaZ1L mRNA anatomical pattern of expression is, however, highly restrained and strictly limited to the rostral part of the brain revealing a highly regionalized function of alphaZ1L in the CNS. This report contributes to the characterization of the diversity of glycine receptor isoforms in zebrafish and emphasizes the common mechanism used among vertebrates for creating GlyR variety and specificity.
A somatostatin deficit occurs in the cerebral cortex of Alzheimer's disease patients without a major loss in somatostatin-containing neurons. This deficit could be related to a reduction in the rate of proteolytic processing of peptide precursors. Since the two proprotein convertases (PC)1 and PC2 are responsible for the processing of neuropeptide precursors directed to the regulated secretory pathway, we examined whether they are involved first in the proteolytic processing of prosomatostatin in mouse and human brain and secondly in somatostatin defect associated with Alzheimer's disease. By size exclusion chromatography, the cleavage of prosomatostatin to somatostatin-14 is almost totally abolished in the cortex of PC2 null mice, while the proportions of prosomatostatin and somatostatin-28 are increased. By immunohistochemistry, PC1 and PC2 were localized in many neuronal elements in human frontal and temporal cortex. The convertases levels were quantified by Western blot, as well as the protein 7B2 which is required for the production of active PC2. No significant change in PC1 levels was observed in Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, a marked decrease in the ratio of the PC2 precursor to the total enzymatic pool was observed in the frontal cortex of Alzheimer patients. This decrease coincides with an increase in the binding protein 7B2. However, the content and enzymatic activity of the PC2 mature form were similar in Alzheimer patients and controls. Therefore, the cortical somatostatin defect is not due to convertase alteration occuring during Alzheimer's disease. Further studies will be needed to assess the mechanisms involved in somatostatin deficiency in Alzheimer's disease.
The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor stem cell leukaemia (SCL) is a 'master regulator' of haematopoiesis, where SCL is pivotal in cell fate determination and differentiation. SCL has also been detected in CNS, where other members of the bHLH-family have been shown to be indispensable for neuronal development; however, no detailed expression pattern of SCL has so far been described. We have generated a map of SCL expression in the embryonic and adult mouse brain based on histochemical analysis of LacZ reporter gene expression in sequential sections of brain tissue derived from SCL-LacZ knockin mice. The expression of LacZ was confirmed to reflect SCL expression by in situ hybridisation. LacZ expression was found in a range of different diencephalic, mesencephalic and metencephalic brain nuclei in adult CNS. Co-localisation of LacZ with the neuronal marker NeuN indicated expression in post-mitotic neurons in adulthood. LacZ expression by neurons was confirmed in tissue culture analysis. The nature of the pretectal, midbrain and hindbrain regions expressing LacZ suggest that SCL in adult CNS is potentially involved in processing of visual, auditory and pain related information. During embryogenesis, LacZ expression was similarly confined to thalamus, midbrain and hindbrain. LacZ staining was also evident in parts of the intermediate and marginal zone of the aqueduct and ventricular zone of the fourth ventricle at E12.5 and E14. These cells may represent progenitor stages of differentiating neural cells. Given the presence of SCL in both the developing brain and in post-mitotic neurons, it seems likely that the function of SCL in neuronal differentiation may differ from its function in maintaining the differentiated state of the mature neuron.
Alpha Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (CaMKII-alpha) expression is regulated in an activity-dependent manner, but it is not known whether other CaMKII isoforms (beta, delta, and gamma) are similarly regulated. We examined the activity-dependent regulation of these CaMKII isoforms in vivo, using a model of generalized seizures caused by i.p. injection of kainic acid. Following seizure induction, CaMKII-alpha expression was downregulated and CaMKII-delta expression upregulated while CaMKII-beta and CaMKII-gamma expression was unaffected. A transient downregulation in CaMKII-alpha and a transient increase in CaMKII-delta occurred throughout neocortex in the same temporal order. Although CaMKII-alpha mRNA was decreased by seizure activity, the less abundant, alternatively spliced, CaMKII-alpha33 mRNA was unaffected. Organotypic cortical slice cultures treated with bicuculline and 4-aminopyridine to induce seizure activity also showed a downregulation of CaMKII-alpha mRNA and an upregulation of CaMKII-delta mRNA. Prior exposure to tetrodotoxin prevented the changes in CaMKII-alpha and CaMKII-delta mRNA regulation and this was mimicked by D-L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, but not by 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline, suggesting that CaMKII-alpha and CaMKII-delta mRNA expression is regulated in an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent manner. Regulation was also transcription dependent. Blocking transcription with actinomycin-D prevented activity-dependent changes in CaMKII-alpha and CaMKII-delta mRNA, but produced opposite effects on basal transcription, resulting in more stabilized CaMKII-alpha mRNA and less stabilized CaMKII-delta mRNA. These results reveal unique patterns of seizure-induced alterations in CaMKII mRNAs. Activity-dependent changes in subunit composition could, therefore, differentially influence the functional attributes of the CaMKII holoenzyme.
In this study, we have addressed the issue of neural circuit formation using the mouse spinal cord as a model system. Our primary objective was to assess the suitability of organotypic cultures from embryonic mouse spinal cord to investigate, during critical periods of spinal network formation, the role of the local spinal cellular environment in promoting circuit development and refinement. These cultures offer the great advantage over other in vitro systems, of preserving the basic cytoarchitecture and the dorsal-ventral orientation of the spinal segment from which they are derived [Eur J Neurosci 14 (2001) 903; Eur J Neurosci 16 (2002) 2123]. Long-term embryonic spinal cultures were developed and analyzed at sequential times in vitro, namely after 1, 2, and 3 weeks. Spatial and temporal regulation of neuronal and non-neuronal markers was investigated by immunocytochemical and Western blotting analysis using antibodies against: a) the non-phosphorylated epitope of neurofilament H (SMI32 antibody); b) the enzyme choline acetyltransferase, to localize motoneurons and cholinergic interneurons; c) the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase 67, to identify GABAergic interneurons; d) human eag-related gene (HERG) K(+) channels, which appear to be involved in early stages of neuronal and muscle development; e) glial fibrillary acidic protein, to identify mature astrocytes; f) myelin basic protein, to identify the onset of myelination by oligodendrocytes. To examine the development of muscle acetylcholine receptors clusters in vitro, we incubated live cultures with tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin, and we subsequently immunostained them with SMI32 or with anti-myosin antibodies. Our results indicate that the developmental pattern of expression of these markers in organotypic cultures shows close similarities to the one observed in vivo. Therefore, spinal organotypic cultures provide a useful in vitro model system to study several aspects of neurogenesis, gliogenesis, muscle innervation, and synaptogenesis.
Neurotrophic factors direct axonal growth toward the target tissue by a concentration gradient, which is mediated through different tyrosine kinase cell surface receptors. In this study, well-defined concentration gradients of neurotrophic factors (NFs) allowed us to study the synergistic effect of different NFs (e.g. nerve growth factor [NGF], neurotrophin-3 [NT-3] and brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]) for axonal guidance of embryonic lumbar dorsal root ganglion cells (DRGs). Effective guidance of DRG axons was achieved with a minimum NGF concentration gradient of 133 ng/ml/mm alone, or combined NGF and NT-3 concentration gradients of 80 ng/ml/mm each. Interestingly, the combined concentration gradients of NGF and BDNF did not show any significant synergism at the concentration gradients studied. The synergism observed between NGF and NT-3 indicates that axons may be guided over a 12.5 mm distance, which is significantly greater than that of 7.5 mm calculated by us for NGF alone or that of 2 mm observed by others.
Remote areas undergoing delayed neuronal degeneration after focal brain ischemia display a preceding glial activation. The expression of proinflammatory cytokines there has not been examined so far. We examined the expression of TNFalpha in the thalamus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) 1, 3 and 7 days after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) of the rat. We used antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), OX-42, NeuN and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) for immunohistochemistry/double-immunofluorescent labeling to investigate the time course of glial activation and the cellular localization of TNFalpha. Neuronal degeneration was measured by means of cell counting in Nissl-stained sections. In the ipsilateral thalamus, TNFalpha was upregulated already 1 day after MCAO. Microglia and astroglia were activated after 3 days. A cellular colocalisation of GFAP and TNFalpha was observed. Neuronal degeneration was evident at day 14. In the SNr, TNFalpha expression was enhanced 3 days after MCAO. Microglia was activated after 3 days and astroglia after 7 days. A cellular colocalisation of NeuN and TNFalpha was observed. Neuronal degeneration was evident at day 14. Thus, in both areas, expression of TNFalpha precedes astrogliosis and neuronal degeneration. The different patterns of TNFalpha upregulation of the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the thalamus following middle cerebral artery occlusion may reflect different pathophysiological mechanisms leading to remote neuronal degeneration.
Different isoforms of a vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) mediate glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles of excitatory neurons. There is agreement that the VGLUTs are differentially expressed in brain, and that two isoforms, VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, are localized to excitatory axon terminals in the cerebellar cortex. While granule cells express solely VGLUT1, there is no report about the VGLUT(s) of the unipolar brush cell (UBC), the second type of glutamatergic interneuron residing in the cerebellar granular layer. In the mouse, UBCs are particularly numerous in the uvula (lobule IX) and nodulus (lobule X). These folia contain two distinct subsets of UBCs: one kind expresses the calcium-binding protein calretinin (CR), and the other kind expresses the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 1alpha. UBCs give rise to an extensive system of intrinsic mossy fibers (MF), whose terminals innervate granule cells and other UBCs, altogether similar to those formed by the extrinsic MFs. The presence of both extrinsic and intrinsic MFs in the vestibulocerebellum makes it difficult to determine which type of VGLUT is contained in MFs formed by the UBC axons. Hence, the nodulus was isolated from sagittal cerebellar slices from postnatal day 10 mice, and cultured for 15-20 days in vitro. Double immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy showed that mossy terminals of CR-positive (CR(+)) UBCs were immunoreactive for VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, while mossy terminals of mGluR1alpha-positive (mGluR1alpha(+)) UBCs were provided with VGLUT1 only. Moreover, CR(+) dendritic brushes were contacted by mossy terminals provided with both transporters, while mGluR1alpha(+) dendritic brushes were contacted by mossy terminals immunopositive for VGLUT1 and immunonegative for VGLUT2. These data indicate that the two UBC subsets use different modalities of vesicular glutamate storage and form separate networks. We consider it possible that expressions of CR with VGLUT1/VGLUT2 and mGluR1alpha(+) with VGLUT1 in the two subsets of vestibulocerebellar UBCs are determined by specific vestibular inputs, carried by groups of primary and/or secondary vestibular afferents.
Numerous studies have investigated the expression of various cytokine families in the CNS after brain injury. The gp130 or interleukin (IL)-6-type cytokines have received a great deal of focus, and it is clear that they exhibit an acute and robust upregulation in various brain injury models. We are interested to determine, however, whether endogenously expressed cytokines in the CNS act in a direct neuromodulatory manner. In an accompanying study, we examined the expression of five gp130 cytokines and their receptors in the lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus. We follow up that study here by trying to determine if gp130 signal transduction occurs in hippocampal principal neurons after seizure. Therefore, using the expression of suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS)-1 and -3 as indices of gp130 signal transduction, we performed a detailed in situ hybridization seizure time-course study in the adult rat hippocampus. For comparison, we also examined SOCS-2, which is involved in insulin-like growth factor signaling. We found that while SOCS-1 and -3 were faintly expressed under basal conditions, only SOCS-3 exhibited a rapid, robust, and transient induction. This occurred first in non-principal cells, which appeared to be glial, peaking at approximately 12 h post-seizure. Subsequently, a robust induction of SOCS-3 occurred in pyramidal and granule neurons, peaking at approximately 24 h. SOCS-2 displayed a relatively higher level of basal expression, particularly in CA3, and a mild and transient downregulation by 24 h. These findings corroborate the hypothesis that seizure-induced gp130 cytokines play a direct neuromodulatory role in the hippocampus. Since in our previous study we did not detect cytokine receptor expression in non-principal cells, it is unclear what elicits SOCS-3 expression in this population.
Although numerous studies have demonstrated the neurotrophic capacity of gp130 cytokines, it remains unclear whether endogenously expressed cytokines actually function in a direct neuromodulatory manner. Therefore, using the lithium-pilocarpine status epilepticus model, we performed a detailed in situ hybridization time-course study of five gp130 cytokines (interleukin [IL]-6, leukemia inhibitory factor [LIF], IL-11, oncostatin-m [OSM], and ciliary neurotrophic factor), gp130, and the receptors of the cytokines we found to be induced (IL-6 receptor [IL-6R], LIF receptor [LIF-R], and IL-11 receptor [IL-11R]). Additionally, to further understand the regulation of these cytokines, we compared their expression with the pattern of neuronal degeneration and microglial activation. Under control conditions, all cytokines, except LIF, exhibited faint to moderate expression in hippocampal principal layers. After seizure, IL-6, LIF, and IL-11 exhibited a rapid, robust, and transient upregulation in non-principal cells. LIF also exhibited a remarkably early and transient induction in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. OSM exhibited only a mild and inconsistent induction. All receptors examined were strongly expressed only in hippocampal principal layers under control conditions. A mild and late induction of the IL-6R, LIF-R, and IL-11R occurred after seizure with a scattered distribution. A progressive and chronic induction of gp130 was observed in cells that appeared to be associated with blood vessels. Degeneration of hilar interneurons and CA1 pyramidal cells was early and progressive. Granule neurons of the dentate gyrus, however, exhibited a delayed and precipitous pattern of degeneration, specifically in the lateral portion of the superior blade. Microglial activation was maximal 24-48 h post-seizure. We speculate that gp130 cytokines play a paracrine, neuromodulatory role in the hippocampus since both before and after seizure, principal cells appear to be the major cell type expressing the receptors for these cytokines. Furthermore, we suggest that activity-dependent mechanisms may be involved in the regulation of cytokines expressed early, and that relatively late occurring cytokine expression may be elicited by injury-related stimuli.
Both endocannabinoids through cannabinoid receptor type I (CB1) receptors and dopamine through dopamine receptor type D1 receptors modulate postsynaptic inhibition in substantia nigra by changing GABA release from striatonigral terminals. By recording from visually identified pars compacta and pars reticulata neurons we searched for a possible co-release and interaction of endocannabinoids and dopamine. Depolarization of a neuron in pars reticulata or in pars compacta transiently suppressed evoked synaptic currents which were blocked by GABA(A) receptor antagonists (inhibitory postsynaptic currents [IPSCs]). This depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) was abrogated by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (1 microM). A correlation existed between the degree of DSI and the degree of reduction of evoked IPSCs by the CB1 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (1 microM). The cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol (0.5-5 microM) enhanced DSI, but suppression of spontaneous IPSCs was barely detectable pointing to the existence of GABA release sites without CB1 receptors. In dopamine, but not in GABAergic neurons DSI was enhanced by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (3-10 microM). Both the antagonist for CB1 receptors and the antagonist for dopamine D1 receptors enhanced or reduced, respectively, the amplitudes of evoked IPSCs. This tonic influence persisted if the receptor for the other ligand was blocked. We conclude that endocannabinoids and dopamine can be co-released. Retrograde signaling through endocannabinoids and dopamine changes inhibition independently from each other. Activation of dopamine D1 receptors emphasizes extrinsic inhibition and activation of CB1 receptors promotes intrinsic inhibition.
Dendritic spines are postsynaptic sites of excitatory input in the mammalian nervous system. Apolipoprotein (apo) E participates in the transport of plasma lipids and in the redistribution of lipids among cells. A role for apoE is implicated in regeneration of synaptic circuitry after neural injury. The apoE4 allele is a major risk factor for late-onset familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with a poor outcome after brain injury. ApoE isoforms are suggested to have differential effects on neuronal repair mechanisms. In vitro studies have demonstrated the neurotrophic properties of apoE3 on neurite outgrowth. We have investigated the influence of apoE genotype on neuronal cell dendritic spine density in mice and in human postmortem tissue. In order to compare the morphology of neurons developing under different apoE conditions, gene gun labeling studies of dendritic spines of dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells of the hippocampus were carried out in wild-type (WT), human apoE3, human apoE4 expressing transgenic mice and apoE knockout (KO) mice; the same dendritic spine parameters were also assessed in human postmortem DG from individuals with and without the apoE4 gene. Quantitative analysis of dendritic spine length, morphology, and number was carried out on these mice at 3 weeks, 1 and 2 years of age. Human apoE3 and WT mice had a higher density of dendritic spines than human E4 and apoE KO mice in the 1 and 2 year age groups (P&lt;0.0001), while at 3 weeks there were no differences between the groups. These age dependent differences in the effects of apoE isoforms on neuronal integrity may relate to the increased risk of dementia in aged individuals with the apoE4 allele. Significantly in human brain, apoE4 dose correlated inversely with dendritic spine density of DG neurons cell in the hippocampus of both AD (P=0.0008) and aged normal controls (P=0.0015). Our findings provide one potential explanation for the increased cognitive decline seen in aged and AD patients expressing apoE4.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) alters the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, but its mechanism is not fully understood. We examined the effects of recombinant human apoE3 and apoE4 on the neuronal calcium response to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and compared them to their toxicity. ApoE4 (100 nM) significantly increased the resting calcium (by 70%) and the calcium response to NMDA (by 185%), whereas similar changes were not obtained in apoE3-treated neurons. ApoE4, but not apoE3, also significantly increased neurotoxicity, as evidenced by enhanced lactate dehydrogenase release (by 53%) and reduced 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5,diphenyltetrazolium bromide levels (by 32%). ApoE4-induced changes in the calcium response to NMDA and associated neurotoxicity were blocked by coincubation with MK-801. Both the receptor-associated protein, which inhibits interaction of apoE with members of the LDL receptor family, including the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), and activated alpha2-macroglobulin, another LRP ligand, prevented apoE4-induced enhancement of the calcium response to NMDA, resting calcium levels, and neurotoxicity. A tandem apoE peptide (100 nM) containing only the receptor binding region residues also eliminated the enhanced calcium signaling and neurotoxicity by apoE4. Taken together, our data demonstrate that differential effects of apoE3 and apoE4 on the calcium signaling in neurons correlate with their effect on neurotoxicity, which are secondary to receptor binding.
Although the localization and role of kainate receptors in the CNS remain poorly known, complex, and rather unusual, pre-synaptic auto- and heteroreceptor functions have been disclosed in various brain regions. Basal ganglia nuclei, including the globus pallidus, are enriched in GluR6/7 immunoreactivity. Using electron microscopic immunocytochemistry for GluR6/7 combined with post-embedding immunogold labeling for GABA, we demonstrate that GluR6/7 immunoreactivity is enriched in a large subpopulation of small unmyelinated, presumably pre-terminal, axons as well as GABAergic and putative glutamatergic axon terminals in the internal and external segments of the globus pallidus in monkey. Our findings suggest that kainate receptors are located to subserve pre-synaptic modulation of inhibitory and excitatory transmission in the primate globus pallidus.
Following the hypothesis of the &quot;signal-to-noise&quot; ratio we examined whether changes in the activity of group-I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors in the hippocampus are associated with a condition that specifically enhances the learning capacity in rats. As a model, we used rats that had been nursed by mothers drinking a solution of corticosterone (13.5 mg of daily intake of corticosterone hemisuccinate) during the lactation period. These rats were prone to learn, as indicated by a better performance in a passive avoidance test. Stimulation of polyphosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis by the mGlu receptor agonist, 1S,3R-1-amino-cyclopentan-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD), was attenuated in hippocampal slices prepared from corticosterone-nursed male and female rats at 30 or 60 days of postnatal life, an age at which an increased learning capacity could be demonstrated. This effect was specific because the PI response to carbamylcholine was unchanged. A reduced PI hydrolysis in corticosterone-nursed rats was also observed when group-I mGlu receptors (i.e. mGlu1 and -5 receptors) were selectively activated using 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine or 1S,3R-APCD combined with the selective group-II mGlu receptor antagonist, 2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropan-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propionate. Western blot analysis showed a selective reduction in the expression of mGlu1a receptor protein in the hippocampus of corticosterone-nursed rats, whereas expression of mGlu5 and mGlu2/3 receptors was unchanged. The reduction in mGlu-receptor mediated PI hydrolysis in the hippocampus may contribute to the greater learning capacity of corticosterone-nursed rats by reducing the background noise over which a specific signal must be superimposed during learning. This hypothesis was supported by the evidence that mGlu-receptor stimulated PI hydrolysis was amplified in hippocampal slices from rats subjected to a passive avoidance learning paradigm, and that this amplification was greater in slices from corticosterone-nursed rats of both sexes.
Latent inhibition describes a process of learning to ignore stimuli of no consequence, and is disrupted in acute, positive-symptomatic schizophrenia. Understanding the neural basis of latent inhibition in animals may help to elucidate the neural dysfunction underlying positive schizophrenic symptoms in man. Evidence suggests a crucial role for dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens in the control of latent inhibition. The present studies investigated the role of the GABA-ergic efferent from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum in latent inhibition. The GABA(A) agonist muscimol (4.56 ng/microl), and antagonist picrotoxin (0.2 microg/microl), were infused into the ventral pallidum, and effects on latent inhibition were assessed using a conditioned suppression procedure. Neither drug produced specific effects on latent inhibition when given alone and, in the case of muscimol, failed to reverse the disruption of latent inhibition induced by systemic amphetamine. In addition to significant non-specific drug effects, a positive control experiment revealed that intra-pallidal picrotoxin significantly enhanced locomotion, suggesting that our manipulations of ventral pallidal GABA function were behaviourally effective. We conclude that modulating ventral pallidal GABA transmission does not affect latent inhibition. The implications of this finding for theories of the neural circuitry mediating latent inhibition and for understanding the functional role of ventral pallidal GABA transmission are discussed.
The innervation of gill muscles of lampreys was investigated in a semi-intact preparation in which the respiratory rhythm was maintained for more than 2 days. Lesion experiments showed that the muscles of gill 1 are innervated by nerves VII (facial) and IX (glossopharyngeal), and those of gill 2 by nerve IX and the first branchial branch of nerve X (vagal). The other gills are supplied by the other branchial branches of nerve X. Retrograde tracers, injected in peripheral respiratory nerves, showed that branchial muscles are innervated by VII, IX and X motoneurons. Within the X nucleus, the motoneuron pools were branchiotopically organized, but with considerable rostro-caudal overlap. Electrophysiological recordings were used to show that the onset of activation of the branchial muscles was increasingly delayed with the distance from the brainstem, but that motoneuronal activity recorded with surface electrodes began at approximately the same time in all pools. The conduction velocity of VII and caudal X motor axons was found to be the same. Differences in the length of motoneuron axons appear to account for the rostro-caudal delay in gill contraction. The data presented here provide a much needed anatomical and physiological basis for further studies on the neural network controlling respiration in lampreys.
The lamina terminalis (LT) contains three main regions, namely the subfornical organ (SFO), the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) and the vascular organ of the LT (OVLT). Although LT is recognized of paramount importance in the regulation of hydromineral homeostasis, identity of the neurocircuits interconnecting the SFO and OVLT to the MnPO is not known. Furthermore, the phenotype of neuronal populations activated during acute hydromineral challenge is not yet determined. By using the high cellular resolution of the in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH), we investigated whether a furosemide-induced fluid and electrolyte depletion might modify both putative GABAergic and glutamatergic systems within the LT. We show that acute furosemide treatment (4 h) significantly reduced the expression of GAD67 mRNA, the active holoenzyme predictive of GABA synthesis, within the SFO. A strong tendency toward a reduction of GAD67 signal was also observed in the OVLT and MnPO. The hydromineral challenge did not alter the expression of GAD65 and type 2 vesicular glutamate transporter (vGlut2) mRNA in all the structures of the LT. Furosemide treatment was associated with a reduction in the population of GAD67-containing neurons in the periphery of the SFO and dorsal part of the MnPO. Contrastingly, GAD65-containing cells were shown to be increased in the OVLT and no change was observed for the vGlut2-containing neurons in the whole LT. By combining ISHH with immunohistochemistry (Fos immunoreactivity), we report that furosemide-induced water and sodium depletion did essentially recruit a glutamatergic network throughout the LT, although GABAergic neurons were specifically activated in the ring of the SFO and in the OVLT. The MnPO, the region of the LT that is considered as being an integrative area for sensory inputs arising from the SFO and OVLT, showed exclusive activation of excitatory neuronal populations. Taken together these results suggest that acute water and Na(+) depletion diminish the efficacy of the GABAergic system and mainly activates excitatory neuronal pathways in the regions of the LT.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that help mediate rapid excitatory neurotransmission in the CNS. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors are critical for synaptic plasticity in central nociceptive transmission. The current study was designed to investigate the role of the AMPA receptor subunit, GluR1, and its phosphorylated forms (at Ser-831 and Ser-845) in central sensitization in rat spinal cord. Western blots and immunohistochemistry were performed to examine the expression and localization of GluR1 and the phosphorylated forms of GluR1 (phospho-GluR1) at Ser-831 and Ser-845 with specific antibodies. Results showed that immunolabeling of GluR1 protein in rat spinal cord can be detected at 110 kD, and two phospho-GluR1 proteins were found at 106 kD. A significant upregulation of phospho-GluR1 both at Ser-831 and Ser-845 was found by 5 min after capsaicin treatment, and this increase lasted at least 60 min. Immunostaining showed that GluR1 and its phosphorylated forms were localized in the superficial laminae of dorsal horn and quantitative image analysis supported the immunoblotting results. Our findings are consistent with the suggestions that AMPA receptors show increased responsiveness because of their phosphorylation and that this may contribute to central sensitization following intradermal injection of capsaicin.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin (NTN) and their receptors (GFRalpha1, GFRalpha2 and Ret) play an important role in the survival of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous system. For example, GDNF as well as other trophic factors promotes photoreceptor survival during retinal degeneration. Recent studies have proposed that part of neurotophic rescue of photoreceptors may be indirect, mediated by interaction of the neurotrophic factors with other cell types, that in turn release secondary factors that act directly on photoreceptors. In the present study, we examined the GDNF receptor expression in control and light-damaged retina, and found that GFRalpha2 protein is upregulated in retina-specific Mller glial cells during photoreceptor degeneration. We also examined the effect of GDNF or NTN on cultured Mller cells. Exogenous GDNF increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and GDNF, but not NTN mRNA production. On the other hand, NTN increased NTN, but not GDNF mRNA production in cultured Mller cells. These observations suggest that GDNF, NTN and their receptors are involved in the regulation of trophic factor production in retinal glial cells, and that functional glia-neuron network may utilize GDNF family for the protection of neural cells during retinal degeneration.
We describe the thorough characterisation of a new transgenic mouse line overexpressing the 695-amino acid isoform of human amyloid precursor protein harbouring the Swedish double familial Alzheimer's disease mutation. This line, referred to as TAS10, exhibits neuropathological features and cognitive deficits that are closely correlated to the accumulation of Abeta in their brain and that are reminiscent of those observed in AD. Data on the TAS10 line are presented at five time points: 2, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months in a longitudinal study. The TAS10 line is characterised by the following changes: i) significant age-related increases in the levels of total and individual species (1-40, 1-42) of beta-amyloid in the brains of transgenics compared with non-transgenic littermates; ii) transgenic mice showed pronounced spatial learning deficits in the Morris water maze at 6 months and working memory deficits by 12 months; iii) amyloid plaque and associated pathologies were observed by the 12-month time point and the burden increased substantially, particularly in the cortex, by 18 months; iv) electron microscopy of the hippocampus of transgenic mice showed evidence of abnormal ultrastructural features such as dystrophic neurites and lipid deposits that developed from 6 months and increased in number and severity with age. Morphometric studies demonstrate that the synapse to neuron ratio is higher in transgenics than in control mice at 12 months, but this ratio decreases as they age and synapse size increases. Thus, this mouse model exhibits a close correlation of amyloid burden with behavioural deficits and ultrastructural abnormalities and so represents an ideal system to study the mechanisms underlying the impact of amyloid pathology on CNS function.
The expression and microanatomical localization of the muscarinic cholinergic m5 receptor subtype was investigated in rat circle of Willis and pial arteries by in situ hybridization, immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed a strong signal in the endothelium of circle of Willis and pial arteries and a moderate signal in the tunica media of the same arteries, within smooth muscle. Exposure of membranes of arteries to anti-m5 receptor protein antibodies caused the development of a band of approximately 81 kDa. Immunohistochemistry revealed the accumulation of m5 receptor protein immunoreactivity primarily within endothelium of circle of Willis and cerebral arteries and to a lesser extent in the tunica media, within smooth muscle. Medium (external diameter 200-100 microm) and small-sized (external diameter smaller than 100 microm) pial arteries displayed a significantly higher immune staining than large-sized pial arteries or circle of Willis arteries. The above data that are consistent with recent functional studies reporting cholinergic dilation of cerebral blood vessels mediated via a m5 receptor, have shown that both endothelial and muscular components of cerebral arteries synthesize and express a muscarinic m5 receptor. In view of the peculiar localization in cerebral vessels, handling of the muscarinic m5 receptor may be considered as an approach in the treatment of cerebrovascular disease.
GABA neurones in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) influence ascending 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurones but are not physiologically or anatomically characterised. Here, in vivo juxtacellular labelling methods in urethane-anaesthetised rats were used to establish the neurochemical and morphological identity of a fast-firing population of DRN neurones, which recent data suggest may be GABAergic. Slow-firing, putative 5-HT DRN neurones were also identified for the first time using this approach. Fast-firing, DRN neurones were successfully labelled with neurobiotin (n=10) and the majority (n=8/10) were immunoreactive for the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase. These neurones were located in the DRN (mainly lateral regions), and consistently fired spikes with short width (1.1+/-0.1 ms) and high frequency (12.1+/-2.0 Hz). In most cases spike trains were regular but displayed low frequency oscillations (1-2 Hz). These neurones were morphologically heterogeneous but commonly had branching axons with varicosities and dendrites that extended across DRN subregions and the midline. Slow-firing DRN neurones were also successfully labelled with neurobiotin (n=24). These neurones comprised a population of neurones immunopositive for 5-HT and/or tryptophan hydroxylase (n=12) that fired broad spikes (2.2+/-0.2 ms) with high regularity and low frequency (1.7+/-0.2 Hz). However, a slow-firing, less regular population of neurones immunonegative for 5-HT/tryptophan hydroxylase (n=12) was also apparent. In summary, this study chemically identifies fast- and slow-firing neurones in the DRN and establishes for the first time that fast-firing DRN neurones are GABAergic. The electrophysiological and morphological properties of these neurones suggest a novel function involving co-ordination between GABA and 5-HT neurones dispersed across DRN subregions.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays a key role in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. We have recently developed a synthetic peptide, termed C3d, which, through the binding to the first, N-terminal immunoglobulin-like (Ig) module in the extracellular portion of NCAM, has been shown to promote neurite outgrowth and synapse formation in vitro, and to interfere with passive avoidance memory in rats in vivo. In this study, we investigated whether the i.c.v. administration of C3d, either 5.5 h after or 2 days before training, could be effective to modulate the strength at which emotional memory for aversive situations is established into a long-term memory. The effects of the peptide were evaluated in adult male Wistar rats trained in the contextual fear conditioning task. The results indicated that C3d significantly reduced the subsequent long-term retention of the conditioned fear response when administered 5.5 h post-training, as indicated by retention tests performed 2-3 and 7 days post-training. However, this treatment failed to influence conditioning for this task when injected 2 days pre-training. Additional experiments showed that C3d did not influence the emotional or locomotor behaviour of the animals, when tested in the open field task. Furthermore, hippocampal levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), Synaptophysin and NCAM were found unchanged when evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in crude synaptosomal preparations 2 days after peptide i.c.v. injection. Therefore, post-training injection of this synthetic peptide was efficient to attenuate the strength at which memory for contextual fear conditioning was enduringly stored, whilst it did not affect the acquisition of new memories. In addition to further support the view that NCAM is critically involved in memory consolidation, the current findings suggest that the NCAM IgI module is a potential target for the development of therapeutic drugs capable to reduce the cognitive impact induced by exposure to intensive stress experiences.
Opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule (OBCAM) is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily containing limbic system-associated membrane protein (IgLON) subgroup of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecules. We have previously found that OBCAM is localized preferentially to dendrites compared with somata and terminals of hypothalamic vasopressin-secreting magnocellular neurons. This localization indicates that OBCAM is one of the dendrite-associated cell adhesion molecules. In the present study, we further characterized the localization and the sorting mechanism, and activity-dependent changes of this molecule in vasopressin-secreting magnocellular dendrites. Confocal microscopic observation revealed the preferential localization of OBCAM at the neurosecretory granules in the vasopressin-positive dendrites. Electron microscopic observation using chromogen-intensified and gold-conjugated methods also demonstrated the OBCAM labeling at most of the neurosecretory granules within the dendrites, while the labeling within the somata was observed at only a few neurosecretory granules. I.c.v. colchicine administration resulted in the disappearance of OBCAM immunoreactivity from the dendrites and in its concomitant accumulation at the somata, suggesting that OBCAM is synthesized at the somata and transported to the dendrites by dendrite-associated neurosecretory granules. During the postnatal development, OBCAM immunoreactivity targeted to vasopressin-positive dendrites became clear from at least 3 weeks after birth, although it appeared at only a few somata 2 weeks after birth. Phosphatidylinositol specific phospholipase C treatment of the membrane fraction of the supraoptic homogenate solubilized OBCAM. Kilon, another IgLON member, was also shown to localize at the neurosecretory granules of vasopressin-positive dendrites via the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor. High K(+)-stimulation appeared to cause the diffusion of OBCAM-labeled gold particles from neurosecretory granules together with the exocytosis. These findings indicate that OBCAM is synthesized within the somata, attached to vasopressin neurosecretory granules via the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor, and transported to the dendrites. Moreover, the subcellular localization of OBCAM is changed in an activity-dependent manner.
The hypothalamic nonapeptide oxytocin (OT) has an established role as a circulating hormone but can also act as a neurotransmitter and as a neuromodulator by interacting with its central OT receptor (OTR). To understand the role of the OTR in the mouse brain we investigated the expression of the OTR gene at the cellular level. We targeted the lacZ reporter gene to the OTR gene locus downstream of the endogenous OTR regulatory elements. Using lactating mouse mammary gland as a control for OTR promoter directed specificity of lacZ gene expression, X-gal histochemistry on tissue sections confirmed that gene expression was restricted to the myoepithelial cells. We also identified for the first time in mice the expression of the OTR gene in neighbouring adipocytes. Further, investigation in the mouse brain identified numerous nuclei containing neurons expressing the OTR gene. Whilst some of these regions had been described for rat or sheep, the OTR-LacZ reporter mouse enabled the identification of novel sites of central OTR gene expression. These regions include the accessory olfactory bulb, the medial septal nucleus, the posterolateral cortical amygdala nucleus, the posterior aspect of the basomedial amygdala nucleus, the medial part of the supramammillary nucleus, the dorsotuberomammillary nucleus, the medial and lateral entorhinal cortices, as well as specific dorsal tegmental, vestibular, spinal trigeminal, and solitary tract subnuclei. By mapping the distribution of OTR gene expression, depicted through histochemical detection of beta-galactosidase, we were able to identify single OTR gene expressing neurons and small neuron clusters that would have remained undetected by conventional approaches. These novel sites of OTR gene expression suggest additional functions of the oxytocinergic system in the mouse. These results lay the foundation for future investigation into the neural role of the OTR and provide a useful model for further study of oxytocin functions in the mouse.
Down syndrome is the most common birth defect associated with mental retardation. Identifying proteins that are aberrantly expressed therefore helps to understand how chromosomal imbalance leads to subnormal intelligence in Down syndrome. In the present study, we generated a fetal brain map with the use of an analytical method based on two-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry and searched the proteome for differential protein expression. Among 49 proteins analyzed in seven control and nine Down syndrome fetuses, we found 11 proteins that have been deregulated in cerebral cortex of fetal Down syndrome. While double-strand break repair protein rad 21 homologue, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 5, mixed lineage leukemia septin-like fusion protein-B and heat shock protein 75 were increased; beta-amyloid precursor-like protein 1, tropomyosin 4-anaplastic lymphoma kinase fusion oncoprotein type 2, Nck adaptor protein 2, Src homology domain growth factor receptor bound 2-like endophilin B2, beta tubulin, septin 7 and hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells 140 were decreased. The current data suggest that misexpression of proteins that have functions ranging from signaling to cellular structural organization could contribute to or reflect brain dysgenesis in Down syndrome.
beta-Catenin plays a pivotal role in Wnt signaling during embryogenesis and is a component of adherens junctions. Since targeted disruption of the beta-catenin gene is lethal at gastrulation we have used a D6-Cre mouse line for conditional inactivation of beta-catenin in the mouse cerebral cortex and hippocampus after embryonic day (E) 10.5. In D6-Cre floxed beta-catenin mice, hippocampal CA1-CA2 fields are disrupted in similar manner as in Wnt-3a and LEF-1 mutants. The cortex of D6-Cre floxed beta-catenin mutants is strongly affected which contrasts with the normal cortex observed in Wnt-3a and LEF-1 mutants. Severe abnormalities in the organization of the neuroepithelium are observed that include disrupted interkinetic nuclear migration, loss of adherens junctions, impaired radial migration of neurons toward superficial layers and decreased cell proliferation after E15.5. At newborn stage, a premature disassembly of the radial glial scaffold and increased numbers of astrocytes are found in the cortex.
In the present study, the expression of the HuC/D RNA-binding proteins, a marker of neurons that have left the mitotic cycle, in cells migrating from the olfactory neuroepithelium toward the telencephalon in the chick embryo was investigated by means of immunofluorescence and confocal laser microscopy. Results showed that this migratory cell population is early and massively labeled by the a-HuC/D antibody starting from the first olfactory pit stage. At this developmental stage, olfactory migratory cells appeared to be the only neuronal population that expressed the HuC/D antigens in the whole embryo. In following developmental stages, the great majority of migratory cells, the number of which increased progressively, continued to be heavily immunopositive for the a-HuC/D antibody while immunopositivity to this antibody begins to be detected in other regions of the nervous system. HuC/D immunopositivity persisted until stage 30 HH (about 6.5 days), the later developmental stage investigated in this study, when colocalization with GnRH was detected. Negativity to the anti-proliferating cell nuclear antigen (anti-PCNA) immunostaining, a marker of S-phase, showed that migratory olfactory cells have left the mitotic cycle. Altogether, these results suggest that we have identified the first population of post-mitotic neurons in the developing nervous system of the chick embryo.
Electrophysiological recordings were used to investigate the effects of ATP analogues on theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampal slices. alpha,beta-Methylene ATP (alpha,beta-MeATP; 20 microM) decreased LTP from 36+/-9% to 17+/-5%, an effect prevented by adenosine A(1) receptor blockade in accordance with the localised catabolism of ATP analogues into adenosine, leading to adenosine A(1) receptor activation. Thus, to probe the role of extracellular ATP, all experiments were performed with the A(1) receptor selective antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (50 nM). In these conditions, alpha,beta-MeATP or 5'-adenylylimido-diphosphate (beta,gamma-ImATP; 20 microM) facilitated LTP by 120%, an effect prevented by the P2 receptor antagonists, pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2'-4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS; 20 microM) or suramin (75 microM), as well as by the P2X(1/3)-selective antagonist 8-(benzamido)naphthalene-1,3,5-trisulfonate (10 microM). The facilitations of LTP by either alpha,beta-MeATP or beta,gamma-ImATP (20 microM) were also prevented by both 4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl(1,2,4)-triazolo(2,3a)-(1,3,5)triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol (50 nM) or 7-2(-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c] pyrimidine (50 nM), antagonists of facilitatory adenosine A(2A) receptors, were occluded by the A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (10 nM) and were prevented by the protein kinase C inhibitor, chelerythrine (6 microM) and unaffected by the protein kinase A inhibitor, H89 (1 microM). Furthermore, beta,gamma-ImATP (20 microM) enhanced [(3)H]adenosine outflow from rat hippocampal slices by nearly 150%, an effect prevented by PPADS (20 microM) or suramin (75 microM). The adenosine transport inhibitors, nitrobenzylthioinosine (5 microM) and dipyridamole (10 microM) also prevented beta,gamma-ImATP (20 microM)-induced [(3)H]adenosine outflow and facilitation of LTP. These results suggest that ATP analogues facilitate LTP through P2 receptor activation that mainly triggers adenosine release leading to the activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors.
Apolipoprotein (APO, gene; apo, protein) D, a member of the lipocalin family, has been implicated in several, pathological conditions but neither its physiologic function(s) nor ligand(s) has been clearly identified so far. Presuming a role in nerve de- and regeneration, several groups investigated apoD alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reported data, however, were not unanimous. We determined apoD protein levels in the hippocampus in a large, carefully matched autopsy case sample. ApoD levels were compared with the severity of neuropathological changes as determined by the Braak classification and with APOE genotype, a major risk factor for developing AD. ApoD was found to be related to the severity of AD-related neurofibrillary (NF) changes and not to old age alone. No correlation was found to amyloid deposits. Brain samples with widespread NF changes showed significantly higher apoD than cases with low Braak stages. This increase, however, was restricted to the APOE epsilon3/3 group, whereas the APOE epsilon4 group did not show significant variations in hippocampal apoD.
N-Acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate (NAAG) is one of the most abundant neuroactive compounds in the mammalian CNS. Our recent observations have suggested that NAAG administered into rat cerebral ventricles can cause neuronal death by apparently excitotoxic mechanisms that can be antagonized by the N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor blockers and by ligands of metabotropic glutamate receptor of Group II. Therefore, the principal aim of the present study has been to use quantitative morphology, electron microscopy and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin dUTP nick-end labeling to study a dose- and time-dependence as well as regional distribution of neurodegeneration in hippocampi of rats after the intraventricular infusion of 0.25 micromol NAAG/ventricle and of equimolar doses of L-glutamate (L-GLU) and N-acetyl-L-aspartate (NAA), breakdown products of NAAG. The degenerative changes were observed after the infusion of 0.25 and 1.25 micromol of NAAG/ventricle, but not when a dose of 0.05 micromol of NAAG/ventricle was injected into each lateral cerebral ventricle. With a dose of 0.25 micromol of NAAG/ventricle the number of degenerated neurons reached a maximum on the fourth day after the infusion. The neuronal damage following bilateral administration of 0.25 micromol of NAAG/lateral cerebral ventricle exhibited features of a delayed neuronal degeneration, expressed mainly in the layer of dentate granule neurons. The degeneration was characterized on the basis of ultrastructural appearance and DNA-fragmentation. The morphological changes caused by L-glutamate and NAA were much smaller than those observed after the administration of NAAG and displayed a different pattern of regional distribution. The present findings suggest that NAAG can cause a loss of hippocampal neurons in vivo, apparently resulting from the neurotoxicity of NAAG itself.
The main neuronal population of the striatum is composed of the medium spiny neurones (MSNs). In fact several sub-populations of MSNs can be distinguished according to the striatal compartment (striosomes and matrix) to which they belong, their afferents and their sites of projection, their biochemical markers and their morphologies. However, these cells are generally described as an electrophysiological homogeneous population. Using brain slices from the rat and whole cell patch clamp recordings, we show that at P(15) 28% of the MSNs display a spike frequency adaptation. While the mean frequency adaptation ratio for non-adapting cells was 1.07+/-0.01 it reached 2.66+/-0.09 in adapting MSNs and the incidence of this frequency adaptation phenotype appeared to be stable during post-natal development. Single-cell RT-PCR analysis of mRNAs for mu opioid receptors, enkephalin and substance P precursors suggested that adapting MSNs are present in both striatal compartments as well as in the direct and indirect pathways of the matrix. Adapting neurones were also distinguished from non-adapting cells by a lower membrane time constant, a higher AP threshold, a reduced delay to the first spike and a higher initial firing rate. Micro-domains differing by their magnitude of adaptation could be distinguished within the spike frequency adaptation process.A subgroup of MSNs exists, showing a marked spike frequency adaptation together with other distinct properties, such as shorter delay to first spike and membrane time constant, and higher initial frequency and action potential threshold. In conclusion, when strong cortical inputs are delivered in coincidence, adapting MSNs could not only transmit faster the first AP but also exert a sort of cutoff of the transmission due to their spike frequency adaptation process.
Tetanus neurotoxin-insensitive vesicle-associated membrane protein (TI-VAMP) is a vesicular soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor (SNARE) that has been implicated in neurite outgrowth. It has previously been reported that TI-VAMP is localised in the somatodendritic compartment of neurons indicating a role in membrane fusion events within dendrites. Using a newly produced monoclonal antibody to TI-VAMP that improves signal/noise immunodetection, we report that TI-VAMP is also present in subsets of axon terminals of the adult rat brain. Four distinctive populations of labelled axon terminals were identified: 1) the hippocampal mossy fibres of the dentate gyrus and of CA3, 2) the striatal peridendritic terminal plexuses in the globus pallidus (GP), substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), 3) peridendritic plexuses in the central nucleus of the amygdala, and 4) the primary sensory afferents in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The presynaptic localisation of TI-VAMP in these locations was demonstrated by co-localisation with synaptophysin. Ultrastructural studies showed TI-VAMP labelling over synaptic vesicles in the mossy fibres, whereas it was localised in tubulo-vesicular structures and multivesicular bodies in the pyramidal cell dendrites. The presynaptic localisation of TI-VAMP occurred by P15, so relatively late during development. In contrast, dendritic labelling was most prominent during the early post-natal period. Co-localisation with markers of neurotransmitters showed that TI-VAMP-positive terminals are GABAergic in the GP and SNr and glutamatergic in the mossy fibre system and in the dorsal root afferents. Most of these terminals are known to co-localise with neuropeptides. We found met-enkephalin-immunoreactivity in a sizeable fraction of the TI-VAMP positive terminals in the GP, amygdala, and dorsal horn, as well as in a few mossy fibre terminals. The function of TI-VAMP in subsets of mature axon terminals remains to be elucidated; it could participate in the exocytotic molecular machinery and/or be implicated in particular growth properties of the mature axon terminals. Thus, the presence of TI-VAMP in the mossy fibres may correspond to the high degree of plasticity that characterises this pathway throughout adult life.
There are many evidences implicating glutamatergic toxicity as a contributory factor in the selective neuronal injury occurring in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by the progressive loss of motor neurons, whose pathogenesis is thought to involve Ca(2+) influx mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptors (AMPARs). In the present study we report alterations in the AMPARs function in a transgenic mouse-model of the human SOD1(G93A) familial ALS. Compared with those expressed in motor neurons carrying the human wild type gene, AMPAR-gated channels expressed in motor neurons carrying the human mutant gene exhibited modified permeability, altered agonist cooperativity between the sites involved in the process of channel opening and were responsible for slower spontaneous synaptic events. These observations demonstrate that the SOD1(G93A) mutation induces changes in AMPAR functions which may underlie the increased vulnerability of motor neurons to glutamatergic excitotoxicity in ALS.
Acid-base transporters, such as the sodium-hydrogen exchangers (NHEs) and bicarbonate-dependent transporters, play an important role in the regulation of intracellular pH (pH(i)) in the CNS. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that the absence of the major NHE isoform 1 (NHE1) reduced the steady-state pH(i) and recovery rate from an acid load in the hippocampal neurons not only in HEPES but also in HCO(3)(-) solutions (Yao et al., 1999). The purpose of the current study was to determine whether the NHE1 null mutation affects the expression of pH-regulatory transporters in the mouse CNS. Immunoblotting and semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were performed to examine the protein and mRNA levels of NHE1-4, electrogenic sodium-bicarbonate cotransporter 1 variants (NBCe1), and brain-specific anion exchanger 3 (AE3) in four brain regions (cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and brainstem-diencephalon). NHE1 null mutant mice were compared with their wild type controls at the average age of approximately 4 weeks. Our results revealed that the NHE1 null mutation caused a significant increase in NHE3 in the cerebellum (84% for protein, 105% for mRNA), an increase in NBCe1 expression in the brainstem-diencephalon (approximately 40-50% for protein, 9-15% for mRNA), as well as a decrease in AE3 in the hippocampus (approximately 60% for protein, 24% for mRNA). We conclude that the NHE1 null mutation does alter the expression of other membrane transporters at both protein and mRNA levels. The alteration is region-specific. An increase in acid extruders (e.g. NHE3) and a decrease in acid loaders (e.g. AE3) suggest that there are some compensatory mechanisms that occur in NHE1 null mutant mice.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) type 1 (AT1) receptors are prevalent in the sensory vagal complex including the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) and area postrema, each of which has been implicated in the central cardiovascular effects produced by Ang II. In rodents, these actions prominently involve the AT1A receptor. Thus, we examined the electron microscopic dual immunolabeling of antisera recognizing the AT1A receptor and Ang II to determine interactive sites in the sensory vagal complex of rat brain. In both the area postrema and adjacent dorsomedial NTS, many somatodendritic profiles were dually labeled for the AT1A receptor and Ang II. In these profiles, AT1A receptor-immunoreactivity was often seen in the cytoplasm beneath labeled portions of the plasma membrane and in endosome-like granules as well as Golgi lamellae and outer nuclear membranes. In addition, AT1A receptor labeling was detected on the plasma membrane and in association with cytoplasmic membranes in many small axons and axon terminals. These terminals were morphologically heterogeneous containing multiple types of vesicles and forming either inhibitory- or excitatory-type synapses. In the area postrema, AT1A receptor labeling also was detected in many non-neuronal cells including glia, capillary endothelial cells and perivascular fibroblasts that were less prevalent in the NTS. We conclude that in the rat sensory vagal complex, AT1A receptors are strategically positioned for involvement in modulation of the postsynaptic excitability and intracrine hormone-like effects of Ang II. In addition, these receptors have distributions consistent with diverse roles in regulation of transmitter release, regional blood flow and/or vascular permeability.
Previous research in this laboratory has shown that a diet of intermittent excessive sugar consumption produces a state with neurochemical and behavioral similarities to drug dependency. The present study examined whether female rats on various regimens of sugar access would show behavioral cross-sensitization to a low dose of amphetamine. After a 30-min baseline measure of locomotor activity (day 0), animals were maintained on a cyclic diet of 12-h deprivation followed by 12-h access to 10% sucrose solution and chow pellets (12 h access starting 4 h after onset of the dark period) for 21 days. Locomotor activity was measured again for 30 min at the beginning of days 1 and 21 of sugar access. Beginning on day 22, all rats were maintained on ad libitum chow. Nine days later locomotor activity was measured in response to a single low dose of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg). The animals that had experienced cyclic sucrose and chow were hyperactive in response to amphetamine compared with four control groups (ad libitum 10% sucrose and chow followed by amphetamine injection, cyclic chow followed by amphetamine injection, ad libitum chow with amphetamine, or cyclic 10% sucrose and chow with a saline injection). These results suggest that a diet comprised of alternating deprivation and access to a sugar solution and chow produces bingeing on sugar that leads to a long lasting state of increased sensitivity to amphetamine, possibly due to a lasting alteration in the dopamine system.
To investigate the role of excitatory amino acid neurotransmission within the rostral raphe pallidus area (RPa) in thermogenic and cardiovascular responses, changes in sympathetic nerve activity to brown adipose tissue (BAT), BAT temperature, expired CO(2), arterial pressure, and heart rate were recorded after microinjection of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor agonists into the RPa in urethan-chloralose-anesthetized, ventilated rats. To determine whether EAA neurotransmission within the RPa is necessary for the responses evoked by disinhibition of the RPa or by prostaglandin E(2) acting within the medial preoptic area, BAT sympathetic nerve activity, BAT temperature, expired CO(2), arterial pressure, and heart rate were measured during these treatments both before and after blockade of EAA receptors within the RPa. Microinjection of EAA receptor agonists into the RPa resulted in significant increases in all measured variables; these increases were attenuated by prior microinjection of the respective EAA receptor antagonists into the RPa. Microinjection of prostaglandin E(2) into the medial preoptic area or microinjection of bicuculline into the RPa resulted in respective significant increases in BAT sympathetic nerve activity (+approximately 190% and +approximately 235% of resting levels), in BAT temperature (approximately 1.8 degrees C and approximately 2 degrees C), in expired CO(2) (approximately 1.1% and approximately 1.1%), and in heart rate (approximately 97 beats per minute (bpm) and approximately 100 bpm). Blockade of ionotropic EAA receptors within the RPa by microinjection of kynurenate completely reversed the prostaglandin E(2) or bicuculline-evoked increases in all of the measured variables. Blockade of either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors or non-NMDA receptors alone resulted in marked attenuations of the prostaglandin E(2)-evoked effects on all of the measured variables. These data demonstrate that activation of an EAA input to the RPa is necessary for the BAT thermogenic and the cardiovascular effects resulting from the actions of prostaglandin E(2) within the medial preoptic area or from the disinhibition of local neurons in the RPa.
Using a rat relapse model, we have shown that infusion of a corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonist into the median raphe nucleus (MRN) blocks footshock stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking in rats. The goal of the present study was to begin identifying brain sites potentially involved in this effect. For this purpose, we measured levels of c-fos mRNA in discrete nuclei of the rat brain following exposure to intermittent footshock, which was preceded by intra-MRN infusions of a CRF receptor antagonist, d-Phe CRF (0 or 50 ng). Exposure to intermittent footshock increased the expression of c-fos mRNA in a number of brain regions previously shown to be responsive to stressful stimuli. Pretreatment with d-Phe CRF in the MRN selectively attenuated the increases in c-fos mRNA induced by footshock in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). These findings are consistent with previous data on the important role for the CeA in stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. These results also suggest that inhibition of CeA activity may contribute to the blockade of alcohol-seeking induced by footshock that we have observed following injections of d-Phe into the MRN.
Changes in kappa-opioid receptor levels have been implicated in the development of physical dependence upon and withdrawal from the mixed agonist-antagonist opioid, butorphanol. Immunoblotting analysis was performed to determine the levels of kappa- and mu-opioid receptors in brain regions of rats in withdrawal from dependence upon butorphanol or morphine. Physical dependence was induced by a 72 h i.c.v. infusion with either butorphanol or morphine (26 nmol/microl/h). Withdrawal was subsequently precipitated by i.c.v. challenge with naloxone (48 nmol/5 microl/rat), administered 2 h following cessation of butorphanol or morphine infusion. Immunoblotting analysis of kappa-opioid receptors from butorphanol-withdrawal rats showed significant increases in 11 of 21 brain regions examined, including the nucleus accumbens, amygdala, dorsomedial hypothalamus, hypothalamus, paraventricular thalamus, thalamus, presubiculum, and locus coeruleus, when compared with saline treated, non-dependent controls. In addition, significant reductions were found in the hippocampus and in cortical brain regions, including the parietal cortex and temporal cortex from butorphanol-withdrawal rats. These findings contrasted with those from morphine-withdrawal rats, in which the only changes noted were increases in the thalamus and paraventricular thalamus. Changes in the levels of the mu-opioid receptor protein were observed in 11 of 21 brain regions examined in morphine-withdrawal rats, but only in three of 21 in butorphanol-withdrawal rats. These results implicate a substantive and largely unique role for kappa-opioid receptors in mediation of the development of physical dependence upon, and the expression of withdrawal from, butorphanol, as opposed to the prototypical opioid analgesic, morphine.
Serotonin antagonism in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) enhances sodium appetite induced by hypovolaemia and angiotensin-mineralocorticoid activation, but produces no sodium intake in euhydrated animals. In the present work, male adult rats (n=21) that received bilateral injections of the serotonergic antagonist methysergide (4 microg/0.2 microl) into the LPBN combined to intragastric load of 2 M NaCl (2 ml/rat), ingested hypertonic NaCl (ingestion of 4.3 +/- 1.6 ml/2 h of 0.3 M NaCl versus vehicle into LPBN: 0.2 +/- 0.2 ml/2 h, P&lt;0.05). Methysergide- and vehicle-treated animals also ingested water (9.5 +/- 0.7 and 7.2+/-0.5 ml/2 h, respectively, P&gt;0.05) as expected from the state of cell dehydration produced by the load. Ingestion of water (11.0 +/- 1.2 ml/2 h), and of 0.3 M NaCl (1.1 +/- 0.7 ml/2 h) were not altered by methysergide in NaCl loaded rats with misplaced LPBN injections (n=15).The ingestion of hypertonic NaCl by rats with serotonergic blockade in the LPBN suggests that the circuits subserving sodium appetite are activated, but at the same time strongly inhibited through the LPBN, during cell dehydration.
Electroencephalographic activity at the transition from wakefulness to sleep is characterized by the appearance of spindles (12-15 Hz) and slow wave rhythms including delta activity (1-4 Hz) and slow oscillations (0.2-1 Hz). While these rhythms originate within neocortico-thalamic circuitry, their emergence during the passage into slow wave sleep (SWS) critically depends on the activity of neuromodulatory systems. Here, we examined the temporal relationships between these electroencephalogram rhythms and the direct current (DC) potential recorded from the scalp in healthy men (n=10) using cross-correlation analyses. Analyses focused on transitions from wakefulness to SWS in the beginning of the sleep period, and from SWS to lighter sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep at the end of the first sleep cycle. For spindle, delta and slow oscillatory activity strong negative correlations with the DC potential were found at the transition into SWS with peak correlation coefficients (at zero time lag) averaging r=-0.81, -0.88 and -0.88, respectively (P&lt;0.001). Though slightly lower, distinct negative correlations between these measures were also found at the transition from SWS to REM sleep (-0.78, -0.77 and -0.77, respectively, P&lt;0.001). Fast oscillatory activity in the beta frequency band (15-25 Hz) was correlated positively with the DC potential (r=+0.75, P&lt;0.05, at the passage to SWS). Data indicate close links between increasing spindle, delta and slow oscillatory activity and the occurrence of a steep surface negative cortical DC potential shift during the transition from wake to SWS. Likewise, a DC potential shift toward surface positivity accompanies the disappearance of these oscillatory phenomena at the end of the non-REM sleep period. The DC potential shifts may reflect gradual changes in extracellular ionic (Ca2+) concentration resulting from the generation of spindle and slow wave rhythms, or influences of neuromodulating systems on cortical excitability thereby controlling the emergence of cortical spindle and slow wave rhythms at SWS transitions.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) appears to be both regulated by and a regulator of epileptogenesis. In the flurothyl (HFE) model of kindling mice exposed to successive flurothyl trials over 8 days express a rapid, long-lasting reduction in generalized seizure threshold and a more slowly evolving change in seizure phenotype in response to subsequent flurothyl exposure. The BDNF genotype of particular mouse strains appears to influence the epileptogenic progression in this model. Thus, we hypothesized that BDNF signaling pathways are altered by flurothyl-induced seizures. Following HFE kindling, fully kindled (eight seizures) adult male C57BI/6J mice had significantly elevated whole brain BDNF levels through at least 28 days after their final seizure. Mice that received only four HFE seizures (not kindled) had elevated BDNF levels, but only at 1 day post-seizure (DPSz), while BDNF levels were not significantly altered in mice receiving just one HFE seizure at any time point studied. Regional expression patterns of BDNF in the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and frontal cortex were also elevated by one DPSz and returned to control values by 14 DPSz in mice that received four HFE seizures. No changes were seen in the cerebellum, striatum, or piriform cortex. In contrast, fully kindled mice had significantly elevated BDNF levels within the hippocampus, hypothalamus, neocortex, and striatum that remained elevated through at least 14 DPSz, while levels were unchanged in the cerebellum and piriform cortex. Regional results were confirmed using anti-BDNF immunohistochemistry (IHC). Despite changes in BDNF levels following HFE kindling, we were unable to demonstrate alterations either in full-length tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB) expression (Western blot and IHC) or in truncated TrkB (IHC) expression levels. Together, these data suggest a model of a positive feedback loop involving seizure activity and seizure number and persistently modified BDNF signaling pathways that influences seizure phenotypes within the HFE kindling paradigm. Thus, long-term elevations in BDNF may be responsible in part for epileptogenic processes and the development of human refractory epilepsies.
Granule cells in the dentate gyrus are born throughout life, and various stimuli can affect their development in the adult brain. Following seizures, for instance, neurogenesis increases greatly, and some new cells migrate to abnormal (ectopic) locations, such as the hilus. Previous electrophysiological studies of this population have shown that they have intrinsic properties that are similar to normal granule cells, but differ in other characteristics, consistent with abnormal integration into host circuitry. To characterize the response of ectopic hilar granule cells to perforant path stimulation, intracellular recordings were made in hippocampal slices from rats that had pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and subsequent spontaneous recurrent seizures. Comparisons were made with granule cells located in the granule cell layer of both pilocarpine- and saline-treated animals. In addition, a few ectopic hilar granule cells were sampled from saline-treated rats. Remarkably, hilar granule cells displayed robust responses, even when their dendrites were not present within the molecular layer, where perforant path axons normally terminate. The evoked responses of hilar granule cells were similar in several ways to those of normally positioned granule cells, but there were some differences. For example, there was an unusually long latency to onset of responses evoked in many hilar granule cells, especially those without molecular layer dendrites. Presumably this is due to polysynaptic activation by the perforant path. These results indicate that synaptic reorganization after seizures can lead to robust activation of newly born hilar granule cells by the perforant path, even when their dendrites are not in the terminal field of the perforant path. Additionally, the fact that these cells can be found in normal tissue and develop similar synaptic responses, suggests that seizures, while not necessary for their formation, strongly promote their generation and the development of associated circuits, potentially contributing to a lowered seizure threshold.
While enhanced nociceptor activity has been demonstrated in models of painful peripheral neuropathy, analyses of activity pattern, which could play a role in the symptoms experienced as well as help elucidate underlying mechanism, are still limited. We evaluated the pattern of C-fiber activity, in response to mechanical and chemical stimuli, in a rat model of diabetes induced by a pancreatic beta-cell toxin, streptozotocin (STZ). In diabetic rats the number of action potentials produced by threshold and suprathreshold (10 g) sustained (60 s) mechanical stimuli was elevated in approximately half of C-fibers. These high-firing C-fibers demonstrated a disproportionate increase in interspike intervals (ISIs) between 100 and 199 ms, compared with low-firing diabetic and control C-fibers. The co-efficient of variability (CV2), a frequency independent measure of ISI variability, was also greater in high-firing fibers, compared with control fibers. Unexpectedly, instantaneous frequency of the initial burst of activity during the first second was lower in high-firing fibers, even though the average frequency over the last 59 s was significantly higher. The number of action potentials evoked by a noxious chemical stimulus, 300 and 600 mM KCl, injected adjacent to the mechanical receptive field was also significantly increased in C-fibers from diabetic rats and mechanically high-firing fibers had more action potentials in response to KCl than control fibers and a disproportionate increase in ISIs between 100 and 199 ms for responses to chemical stimuli appeared only in mechanically high-firing C-fibers, compared with the mechanically low-firing diabetic or control C-fibers. There was, however, no corresponding change in CV2 or instantaneous frequency plots for the response to chemical stimulation in mechanically high-firing fibers, as there was in the response to mechanical stimulation. Our data demonstrate specific changes in firing pattern of high-firing C-fibers in the rat model of painful neuropathy produced by STZ-diabetes that might contribute to the symptoms experienced by patients.
The heme oxygenase (HO) enzyme system has been shown to participate in nociceptive signaling in a number of different models of pain. In these experiments we investigated the role of the HO type 2 (HO-2) isozyme in tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine, and the hyperalgesia and allodynia which are measurable upon cessation of administration. Wild type C57Bl/6 wild type mice or HO-2 null mutants in that background strain were treated with morphine for 5 days. The morphine administration protocol consisted of either twice daily repeated s.c. boluses of 15 mg/kg or s.c. implantation of a morphine pellet. At the end of the treatment period wild type mice treated by either protocol exhibited tolerance, but the HO-2 null mutants did not. The HO-2 null mutants also exhibited less mechanical allodynia following cessation of morphine administration, though only modest differences in thermal hyperalgesia were noted. There was no correlation between the degree of tolerance obtained in the bolus and pellet protocols and the degree of hyperalgesia and allodynia observed after cessation of morphine administration in the wild type mice. Our final experiments analyzed increases in expression of mRNA for nitric oxide synthase type 1, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NMDAR1 subunit and prodynorphin in spinal cord tissue. In pellet-treated mice two- to three-fold increases were observed in the abundance of these species, but very little change was observed in the null-mutant mice. Taken together our results indicate that HO-2 participates in the acquisition of opioid tolerance, the expression of mechanical allodynia after cessation of opioid administration and in gene regulation occurring in the setting of treatment with morphine. Furthermore, these studies suggest that the mechanisms underlying analgesic tolerance and opioid-induced hypersensitivity are at least somewhat distinct.
Administration of typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs leads to activation of cells in the nucleus accumbens shell, central amygdaloid nucleus, and midline thalamic central medial nucleus, implicating important shared effects of these drugs. However, the exact cell types responding to antipsychotic drugs in the nucleus accumbens shell, central amygdaloid nucleus, and midline thalamic central medial nucleus are unclear. We report here that, in a rat model, the results of studies using double immunofluorescence labeling with antibodies directed against markers specific to candidate cell types suggest that the cells responding to haloperidol and clozapine in all three sites are: 1) neurons, rather than astrocytes; 2) inhibitory GABA neurons, but not acetylcholinergic neurons; and 3) dynorphin-containing GABA neurons, but not M-enkephalin-containing GABA neurons. The present study provides pharmacological evidence, at the cellular level in vivo, that the shared effects of antipsychotic drugs, whether typical and atypical, is activation of dynorphinergic GABA neurons in the nucleus accumbens shell, central amygdaloid nucleus, and midline thalamic central medial nucleus. Alternative ways to modulate dynorphinergic GABA neuronal activity or its target receptors might present an important new avenue for the treatment of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders.
Focal traumatic injury to the cerebral cortex is associated with early activation of the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), where high concentrations of nitric oxide-derived free radicals elicit extensive DNA damage. Subsequent activation of the nuclear repair enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) causes a severe energy deficit leading to the ultimate demise of affected neurons. Little is known about the temporal relationship of nNOS and PARP activation and the neuroprotective efficacy of their selective blockade in traumatic brain injury. To determine the relationship of nNOS and PARP activation, brain injury was induced by cryogenic lesion to the somatosensory cortex applying a pre-cooled cylinder after trephination for 6 s to the intact dura mater. Pre-treatment with 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (BrNI; 25 mg/kg, i.p.), and pre- or combined pre- and post-treatment with 3-aminobenzamide (AB; 10 mg/kg (i.c.v.) or 10 mg/kg/h (i.p.)) were used to inhibit nNOS and PARP, respectively. Cold lesion-induced changes in the somatosensory cortex and neuroprotection by BrNI and AB were determined using immunocytochemistry and immunodot-blot for detection of poly(ADP-ribose; PAR), the end-product of PARP activation, and the triphenyltetrazolium-chloride assay to assess lesion volume. PAR immunoreactivity reached its peak 30 min post-lesion and was followed by gradual reduction of PAR immunolabeling. BrNI pre-treatment significantly decreased the lesion-induced PAR concentration in damaged cerebral cortex. Pre-treatment by i.c.v. infusion of AB markedly diminished cortical PAR immunoreactivity and significantly reduced the lesion volume 24 h post-injury. In contrast, i.p. AB treatment remained largely ineffective. In conclusion, our data indicate early activation of PARP after cold lesion that is, at least in part, related to nNOS induction and supports the relevance of nNOS and/or PARP inhibition to therapeutic approaches of traumatic brain injury.
The mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of antidepressants is not known but neuroadaptive processes akin to long-term potentiation have been postulated. Arc (Activity-regulated, cytoskeletal-associated protein) is an effector immediate early gene implicated in LTP and other forms of neuroplasticity. Recent data show that Arc expression is regulated by brain 5-hydroxytryptamine neurones, a target of many antidepressants. Here in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemistry were used to examine whether Arc expression in rat brain is altered by antidepressant drug treatment. Repeated administration of the monoamine reuptake inhibitors paroxetine, venlafaxine or desipramine induced region-specific increases in Arc mRNA. These increases were greatest in regions of the cortex (frontal and parietal cortex) and hippocampus (CA1 layer) and absent in the caudate putamen. Repeated treatment with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, tranylcypromine, increased Arc mRNA in a similar fashion to the monoamine reuptake inhibitors. The antidepressant drugs also increased the number of Arc-immunoreactive cells in the parietal cortex. Acute antidepressant injection, and repeated administration of the antipsychotic drug chlorpromazine, produced either limited or no changes in Arc mRNA. The data suggest that chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs induces Arc gene expression in specific regions across the rat forebrain. Up-regulation of Arc expression may be part of the process by which antidepressant drugs achieve long-term changes in synaptic function in the brain.
The specific role of the Delta opioid receptor (DOR), in opioid-induced respiratory depression in the ventral respiratory group (VRG) is largely unknown. Here, we sought to determine (1) the relationship between DOR-immunoreactive (ir) boutons, bulbospinal and functionally identified respiratory neurons in the VRG and (2) the effects of microinjection of the selective DOR agonist, D-Pen 2,5-enkephalin (DPDPE), into different subdivisions of the VRG, on phrenic nerve discharge and mean arterial pressure. Following injections of retrograde tracer into the spinal cord or intracellular labelling of respiratory neurons, in Sprague-Dawley rats, brainstem sections were processed for retrograde or intracellular labelling and DOR-ir. Bulbospinal neurons were apposed by DOR-ir boutons regardless of whether they projected to single (cervical or thoracic ventral horn) or multiple (cervical and thoracic ventral horn) targets in the spinal cord. In the VRG, a total of 24 +/- 5% (67 +/- 13/223 +/- 49) of neurons projecting to the cervical ventral horn, and 37 +/- 3% (96 +/- 22/255 +/- 37) of neurons projecting to the thoracic ventral horn, received close appositions from DOR-ir boutons. Furthermore, DOR-ir boutons closely apposed six of seven intracellularly labelled neurons, whilst the remaining neuron itself possessed boutons that were DOR-ir. DPDPE was microinjected (10 mM, 60 nl, unilateral) into regions of respiratory field activity in the VRG of anaesthetised, vagotomised rats, and the effects on phrenic nerve discharge and mean arterial pressure were recorded. DPDPE depressed phrenic nerve amplitude, with little effect on phrenic nerve frequency in the Btzinger complex, pre-Btzinger complex and rVRG, the greatest effects occurring in the Btzinger complex. The results indicate that the DOR is located on afferent inputs to respiratory neurons in the VRG. Activation of the DOR in the VRG is likely to inhibit the release of neurotransmitters from afferent inputs that modulate the pattern of activity of VRG neurons.
We investigated interactions of an anesthetic barbiturate, pentobarbital, with non-ligand gated channels and identified inhibitory synaptic transmission in thalamic neurons. Using whole cell voltage-clamp, current-clamp and single channel recording techniques in rat ventrobasal neurons of slices and dispersed preparations, we determined the mechanisms of pentobarbital actions on ionic currents and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs), mediated by aminobutyric acid (GABA). We investigated pentobarbital effects on intrinsic currents using hyperpolarizing voltage commands from rest and tetrodotoxin blockade of action potentials. At concentrations near 8 microM, pentobarbital increased input conductance and induced net outward current, I(PB), at potentials near action potential threshold. The reversal potential of I(PB) was -75 mV, implicating K+ and other ions. Cs+ (3 mM) which inhibits both K+ currents and inward rectifier (Ih), completely blocked IPB, whereas the selective Ih blocker, ZD-7288 (25 microM), or Ba2+ (2 mM) which suppresses only K+ currents, reduced IPB. Pentobarbital inhibited the Ih, consistent with a ZD-7288-induced shift in reversal potential for IPB toward K+ equilibrium potential. Pentobarbital increased the inward K+ rectifier, IKir, and leak current, Ileak. We determined the susceptibility of IPSCs, evoked by reticular stimulation, to antagonism by bicuculline, picrotoxinin and 2-hydroxysaclofen and identified their receptor subclass components. At EC50 = 53 microM, pentobarbital increased the duration of IPSCs. The prolonged IPSC duration during pentobarbital was attributable to enhanced open probability of GABAA channels, because combined with GABA, pentobarbital application increased mean channel open time without affecting channel conductance. At concentrations up to 100 microM, pentobarbital did not directly activate GABAA receptors. The concentration-response relationships for pentobarbital effects on the intrinsic currents and IPSCs overlapped, implying multiple sites of action and possible redundancy in anesthetic mechanisms. This is the first study to show that an i.v. anesthetic modulates the intrinsic currents, Ih, IKir, and Ileak, as well as IPSC time course in the same neurons. These effects likely underlie inhibition in thalamocortical neurons during pentobarbital anesthesia.
P2X receptors are non-selective cation channels gated by extracellular ATP and are encoded by a family of seven subunit genes in mammals. These receptors exhibit high permeabilities to calcium and in the mammalian nervous system they have been linked to modulation of neurotransmitter release. Previously, three complementary DNAs (cDNAs) encoding members of the zebrafish gene family have been described. We report here the cloning and characterization of an additional six genes of this family. Sequence analysis of all nine genes suggests that six are orthologs of mammalian genes, two are paralogs of previously described zebrafish subunits, and one remains unclassified. All nine subunits were physically mapped onto the zebrafish genome using radiation hybrid analysis. Of the nine gene products, seven give functional homo-oligomeric receptors when recombinantly expressed in human embryonic kidney cell line 293 cells. In addition, these subunits can form hetero-oligomeric receptors with phenotypes distinct from the parent subunits. Analysis of gene expression patterns was carried out using in situ hybridization, and seven of the nine genes were found to be expressed in embryos at 24 and 48 h post-fertilization. Of the seven that were expressed, six were present in the nervous system and four of these demonstrated considerable overlap in cells present in the sensory nervous system. These results suggest that P2X receptors might play a role in the early development and/or function of the sensory nervous system in vertebrates.
We utilized morphometric analysis of 3 day cultures of hippocampal neurons to determine the effects of both estradiol and the synthetic estrogen receptor modulator raloxifene on several parameters of neuronal growth and differentiation. These measurements included survival, neurite production, dendrite number, and axon and dendrite length and branching. 17 beta-Estradiol (10 nM) selectively stimulated dendrite branching; this effect was neither mimicked by alpha-estradiol, nor blocked by the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182780. The selective estrogen receptor modulator raloxifene (100 nM) neither mimicked nor reversed the effects of estradiol on dendritic branching. Western immunoblotting for the alpha and beta subtypes of estrogen receptor revealed the presence of alpha, but not beta, estrogen receptors in our hippocampal cultures. There is growing recognition of the effects of 17 beta-estradiol on neuronal development and physiology, with implications for brain sexual dimorphism, plasticity, cognition, and the maintenance of cognitive function during aging. The role of estradiol in hippocampal neuronal differentiation and function has particular implications for learning and memory. These data support the hypothesis that 17 beta-estradiol is acting via alpha estrogen receptors in influencing hippocampal development in vitro. Raloxifene, prescribed to combat osteoporosis in post-menopausal women, is a selective estrogen receptor modulator with tissue-specific agonist/antagonist properties. Because raloxifene had no effect on dendritic branching, we hypothesize that it does not interact with the alpha estrogen receptor in this experimental paradigm.
The pathology of Alzheimer's disease includes amyloid-beta peptide aggregation that contributes to degeneration of cholinergic neurons. Even though the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear, recent in vitro evidence supports a protective role for estrogens against several neurotoxic agents. Here we report that, in a murine cholinergic cell line (SN56), the massive cell death induced by 1-40 fragment of amyloid-beta peptide was prevented by 17beta-estradiol through a mechanism that may involve estrogen receptor activation. The protective effect of estradiol was observed in a dose-dependent manner, and was completely blocked by the pure antiestrogen ICI 182,780. In contrast, the inactive isomer 17alpha-estradiol consistently showed weaker neuroprotection than the native hormone that was unaffected by ICI 182,780 treatment. In addition, equivalent concentrations of 17beta-estradiol enhanced luciferase activity in cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene driven by tandem estrogen response elements. Estrogen-induced luciferase activity was blocked by ICI 182,780, indicating estrogen receptor-dependent transcriptional activity. We also observed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot and immunocytochemistry that increasing concentrations of 17beta-estradiol enhanced the expression of estrogen receptor alpha mRNA and protein during amyloid-beta-induced toxicity. Under these conditions, it was found by confocal microscopy that the localization of estrogen receptor alpha in the absence of hormone was mainly extranuclear. However, the receptor was consistently observed also at the nuclear region after estrogen exposure. Overall, these data suggest that estrogen may exert neuroprotective effects against amyloid-beta-induced toxicity by activation of estrogen receptor-mediated pathways. In addition, intracellular estrogen receptors are up-regulated by their cognate hormone even during exposure to neurotoxic agents.
Adenosine can reduce pain and allodynia in animals and man, probably via spinal adenosine A1 receptors. In the present study, we investigate the distribution of the adenosine A1 receptor in the rat spinal cord dorsal horn using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, radioligand binding, and confocal microscopy. In the lumbar cord dorsal horn, dense immunoreactivity was seen in the inner part of lamina II. This was unaltered by dorsal root section or thoracic cord hemisection. Confocal microscopy of the dorsal horn revealed close anatomical relationships but no or only minor overlap between A1 receptors and immunoreactivity for markers associated with primary afferent central endings: calcitonin gene-related peptide, or isolectin B4, or with neuronal subpopulations: mu-opioid receptor, neuronal nitric oxide synthase, met-enkephalin, parvalbumin, or protein kinase Cgamma, or with glial cells: glial fibrillary acidic protein. A few adenosine A1 receptor positive structures were double-labeled with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoaxolepropionic acid glutamate receptor subunits 1 and 2/3. The results indicate that most of the adenosine A1 receptors in the dorsal horn are located in inner lamina II postsynaptic neuronal cell bodies and processes whose functional and neurochemical identity is so far unknown. Many adenosine A1 receptor positive structures are in close contact with isolectin B4 positive C-fiber primary afferents and/or postsynaptic structures containing components of importance for the modulation of nociceptive information.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) signals through multisubunit receptor complex consisting of RET tyrosine kinase and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored coreceptor called GDNF family receptor alpha1 (GFRalpha1). In the current study, we cloned a human SEP1 gene as a GDNF-inducible gene using human neuroblastoma cells that express RET and GFRalpha1. The induction of the SEP1 gene showed two peaks at 0.5-2 h and 24-48 h after GDNF stimulation by Northern blotting and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The late induction was also confirmed at protein levels by Western blotting with anti-SEP1 antibody. Immunostaining revealed that the expression of the SEP1 protein was detected in cell body, elongated neurites and growth cone-like structure of neuroblastoma cells treated with GDNF. In addition, we found a high level of SEP1 expression in neurons of the dorsal root and superior cervical ganglia and motor neurons of the spinal cord of mice in which RET is also expressed. SEP1 was co-immunoprecipitated with alpha- and beta-tubulins from the lysate of mouse brain. These results thus suggested that SEP1 is a GDNF-inducible and microtubule-associated protein that may play a role in the nervous system.
Recent evidence shows that secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) may play a role in membrane fusion and fission, and may thus affect neurotransmission. The present study therefore aimed to elucidate the effects of sPLA2 on vesicle exocytosis. External application of group IIA sPLA2 (purified crotoxin subunit B or purified human synovial sPLA2) caused an immediate increase in exocytosis and neurotransmitter release in pheochromocytoma-12 (PC12) cells, detected by carbon fiber electrodes placed near the cells, or by changes in membrane capacitance of the cells. EGTA and a specific inhibitor of sPLA2 activity, 12-epi-scalaradial, abolished the increase in neurotransmitter release, indicating that the effect of sPLA2 was dependent on calcium and sPLA2 enzymatic activity. A similar increase in neurotransmitter release was also observed in hippocampal neurons after external application of sPLA2, as detected by changes in membrane capacitance of the neurons. In contrast to external application, internal application of sPLA2 to PC12 cells and neurons produced blockade of neurotransmitter release. Our recent studies showed high levels of sPLA2 activity in the normal rat hippocampus, medulla oblongata and cerebral neocortex. The sPLA2 activity in the hippocampus was significantly increased, after kainate-induced neuronal injury. The observed effects of sPLA2 on neurotransmitter release in this study may therefore have a physiological, as well as a pathological role.
For peripheral iron to reach the brain, it must transverse the blood-brain barrier. In order for the brain to obtain iron, transferrin receptors are present in the vascular endothelial cell to facilitate movement of transferrin bound iron into the brain parenchyma. However, a number of significant voids exist in our knowledge about transport of iron into the brain. These gaps in our knowledge are significant not only because iron is an essential neurotrophic factor but also because the system for delivery of iron into the brain is being viewed as an opportunity to circumvent the blood-brain barrier for delivery of neurotoxins to tumors or trophic factors in neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we have used fluorescein-transferrin-59Fe in a bovine retinal endothelial cell culture system to determine the mechanism of transferrin-iron transport and to test the hypothesis that the iron status of the endothelial cells would influence iron transport. Our results indicated that iron is transported across endothelial cells both bound to and not bound to transferrin. The ratio of non-transferrin-bound iron to transferrin-bound iron transported is dependent upon the iron status of the cells. Blocking acidification of endosomes led to a significant decrease in transport of non-transferrin-bound iron but not transferrin-bound iron. Blocking pinocytosis had no effect on either transferrin or iron transcytosis. These results indicate that there is both transferrin-mediated and non-transferrin-mediated transcytosis of iron and that the process is influenced by the iron status of the cells. These data have considerable implications for common neurodegenerative diseases that are associated with excess brain iron accumulation and the numerous neurological complications associated with brain iron deficiency.
Central opioid and oxytocinergic systems have been involved in the regulatory control of sodium appetite. In addition, previous studies support the existence of a functional interaction between opioid peptides and oxytocinergic pathways, and suggest that beta-endorphin neurons would modulate the activity of central oxytocinergic pathways, its pituitary secretion and sodium appetite. To investigate the role of this opioid peptide in the control of oxytocin (OT) synthesis and sodium appetite regulation we used mice with gene dosage-dependent variations in brain beta-endorphin content, expressing either 100%, 50%, or 0% of normal beta-endorphin content. Our results show that beta-endorphin knockout (KO) and heterozygous (HT) mutant mice consume approximately a 50% less 2% NaCl solution compared with wild type mice (WT), after furosemide and low sodium diet treatment. These data suggest that beta-endorphin may facilitate induced sodium appetite, giving new evidence about the role of beta-endorphin on sodium appetite behavior. Our data also indicate that OT mRNA levels evaluated by in situ hybridization significantly increased within the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of WT animals after induced sodium ingestion, giving support to former evidence indicating an inhibitory role for central OT in the control of sodium appetite. Moreover, beta-endorphin mutated mice have similar higher levels of OT mRNA expression after the different conditions analyzed: basal, control or experimental, compared with WT mice. Both control HT and KO mice showed higher OT mRNA expression levels than control WT group and these levels did not change after induced sodium intake. Taken together, our data suggest that the reduced sodium ingestion observed in beta-endorphin deficient mice could be due to a higher expression of the OT gene. This conclusion would support the hypothesis that OT inhibits sodium intake and provides new evidence about beta-endorphin modulation of OT synthesis and sodium appetite.
The immunomodulatory thymic hormone thymulin has been shown previously to possess anti-inflammatory actions in the periphery. In this study, we have examined the effect of i.c.v. injections of either endotoxin (ET) or thymulin, in separate groups of conscious rats, on pain-related behavior and cytokine levels in different areas of the brain. Furthermore, we investigated the effect of pretreatment with either i.c.v. or i.p. injections of thymulin on endotoxin-induced hyperalgesia and the effect of pretreatment with i.c.v. thymulin on endotoxin-induced up-regulation of cytokine levels. Our results demonstrate that i.c.v. injection of endotoxin (1 microg in 5 microl saline) resulted in a significant decrease in the nociceptive thresholds as assessed by different pain tests, with peak hyperalgesia at 3 h. However, thymulin at different doses, when injected (i.c.v.), had no significant effect on pain related behavior. Pretreatment (i.c.v.) with thymulin (0.1, 0.5 and 1 microg in 5 microl saline) 20 min before endotoxin (i.c.v.) injection (1 microg in 5 microl saline) reduced, in a dose dependent manner, the endotoxin-induced hyperalgesia and exerted differential effects on the up-regulated levels of cytokines in different areas of the brain. The results provide behavioral and immunochemical characterization of a rat model for intracerebral inflammation and indicates a neuroprotective role for thymulin in the CNS.
Orexins (OXs) regulate sleep with possible interactions with brain noradrenergic neurons. In addition, noradrenergic activity affects barbiturate anesthesia. As we have also recently reported that OXs selectively evoke norepinephrine release from rat cerebrocortical slices we hypothesized that barbiturate anesthesia may result from of an interaction with central orexinergic systems. To test this hypothesis, we performed a series of in vivo and in vitro studies in rats. In vivo, the effects of i.c.v. OX A, B and SB-334867-A (OX1 receptor antagonist) on pentobarbital, thiopental or phenobarbital-induced anesthesia times (loss of righting reflex) was assessed. In vitro effects of barbiturates and SB-334867-A on OX-evoked norepinephrine release from cerebrocortical slice was examined. In Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human OX1/OX2 receptors OX A- and B-evoked increases in intracellular Ca2+ were measured with and without barbiturates. OX A and B significantly decreased pentobarbital, thiopental and phenobarbital anesthesia times by 15-40%. SB-334867-A increased thiopental-induced anesthesia time by approximately by 40%, and reversed the decrease produced by OX A. In vitro, all anesthetic barbiturates inhibited OX-evoked norepinephrine release with clinically relevant IC50 values. A GABAA antagonist, bicuculline, did not modify the inhibitory effects of thiopental and the GABAA agonist, muscimol, did not inhibit norepinephrine release. In addition there was no interaction of barbiturates with either OX1 or OX2 receptors. Collectively our data suggest that orexinergic neurons may be an important target for barbiturates, and GABAA, OX1 and OX2 receptors may not be involved in this interaction.
Manipulations that increase the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in the hippocampus (e.g. peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide, i.c.v. glycoprotein 120, social isolation) as well as the intrahippocampal injection of IL-1beta following a learning experience, dramatically impair the memory of that experience if the formation of the memory requires the hippocampus. Here we employed social isolation to further study this phenomenon, as well as its relation to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF was studied because of its well-documented role in the formation of hippocampally based memory. A 6 h period of social isolation immediately after contextual fear conditioning impaired memory for context fear measured 48 h later, and decreased BDNF mRNA in the dentate gyrus and the CA3 region of the hippocampus assessed immediately after the isolation. Moreover, an intrahippocampal injection of the IL-1 receptor antagonist prior to the isolation period prevented both the BDNF downregulation and the memory impairments produced by the isolation. These data suggest that hippocampal-dependent memory impairments induced by elevated levels of brain IL-1beta may occur via an IL-1beta-induced downregulation in hippocampal BDNF.
The function of the second nuclear estrogen receptor, estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta), in the brain is largely unknown. The present study tested whether 1) ERbeta in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus has a direct role in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis-mediated stress function, and 2) whether corticosterone (CORT) can regulate ERbeta gene expression in the PVN in the intact, cycling female rat. To test the first hypothesis a pure estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI182, 780, was microinjected into the PVN bilaterally and stress-induced CORT response to an acute stressor (15 min restraint) was measured at 0, 15, 30, 60 and 90 min time points. Estrogen antagonist-injected rats showed inhibited CORT levels at the peak (15 min) of the stress response compared with vehicle-injected animals. To test the second hypothesis, ERbeta mRNA levels were measured in the PVN using in situ hybridization histochemistry following sham surgery, adrenalectomy, and adrenalectomy with low or high CORT replacement. Adrenalectomy reduced ERbeta mRNA expression in the PVN, whereas CORT replacement fully reversed this effect in a dose-dependent fashion. Both antagonist inhibition of CORT response and CORT-mediated regulation of ERbeta mRNA were found to be estrus cycle-dependent in the intact, cycling female. These data suggest that ERbeta in the PVN may critically modulate the HPA axis response to stress and is, in turn, regulated by circulating CORT.
Previously, we demonstrated that stress-induced self-grooming behaviour in rats predicted an enhanced motivation to self-administer cocaine as determined under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. The enhanced motivation of high grooming (HG) rats was associated with a reduced reactivity of dopaminergic neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala, but not nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we studied the effect of cocaine and saline self-administration on these pre-existing differences in neurochemical profile by determining the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine from superfused slices of the nucleus accumbens shell and core, medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala of HG and low grooming (LG) rats. Although HG and LG rats did not differ in acquisition of cocaine and saline self-administration, both conditions induced substantially different neuroadaptations in these rats. Differences in depolarisation-induced dopamine and acetylcholine release were maintained in the medial prefrontal cortex, emerged in the nucleus accumbens and dissipated in the amygdala. These results indicate that altered reactivity of mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons due to exposure to cocaine and environmental stimuli (saline) is dependent on pre-existing neurochemical differences and displays region-specificity. These pre-existing differences and the cocaine- and environmental-induced neuroadaptations seem to act in concert to produce an enhanced motivational state to self-administer cocaine.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus is reduced in response to acute, as well as repeated immobilization stress. This effect might be mediated by corticosterone, because corticosterone administration is known to reduce hippocampal BDNF. However, rats subjected to a learning paradigm showed an increased BDNF expression in the hippocampus despite the high corticosterone levels found during the test. To dissect the relative contributions of learning and stress to the overall changes in BDNF levels we set up an experimental model in which two groups of rats received the same amount of stress, but only one group had the possibility to learn how to avoid it. Using this model, we now report that learning and stress exert an opposite modulation on BDNF levels in the hippocampus, and that the increasing effect of learning predominates over the decreasing effect of stress.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is necessary for the development of sensory neurons, and appears to be critical for the survival of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells that bind the lectin IB4. Intrathecal infusion of GDNF has been shown to prevent and reverse the behavioral expression of experimental neuropathic pain arising from injury to spinal nerves. This effect of GDNF has been attributed to a blockade of the expression of the voltage gated, tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channel subtype, Na(V)1.3, in the injured DRG. Here we report that GDNF given intrathecally via osmotic-pump to nerve-injured rats (L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation) prevented the changes in a variety of neurochemical markers in the DRG upon injury. They include a loss of binding of IB4, downregulation of the purinergic receptor P2X(3), upregulation of galanin and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in large diameter DRG cells, and expression of the transcription factor ATF3. GDNF infusion concomitantly prevented the development of spinal nerve ligation-induced tactile hypersensitivity and thermal hyperalgesia. These observations suggest that high dose, exogenous GDNF has a broad neuroprotective role in injured primary afferent. The receptor(s) that mediates these effects of GDNF is not known. GDNF's ability to block neuropathic pain states is not likely to be specific to Na(V)1.3 expression.
In canaries, singing and a large number of morphological features of the neural system that mediates the learning, perception and production of song exhibit marked sex differences. Although these differences have been mainly attributed to sex-specific patterns of the action of testosterone and its metabolites, the mechanisms by which sex steroids regulate brain and behavior are far from being completely understood. Given that the density of immunoreactive catecholaminergic fibers that innervate telencephalic song nuclei in canaries is higher in males, which sing, than in females, which usually do not sing, we hypothesized that some of the effects induced by testosterone on song behavior are mediated through the action of the steroid on the catecholaminergic neurons which innervate the song control nuclei. Therefore, we investigated in female canaries the effects of a treatment with exogenous testosterone on song production, on the volume of song control nuclei, and on the catecholaminergic innervation of these nuclei as assessed by immunocytochemical visualization of tyrosine hydroxylase. Testosterone induced male-like singing in all females and increased by about 80% the volume of two telencephalic song control nuclei, the high vocal center (HVC) and the nucleus robustus archistriatalis (RA). Testosterone also significantly increased the fractional area covered by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive structures (fibers and varicosities) in most telencephalic song control nuclei (HVC, the lateral and medial parts of the magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum, the nucleus interfacialis, and to a lesser extent RA). By contrast, testosterone did not affect the catecholaminergic innervation of the telencephalic areas adjacent to HVC and RA. Together these data demonstrate that, in parallel to its effects on song behavior and on the morphology of the song control system, testosterone also regulates the catecholaminergic innervation of most telencephalic song control nuclei in canaries. The endocrine regulation of singing may thus involve the neuromodulatory action of specialized dopaminergic and/or noradrenergic projections onto several key parts of the song control system.
Accumulating evidence indicates that an animal's response to a drug can be profoundly affected by early environmental influences. The brain opioid and dopamine systems may play a critical role in these effects, since various types of stress and drugs of abuse promote alterations in these brain systems. To study this further, we investigated long-term behavioural and neurochemical effects of repeated maternal separation in male Wistar rats. The pups were separated in litters daily from their dams for either 15 min (MS15) or 360 min (MS360) from postnatal days 1-21. Analysis of the kappa- and delta-opioid, dopamine D(1)- and D(2)-like receptors with receptor autoradiography revealed long-term neurochemical changes in several brain areas. D(1)-like receptor binding was affected in the hippocampus and D(2)-like receptor binding in the ventral tegmental area and the periaqueductal gray, whereas minor changes were seen in opioid receptor density after maternal separation. At 10-13 weeks of age, MS15 rats had a lower ethanol intake whereas, the MS360 rats consumed more 8% ethanol solution compared with MS15 and animal facility-reared rats. Ethanol consumption altered kappa-receptor density in several brain areas, for example the amygdala, substantia nigra and the periaqueductal gray. D(1)-like receptor binding was affected in distinct brain areas, including the nucleus accumbens, where also delta-opioid receptor density was changed in addition to the frontal cortex. Ethanol-induced changes were observed in D(2)-like receptor density in the ventral tegmental area in MS360, and in the ventral tegmental area and frontal-parietal cortex in animal facility-reared rats. These findings show that early experiences can induce long-lasting changes in especially brain dopamine receptor density and that ethanol consumption induces alterations in opioid and dopamine receptor density in distinct brain areas. It is also suggested that changes induced by repeated MS15 may provide protection against high voluntary ethanol intake.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) proteins and their erbB receptors are essential for neuronal development during embryogenesis and may contribute importantly to neuronal function in the adult brain. This study tests the hypothesis that NRG-1beta acts as a modulator of synaptic activity in the adult brain, specifically at hippocampal formation synapses. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and a recording electrode with an attached stainless steel microinjector was stereotaxically positioned to record field potentials (fEPSP) in either the dentate gyrus or the cornu ammonis (CA) 1 field of the hippocampus. The entorhinal cortex was continuously stimulated via a paired stainless steel electrode. Microinjection of NRG-1beta significantly increased the slope of the fEPSP in the dentate gyrus in a dose-dependent manner. Compared with a low dose (20 nM), a high dose (100 nM) of NRG-1beta induced a shorter latency response that was of greater magnitude. Responses to NRG-1beta were abolished by pretreatment with a selective, reversible erbB tyrosine kinase inhibitor, PD158780 (100 microM). Further, PD158780 (100 microM) itself significantly decreased the entorhinal-dentate fESPS slope by about 15%. Neither equimolar (100 nM) nor hypermolar (100 microM) sucrose or heat-inactivated NRG-1beta (100 nM) significantly altered the entorhinal-dentate fEPSP slope. In contrast to its effect at the entorhinal-dentate synapse, NRG-1beta (100 nM) depressed, and PD158780 potentiated entorhinal-CA1 synaptic transmission. Thus, in adult rats NRG-1beta potentiates transmission at the entorhinal-dentate synapse but suppresses transmission at the entorhinal-CA1 synapse. These observations indicate that NRG-1 is not only a developmental growth factor, but also modifies synaptic transmission in adult rat brain.
Prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) was originally thought to participate in the control of adenohypophyseal prolactin secretion, but its predominant expression in a subset of medullary noradrenergic neurons is more in line with roles in interoceptive and/or somatosensory information processing. To better define functional contexts for this peptide system, immuno- and hybridization histochemical methods were used to monitor the capacity of PrRP neurons to display activational responses to lactation, suckling, acute footshock or hypotensive hemorrhage. PrRP mRNA signal was reduced in the medulla of lactating dams, relative to both male and diestrus female controls, with cell counts revealing 42% and 43% reductions in the number of positively hybridized cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and ventrolateral medulla, respectively. Lactating mothers killed after a 90 min suckling episode (following 4 h pup removal) failed to show induced Fos expression in identified medullary PrRP neurons, despite the fact that responsive neurons were detected in other aspects of the caudal NTS. By contrast, acute exposure to hypotensive (25%) hemorrhage or footshock each activated substantial complements of medullary neurons expressing PrRP mRNA. A substantially greater fraction of the total medullary PrRP population exhibited sensitivity to footshock than hemorrhage (71 versus 39%, respectively). These results suggest that medullary PrRP neurons are negatively regulated by (presumably hormonal) changes in lactation, and are not recruited to activation by suckling stimuli. These populations exhibit differential sensitivity to distinct acute stressors, and may participate in the modulation of adaptive neuroendocrine and autonomic responses to each.
Hippocampal ripple oscillations (140-200 Hz) are believed to be critically involved in the consolidation of memory traces during slow-wave sleep (SWS). We investigated the temporal pattern of ripple occurrence in relation to sleep phases following different types of waking. Amphetamine, the atypical wakening drug modafinil or non-pharmacological sleep deprivation lead to an increased ripple occurrence (&quot;rebound&quot;) during the subsequent SWS episode. Waking of the same duration evoked by amphetamine or sleep deprivation led to a ripple rebound of similar extent (approximately 200%). The mean intraripple frequency was also elevated by up to 20 Hz during SWS following all treatments. Ripple amplitude was significantly increased only in experiments with amphetamine. Ripple occurrence but not intraripple frequency clearly correlated with the antecedent waking duration independent of treatment. Recovery of ripple occurrence and frequency to the pretreatment level during SWS depended on SWS duration. At the end of the recovery period paradoxical sleep (PS) acted like waking, elevating ripple occurrence during subsequent SWS episodes. On the other hand, PS decreased ripple occurrence if recovery from the rebound was not yet complete. Thus occurrence and structure of ripple oscillations are regulated by the timing and duration of previous SWS, PS and waking episodes.
Drug-associated environmental cues can maintain drug use and contribute to relapse even after long periods of abstinence. We investigated the ability of sensory stimuli that signaled periods of reward availability to sustain cocaine self-administration and trigger the reinstatement of reward-seeking behavior. We demonstrate that lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA), a structure strongly implicated in attributing salience to environmental stimuli, significantly reduced the power of predictive cues to elicit reward-seeking behavior. In daily training sessions, a 20 s discriminative stimulus (DS) was presented to rats on a variable interval schedule. If five lever presses were recorded during the DS-on period, then cocaine (0.5 mg/kg) and a conditioned stimulus (CS) were simultaneously delivered. After training, half the animals received excitotoxic lesions of the BLA with quinolinic acid; the other half received saline. Compared with sham-lesioned animals, rats with BLA lesions earned fewer cocaine injections and were less accurate in responding to the DS in the first few days following the lesion. However, they maintained the same cocaine intake as sham-lesioned animals when the DS requirement was lifted. Finally, after seven extinction sessions, reinstatement was measured in response to: 1) i.v. cocaine infusion, 2) DS, 3) CS, 4) a familiar, but non-rewarded cue (S-) or 5) no stimulus. In sham-lesioned animals, cocaine and the DS, but not the CS or the S-, triggered reinstatement. BLA lesions abolished DS-induced reinstatement and significantly attenuated cocaine-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate 1) that when tested under the same conditions, a discriminative cue which signals reward availability is a more robust trigger of reward-seeking than a Pavlovian CS which signals reward delivery and 2) that the BLA contributes to reinstatement in response to these discriminative cues.
The previous report of intracellular recording of hindlimb motoneurons in decerebrate cats [ 511] has suggested that the following mechanisms are involved in a generalized motor inhibition induced by stimulating the medullary reticular formation. First, the motor inhibition, which was prominent in the late latency (30-80 ms), can be ascribed to the inhibitory effects in parallel to motoneurons and to interneuronal transmission in reflex pathways. Second, both a group of interneurons receiving inhibition from flexor reflex afferents and a group of Ib interneurons mediate the late inhibitory effects upon the motoneurons. To substantiate the above mechanisms of motor inhibition we examined the medullary stimulus effects upon intracellular (n=55) and extracellular (n=136) activity of spinal interneurons recorded from the lower lumbar segments (L6-L7). Single pulses or stimulus trains (1-3) pulses, with a duration of 0.2 ms and intensity of 20-50 microA) applied to the medullary nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis evoked a mixture of excitatory and inhibitory effects with early (&lt;20 ms) and late (&gt;30 ms) latencies. The medullary stimulation excited 55 interneurons (28.8%) with a late latency. Thirty-nine of the cells, which included 10 Ib interneurons, were inhibited by volleys in flexor reflex afferents (FRAs). These cells were mainly located in lamina VII of Rexed. On the other hand, the late inhibitory effects were observed in 67 interneurons (35.1%), which included cells mediating reciprocal Ia inhibition, non-reciprocal group I (Ib) inhibition, recurrent inhibition and flexion reflexes. Intracellular recording revealed that the late inhibitory effects were due to inhibitory postsynaptic potentials with a peak latency of about 50 ms and a duration of 50-60 ms. The inhibitory effects were attenuated by volleys in FRAs. Neither excitatory nor inhibitory effects with a late latency were observed in 69 (36.1%) cells which were located in the intermediate region and dorsal horn. These results suggest the presence of a functional organization of the spinal cord with respect to the production of the generalized motor inhibition. Lamina VII interneurons that receive inhibition from volleys in FRAs possibly mediate the postsynaptic inhibition from the medullary reticular formation in parallel to motoneurons and to interneurons in reflex pathways.
Inflammation and reduced forebrain norepinephrine are features of Alzheimer's disease that may interact to contribute to the degeneration of specific neural systems. We reproduced these conditions within the basal forebrain cholinergic system, a region that is vulnerable to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha was infused into the basal forebrain of young mice pretreated with a norepinephrine neuronal toxin, N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2 bromobenzylamine (DSP4), with the expectation that the loss of noradrenergic input would enhance the loss of cholinergic neurons. The results indicate that chronic infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha alone significantly decreased cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and increased the number of activated microglia and astrocytes within the basal forebrain. The loss of forebrain norepinephrine following systemic treatment with DSP4 did not alter the level of cortical choline acetyltransferase activity or activate microglia but significantly activated astrocytes within the basal forebrain. Infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha into DSP4-pretreated mice also reduced cortical choline acetyltransferase activity on the side of the infusion; however, the decline was not significantly greater than that produced by the infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha alone. The neurodegeneration seen may be indirect since a double-immunofluorescence investigation did not find evidence for the co-existence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha type I receptors on choline acetyltransferase-positive cells in the basal forebrain. The results suggest that noradrenergic cell loss in Alzheimer's disease does not augment the consequences of the chronic neuroinflammation and does not enhance neurodegeneration of forebrain cholinergic neurons.
Here we investigate the temporal properties of recurrent seizure-like events (SLEs) in a low-[Mg(2+)] model of experimental epilepsy. Simultaneous intra- and extracellular electric signals were recorded in the CA3 region of rat hippocampal slices whereby cytosolic [Ca(2+)] transients were imaged by fluorescence detection. Recurrence pattern analysis was applied to give a measure of synchrony of simultaneously recorded intra- and extracellular electric signals and the SLE frequencies were extracted by complex wavelet analysis. Slices from the juvenile, but not the young adult rats, displayed several high-amplitude triplets of electric and [Ca(2+)] transients, termed paroxysmal spikes, followed by an SLE. Occurrence of the full-blown SLE was associated with decreased synaptic activity between the paroxysmal spikes that were seen as incomplete SLE starting sequences. The time series of recurrent SLEs provide evidence for a single SLE rhythm as continuously declining from about 200 Hz to below 1 Hz at the onset and termination of SLE, respectively, with an intermediate spectral discontinuity, tentatively identified with the tonic/clonic transition. All other frequency components were the harmonics of the fundamental rhythm, whereby the gamma and the theta band oscillations were not detected as separate activities. Recurrence showed decreasing temporal synchrony of intra- and extracellular signals during the SLE, suggesting that coincidence is destroyed by the SLE. Blockade of gap junctions with 200 microM carbenoxolone ceased recurrent SLEs. Release of gap junction blockade shortened both SLEs and their tonic phase indicating that persistent changes occurred via an altered gap junction coupling. We conclude that the initially precise temporal synchrony is gradually destroyed during ictal events with a single rhythm of continuously decreasing frequency. Blockade of gap junction coupling might prevent epileptic synchronisation.
We previously reported the up-regulation of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) in injured sciatic nerve of rats with partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) and the reversal of PSNL-elicited tactile allodynia by local injection of the COX inhibitor ketorolac [Eur J Neurosci 15 (2002) 1037]. We further asked whether COX2 up-regulation in injured nerve is a universal phenomenon following various types of nerve injury. In the current study, we observed that abundant COX2 immunoreactive (IR) cell profiles appeared in injured nerves of rats following spinal nerve ligation (SNL), chronic constriction injury (CCI) and complete sciatic nerve transection. Most COX2-IR cells were identified as infiltrating macrophages. Partial injury induced greater COX2 up-regulation than complete injury. COX2 up-regulation reached a peak at 2-4 weeks, evidently declined by 3 months and disappeared by 7 months postlesion. These findings suggest that up-regulation of COX2 in injured nerve is a common event during the initial several months after nerve injury. We observed that local ketorolac-elicited anti-allodynia was closely associated with the abundance of COX2-IR cells in injured nerve, varying with the type of injury and time after injury. The anti-allodynia lasted the longest when local ketorolac was given 2-4 weeks after PSNL, CCI and SNL. The duration of local ketorolac's anti-allodynia was the longest in CCI rats, which also exhibited the most abundant COX2 up-regulation. Local ketorolac's anti-allodynia lasted much shorter when given 2-3 months after lesion. Local ketorolac failed to induce anti-allodynia 7 months after lesion, a time when COX2-IR cells completely disappeared from the injured nerve except a few cells at the injury site. Our data strongly suggest that during the initial several months after nerve injury, peripherally over-produced prostaglandins play an important role in the maintenance of neuropathic pain.
We previously reported that partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) dramatically up-regulates cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) in injured sciatic nerve, and local injection of the COX inhibitor, ketorolac, reverses tactile allodynia and suppresses increased phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP responsive element binding protein [Eur J Neurosci 15 (2002) 1037]. These findings suggest that peripheral prostaglandins (PGs) are over-produced and contribute to the central plasticity and the maintenance of neuropathic pain after nerve injury. PGs, particularly PGE2, are well known to facilitate the release of the pro-nociceptive neuropeptide substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from primary sensory afferents. Thus, suppressing peripheral PG over-production may inhibit the release of these two neuropeptides from primary afferents and thereby increase the content of these neuropeptides remaining in afferent terminals in the dorsal horn. In this study we tested this hypothesis by examining the immunoreactivities of SP and CGRP in the dorsal horn of PSNL rats intraplantarly injected with saline and ketorolac. Four weeks after PSNL, SP- and CGRP-immunoreactivities (IR) in the ipsilateral dorsal horn were not significantly different from the contralateral side. Five days following intraplantar injection of ketorolac, CGRP- and SP-IR in the ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal horn were dramatically reduced compared with saline-injected PSNL rats. Local ketorolac also suppressed PSNL-induced increase in dynorphin-IR in dorsal horn neurons. Since abundant production of PGs during inflammation is well documented, we further examined the effect of intraplantar ketorolac on neuropeptide expression in the dorsal horn following carrageenan inflammation. We observed that co-administration of ketorolac with carrageenan in the hindpaw also reduced SP- and dynorphin-IR in the ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal horn. These findings are in contrast to our hypothesis, suggesting that peripherally over-produced PGs following nerve injury and inflammation possibly contribute to the production of SP and CGRP in primary sensory neurons, to the up-regulation of dynorphin in the dorsal horn neurons, and finally to the mechanisms of neuropathic and inflammation pain.
Capsaicin stimulates neurokinin release in the spinal cord when applied both centrally and peripherally. To determine whether these two actions have different mechanisms, we measured neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) internalization in rat spinal cord slices elicited by incubating the whole slice or just the dorsal root with capsaicin. NK1R internalization produced by incubating the slices with capsaicin was abolished by the NK1R antagonist RP-67580, by the vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) antagonist capsazepine, and by eliminating Ca(2+) from the medium, but was not affected by the Na(+) channel blocker lidocaine. Therefore, the internalization was due to neurokinin release mediated by Ca(2+) entry through VR1 receptors, but did not require the firing of action potentials. Incubating the root with capsaicin produced NK1R internalization in the ipsilateral dorsal horn that was abolished when capsazepine or lidocaine was included in, or when Ca(2+) was omitted from, the medium surrounding the root. Therefore, the internalization was mediated by Ca(2+) entry in the axons through VR1, and required firing of action potentials. The efficacy of capsaicin when applied to the root (36+/-3%) was lower than when applied to the slice (91+/-3%), but its potency was the same (0.49 microM and 0.37 microM, respectively). We also investigated whether presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and GABA(B) receptors modulate these two actions of capsaicin. Neither the NMDA receptor blocker MK-801 nor the GABA(B) agonist baclofen decreased NK1R internalization produced by 1 microM capsaicin applied to the slices, but they inhibited the internalization produced by 0.3 microM capsaicin applied to the slices or 1 microM capsaicin applied to the root. Therefore, capsaicin can produce neurokinin release from primary afferents 1) by a direct action on their central terminals and 2) by increasing the firing of action potentials on their axons. The first effect largely bypasses other modulatory mechanism, but the second does not.
Hormone replacement therapy with the gonadal steroid estrogen or synthetic agents such as raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, may affect cellular function in brains of postmenopausal women. In vitro studies suggest that 17beta estradiol and raloxifene can alter the microglial and astrocyte expression of immuno-neuronal modulators, such as cytokines, complement factors, chemokines, and other molecules involved in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. To directly test whether exogenous 17beta estradiol and raloxifene affect the number of glial cells in brain, C57BL/6NIA female mice aged 20-24 months received bilateral ovariectomy followed by s.c. placement of a 60-day release pellet containing 17beta estradiol (1.7 mg), raloxifene (10 mg), or placebo (cholesterol). After 60 days, numbers of microglia and astrocytes were quantified in dentate gyrus and CA1 regions of the hippocampal formation using immunocytochemistry and design-based stereology. The results show that long-term 17beta estradiol treatment in aged female mice significantly lowered the numbers of astrocytes and microglial cells in dentate gyrus and CA1 regions compared with placebo. After long-term treatment with raloxifene, a similar reduction was observed in numbers of astrocytes and microglial cells in the hippocampal formation. These findings indicate that estrogen and selective estrogen receptor modulators can influence glial-mediated inflammatory pathways and possibly protect against age- and disease-related neuropathology.
Loss of dopaminergic innervation to the striatum increases the sensitivity of dopamine (DA) D1 and serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT2 receptor signaling. Previous work from our laboratory has shown that systemic co-administration of D1 and 5-HT2 receptor agonists leads to the synergistic overexpression of striatal preprotachykinin mRNA levels in the DA-depleted, but not intact animals. In the present study, we examined this mechanism as related to locomotor behavior. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subject to bilateral i.c.v. 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 200 microg in 10 microl/side) or vehicle (0.9% saline and 0.1% ascorbic acid). After 3 weeks, rats were tested for locomotor responses to bilateral intrastriatal infusions of vehicle (0.9% NaCl), the D1 agonist SKF82958 [(+/-)6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetra-hydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine hydrobromide; 0.1, 1.0 or 10.0 microg/side], the 5-HT2 agonist DOI [(+/-)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane; 0.1, 1.0 or 10.0 microg/side] or subthreshold doses of DOI and SKF82958 (0.1 microg+0.1 microg in 0.8 microl/side). Rats with DA loss demonstrated supersensitive locomotor responses to SKF82958, but not DOI. Combined administration of subthreshold SKF82958 and DOI doses (0.1 microg+0.1 microg) synergistically increased locomotor behavior only in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. These effects were blocked by either the D1 antagonist SCH23390 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-(1H)-3-benzazepine or the 5-HT2 antagonist ritanserin (each 1.0 microg in 0.8 microl/side). The results of this study suggest that the behavioral synergy induced by local co-stimulation of D1 and 5-HT2 receptors within the 6-OHDA-lesioned striatum may lead to hyperkinesias that can occur with continued pharmacological treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been shown to modulate neuronal synaptic transmission and have also been implicated in cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension. The hypothesis that H(2)O(2) acting on sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) affects spinal sympathetic outflow was tested in the present study. H(2)O(2) was applied intrathecally via an implanted cannula to the T7-T9 segments of urethane-anesthetized rats. Blood pressure and heart rate were used as indices to evaluate the spinal sympathetic effects of H(2)O(2) in vivo. Intrathecal H(2)O(2) (100-1000 nmol) dose-dependently increased both the mean arterial pressure and heart rate. Reproducible pressor effects of H(2)O(2) (1000 nmol) applied consecutively at intervals of 30 min were observed. The pressor effects of intrathecal H(2)O(2) (1000 nmol) were attenuated by pretreatment with intrathecal administration of catalase (500 units), or N-acetyl-cysteine (1000 nmol). The pressor effects of intrathecal H(2)O(2) (1000 nmol) were also antagonized dose-dependently by prior intrathecal injection of AP-5 (DL-2-amino-5- phosphonovaleric acid, 10 and 30 nmol), or 6-cyano-7- nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, 10 and 30 nmol. In vitro electrophysiological study in spinal cord slices showed that superfusion of 1 mM H(2)O(2) for 3 min, which had no effect on membrane potential, caused an increase in amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in SPNs, but had little effect on that of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Taken together, these results demonstrated that oxidative stress in spinal cord may cause an increase in spinal sympathetic tone by acting on SPNs, which may contribute to ROS-induced cardiovascular dysfunction.
Following the cloning of the novel nociceptin opioid receptor (NOP(1)) and the identification of its endogenous ligand orphanin FQ/nociceptin the distribution and functional role of the NOP(1) receptor system have been studied mainly in the rodent CNS. In the present study the regional distribution and splice variant expression of the NOP(1) receptor was investigated in the adult human brain using [(3)H]-nociceptin autoradiography, NOP(1) reverse transcriptase PCR and mRNA in situ hybridization. Ligand binding revealed strong expression of functional NOP(1) receptors in the cerebral cortex and moderate signals in hippocampus and cerebellum. Interestingly, the NOP(1) receptor specific ligand was also strongly bound in the human striatum. A matching pattern of mRNA expression was observed with high amounts of NOP(1) mRNA in the prefrontal and cingulate cortex as well as in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. mRNA levels in the Ammon's horn and cerebellar cortex were moderate and low in the striatum. A considerable expression of N-terminal NOP(1) splice variant mRNAs was not detectable in the human brain by means of in situ hybridization. This suggests that functional NOP(1) receptors in the human brain are encoded by N-terminal full length NOP(1) transcripts. The present data on the anatomical distribution of nociceptin binding sites and NOP(1) receptor mRNA contribute to the knowledge about opioid receptor systems in the human brain and may promote the understanding of function and pharmacology of the orphanin FQ/nociceptin receptor system in the human CNS.
Previous studies in a mouse model of neonatal excitotoxic brain damage mimicking the brain lesions in human cerebral palsy showed microglial activation within 24 h after intracerebral injection of the glutamatergic analog ibotenate. Using this model, we studied the expression of CD-45 antigen, a marker of blood-derived cells, by these activated microglial cells labeled by Griffonia simplicifolia I isolectin B4. Immunohistochemistry performed during early development of excitotoxic lesions showed that most cells labeled with the isolectin B4 were CD-45-negative, suggesting that these early activated microglial cells were deriving chiefly from resident microglia and not from circulating monocytes. We also directly tested the hypothesis that activated resident microglia and/or blood-derived monocytes play a role in the pathophysiology of excitotoxic brain damage. Repeated i.p. administrations of chloroquine, chloroquine+colchicine, minocycline, or an anti-MAC1 antibody coupled to the toxin saporin before and/or after ibotenate injection induced a significant reduction in the density of isolectin B4-positive cells. This inhibition of resident microglial and/or blood-derived monocytes activation was accompanied by a significant reduction in the severity of ibotenate-induced brain lesions (up to 79% lesion size reduction with the highest minocycline dose) as well as of ibotenate-induced cortical caspase-3 activation (49% reduction).
Multiple drug resistance occurs when cells fail to respond to chemotherapy. Although it has been established that the drug efflux protein P-glycoprotein protects the brain from xenobiotics, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of expression of multiple drug resistance genes and proteins are not fully understood. Re-entry into the cell cycle and integrity of the p53 signaling pathway have been proposed as triggers of multiple drug resistance expression in tumor cells. Whether this regulation occurs in non-tumor CNS tissue is not known. Since multiple drug resistance overexpression has been reported in glia and blood vessels from epileptic brain, we investigated the level of expression of multidrug resistance protein, multidrug resistance-associated proteins and lung resistance protein in endothelial cells and astrocytes isolated from epileptic patients or studied in situ in surgical tissue samples by double label immunocytochemistry. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses revealed that multiple drug resistance, multidrug resistance protein, and lung resistance protein are expressed in these cells. Given that lung resistance proteins have been reported to be preferentially expressed by tumors, we investigated expression of tumor suppressor genes in epileptic cortices. The pro-apoptotic proteins p53 and p21 could not be detected in &quot;epileptic&quot; astrocytes, while endothelial cells from the same samples readily expressed these proteins, as did normal brain astroglia and normal endothelial cells. Other apoptotic markers were also absent in epileptic glia. Our results suggest a possible link between loss of p53 function and expression of multiple drug resistance in non-tumor CNS cells.
Stimulus-induced pattern of bioelectric activity in human neocortical tissue was investigated by use of the voltage sensitive dye RH795 and a fast optical recording system. During control conditions stimulation of layer I evoked activity predominantly in supragranular layers showing a spatial extent of up to 3000 microm along layer III. Stimulation in white matter evoked distinct activity in infragranular layers with a spatial extent of up to 3000 microm measured along layer V. The mean amplitude of optical signals close to the stimulated sites in layer I and white matter determined 25 ms following the stimulus, decreased by 50% at a lateral distance of approximately 900 microm and 1200 microm, respectively. Velocity of spread along the vertical stimulation axis reached 0.24 m/s in the supragranular layers (layers I to III) and then decreased to 0.09 m/s following layer I activation; stimulation of white matter induced a velocity of spread in layer V of 0.38 m/s, which slowed down to 0.12 m/s when passing the lower border of lamina IV. The horizontal velocities of spread determined from the stimulation site to a lateral distance of 500 microm reached 0.26-0.28 m/s and 0.28-0.35 m/s for layer I and white matter stimulation, respectively. At larger distances velocity of spread decreased. Increased excitability (Mg(2+)-free solution) had no significant effect on the spatio-temporal distribution of evoked activity as compared with control conditions. There were also no obvious differences between the results obtained in slices, which generated spontaneously sharp waves and those which were not spontaneously active. About 30% of the slices (n=7) displayed a greatly different response pattern, which seemed not to be related in a simple way to the stimulation as was the case in the majority of the investigated slices. The activity pattern of those slices appeared atypical in regard to their deviations of the vertical and horizontal extent of activity, to their reduced spatial extent of activity during increased excitability, to their layer-related distribution of activity, and to the appearance of afterdischarges.Concluding, in 30% of the human temporal lobe slices atypical activity pattern occurred which obviously reflect intrinsic epileptiform properties of the resected tissue. The majority of slices showed stereotyped activity pattern without evidence for increased excitability.
Brain myosin Va (MVa) is a molecular motor associated with plastic changes during development. MVa has previously been detected in the cell body and in dendrites of neuronal cells in culture, in cells of the guinea-pig cochlea, as well as in cerebellar cells. Adult Wistar rats (n=14), 250-300 g, were perfused with standard methods for immunohistochemistry, using a polyclonal, affinity-purified rabbit antibody against MVa tail domain. Anti-MVa antibody specifically stained neuronal nuclei from forebrain to cerebellar regions, and more intensely sensory nuclei. Differences in MVa immunoreactivity were detected between brain nuclei, ranging from very intense to weak staining. The analysis of MVa and glial fibrillary acidic protein staining in adjacent brain sections demonstrated a clear-cut neuronal labeling rather than an astroglial staining. The studies presented here represent a comprehensive map of MVa regional distribution in the CNS of the adult rat and may contribute to the basic understanding of its role in brain function and plasticity, particularly in relationship to phenomena that involve molecular motors, such as neurite outgrowth, organelle transport and neurotransmitter-vesicle cycling. It is important to highlight that this is a pioneer immunohistochemical study on the distribution of MVa on the whole brain of adult rats, a first step toward the understanding of its function in the CNS.
Pattern of activity during development is important for the refinement of the final architecture of the brain. In the cerebellar cortex, the regression from multiple to single climbing fiber innervation of the Purkinje cell occurs during development between postnatal days (P) 5 and 15. However, the regression is hampered by altering in various ways the morpho-functional integrity of the parallel fiber input. In rats we disrupted the normal activity pattern of the climbing fiber, the terminal arbor of the inferior olive neurons, by administering harmaline for 4 days from P9 to P12. At all studied ages (P15-87) after harmaline treatment multiple (double only) climbing fiber EPSC-steps persist in 28% of cells as compared with none in the control. The ratio between the amplitudes of the larger and the smaller climbing fiber-evoked EPSC increases in parallel with the decline of the polyinnervation factor, indicating a gradual enlargement of the synaptic contribution of the winning climbing fiber synapse at the expense of the losing one. Harmaline treatment had no later effects on the climbing fiber EPSC kinetics and I/V relation in Purkinje cells (P15-36). However, there was a rise in the paired-pulse depression indicating a potentiation of the presynaptic mechanisms. In the same period, after harmaline treatment, parallel fiber-Purkinje cell electrophysiology was unaffected. The distribution of parallel fiber synaptic boutons was also not changed. Thus, a change in the pattern of activity during a narrow developmental period may affect climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse competition resulting in occurrence of multiple innervation at least up to 3 months of age. Our results extend the current view on the role of the pattern of activity in the refinement of neuronal connections during development. They suggest that many similar results obtained by different gene or receptor manipulations might be simply the consequence of disrupting the pattern of activity.
In previous work we showed that the polygonal shape of hippocampal astrocytes cultured on poly-L-lysine changes to a stellate morphology with loss of actinomyosin stress fibers on exchanging the culture medium for saline buffered with HEPES [Brain Res 946 (2002)12]. By contrast, in bicarbonate-buffered saline containing Ca(2+) astrocytes remained polygonal and continued to express stress fibers. Evidence suggests that stellation induced by saline buffered with HEPES is related to intracellular acidification due to the absence of bicarbonate. Here we studied the influence of the matrix used in preparing astrocyte cultures. Stellation in HEPES-saline occurred on a matrix of fibronectin, but not on matrices of collagen I or IV provided Ca(2+) was present. Laminin partially prevented stellation in HEPES-saline. Further, the intracellular acidification induced by HEPES-saline observed in astrocytes cultured on polylysine was abolished in cells cultured on collagens and was attentuated on a matrix of laminin. Two observations suggested the involvement of integrins and focal adhesions. (1) Treatment of cultures on collagens with a blocking antibody to the beta1 integrin subunit abolished protection against HEPES-induced stellation. (2) Compared with polylysine, astrocytes cultured on collagens expressed increased contents of phosphotyrosine proteins, focal adhesion proteins vinculin and paxillin, the beta1 integrin subunit and increased numbers of focal adhesions labelled with anti-vinculin. The observation that astrocytes cultured on collagen I or IV, in contrast to polylysine, express stress fibers and a constant intracellular pH in the absence of buffering by bicarbonate may be related to the fact that in the intact brain astrocytic processes (or end-feet) encounter and bind to collagen IV and laminin in the basement membrane of the endothelial cells which surround the cerebral capillaries. It is also possible that astrocytes retain this capacity from early development when fibrous matrix proteins are present.
Emotional development is indisputably one of the cornerstones of personality development during infancy. According to the differential emotions theory (DET), primary emotions are constituted of three distinct components: the neural-evaluative, the expressive, and the experiential. The DET further assumes that these three components are biologically based and functional nearly from birth. Such a view entails that the neural substrate of primary emotions must be similar in children and adults. Guided by this assumption of the DET, the present functional magnetic resonance imaging study was conducted to identify the neural correlates of sad feelings in healthy children. Fourteen healthy girls (aged 8-10) were scanned while they watched sad film excerpts aimed at externally inducing a transient state of sadness (activation task). Emotionally neutral film excerpts were also presented to the subjects (reference task). The subtraction of the brain activity measured during the viewing of the emotionally neutral film excerpts from that noted during the viewing of the sad film excerpts revealed that sad feelings were associated with significant bilateral activations of the midbrain, the medial prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area [BA] 10), and the anterior temporal pole (BA 21). A significant locus of activation was also noted in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 47). These results are compatible with those of previous functional neuroimaging studies of sadness in adults. They suggest that the neural substrate underlying the subjective experience of sadness is comparable in children and adults. Such a similitude provides empirical support to the DET assumption that the neural substrate of primary emotions is biologically based.
Although oxytocin (OT) and dopamine (DA) have been implicated in pair bond formation in monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), the nature of potential interactions between these two neurochemical systems and the brain circuits important for such interactions in the regulation of pair bonding have not been explored. Here, we demonstrated that access to both OT and DA D2-type receptors is necessary for pair bond formation, as blockade of either type of receptor prevented partner preferences induced by OT or a D2-type agonist. We also demonstrated that the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) is a brain area important for such OT-DA interactions. In NAcc, blockade of OT receptors prevented partner preferences induced by a D2-type agonist whereas blockade of D2-type, but not D1-type, DA receptors blocked OT-induced partner preferences. Together, our data suggest that concurrent activation of OT and DA D2-type receptors in NAcc is essential for pair bond formation in female prairie voles.
In primary sensory neurons, extracellular ATP plays important roles in nociception and afferent neurotransmission. Here we investigated the effects of ATP on axonal transport in cultured adult mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons using video-enhanced microscopy. Continuous application (26 min) of ATP (100 microM) significantly increased axonal transport of membrane-bound organelles in anterograde and retrograde directions. All neurons tested (n=5) responded to ATP. The number of transported organelles per min began to increase within 2 min and peaked at 11-14 min after the start of ATP application, and thereafter gradually declined. The peak values in both directions were approximately 140% of the initial values before application. The P2 receptor antagonist suramin (1 mM) completely blocked the effect of ATP. Uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP; 100 microM) produced a similar effect to ATP, with peak values at 11 min reaching 140% in both directions (n=6). ADP (100 microM; n=5), alpha,beta-methylene ATP (100 microM; n=6), or 2-methylthio ATP (100 microM; n=5) had no effect on axonal transport. Our findings indicate that extracellular ATP is able to increase axonal transport in primary sensory neurons. The equal potency of ATP and UTP with no detectable response to ADP, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, or 2-methylthio ATP suggests the possible involvement of P2Y(2) receptors. Extracellular ATP may play an important role in the modulation of axonal transport in sensory neurons.
Sleep deprivation exerts antidepressant effects after only one night of deprivation, demonstrating that a rapid antidepressant response is possible. In this report we tested the hypothesis that total sleep deprivation induces an increase in extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels in the hippocampus, a structure that has been proposed repeatedly to play a role in the pathophysiology of depression. Sleep deprivation was performed using the disk-over-water method. Extracellular levels of 5-HT were determined in 3 h periods with microdialysis and measured by high performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection. Sleep deprivation induced an increase in 5-HT levels during the sleep deprivation day. During an additional sleep recovery day, 5-HT remained elevated even though rats displayed normal amounts of sleep. Stimulus control rats, which had been allowed to sleep, did not experience a significant increased in 5-HT levels, though they were exposed to a stressful situation similar to slee-deprived rats. These results are consistent with a role of 5-HT in the antidepressant effects of sleep deprivation.
It has been proposed that glutamatergic and dopaminergic systems are functionally opposed in their regulation of striatal output. The present study tested the effects of drugs that enhance AMPA-receptor-mediated glutamatergic transmission (ampakines) for their effects on dopamine-related alterations in cortical activity and locomotor behavior. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the ascending nigro-striatal dopamine system were sensitized to methamphetamine and then tested for methamphetamine-induced circling behavior in the presence and absence of ampakines CX546 and CX614. Both ampakines produced rapid, dose-dependent reductions in circling that were evident within 15 min and sustained through 1 h of behavioral testing. In situ hybridization maps of c-fos mRNA expression showed that in the intact hemisphere, ampakine cotreatment markedly increased c-fos expression in parietal, sensori-motor neocortex above that found in rats treated with methamphetamine alone. Ampakine cotreatment did not augment c-fos expression in frontal, sensori-motor cortex or striatum. Still larger ampakine-elicited effects were obtained in parietal cortex of the dopamine-depleted hemisphere where labeling densities were increased by approximately 60% above values found in methamphetamine-alone rats. With these effects, the hemispheric asymmetry of cortical activation was less pronounced in the ampakine-cotreatment group as compared with the methamphetamine-alone group. These results indicate that positive modulation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors 1) can offset behavioral disturbances arising from sensitized dopamine receptors and 2) increases aggregate neuronal activity in a regionally selective manner that is probably dependent upon behavioral demands.
Nerve grafts may be used to repair damaged peripheral nerves and also to facilitate spinal cord regeneration after experimental trauma. Little is known, however, about the possible use of xenografts and the role of immune rejection in the outcome of repair. In rats, excision of a short (7-8 mm) segment of facial nerve at its exit point from the skull base results in a permanent deficit in eye closure in the blink reflex. This deficit can be repaired by transplantation of a segment of either syngeneic rat facial nerve or xenogeneic Balb-C mouse sciatic nerve either with or without cyclosporine immunosuppression. With longer (15-20 mm) transplants, however, restoration of eye closure becomes dependent on cyclosporine administration. Thus, in a situation where nerve repair does not occur without a graft, a host immune attack has an attritional effect which is not sufficient to prevent repair over short distances, but becomes obvious when the regenerating fibres have to cross longer segments of transplanted tissue.
Constant light (LL) or constant dark (DD) environmental lighting conditions cause a free-running period and activity reduction in the rodent behavioral circadian rhythm. In order to understand the molecular process underlying behavioral rhythms in LL or DD housing conditions, we examined the circadian profile of mPer2 mRNA and mPER2 in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a main oscillator, of free-running mice. The circadian expression rhythm of mPer2 in the SCN was dampened under 7-day LL conditions, whereas that of mPER2 protein was moderately attenuated and its expression peak delayed. The circadian expression of mPer2 and its product was slightly attenuated and advanced by 7-day DD conditions. With arrhythmic behavioral activity caused by long-term LL housing, mPER2 protein lost its rhythmicity in the SCN. On the other hand, LL or DD housing did not affect the mPer2 gene and its product in the cerebral cortex. The present results suggest that mPER2 circadian expression in the SCN corresponds well with behavioral circadian oscillation under LL or DD conditions. Thus, the behavioral circadian rhythm seems to correlate with molecular clock works in the SCN.
Brain to blood transport is believed to be a major determinant of the amount of amyloid beta protein (AbetaP) found in brain. Impaired efflux has been suggested as a mechanism by which AbetaP can accumulate in the CNS and so lead to Alzheimer's disease (AD). To date, however, no study of the efflux of the form of AbetaP most relevant to AD, AbetaP1-42, has been conducted, even though a single amino acid substitution in AbetaP can greatly alter efflux. Here, we examined the efflux of AbetaP mouse1-42, mouse1-40, human1-42, and human1-40 in young CD-1, young senesence accelerated mouse (SAM) P8, and aged SAMP8 mice. The SAMP8 mouse with aging spontaneously overproduces AbetaP and develops cognitive impairments reversed by AbetaP-directed antibody or phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide. CD-1 mice transported all forms of AbetaP, although mouse1-42 and human1-40 were transported faster than the other forms. There was a decrease in the saturable transport of mouse1-42 in SAMP8 mice regardless of age. Efflux of mouse1-40 and human1-42 was only by a non-saturable mechanism in young SAMP8 mice and their efflux was totally absent in aged SAMP8 mice. These differences in the efflux of the various forms of AbetaP among the three groups of mice supports the hypothesis that impaired efflux is an important factor in the accumulation of AbetaP in the CNS.
Overexpression of dopamine D(2) receptors by adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer in the rat striatum was evaluated by positron emission tomography in vivo and by ex vivo autoradiography in 5-, 13-, and 24-month-old Fischer 344 rats. Each rat had hemilateral gene transfer of D(2) receptors mediated by adenoviral vectors (AdCMV.DopD(2)R) in the striatum with contralateral striatal injection of control vectors (AdCMV.LacZ). At day 2 or 3 after vector injection positron emission tomography or ex vivo autoradiography was performed. The binding potential of a radiolabeled D(2) receptors ligand, [11C]raclopride, was significantly higher in the D(2) receptors gene-transferred striatum than the control side in each age group at a similar degree. The binding potential in the AdCMV.DopD(2)R-injected striatum of 24-month-old rats was similar to that in the AdCMV.LacZ-injected striatum of 5-month-old rats (0.99+/-0.14 versus 0.91+/-0.08). A significant age-associated decrease of the binding potential of [11C]raclopride was found in the control vector-injected side, and a significant increase of the binding potential in the adenoviral vector-injected side in all three age groups, suggesting no aging effect on the overexpression of D(2) receptors. A group of rats underwent follow-up assessment by positron emission tomography. The overexpression of D(2) receptors decreased with time in all three groups; however, the decrease rate of the D(2) receptors expression was significantly smaller in the 24-month-old group than in the 5-month-old group. We confirmed that the adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer of D(2) receptors compensated the decreased density of striatal D(2) receptors in the 24-month-old rats up to the level in the control striatum of 5-month-old rats, and the decrease rate of the overexpression was significantly smaller in aged rats.
In the ventral nervous system of the earthworm, a central pattern generator and motor neurons are activated during locomotion. We have previously reported that bath application of octopamine (OA) induces fictive locomotion in the earthworm, and the burst frequency of electrical activity from the first lateral nerves increases with OA concentration. However, there are no reports concerning locomotor neural networks in the earthworm. To identify neural networks involved in fictive locomotion, we optically monitored activity-dependent fluorescent staining in the earthworm ventral nerve cord (VNC) with a styryl dye, N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl)pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43), and a confocal laser scanning microscope. OA induces FM1-43 fluorescence in a dose-dependent manner, with bright fluorescent spots of 3-10 microm in diameter observed to be localized around specified neurons in the segmental ganglion of the VNC. We compared OA dose-response curves for FM1-43 fluorescence with the bursting frequency for fictive locomotion, and found that two types of curves could be identified: one fluorescence response shows a similar dose-dependency to that of the burst frequency, while another response has a higher sensitivity to OA. From these results, we suggest that OA acts as one of the neuromodulators for the earthworm locomotion. This is the first attempt to record motor and inter-neuronal activities simultaneously in a locomotor network in the earthworm.
The aim of present study was to examine the effect of a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor SC-236 (4 mg/kg) on the simultaneous responsiveness of spinal wide-dynamic range (WDR) neurons and single motor units (SMUs) from gastrocnemius soleus muscles to mechanical stimuli (pressure and pinch) and repeated suprathreshold (1.5xT, the intensity threshold) electrical stimuli with different frequencies (3 Hz, 20 Hz) under normal conditions and bee venom (BV, 0.2 mg/50 microl)-induced inflammation and central sensitization. During normal conditions, the responses of SMUs, but not WDR neurons, to mechanical and repeated electrical stimuli (3 Hz, wind-up) were depressed by systemic administration of SC-236 as well as its vehicle (100% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)). The after-discharges of both the WDR neurons and the simultaneously recorded SMUs after electrical stimuli with 20 Hz were markedly depressed only by SC-236, indicating that the mechanisms underlying the generation of the C-fiber mediated late responses and the after-discharges may be different. The enhanced responsiveness of both WDR neurons and SMUs to mechanical pressure stimuli (allodynia) and pinch stimuli (hyperalgesia) in the BV experiments was apparently depressed by SC-236, but not its vehicle. For electrical stimulation, the enhanced late responses and after-discharges, but not early responses, of both the WDR neurons and the simultaneously recorded SMUs were markedly depressed only by SC-236. This indicates that different central pharmacological mechanisms underlie the generation of these enhanced early, late responses, and after-discharges during BV-induced inflammation. The data suggest that the COX-2 inhibitor SC-236 apparently depress the activities of both spinal cord dorsal horn neuron and spinal withdrawal reflex during BV-induced sensitization, indicating that COX-2 plays an important role in the maintenance of central sensitization.
Rats with lesions of dorsal and dorsolateral bulbar sites known to be differentially responsive to carvone enantiomers were tested for their ability to detect (+)-carvone, to discriminate between (+)-carvone from (-)-carvone, and to discriminate (+)-carvone from mixtures of both enantiomers after they had been pre-trained or not pre-trained on these tasks prior to surgery. In postoperative tests, rats pre-trained on the enantiomer discrimination problems made somewhat fewer errors than those not pre-trained, but experimental rats performed as well as controls (those that had one intact olfactory bulb) within both conditions and on each task. These results indicate that removal of most bulbar sites known to be differentially responsive to carvone enantiomers and the consequent disruption of normal patterns of bulbar input produced in response to carvones are largely without effect on the ability of rats to discriminate between these odors.
Multiple voltage-gated sodium channels are the primary mediators of cell excitability. They are multimers that consist of the pore-forming alpha subunit and auxiliary beta subunits. Although ion permeability and voltage sensing are primarily determined by the alpha subunit, beta subunits are important modulators of sodium channel function. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of axotomy on the expression of beta subunits (beta(1), beta(2) and beta(3)) and coexpression of Na(v)1.3 and beta(3) subunits in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). We used sciatic nerve transection models or spared nerve injury (SNI) models in the rat. In reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis, there were no significant differences between contralateral and ipsilateral DRGs of beta(1) and beta(2) mRNA 3 days after axotomy. beta(3) mRNA expression in ipsilateral DRGs increased significantly compared with contralateral DRGs 3 days after axotomy. In in situ hybridization histochemistry, beta(1) mRNA was predominantly expressed in medium- to large-size neurons, whereas beta(2) mRNA was expressed in small- to large-size neurons. There were no significant differences in beta(1) and beta(2) mRNA between contralateral and ipsilateral DRGs 3 days after axotomy. In contrast, beta(3) mRNA was mainly expressed in small neurons and occasionally in medium- to large-size neurons, and beta(3) mRNA expression in small c-type neurons in ipsilateral DRGs was increased significantly compared with contralateral DRGs. We examined beta(3) mRNA expression with one of alpha subunits, Na(v)1.3-ir, in DRG neurons after axotomy using the double labeling method. We found a high percentage of coexpression in injured DRG neurons: 83.6+/-2.8% of neurons expressing beta(3) mRNA were labeled for Na(v)1.3-ir; 70.1+/-3.1% of Na(v)1.3-ir neurons expressed beta(3) mRNA. We also examined the expression of beta(3) mRNA in DRG neurons in the SNI model, a neuropathic pain model. We used activating transcription factor 3 to identify axotomized neurons, and found that beta(3) mRNA up-regulation occurred mainly in axotomized neurons in the neuropathic pain model. These data strongly suggest that beta(3) expression in injured DRG neurons following axotomy might be an important pathomechanism of post-nerve injury pain in primary sensory neurons.
Hypodynamia-hypokinesia (HH) is a model of hindpaw sensory deprivation. It is obtained by unloading of the hindquarters during 14 days. In this situation, the feet are not in contact with the ground and as a consequence, the cutaneous receptors are not activated; the sensory input to the primary somatosensory cortex (SmI) is thus reduced. In a previous study, we have shown that HH induced a cortical reorganisation of the hindlimb representation. The understanding of the mechanisms involved in cortical map plasticity requires a close examination of the changes in response properties of cortical neurons during HH. The aim of the present study was thus to study the characteristics of neurons recorded from granular and infragranular layers in hindlimb representation of SmI. A total of 289 cortical neurons were recorded (158 from control rats and 131 from HH rats) in pentobarbital-anaesthetized rats. Cutaneous threshold, cutaneous receptive fields, spontaneous activity (discharge rate and instantaneous frequency) and activity evoked by air-jet stimulation (response latency and duration, amplitude) were analysed. The present study suggests that activity-dependent changes occur in the cortex. The duration of the spike waveform presented two populations of spikes: thin-spike cells (&lt;1 ms, supposed to be inhibitory interneurons) and regular cells (&gt;1 ms). Thin-spike cells were less frequently encountered in HH than in control rats. The analysis of regular cells revealed that after HH (1) spontaneous activity was unchanged and (2) cortical somatosensory neurons were more responsive: the cutaneous threshold was reduced and the response magnitude increased. Taken together, these results suggest a down-regulation of GABAergic function.
A previous study in our laboratory, involving early stage, amyloid pathology in 8-month-old transgenic mice, demonstrated a selective loss of cholinergic terminals in the cerebral and hippocampal cortices of doubly transgenic (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)) mice, an up-regulation in the single mutant APP(K670N,M671L) mice and no detectable change in the PSl(M146L) transgenics [J Neurosci 19 (1999) 2706]. The present study investigates the impact of amyloid plaques on synaptophysin and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) immunoreactive bouton numbers in the frontal cortex of the three transgenic mouse models previously described. When compared as a whole, the frontal cortices of transgenic and control mice show no observable differences in the densities of synaptophysin-immunoreactive boutons. An individual comparison of layer V of the frontal cortex, however, shows a significant increase in density in transgenic models. Analysis of the cholinergic system alone shows significant alterations in the VAChT-immunoreactive bouton densities as evidenced by an increased density in the single (APP(K670N,M671L)) transgenics and a decreased density in the doubly transgenics (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)). In investigating the impact of plaque proximity on bouton density at early stages of the amyloid pathology in our doubly (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)) transgenic mouse line, we observed that plaque proximity reduced cholinergic pre-synaptic bouton density by 40%, and yet increased synaptophysin-immunoreactive pre-synaptic bouton density by 9.5%. Distance from plaques (up to 60 microm) seemed to have no effect on bouton density; however a significant inverse relationship was visible between plaque size and cholinergic pre-synaptic bouton density. Finally, the number of cholinergic dystrophic neurites surrounding the truly amyloid, Thioflavin-S(+) plaque core, was disproportionately large with respect to the incidence of cholinergic boutons within the total pre-synaptic bouton population. Confocal and electron microscopic observations confirmed the preferential infiltration of dystrophic cholinergic boutons into fibrillar amyloid aggregates. We therefore hypothesize that extracellular Abeta aggregation preferentially affects cholinergic terminations prior to progression onto other neurotransmitter systems. This is supported by the observable presence of non-cholinergic sprouting, which may be representative of impending neuritic degeneration.
A large body of evidence suggests that nitric oxide (NO) and ATP act as neurotransmitters in the regulatory mechanisms concerning several autonomic functions at the level of both the hypothalamus and the brain stem. In the present study, we investigated whether neuronal NO synthase containing neurones also express P2X(2) receptor subunit of the ATP-gated ion channel via double-labelling fluorescence immunohistochemistry. Our data demonstrate that a high percentage of neuronal NO synthase-immunoreactive neurones are also P2X(2)-immunoreactive in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (98%) and supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus (92%). Significant numbers of neuronal NO synthase-immunoreactive neurones are also P2X(2)-immunoreactive in the subpostremal (48%) and commissural (65%) subdivisions of the nucleus tractus solitarius. In the caudal ventrolateral medulla and raphe obscurus, 96% and 89%, respectively, of neuronal NO synthase containing neurones also express P2X(2) receptor subunit. In contrast to the supraoptic nucleus, there was a lower percentage of co-localisation between NO synthase and P2X(2) receptor subunit in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. In summary, this study demonstrates for the first time that there is a widespread co-localisation of neuronal NO synthase and P2X(2) receptor subunit in the hypothalamus and brain stem of the rat. Further studies are required to elucidate whether NO and ATP functionally interact within the hypothalamus and the brain stem.
Previous studies of neuronal degeneration induced by the neurotoxin, kainic acid, employed silver stain techniques that are non-quantitative or ELISA measurement of the non-neuronal protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein. As previous studies employed biomarkers that were either non-quantitative or non-neuronal, the present study employed a new neuronally localized biomaker of neuronal damage, cleaved microtubule-associated protein (MAP)-tau (C-tau). The time course of kainate neurotoxicity was quantitatively determined in several brain regions in the present study employing a C-tau specific ELISA. Differences in ELISA determined regional brain levels of C-tau were compared with the density of somatodendritic C-tau labeling qualitatively determined in immunohistochemical anatomical mapping studies of kainic acid-treated animals. Immunoblot studies revealed that the C-tau antibodies employed in the present study were highly specific for proteolytic cleaved C-tau. Immunolabeling of 45 kD-50 kD C-tau proteins was observed only in brain samples from kainic acid-treated but not vehicle-treated rats. Time course studies revealed that C-tau levels determined by ELISA were maximal 3 days after kainic acid with C-tau levels increasing 26-fold in hippocampus, 16-fold in cortex and four-fold in both striatum and hypothalamus. These statistical differences in maximal C-tau levels observed in the ELISA studies were similar to differences qualitatively observed in C-tau immunohistochemical studies. C-tau immunohistochemistry revealed extensive damage in hippocampal regions CA1 and 3, moderate damage in several cortical regions and mild damage in striatum and hypothalamus. Similar cleavage of rat MAP-tau to C-tau has been reported after neuronal degeneration induced by neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine and neuronal degeneration resulting from bacterial meningitis. In humans, C-tau proteolysis has been demonstrated to be a reliable biomarker of neuronal damage in traumatic brain injury and stroke where cerebrospinal C-tau levels are correlated with patient clinical outcome. These data suggest that C-tau proteolysis may prove a reliable species independent biomarker of neuronal degeneration regardless of source of injury.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role that mu and delta opioid receptor blockade has upon stimulant-induced behavior and neuropeptide gene expression in the striatum. Acute administration of amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) caused an increase in behavioral activity and preprodynorphin, substance P, and preproenkephalin mRNA expression. Intrastriatal infusion of the mu opioid antagonist, H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP), or the delta opioid antagonist, H-Tyr-Tic[CH(2)NH]-Phe-Phe-OH (TIPPpsi), significantly decreased amphetamine-induced vertical activity. However, only CTAP reduced amphetamine-induced distance traveled. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that CTAP blocked amphetamine-induced preprodynorphin and substance P mRNA. However, preproenkephalin mRNA levels in the dorsal striatum were increased to the same extent by CTAP, amphetamine, or a combination of the two drugs. In contrast, TIPPpsi significantly decreased amphetamine-induced mRNA expression of all three neuropeptides. These data indicate that both mu and delta receptor subtypes differentially regulate amphetamine-induced behavior and neuropeptide gene expression in the rat striatum.
A novel calmodulin (CaM) antagonist DY-9760e, (3-[2-[4-(3-chloro-2-methylphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-5,6-dimethoxy-1-(4-imidazolylmethyl)-1H-indazole dihydrochloride 3.5 hydrate), with an apparent neuroprotective effect in vivo, potently inhibits CaM-dependent nitric oxide synthase in situ. In the present study, we determined whether DY-9760e inhibits nitric oxide (NO) production and protein nitration by peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) formation in the hippocampal CA1 region of gerbils after transient forebrain ischemia. In freely moving gerbils, NO production after 10-minute forebrain ischemia was monitored consecutively with in vivo brain microdialysis. Pretreatment with DY-9760e (50 mg/kg i.p.) significantly decreased the increased levels of NO(x)(-) (NO metabolites, NO(2)(-) plus NO(3)(-)) immediately after, 24 h after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion to the control levels of sham-operated animals. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses using an anti-nitrotyrosine antibody as a marker of ONOO(-) formation indicated a marked increase in nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity in the pyramidal neurons of the CA1 region 2 h after reperfusion, and DY-9760e significantly inhibited increased nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity. Coincident with the inhibition of the NO production and protein tyrosine nitration, pretreatment with DY-9760e rescued the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region. These results suggest that the inhibitory effects of DY-9760e on the NO-ONOO(-) pathway partly account for its neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischemia.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), localized in extrinsic afferents in the mammalian cerebellum, is defined as a neuromodulator within cerebellar circuits, and appears to be an essential element in the generation of long term depression, a proposed mechanism for motor learning. These physiological studies are based on exogenous application of CRF and do not address potential mechanisms that may influence endogenous release of the peptide. In the present study, immunohistochemistry was used to analyze changes in the lobular distribution of CRF-like immunoreactivity (LIR). In addition radioimmunoassay (RIA) was used to quantify changes in levels of the peptide in the cerebellum following stimulation of the inferior cerebellar peduncle (ICP) at 10 or 40 Hz or the inferior olivary nucleus (ION) at 1, 5, 10, or 20 Hz. Results indicate that there is a greater distribution of CRF-like-immunolabeled climbing fibers, mossy fibers, and astrocytes in all lobules of the cerebellum that is directly related to stimulation frequency. Maximal effects were elicited with 40 Hz ICP and 5-10 Hz ION stimulation. Quantitatively, the RIA studies indicate that there is a significant increase in CRF levels in the vermis, hemispheres and flocculus that correlates closely with stimulation frequency. In conclusion, stimulation of cerebellar afferents induces a significant change in the distribution and levels of CRF-LIR in climbing fibers, mossy fibers and glial cells. This suggests that the modulatory effects ascribed to CRF may influence a greater number of target neurons when levels of activity in afferent systems is increased.
NAC1 cDNA was identified as a novel transcript induced in the nucleus accumbens from rats chronically treated with cocaine. NAC1 is a member of the Bric-a-brac Tramtrac Broad complex/Pox virus and Zinc finger family of transcription factors and has been shown by overexpression studies to prevent the development of behavioral sensitization resulting from repeated cocaine treatment. This paper reports the cloning and characterization of the corresponding gene. The mouse Nac1 gene consist of six exons, with exon 2 containing an alternative splice donor, providing a molecular explanation of the splice variants observed in mouse and rat. Transcripts of Nac1 were ubiquitously detected in different mouse tissues with prominent expression in the brain. The mouse Nac1 gene was localized to chromosome 8, suggesting a highly plausible candidate gene to explain differences in cocaine-induced behaviors between C57BL6/J and DBA/2J mice that had previously been mapped to the area. In addition, a functional AP1 binding site has been identified in an intron 1 enhancer of the Nac1 gene that plays an essential role in the activation of the gene in differentiation of neuroblastoma cells. Co-transfection with c-jun and c-fos expression plasmids, which encode the two subunits of AP1, activated the wild type Nac1 intron 1 enhancer two-fold over basal, nearly at the level of NAC1 enhancer activity seen in differentiated N2A cells. Mutation of the AP1 site completely abrogated all activation of the NAC1 enhancer in differentiated N2A cells. Activation of immediate early genes such as c-fos and c-jun following chronic drug treatments has been well characterized. The present data describe one potential regulatory cascade involving these transcription factors and activation of NAC1. Identification of drug induced alterations in gene expression is key to understanding the types of molecular adaptations underlying addiction.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) participates in synaptic plasticity and the adaptive changes in the strength of communication between neurons thought to underlie aspects of behavioral adaptation. By selectively deleting BDNF from the forebrain of mice using the Cre site-specific DNA recombinase, we were able to study the requirements for BDNF in behaviors such as learning and anxiety. Early-onset forebrain-restricted BDNF mutant mice (Emx-BDNF(KO)) that develop in the absence of BDNF in the dorsal cortex, hippocampus, and parts of the ventral cortex and amygdala failed to learn the Morris Water Maze task, a hippocampal-dependent visuo-spatial learning task. Freezing during all phases of cued-contextual fear conditioning, a behavioral task designed to study hippocampal-dependent associative learning, was enhanced. These mice learned a brightness discrimination task well but were impaired in a more difficult pattern discrimination task. Emx-BDNF(KO) mice did not exhibit altered sensory processing and gating, as measured by the acoustic startle response or prepulse inhibition of the startle response. Although they were less active in an open-field arena, they did not show alterations in anxiety, as measured in the elevated-plus maze, black-white chamber or mirrored chamber tasks. Combined, these data indicate that although an absence of forebrain BDNF does not disrupt acoustic sensory processing or alter baseline anxiety, specific forms of learning are severely impaired.
The aim of the present research was to ascertain the presence of sex differences in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of the guinea-pig, a long-gestation rodent which gives birth to mature young and whose brain is at a more advanced stage of maturation at birth than that of the rat and mouse. The brains of neonatal (15-16 days old) and prepubescent (45-46 days old) male and female guinea pigs were Golgi-Cox stained. Granule cells were sampled from the upper (suprapyramidal) and lower (infrapyramidal) blade of the septal dentate gyrus and their dendritic tree and soma were measured. The analysis was conducted separately on granule cells with soma in the superficial (superficial granule cells) and deep (deep granule cells) half of the granule cell layer. Numerous sex differences were found in the upper blade of the dentate gyrus. Neonatal males had more dendritic branches than females in the innermost dendritic tree of both superficial and deep granule cells, but females had more branches over the middle/outer dendritic tree and a longer dendritic length. In prepubescent animals, the sex difference in the middle dendritic tree of the superficial granule cells changed direction, with males having more branches than females. In the deep granule cells, the sex differences were similar to those in neonatal animals. In both granule cell types, the dendritic length was similar in the two sexes. While no sex differences were found in dendritic spine density in neonatal animals, in prepubescent animals spine density was greater in females. In the lower blade the granule cells showed very few sex differences in both neonatal and prepubescent animals. This study shows wide dynamically changing sex differences in the granule cells located in the upper blade of the septal dentate gyrus, but almost no differences in the lower blade. These results demonstrate that sex differences are not ubiquitous in the dentate gyrus and suggest that the lower blade, unlike the upper blade, might be involved in non-sexually dimorphic behaviors.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE4) and head trauma are important genetic and environmental risk factors for Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, apoE4 increases both the acute and chronic consequences of head trauma. The latter are associated with the deposition of amyloid-beta, which is particularly elevated in apoE4 subjects. The short-term effects of head injury are associated with transiently increased metabolism of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its secreted fragment, APPs. In the present study, we examined the possibility that the acute, short-term pathological effects of apoE4 following head trauma and the corresponding neuroprotective effects of apoE3 are related to isoform-specific effects of apoE on APP metabolism. Accordingly, male transgenic mice expressing human apoE3 or apoE4 on a null mouse apoE background and apoE-deficient and control mice were subjected to closed head injury (CHI). The resulting effects on brain APP, and on its secreted products, APPs and secreted product of the alpha-cleavage of APP (APPsalpha) were then determined 24 h following injury. Immunoblotting revealed no significant differences between the basal APP, APPs and APPsalpha levels of the hippocampus or the cortex of the control and the apoE3 and ApoE4 transgenic mice. The apoE-deficient mice also had similar cortical basal levels of APP and its metabolites, whereas their corresponding basal hippocampal APP and APPs levels were lower than those of the other groups. CHI lowered the hipppocampal APPs and APPsalpha levels of the apoE4 transgenic mice, whereas those of the apoE3 transgenic mice and of the control and apoE-deficient mice were not affected by this insult. In contrast, CHI raised the cortical APP and APPs levels of the apoE3 transgenic mice but had no significant effect on those of the other mice groups. These animal model findings suggest that the acute, short-term pathological effects of apoE4 following CHI and the corresponding neuroprotective effects of apoE3 may be mediated by their opposing effects on the expression and cleavage of cortical and hippocampal APP. Similar isoform-specific interactions between apoE and APP may play a role in the acute, short-term effects of head trauma in humans.
Neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), pregnenolone and 17beta-estradiol are synthesized by cytochrome P450s from endogenous cholesterol. We previously reported a new cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP7B, highly expressed in rat and mouse brain that metabolizes DHEA and related steroids by hydroxylation at the 7alpha position. Such 7-hydroxylation can enhance DHEA bioactivity in vivo. Here we show that the reaction is conserved across mammalian species: in addition to mouse and rat, DHEA hydroxylation activity was present in brain extracts from sheep, marmoset and human. Northern blotting using a human CYP7B complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) probe confirmed the presence of CYP7B mRNA in marmoset and human hippocampus; CYP7B mRNA was present in marmoset cerebellum and brainstem, with lower levels in hypothalamus and cortex. In situ hybridization to human brain revealed higher levels of CYP7B mRNA in the hippocampus than in cerebellum, cortex, or other brain regions. We also measured CYP7B expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD). CYP7B mRNA was significantly decreased (approximately 50% decline; P&lt;0.05) in dentate neurons from AD subjects compared with controls. A decline in CYP7B activity may contribute the loss of effects of DHEA with ageing and perhaps to the pathophysiology of AD.
We have investigated the mechanisms underlying a form of metaplasticity, namely the inhibition by preconditioning stimulation of high frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) in the medial perforant path of the dentate gyrus. Preconditioning stimulation (weak 50 Hz) was found to inhibit subsequent LTP induction if applied 10-20 min, but not 2 or 45 min, prior to the HFS. Preconditioning stimulation in the form of low frequency stimulation did not block LTP induction. The inhibition of LTP was not caused by a reduction in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) transmission, as the preconditioning stimulation did not reduce isolated NMDAR-mediated EPSPs. The involvement of group I and group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation in the inhibition of LTP was demonstrated by experiments in which the inhibition of LTP by the preconditioning stimulation was prevented by the presence of antagonists of group I or group II mGluR during the preconditioning stimulation. Moreover, group I and group II mGluR agonists directly inhibited subsequent LTP induction. The involvement of NMDAR in the preconditioning stimulation was shown by the ability of an NMDAR antagonist to prevent the inhibition of LTP by the preconditioning stimulation. The preconditioning inhibition of LTP induction was shown by the use of kinase inhibitors to involve activation of PKC and p38 MAP kinase, but not p42 MAP kinase or tyrosine kinase. We conclude that the preconditioning inhibition of LTP induction is a complex process which involves activation of NMDAR, group I and group II mGluR, and intracellular cascades activating PKC and p38 MAP kinase.
The death of dopaminergic neurons induced by systemic administration of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I inhibitors such as 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+); given as the prodrug 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) or the pesticide rotenone have raised the question as to whether this family of compounds are the cause of some forms of Parkinsonism. We have examined the neurotoxic potential of another complex I inhibitor, annonacin, the major acetogenin of Annona muricata (soursop), a tropical plant suspected to be the cause of an atypical form of Parkinson disease in the French West Indies (Guadeloupe). When added to mesencephalic cultures for 24 h, annonacin was much more potent than MPP(+) (effective concentration [EC(50)]=0.018 versus 1.9 microM) and as effective as rotenone (EC(50)=0.034 microM) in killing dopaminergic neurons. The uptake of [(3)H]-dopamine used as an index of dopaminergic cell function was similarly reduced. Toxic effects were seen at lower concentrations when the incubation time was extended by several days whereas withdrawal of the toxin after a short-term exposure (&lt;6 h) arrested cell demise. Unlike MPP(+) but similar to rotenone, the acetogenin also reduced the survival of non-dopaminergic neurons. Neuronal cell death was not excitotoxic and occurred independently of free radical production. Raising the concentrations of either glucose or mannose in the presence of annonacin restored to a large extent intracellular ATP synthesis and prevented neuronal cell demise. Deoxyglucose reversed the effects of both glucose and mannose. Other hexoses such as galactose and fructose were not protective. Attempts to restore oxidative phosphorylation with lactate or pyruvate failed to provide protection to dopaminergic neurons whereas idoacetate, an inhibitor of glycolysis, inhibited the survival promoting effects of glucose and mannose indicating that these two hexoses acted independently of mitochondria by stimulating glycolysis. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that annonacin promotes dopaminergic neuronal death by impairment of energy production. It also underlines the need to address its possible role in the etiology of some atypical forms of Parkinsonism in Guadeloupe.
We hypothesised that, since anomalous neck proprioceptive input can produce perturbing effects on posture, neck muscle fatigue could alter body balance control through a mechanism connected to fatigue-induced afferent inflow. Eighteen normal subjects underwent fatiguing contractions of head extensor muscles. Sway during quiet stance was recorded by a dynamometric platform, both prior to and after fatigue and recovery, with eyes open and eyes closed. After each trial, subjects were asked to rate their postural control. Fatigue was induced by having subjects stand upright and exert a force corresponding to about 35% of maximal voluntary effort against a device exerting a head-flexor torque. The first fatiguing period lasted 5 min (F1). After a 5-min recovery period (R1), a second period of fatiguing contraction (F2) and a second period of recovery (R2) followed. Surface EMG activity from dorsal neck muscles was recorded during the contractions and quiet stance trials. EMG median frequency progressively decreased and EMG amplitude progressively increased during fatiguing contractions, demonstrating that muscle fatigue occurred. After F1, subjects swayed to a larger extent compared with control conditions, recovering after R1. Similar findings were obtained after F2 and after R2. Although such behaviour was detectable under both visual conditions, the effects of fatigue reached significance only without vision. Subjective scores of postural control diminished when sway increased, but diminished more, for equal body sway, after fatigue and recovery. Contractions of the same duration, but not inducing EMG signs of fatigue, had much less influence on body sway or subjective scoring. We argue that neck muscle fatigue affects mechanisms of postural control by producing abnormal sensory input to the CNS and a lasting sense of instability. Vision is able to overcome the disturbing effects connected with neck muscle fatigue.
Although caffeine is a commonly used CNS stimulant, neuronal mechanisms underlying its stimulatory effect are not fully understood. Orexin (hypocretin)-containing neurons play a critical role in arousal and might be activated by acute administration of caffeine. We examined this possibility by using dual-immunostaining for orexin B and c-Fos protein as a marker for neuronal activation. Rats were administered intraperitoneally with 10, 30 or 75 mg/kg caffeine, or saline. As previously reported, caffeine increased locomotion at 10 and 30 mg/kg, but not at 75 mg/kg. The numbers of orexin-immunoreactive and non-orexin-immunoreactive neurons expressing c-Fos were analysed using three counting boxes within the orexin field in the posterior hypothalamus. Compared with saline, all doses of caffeine increased the number of cells immunoreactive for both orexin and c-Fos. The average magnitude of this increase across doses in orexin neurons differed amongst regions; c-Fos expression increased by 343% in the perifornical area and by 158% in the more medial, dorsomedial nucleus. In the lateral hypothalamic area, c-Fos expression increased by 226% at 10 and 30 mg/kg but no change was seen at 75 mg/kg. In contrast, caffeine significantly increased the number of non-orexin-immunoreactive neurons expressing c-Fos only in the dorsomedial nucleus. These results indicate that systemically administered caffeine preferentially activates orexin neurons over non-orexin neurons in the same field, and that this activation is most pronounced in the perifornical region where orexin neurons are most concentrated. The activation of orexin neurons might play a role in the behavioural activation by caffeine.
The medial septal nucleus is part of the forebrain circuitry that supports memory. This nucleus is rich in cholinergic receptors and is a putative target for the development of cholinomimetic cognitive-enhancing drugs. Septal neurons, primarily cholinergic and GABAergic, innervate the entire hippocampal formation and regulate hippocampal formation physiology and emergent function. Direct intraseptal drug infusions can produce amnestic or promnestic effects depending upon the type of drug administered. However, intraseptal infusion of the cholinomimetic oxotremorine has been reported to produce both promnestic and amnestic effects when administered prior to task performance. The present study examined whether post-acquisition intraseptal infusion of oxotremorine would be promnestic or amnestic in a delayed-non-match-to-sample radial maze task. In this task rats must remember information about spatial locations visited during a daily sample session and maintain that information over extended retention intervals (hours) in order to perform accurately on the daily test session. Treatments may then be administered during the retention interval. Alterations in maze performance during the test session an hour or more after treatment evidences effects on memory. In the present study, intraseptal infusion of oxotremorine (1.0-10.0 microg) produced a linear dose-related impairment of memory performance. Importantly, we also observed disrupted performance on the day after treatment. This persistent deficit was related only to memory over the retention interval and did not affect indices of short-term memory (ability to avoid repetitive or proactive errors during both the pre- and post-delay sessions). The persistent deficit contrasts with the acute amnestic effects of other intraseptally administered drugs including the cholinomimetics carbachol and tacrine. Thus, intraseptal oxotremorine produced a preferential disruption of memory consolidation as well as a persistent alteration of medial septal circuits. These findings are discussed with regards to multi-stage models of hippocampal-dependent memory formation and the further development of therapeutic strategies in the treatment of mild cognitive impairment as well as age-related decline and Alzheimer's dementia.
Photic information transmitted from the eyes to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is essential for entrainment of circadian behavioral and physiological rhythms in mammals. Under conditions of constant darkness, these rhythms are maintained by the circadian pacemaker cells of the SCN [Bioessays 22 (2000) 23]. It is possible, however, that even in the absence of light, the eyes, which also contain autonomous circadian pacemakers [Science 272 (1996) 419; Chronobiol Int 16 (1999) 229], modulate circadian rhythms in the SCN. Indeed, it was shown recently that removal of the eyes abolishes an endogenous circadian rhythm within cells of the SCN [Nat Neurosci 6 (2003) 111], a finding that led to the suggestion that specific rhythms of the SCN are driven by input from the eyes. In contrast, we show here that removal of the eyes amplifies a normally dampened endogenous circadian rhythm within the SCN, indicating that the eyes can suppress the expression of specific rhythms within the SCN while promoting others.
To test the hypotheses that (i). electroencephalograms (EEGs) are largely made up of oscillations at many frequencies and (ii). that the peaks in the power spectra represent oscillations, we applied a new method, called the period specific average (PSA) to a wide sample of EEGs. Both hypotheses can be rejected. Although the principal peaks in the two spectra agree most of the time, quite often a peak in the power spectrum accompanies no periodicity peak and some periodicity peaks have no power spectral peak. The Fourier spectrum is not a reliable indication of rhythms. EEG samples from patients during waking, sleeping and seizure states, and volunteer healthy subjects doing cognitive tasks quite often show no significant rhythms, on an arbitrary, common sense definition. When clear rhythms are seen, they involve one or two, rarely up to four or five simultaneous non-harmonically related frequencies. Rhythms are special cases; most of the power spectrum most of the time is nonrhythmic. &quot;Good&quot; rhythms usually have quite narrow peaks, with frequency modulation of &lt;5%, strengths of &gt;2.5 up to &gt;10 times the expectation from chance, and they often show fine structure by being quite local and brief. Most rhythms are quasisinusoidal but others are sharp-cornered recurrent events with &lt;50% duty cycle. In the face of wide variability, we do not report any systematic differences in periodicity among EEGs from different parts of the brain or different brain states or species; it will take many more exemplars of each state, species or brain part to establish characteristic features. The PSA method may be the best so far proposed to demonstrate and quantify periodicity in wide-band time series with noise, but it has serious limitations. Discussion leads to the conclusion that it is time for a new paradigm or metaphor for brain waves.
The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is a key site for regulating neuroendocrine and autonomic activities. To study the role of the PVN activation in brain inflammation-induced autonomic/endocrine responses, lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.5 or 5 microg) was administered i.c.v. and rats were killed 1, 3 or 6 h after the injection. I.c.v. LPS-0.5 microg did not cause changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) over 6 h, whereas LPS-5 micro induced a temporary decrease in MAP approximately 30 min after the injection. LPS at either dose increased heart rate. Whereas induction of Fos-like immunoreactivity was confined to the dorsal medial parvocellular division (mpd) of the PVN with the lower dose, labeling was found throughout the PVN with the higher dose. At 3 h, LPS-5 microg also stimulated increases in arginine vasopressin (AVP) heteronuclear RNA levels in the posterior magnocellular and dorsal parvocellular divisions of the PVN at 3 h, and activation of catecholaminergic neurons in the hypothalamus and brainstem. Increases in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels were found in the locus coeruleus at 6 h. LPS at both doses elevated plasma ACTH levels and corticotropin-releasing factor gene expression in the mpd of the PVN. I.c.v. LPS induced IL-1beta mRNA in the meninges and ventricular ependymal lining at 1 h, and in the periventricular PVN at 3 h. Induction of IL-1beta mRNA was found in the lung at 1 h, and a significant increase in plasma LPS binding protein occurred at 3 h. These findings suggest that PVN activation induced by the lower dose of LPS is related primarily to increases in activity of the HPA axis, whereas the higher dose of LPS more widely activates autonomic regulatory centers including the PVN and also stimulates changes in sympathetic output and hypothalamic AVP synthesis. Activation of the PVN by i.c.v. LPS likely occurs through both central and systemic routes. Differential neuronal activation in the PVN is functionally related to autonomic/endocrine responses elicited by brain inflammation.
Hypocretin/orexin modulates sleep-wake state via actions across multiple terminal fields. Within waking, hypocretin may also participate in high-arousal processes, including those associated with stress. The current studies examined the extent to which alterations in neuronal activity, as measured by Fos immunoreactivity, occur within both hypocretin-synthesizing and hypocretin-1 receptor-expressing neurons across varying behavioral state/environmental conditions associated with varying levels of waking and arousal. Double-label immunohistochemistry was used to visualize Fos and either prepro-hypocretin in the lateral hypothalamus or hypocretin-1 receptors in the locus coeruleus and select basal forebrain regions involved in the regulation of behavioral state/arousal. Animals were tested under the following conditions: 1). diurnal sleeping; 2). diurnal spontaneous waking; 3). nocturnal spontaneous waking; and 4). high-arousal waking (diurnal novelty-stress). Additionally, the effects of hypocretin-1 administration (0.07 and 0.7 nmol) on levels of Fos were examined within these two neuronal populations. Time spent awake, scored for the 90-min preceding perfusion, was largely comparable in diurnal spontaneous waking, nocturnal spontaneous waking and high-arousal waking. Nocturnal spontaneous waking and high-arousal waking, but not diurnal spontaneous waking, were associated with increased levels of Fos within hypocretin-synthesizing neurons, relative to diurnal sleeping. Within hypocretin-1 receptor-expressing neurons, only high-arousal waking was associated with increased levels of Fos. Hypocretin-1 administration dose-dependently increased levels of Fos within hypocretin-1 receptor-expressing neurons to levels comparable to, or exceeding, levels observed in high-arousal waking. Combined, these observations support the hypothesis that hypocretin neuronal activity varies across the circadian cycle. Additionally, these data suggest that waking per se may not be associated with increased hypocretin neurotransmission. In contrast, high-arousal states, including stress, appear to be associated with substantially higher rates of hypocretin neurotransmission. Finally, these studies provide further evidence indicating coordinated actions of hypocretin across a variety of arousal-related basal forebrain and brainstem regions in the behavioral state modulatory actions of this peptide system.
Stress plays an important role in the development of affective disorders. Women show a higher prevalence for these disorders then men. The course of a depressive episode is thought to be positively influenced by social support. We have used a chronic mild stress model in which rats received footshocks daily for 3 weeks. Since rats are social animals we hypothesised that social housing, as a possible model for human social support, might reduce the adverse effects of chronic stress. Brain activity after chronic stress was measured in several limbic brain areas with the neuronal activation marker c-fos. High behavioural activity due to housing rats under reversed light-dark conditions could be responsible for the observed high within group variability in some limbic regions. FOS- (ir) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) was increased in all stress-exposed groups, except for the socially housed females who showed increased FOS-ir in control condition. Individually housed males and socially housed females showed increased FOS-ir in the dorsal raphe (DRN). Amygdala nuclei were differentially affected by stress, gender and housing conditions. Also the mesolimbic dopaminergic system showed gender specific responses to stress and housing conditions. These results indicate that social support can enhance stress coping in female rats, whereas in males rats, group housing appears to increase the adverse effects of chronic stress, although the neurobiological mechanism is not simply a reduction or enhancement of stress-induced brain activation.
Rats exposed to repeated unavoidable stress show decreased dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) and do not acquire vanilla sugar (VS)-sustained appetitive behavior (VAB). Rats treated with lithium for 3 weeks also show decreased NAcS dopamine output, yet they acquire VAB. Feeding a novel palatable food increases extraneuronal dopamine levels in the NAcS and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in rats. In order to investigate the role of food-induced dopamine release in VAB acquisition, we studied by microdialysis the dopaminergic response in the NAcS and mPFC to the presentation and consumption of VS in satiated control rats, and in satiated rats exposed to repeated stress or lithium treatment. The dopaminergic response to VS was also studied in rats familiar with VS, or that had acquired VAB. In control rats, VS feeding was accompanied by increased dopamine output in the NAcS and mPFC, and one-trial habituation to this effect developed in the NAcS. Rats exposed to a 7-day stress showed reduced interest in VS pellets, and when fed VS they did not show a dopaminergic response in the NAcS and mPFC. Lithium-treated rats rapidly ate VS pellets and showed increased dopamine output in the NAcS and mPFC, with no habituation in the NAcS response. Rats familiar with VS and rats that had already learned VAB ate VS pellets. The first group showed a lower dopaminergic response to VS consumption than the control group, but the latter showed no dopaminergic response in the NAcS and mPFC. We propose that the limbic dopaminergic response to a novel palatable food plays a role in associative learning and that it is predictive of the competence to learn an appetitive behavior. Moreover, in our experimental conditions a phasic increase in mesolimbic dopamine no longer signals the VS stimulus once it has become a reinforcer in an appetitive task.
Ligands for metabotropic glutamate 8 (mGlu8) receptors, such as (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid and (S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine suppress CNS excitability via presynaptic regulation of glutamate release and are anticonvulsant in mice. These observations suggest that mGlu8 receptors play a role in the regulation of neuronal excitability. To further characterize the role of mGlu8 receptors in vivo, the mGlu8 receptor knockout mouse was generated. Recently, we reported that mGlu8 receptor knockout mice showed increased anxiety in the elevated plus maze (EPM). Here, the pattern of c-Fos expression was studied in mGlu8 receptor knockout and wild-type mice after exposure to the EPM test for 5 min. The present study shows that the increased anxiety-related behavior of mGlu8 receptor knockout mice in the EPM was associated with a 2.3-fold higher (P&lt;0.05) number of c-Fos positive cells in the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus compared with wild-type mice (when prehandled mice were used). The increased neuronal activity in the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus in the mGlu8 receptor knockout mouse was also observed in a separate experiment with naive mice (no prehandling). In these naive mGlu8 receptor knockouts, c-Fos expression was significantly induced by the EPM in the centrolateral nucleus of the thalamus, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus, but in naive wild-type mice c-Fos was significantly increased only in the piriform cortex. Basal c-Fos expression in the absence of EPM exposure did not differ between wild-type and mGlu8 receptor knockout mice in any brain region we examined. As the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus is important in regulating sensory information to higher brain regions, these results support the hypothesis that mGlu8 receptors are involved in the response to certain novel, aversive environments. In particular, the deletion of the mGlu8 receptor reduced the threshold of neuronal activation in stress-related brain regions such as the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus.
The amygdaloid complex has long been implicated in seizure disorders. Yet, projection cells of the lateral amygdaloid nucleus (LA) display little spontaneous activity suggesting that this seizure prone structure is normally controlled by strong inhibitory mechanisms. This control is achieved in part by local interneurons; however, a synaptically activated, Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) (K(Ca)) conductance has recently been identified as a second major inhibitory mechanism. In the present study, we investigated which K(Ca) channels underlie this conductance, and their roles in the generation of the synaptic responses and spike adaptation of LA projection cells. Intracellular recordings were obtained from LA projection cells in barbiturate-anesthetized rats. In recordings with K-acetate pipettes, perirhinal stimulation evoked an initial excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) followed by a prolonged monophasic hyperpolarization, similar to what was observed in cats under in vivo conditions, and distinct from the multiphasic hyperpolarization observed previously in rodents with in vitro recordings. This indicates that differences in the cellular environment, not interspecies differences, are responsible for the differing response profiles previously reported. In recordings with pipettes containing 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid or Cs-acetate the reversal potentials were significantly more positive than those recorded with K-acetate, consistent with a K(Ca) conductance contribution to the response. To investigate the K(Ca) channels underlying this conductance, intracellular recordings were obtained while perfusing the LA with Ringer's solution and then switching to a solution containing charybdotoxin, isoproterenol, or apamin. Charybdotoxin and isoproterenol produced positive shifts in the reversal potential, whereas apamin did not. By contrast, all three substances decreased adaptation during spike trains elicited by depolarizing current injections. These results suggest that intermediate (IK) and small (SK) conductance K(Ca) channels limit LA projection cell excitability, with IK channels involved in controlling both the synaptic response and intrinsic excitability of these neurons, and SK channels being involved only in the latter.
Somatosensory stimulation of primary somatosensory cortex (SI) using frequency discrimination offers a direct, well-defined and accessible way of studying cortical decisions at the locus of early input processing. Animal studies have identified and classified the neuronal responses in SI but they have not yet resolved whether during prolonged stimulation the collective SI response just passively reflects the input or actively participates in the comparison and decision processes. This question was investigated using tomographic analysis of single trial magnetoencephalographic data. Four right-handed males participated in a frequency discrimination task to detect changes in the frequency of an electrical stimulus applied to the right-hand digits 2+3+4. The subjects received approximately 600 pairs of stimuli with Stim1 always at 21 Hz, while Stim2 was either 21 Hz (50%) or varied from 22 to 29 Hz in steps of 1 Hz. Both stimuli were 1 s duration, separated by a 1 s interval of no stimulation. The left-SI was the most consistently activated area and showed the first activation peak at 35-48 ms after Stim1 onset and sustained activity during both stimulus periods. During the Stim2 period, we found that the left-SI activation started to differ significantly between two groups of trials (21 versus 26-29 Hz) within the first 100 ms and this difference was sustained and enhanced thereafter (approximately 600 ms). When only correct responses from the above two groups were used, the difference was even higher at later latencies (approximately 650 ms). For one subject who had enough trials of same perception to different input frequencies, e.g. responded 21 Hz to Stim2 at 21 Hz (correct) and 26-29 Hz (error), we found the sustained difference only before 650 ms. Our results suggest that SI is involved with the analysis of an input frequency and related to perception and decision at different latencies.
Oxidative stress and modulation of anti-oxidant enzymes may contribute to the deleterious consequences of diabetes mellitus and to the effects of chronic (i.e. 21 day) stress in the CNS. We therefore compared the effects of short- and long-term exposure to diabetes-induced hyperglycemia, restraint stress and the combined effects of restraint stress and diabetes upon parameters of oxidative stress in the rat hippocampus. Whereas 7 days of restraint stress or hyperglycemia, or the combination, produced similar increases in oxidative stress markers 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and malondialdehyde (MDA) throughout the hippocampus, 21 days of stress or hyperglycemia did not increase these markers in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, Ammon's horn still showed elevated levels of these lipid peroxidation products, especially in diabetic rats subjected to 21 days of restraint stress. The expression of two anti-oxidant enzymes, copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD) and manganese SOD, was also differentially regulated by stress and hyperglycemia in a time- and region-specific manner in the rat hippocampus. Although long-term stress decreased both SOD isoforms, diabetes increased Cu/Zn-SOD expression in DG with or without 21 days of repeated stress. These increases may account for the finding that protein-conjugated HNE and MDA levels returned to control levels between 7 days and 21 days of hyperglycemia or the combination of diabetes and stress. These results suggest that while other anti-oxidant pathways may account for decreases in oxidative stress in the long-term stress paradigm, increases in Cu/Zn-SOD expression may contribute to the region-specific attenuation of oxidative stress in the diabetic rat hippocampus.
Glutamate receptors have been proposed to mediate the apoptotic actions of glucocorticoids in hippocampal cells. To further analyze the role of glutamate receptors in this process, we pretreated primary hippocampal cells from neonatal (postnatal day 4) rats with antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists before exposure to the specific glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone (DEX) at a dose of 1 microM. Dizocilpine (MK801; a general N-methyl-D-aspartic acid [NMDA] receptor antagonist, NMDAR antagonist) and ifenprodil (a specific ligand of the NMDAR 2B subunit, NR2B), were used to block iGluR; (RS)-alpha-ethyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (E4CPG) and (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenyl-glycine (CPPG) were employed as I/II (E4CPG) and II/III (CPPG) mGluR antagonists. Blockade of iGluR resulted in a significant attenuation of DEX-induced cell death; the finding that ifenprodil exerted a similar potency to MK801 demonstrates the involvement of NR2B receptors in glucocorticoid-induced cell death. Apoptosis accounted for a significant amount of the cell loss observed, as detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling histochemistry for the in situ labeling of DNA breaks; apoptotic cells were distinguished from necrosis on the basis of morphological criteria, including chromatin condensation, membrane blebbing and presence of apoptotic bodies. Treatment with E4CPG and CPPG completely abolished the apoptotic response to DEX, thus showing the additional contribution of mGluR to the phenomenon. Further, dose-response studies with NMDA revealed that whereas high (10 microM) doses of NMDA themselves elicit cytotoxic responses, low (1-5 microM) concentrations of NMDA can effectively oppose DEX-induced cell death. Interestingly, the neuroprotective actions of low dose NMDA stimulation were abolished when either synaptic or extrasynaptic NMDA receptors were blocked with MK801 in combination with the GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline (synaptic) or ifenprodil (extrasynaptic). In summary, the present data show that both iGluR and mGluR mediate the neurotoxic effects of glucocorticoids on hippocampal cells and that pre-treatment with low doses of NMDA, by acting on synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors, render hippocampal cells less vulnerable to glucocorticoid insults.
The cortical information flow via the perforant path represents a major excitatory projection to the hippocampus. Lesioning this projection leads to massive degeneration and subsequently to reorganization in its termination zones as well as in primary non-affected subfields of the hippocampus. The molecular mechanisms and factors which are involved in the postlesional events are poorly defined. Using a differential display reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (DDRT-PCR) strategy, we located one band which occurred only in control hippocampus lanes and almost disappeared in the lanes of lesioned hippocampi. By sequencing, we identified the corresponding gene as cholecystokinin (CCK). Northern blot analysis confirmed a decreased transcription of CCK after lesion. In situ hybridization analysis was performed for localization and quantification of altered CCK transcription. We noted a significant downregulation of CCK transcription in the hippocampus (20%) and in the contralateral cortex (12%) 1-day after lesion (dal) and an increased signal in the ipsilateral cortex (10.5%). This pattern was altered, showing upregulation of CCK mRNA expression, reaching its highest level of 70% above control levels at 5 dal. In the hippocampus, the control level was reached again at 21 dal, whereas the cortex reached the control level at 10 dal. In comparison, the mRNA transcripts of the receptors CCK(A) and CCK(B) remained unchanged. Since CCK-containing neurons are involved in the modulation of pyramidal and granule cell excitability, our data indicate a time course correlation between CCK mRNA expression and postlesional axonal sprouting response in the hippocampus.
Several recent epidemiological studies have proposed that cholesterol-lowering drug Statin may provide protection against Alzheimer's disease (AD). Probucol is a non-Statin cholesterol-lowering drug and a potent inducer of apolipoprotein E (apoE) production in peripheral circulation. A recent clinical study using Probucol in elderly AD subjects revealed a concomitant stabilisation of cognitive symptoms and significant increases in apoE levels in the cerebral spinal fluid in these patients. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying these effects, we treated a cohort of aged male rats (26-month-old) with oral dose of Probucol for 30 days. Specifically, we examined the effects of Probucol on apoE production and its receptors (low density lipoprotein receptor [LDLr] and low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein [LRP]), astroglial marker of cell damage (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]), markers of neuronal synaptic plasticity and integrity (synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa [SNAP-25] and synaptophysin) as well as cholesterol biosynthesis (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase [HMGCoAr]) in the hippocampus. We report that Probucol induces the production of apoE and one of its main receptors, LRP, increases HMGCoAr (rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis), substantially attenuates age-related increases in glial activation, and induces production of synaptic marker SNAP-25, a molecule commonly associated with synaptogenesis and dendritic remodeling. These findings suggest that Probucol could promote neural and synaptic plasticity to counteract the synaptic deterioration associated with brain aging through an apoE/LRP-mediated system. Consistent with the beneficial effects of other cholesterol-lowering drugs such as the Statin, Probucol could also offers additional benefits based on apoE neurobiology.
The generation of an Atm -/- mouse model of the human ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) opened new avenues toward a better understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of AT. We have recently reported that 5-month-old Atm-/- mice exhibit severe loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive, dopaminergic nigro-striatal neurons, down to 26% of age-matched controls. In the present study we analyzed development of the dopaminergic cell loss in the context of the nigro-striatal system. We found that dopaminergic neurons are formed normally in the Atm-/- mouse, and degenerate during the first few months of life; there was no difference between 1-month-old Atm-/- and control mice in the number of dopaminergic cells that were retrogradely labeled by an injection of fluorescent tracer into the striatum. On the other hand, a dramatic reduction in the number of labeled cells was found in 5-month-old Atm-/- mice. This cell loss was significant in areas A9 and A10 but not in area A9-I. These findings indicate that midbrain dopaminergic neurons in Atm-/- mice initially send normal axons to the striatum, only to degenerate later in life. In addition, an age-dependent as well as topographic, medial-to-lateral loss of GAD, met-enkephaline and substance-P immunopositive cells was found in the striatum of the Atm-/- mice. This phenomenon was significant only in the 5-month-old Atm-/- mice (3 months after the beginning of detectable dopaminergic cell loss). In both the striatum and the substantia nigra, the apparent cell loss was accompanied by gliosis. In addition, alpha-synuclein immunopositive bodies were observed in the cortex, striatum and substantia nigra of these mice. The present data indicate that Atm-/- mice exhibit a progressive, age-dependent, reduction in dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra, followed by a reduction in projection neurons of the striatum. Thus, the Atm-/- mouse may model the extrapyramidal motor deficits seen in AT patients.
Ceruloplasmin (CP) is a copper-dependent ferroxidase. It regulates iron metabolism and is involved in inflammation, angiogenesis, and protection against oxidative stress. CP also modulates K(+) channel activity in neuroblastoma cells and affects cardiodynamics of isolated hearts. Considering the presence of CP in the nervous system and the importance of iron ions and K(+) channels in neuronal activity, we postulated a role of CP in neuronal development. This hypothesis was tested using the P19 mouse embryonal carcinoma cell line, a model of neuronal differentiation. Addition of CP to the culture medium of newly differentiated P19 neurons induced cell aggregation within 24 h. This effect was concentration-dependent half-maximal at 50 nM, and not associated with necrosis, apoptosis or changes in secretory function. Deglycosylated CP was aggregative but not denatured CP, copper salts, His(2)Cu complex, or other copper enzymes or serum proteins. CP-induced aggregation was less pronounced with aging neurons and seemed not to involve K(+) channels. Immunocytofluorescence analysis demonstrated that digoxigenin-labeled CP bound to P19 neurons and the proportion of responding neurons decreased with aging. The interaction of digoxigenin-labeled CP with neurons was half-maximal at 120 nM by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and displaced by unlabeled CP. Our data indicate a specific aggregative action of CP on young neurons in vitro, possibly involving CP receptors. A potential developmental role of CP in nervous system organization is thus demonstrated.
Correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity is thought to promote maturation of excitatory synapses in the developing brain by directing AMPA receptors to pure NMDA synapses. However, this hypothesis has not been tested in vivo. Here, we have performed such test by inhibiting correlated neural activity in vivo using a single injection of tetanus toxin into the rat hippocampal CA1 area at postnatal day 1. When examined in the acute slice preparation (1-7 days post-injection), there was a strong reduction, down to 20% of control level, in the frequency of glutamatergic and GABAergic spontaneous postsynaptic currents (sPSCs). This activity deprivation led to a growth retardation of CA1 pyramidal neurons and to markedly faster decay kinetics of NMDA sPCSs. However, it did not alter the relationship between AMPA and NMDA sPSCs with respect to either their frequency or amplitude. Thus, although critical for certain aspects of neuronal development, correlated neural activity in the neonatal hippocampus does not seem to promote incorporation of AMPA receptors at pure NMDA synapses.
We investigated the role of in vivo synaptic activity upon trafficking of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit, NR2B, at mature synapses by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. In vivo blockade of NMDA receptors was achieved by applying the NMDA receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (D-APV), onto the cortical surface of one hemisphere of anesthetized adult rats. Inactive L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (L-APV) was applied to the contralateral hemisphere for within-animal control and to assess basal level of NR2B subunits at synapses. Within 30 min of D-APV treatment, we observed a decrease in the number of layer I axo-spinous asymmetric synapses that are positively immuno-labeled for the NR2B subunits. This decrease was paralleled by reductions in the absolute number of immuno-gold particles found at these synapses. The decrease of NR2B labeling was detectable in all five animals examined. Significant reductions were seen not only at post-synaptic densities, but also within the cytoplasm of spines and axon terminals. The data demonstrate that blockade of NMDA receptors induces trafficking of NR2B subunits out of synaptic membranes, spines, and terminals. This is in sharp contrast to a previous observation that NR2A subunits move into spines and axon terminals following in vivo blockade with D-APV. These findings point to yet unknown, NMDA receptor activity-dependent mechanisms that separately regulate the localization of NR2A and NR2B subunits at synapses.
The geometry of dendritic spines has a major impact on signal transmission at excitatory synapses. To study it in detail we raised transgenic mice expressing an intrinsic green fluorescent protein-based plasma membrane marker that directly visualizes the cell surface of living neurons throughout the brain. Confocal imaging of developing hippocampal slices showed that as dendrites mature they switch from producing labile filopodia and polymorphic spine precursors to dendritic spines with morphologies similar to those reported from studies of adult brain. In images of live dendrites these mature spines are fundamentally stable structures, but retain morphological plasticity in the form of actin-rich lamellipodia at the tips of spine heads. In live mature dendrites up to 50% of spines had cup-shaped heads with prominent terminal lamellipodia whose motility produced constant alterations in the detailed geometry of the synaptic contact zone. The partial enveloping of presynaptic terminals by these cup-shaped spines coupled with rapid actin-driven changes in their shape may operate to fine-tune receptor distribution and neurotransmitter cross-talk at excitatory synapses.
Clathrin adaptor protein (AP)180 is a synaptic protein that regulates the assembly of clathrin-coated vesicles. Several endocytic proteins including AP2, CALM, and epsin 1 have functions or molecular structures similar to AP180. We determined if AP180 associates with functional synapses in cultured hippocampal neurons. We also compared the expression pattern of AP180 with the other endocytic proteins. The distribution of AP180 corresponded with the synaptic vesicle-associated protein synapsin I, and with functional presynaptic terminals labeled with the styryl dye FM1-43. Synaptic AP2 colocalized with AP180, but the distribution of AP2 was not limited to synapses of neurons and it was also expressed in glia. CLAM and epsin 1 immunoreactivities were also detected in both neurons and glia. Unlike AP180, the neuronal immunoreactivity of CALM was not intense in the synaptic puncta. Epsin 1 immunoreactivity was found in both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites, and its synaptic distribution only partially overlapped with that of AP180. These results support roles for AP180 in synaptic function in neurons. The findings also provide information on the distribution of AP2, CALM, and epsin 1 in cells of the nervous system that suggest different roles for these endocytic proteins in the biology of these cells.
To elucidate central neural pathways contributing to the febrile component of the acute phase response to pyrogenic insult, I sought to determine whether activation of neurons in the rostral raphe pallidus (RPa) is required for the increase in brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis evoked by i.c.v. prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized, ventilated rats. BAT sympathetic nerve activity (SNA; +224% of control), BAT temperature (+1.8 degrees C), expired CO(2) (+1.3%), mean arterial pressure (+23 mm Hg), and heart rate (+73 beats per minute) were significantly increased after i.c.v. PGE(2) (2 microg). Microinjection of either the GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (2 mM, 60 nl), or glycine (0.5M, 60 nl) into RPa resulted in a prompt reversal of the PGE(2)-evoked stimulation of BAT SNA, BAT thermogenesis and heart rate, with these variables returning to control levels prior to i.c.v. PGE(2) following the long-lasting, muscimol-induced inhibition of RPa neurons. In conclusion, activation of neurons in RPa, possibly BAT sympathetic premotor neurons, is essential for the increases in BAT SNA and BAT thermogenesis stimulated by i.c.v. administration of PGE(2). The increased heart rate likely contributing to an augmented cardiac output supporting the increased BAT thermogenesis in response to PGE(2) is also dependent on neurons in RPa. These results contribute to our understanding of central neural substrates for the augmented thermogenesis during fever.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) cascade is an important contributor to synaptic plasticity that underlies learning and memory. ERK activation by the MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) leading to cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation is implicated in the formation of long-term memory. We have demonstrated that CREB phosphorylation in the olfactory bulb (OB) is important for aversive olfactory learning in young rats, yet whether MAPK/ERK functions as an upstream regulator are necessary for this olfactory learning remains to be determined. Therefore, we addressed this issue using behavioral and Western blot analyses. The MEK inhibitor PD98059 was continuously infused into the OB of postnatal day 11 rat pups during a 30-min training session regarding the pairing of citral odor and foot shock. On the following day, the time spent in the part of the apparatus where the odor was present was measured as an index of odor aversion. PD98059 impaired olfactory learning in a dose-dependent manner without affecting memory retention 1 h after training. We further tested whether odor-shock training leads to MAPK/ERK activation in the OB and defines the time course of the activation. Phosphorylated ERKs (P-ERKs) 1 and 2 were significantly increased for 60 min after the training without changes in total ERKs 1 and 2. By contrast, intrabulbar infusion of PD98059 during the training significantly reduced P-ERKs 1 and 2 as well as phosphorylated CREB without any effects on the total ERKs or CREB. Taken together with the previous findings, these results indicate that the MAPK/ERK-CREB pathway is required for the long-term, but not the short-term, facilitation process of aversive olfactory learning in young rats.
Voluntary wheel running in rats increases hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, a neurochemical important for neuronal survival, differentiation, connectivity and synaptic plasticity. Here, we report the effects of wheel running on BDNF and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) protein levels in normal control mice, and in mice selectively bred (25 generations) for increased voluntary wheel running. We hypothesized that increased voluntary wheel running in selected (S) mice would increase CNS BDNF and NT-3 protein levels more than in control (C) mice. Baseline hippocampal BDNF levels (mice housed without running wheels) were similar in S and C mice. Following seven nights of running, hippocampal BDNF increased significantly more in S versus C mice, and levels were correlated with distance run (considering C and S mice together). Spinal and cerebellar BDNF and hippocampal NT-3 levels were not significantly affected by wheel running in any group, but there was a small, positive correlation between spinal C3-C6 BDNF levels and distance run (considering C and S mice together). This is the first study to demonstrate that mice which choose to run more have greater elevations in hippocampal BDNF, suggesting enhanced potential for exercise-induced hippocampal neuroplasticity.
The amygdala is a temporal lobe region that is implicated in emotional information processing. The amygdala also is associated with the processing and modulation of pain sensation. Recently, we demonstrated that in nonhuman primates, the amygdala is necessary for the full expression of cannabinoid-induced antinociception [J Neurosci 21 (2001) 8238]. The antinociceptive effect of the cannabinoid receptor agonist (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo(1,2,3-de)-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone (WIN55,212-2) was significantly reduced in rhesus monkeys with large bilateral lesions of the amygdaloid complex. In the present study, we investigated the contribution of the amygdala to cannabinoid-induced antinociception in the rat. Using bilateral local microinjections of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol, we inactivated neurons originating from the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) or basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA). In rats injected with intra-CeA saline, the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 produced dose-dependent antinociception on the noxious heat-evoked tail flick assay. In rats treated with intra-CeA muscimol, however, the antinociceptive effect of WIN55,212-2 was significantly reduced. Rats treated with intra-BLA muscimol showed no deficit in WIN55,212-2-induced antinociception. The effect of CeA inactivation on WIN55,212-2-induced suppression of prolonged pain in the formalin test also was tested. In rats treated with intra-CeA saline, WIN55,212-2 reduced the incidence of formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors and also reduced formalin-evoked c-fos expression in both superficial and deep laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn. In rats treated with intra-CeA muscimol, however, these effects of WIN55,212-2 were significantly reduced. The results constitute the first causal data demonstrating the necessity of descending pain-modulatory circuitry (of which the CeA is a component) for the full expression of cannabinoid-induced antinociception in the rat. Furthermore, the results complement previous findings suggesting an overlap in neural circuitry activated by opioids and cannabinoids.
The nucleus accumbens, a major component of the ventral striatum, and the dorsal striatum are primary targets of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway, which is a pathway that plays a critical role in reward and addiction. The shell compartment of the nucleus accumbens and the ventromedial striatum, in particular, receive extensive afferent projections from the ventral tegmental area, which is the major afferent source of the mesolimbic pathway [Prog Brain Res 99 (1993) 209; J Neurosci 7 (1987) 3915]. The present study focused on striatal cholinergic interneurons as potential key neurons involved in the neural basis of drug reinforcement. The main finding of this study is that cholinergic interneurons located in the shell compartment of the nucleus accumbens and the ventromedial striatum were activated, as measured by Fos labeling, following a 1 h session of the self-administration of cocaine in rats. A direct correlation existed between the percent of cholinergic interneurons that were activated and the amount of cocaine that was self-administered. The greatest amount of administered cocaine (approximately 10 mg/kg) resulted in the activation of approximately 80% of the cholinergic neurons. No such correlation existed in the group of animals that self-administered saline. In addition, activation was not found in the core compartment of the nucleus accumbens or the dorsolateral striatum, which receive extensive innervation from the substantia nigra and thus are more closely tied to the motor effects of the drug. In conclusion, cocaine-driven neuronal activation was specific to the shell compartment of the nucleus accumbens (R(2)=0.9365) and the ventromedial striatum (R(2)=0.9059). These findings demonstrate that cholinergic interneurons are involved in the initial stage of cocaine intake and that these neurons are located in areas of the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum that are more closely tied to the rewarding and hedonic effects rather than the motor effects of cocaine intake.
Honeybees can be trained to associate odorants to sucrose reward by conditioning the proboscis extension response. Using this paradigm, we have recently shown that bees can solve a side-specific task: they learn simultaneously to discriminate a reinforced odor A from a non-reinforced odor B at one antenna (A+B-) and the reversed problem at the other antenna (A-B+). Side-specific (A+B-/B+A-) conditioning is an interesting tool to measure neurophysiological changes due to olfactory learning because the same odorant is excitatory (CS+) on one brain side and inhibitory (CS-) on the opposite side. In the bee brain, the antennal lobe (AL) is the first olfactory relay where the olfactory memory is established. Using calcium imaging, we compared odor-evoked activity in the functional units, the glomeruli, of the two ALs, both in naive and conditioned individuals. Each odor evoked a different pattern of glomerular activity, which was symmetrical between sides and highly conserved among naive animals. In conditioned bees, response patterns were overall symmetrical but showed more active glomeruli and topical differences between sides. By representing odor vectors in a virtual olfactory space whose dimensions are the responses of 23 identified glomeruli, we found that distances between odor representations on each brain side were significantly higher in conditioned than in naive bees, but only for CS+ and CS-. However, the distance between CS+ and CS- representations was equal to that of naive individuals. Our work suggests that side-specific conditioning decorrelates odor representations between AL sides but not between CS+ and CS- within one AL.
The medial temporal lobe, including the entorhinal cortex, the amygdala and the hippocampus, has an important role in learning and memory, and its circuits exhibit synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation [LTP]). The entorhinal cortex is positioned to exert a potent influence on the amygdala and the hippocampus given its extensive monosynaptic projections to both areas. We therefore studied the effects of activation of the entorhinal cortex with simultaneous recording of LTP in the hippocampus and amygdala in the anesthetized rat. theta Burst stimulation of the lateral entorhinal cortex induced LTP simultaneously in the basal amygdaloid nucleus and in the dentate gyrus. However, the mechanisms involved in the induction of LTP in the two areas differed. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid delivered 1 h before LTP induction (10 mg/kg, i.p.), blocked LTP in the dentate gyrus but not in the amygdala. In addition we found that the basal amygdala as well as the dentate gyrus sustained late-phase LTP (10 h) which may participate in memory encoding and/or modulation processes. Overall, the results suggest a coordinating role for the entorhinal cortex by simultaneously modulating activity and plasticity in these structures, albeit through different mechanisms. Interactive encoding of this sort is believed to endow memories with a different, more integrative, quality than when either pathway is activated alone.
Previous studies have documented changes in expression of the immediate early gene (IEG) c-fos and Fos protein in the brain between sleep and wakefulness. Such expression differences implicate changes in transcriptional regulation across behavioral states and suggest that other transcription factors may also be affected. In the current study, we examined the expression of seven fos/jun family member mRNAs (c-fos, fosB, fos related antigen (fra)1, fra-2, junB, c-jun, and junD) and three other IEG mRNAs (egr-1, egr-3, and nur77) in mouse brain following short-term (6 h) sleep deprivation (SD) and 4 h recovery sleep (RS) after SD. Gene expression was quantified in seven brain regions by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Multivariate analysis of variance revealed statistically significant variation in cerebral cortex, basal forebrain, thalamus and cerebellum. Levels of c-fos and fosB mRNA were elevated during SD in all four of these brain regions. In the cerebral cortex, junB mRNA was also elevated during SD whereas, in the basal forebrain, fra-1 and fra-2 mRNA levels increased in this condition. During RS, the only IEG mRNA to undergo significant increase was fra-2 in the cortex. C-jun and junD mRNAs were invariant across experimental conditions. These results indicate that the expression of fos/jun family members is diverse during SD. Among other IEGs, nur77 mRNA expression across conditions was similar to c-fos and fosB, egr-1 mRNA was elevated during SD in the cortex and basal forebrain, and egr-3 mRNA was elevated in the cortex during both SD and RS. The similarity of fosB and nur77 expression to c-fos expression indicates that these genes might also be useful markers of functional activity. Along with our previous results, the increased levels of fra-2 and egr-3 mRNAs during RS reported here suggest that increased mRNA expression during sleep is rare and may be anatomically restricted.
The effects of a transient vestibular nerve blockade, achieved by intra-tympanic instillation of lidocaine, were studied in rats by recording horizontal eye movements in darkness. Evaluation of the dose-response relationship showed that a maximal effect was attained with a concentration of 4% lidocaine. Within 15 min of lidocaine instillation, a vigorous spontaneous nystagmus was observed which reached maximal frequency and velocity of the slow phase after about 20 min. Subsequently, the nystagmus failed for approximately half an hour before it reappeared. This could be avoided by providing visual feedback in between the recordings in darkness or by a contralateral instillation of 2.5% lidocaine. It is suggested that the failure reflects an overload of the vestibulo-oculomotor circuits. After recovery from the nerve blockade, when the gaze was stable, dynamic vestibular tests were performed. They revealed that a decrease of the slow phase velocity gain and the dominant time constant during, respectively, sinusoidal- and step stimulation toward the unanaesthetised side, had developed with the nerve blockade. These modulations were impaired by a nodulo-uvulectomy but not by bilateral flocculectomy, which is consistent with the concept of vestibular habituation. A GABA(B) receptor antagonist, CGP 56433A, given systemically during the nerve blockade, aggravated the vestibular asymmetry. The same effect has previously been demonstrated in both short- (days) and long-term (months) compensated rats, by antagonising the GABA(B) receptor. In summary, this study provides the first observations of vestibulo-oculomotor disturbances during the first hour after a rapid and transient unilateral vestibular loss in the rat. By using this method, it is possible to study immediate behavioural consequences and possible neural changes that might outlast the nerve blockade.
Clinical and recent imaging reports demonstrate the involvement of various cerebral prefrontal areas in the processing of pain. This has received further confirmation from animal experimentation showing an alteration of the threshold of acute nociceptive reflexes by various manipulations in the orbito-frontal cortical areas. The present study investigates the possible involvement of this area in the modulation of neuropathic manifestations in awake rats. Several groups of rats were subjected to mononeuropathy following the spared nerve injury model, known to produce evident tactile and cold allodynia and heat hyperalgesia. The activity of the ventrolateral orbital areas was selectively blocked by using either chronic or acute injection of lidocaine, electrolytic lesion, or chemical lesion with kainic acid or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). The effects of these manipulations were compared with those following lesion of the somatic sensorimotor cortical areas. Local injection of lidocaine resulted in a reversible depression of all neuropathic manifestations while electrolytic or chemical lesions elicited transient attenuation affecting mainly the heat hyperalgesia and to a lesser extent the cold allodynia. The magnitude of the observed effects with the different procedures used can be ranked as follows: 6-OHDA&lt;lesion&lt;electrolytic lesion&lt;kainic acid lesion&lt;lidocaine injection. The observed effects were transient despite the permanence of the lesions while lesion of the somatosensorimotor cortices produced sustained reduction of the neuropathic manifestations. Our results correlate well with the established connections of the ventrolateral orbital area with the thalamic nucleus subnucleus involved in the procession of thermal nociception. The transient effects reported following permanent lesions in the orbital areas may reflect its flexible role in pain modulation. This observation provides further evidence on the plasticity of the neural networks involved in the regulation of nociceptive behavior.
The effect of food hardness during mastication on nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord was studied by analyzing complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) induced nocifensive behavior and Fos expression. The behavioral study showed that the shortening of the withdrawal latency following CFA injection into the hind paw was depressed after a change in the given food hardness from soft to hard. The depression of nocifensive behavior in the rats with hard food was reversed after i.v. injection of naloxone. Fos protein-like immunoreactive cells (Fos protein-LI cells) were expressed in the superficial and deep laminae of the L4-6 spinal dorsal horn after s.c. injection of CFA into the hind paw during soft food mastication. The number of Fos protein-LI cells was decreased in the rats with hard food mastication followed by soft food. This reduction of Fos protein-LI cells following change in food hardness was reversed after i.v. application of naloxone. Furthermore, the depression of Fos protein-LI cells following hard food intake was significantly inhibited after bilateral inferior alveolar nerve transection or bilateral ablation of the somatosensory cortex. These findings suggest that the change in food hardness during mastication might drive an opioid descending system through the trigeminal sensory pathway and somatosensory cortex resulting in an antinociceptive effect on chronic pain. However, IAN transection and cortical ablation did not induce 100% reversal of Fos expression, suggesting other than trigeminal sensory system may be involved in this phenomena, such as the pathway through the brainstem reticular formation.
During development, a subpopulation (approximately 30%) of neurons in the avian cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM), dies following removal of the cochlea. It is clear that neuronal activity coming from the auditory nerve provides trophic support critical for cell survival in the NM. Several aspects of the intracellular signaling cascades that regulate apoptosis have been defined for naturally occurring, or programmed cell death, in neurons. These intracellular cascades involve the extrusion of cytochrome-c from the mitochondria into the cytosol and the subsequent activation of proteolytic caspase cascades, which ultimately act on substrates that lead to the death of the cell. In contrast, the intracellular signaling cascades responsible for deafferentation-induced cell death are not fully understood. In the present series of experiments, the potential extrusion of cytochrome-c from the mitochondria into the cytosol, and the activation of caspases were examined in the NM following deafferentation. Cytochrome-c immunoreactivity increased within 6 h following deafferentation and persisted for at least 3-5 days following surgery. However, cytochrome-c was not detectable within immunoprecipitates obtained from cytosolic fractions of deafferented NM neurons. This suggests that the increased immunoreactivity of cytochrome-c is related to mitochondrial proliferation. As a positive control, cytochrome-c was detected in cytosolic fractions of deafferented NM neurons treated with kainic acid, a substance known to cause cytochrome-c release into the cytosol. In addition, immunoreactivity for downstream active caspase-9 did increase following cochlea ablation. This increase was observed within 3 h following cochlea removal, but was not observed 4 days following surgery, a time point after the dying population of NM neurons have already degenerated. Together, these findings suggest that deafferentation of NM neurons results in caspase activation, but this activation may be cytochrome-c independent.
Meynert cells are a distinct type of large neuron which project to area MT/V5 and to subcortical targets, including the superior colliculus. They have recently been shown to have extensive intrinsic collaterals spreading up to 8.0 mm within layer 6 of area V1 [J Comp Neurol 441 (2001) 134]. Using intrinsic signal imaging combined with tracer injections, this study investigates how Meynert cell collaterals are mapped in relation to the functional architecture of area V1 in macaque monkeys. In particular, we examined whether terminations of individual axon segments are selective for same-eye or opposite-eye domains. Analysis of 39 anterogradely labeled axon segments (from six injection sites in four hemispheres) showed that terminal segments cross over several pairs of ocular dominance columns (ODCs) and contact both left- and right-eye ODCs, with a slight bias for the contralateral eye. This contrasts with the same-eye bias previously reported for intrinsic collaterals of pyramidal neurons in layer 3. The suggestion is that the system of Meynert intrinsic collaterals is involved with binocular interactions over wide sectors of the visual field. This might be related to processes such as optic flow or, especially given the wide-field spread, even contour completion or interpolation.
A delayed-matching spatial working memory protocol in a 5-arm maze was used to test the hypothesis of differential roles for central nicotinic and muscarinic cholinergic receptors in mediating task performance. In experiment 1, using a within subjects-repeated design, groups of C57Bl/6 mice, previously trained to criterion with a 4 h retention interval separating presentation and test phases, received i.p. injections of either saline, scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg), mecamylamine (8.0 mg/kg), or the combination of scopolamine and mecamylamine before re-testing. Injections were given either, a) 15 min pre-presentation or, b) 30 s, c) 15 min, d) 3 h 45 min post-presentation in order to differentially affect the acquisition, trace maintenance and recall phases. Significant decreases in correct responses were observed for each drug treatment but the effects were a function of the time of treatment. Results of condition d), (i.e.15 min before retention test) confirm previous reports of severe disruption by each antagonist and their combination on retention. However, conditions a-c) show a constant disruption by scopolamine, increasing disruption by mecamylamine, whereas the combined treatment was without effect. Although the data show that central nicotinic and muscarinic antagonists both modulate working memory performance, they indicate first, that scopolamine-induced &quot;amnesia&quot; results, not from selective post-synaptic M1 muscarinic blockade but from indirect over-activation of nicotinic receptors. Second, the observation of high levels of retention although nicotinic and muscarinic receptors had undergone combined blockade during a large part of the retention interval is incompatible with the concept that test-induced activation of central cholinergic neurones mediates memory trace maintenance. Finally, taken with data from experiment 2, using a short (20 min) treatment-to-test interval, we conclude that central nicotinic receptors play a key role in attentional processes enabling working memory trace access during retrieval.
FK506 is an immunosuppressant also showing neuroprotection following cerebral ischemia. FK506 binds to intracellular proteins (FKBP) which have a wide range of functions but have in common the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase activity. Following transient focal ischemia, we have analyzed the expression of FKBP12, 52 and 65 and the total FKBP enzyme activity. Furthermore, we have investigated the effect of FK506 on signal transduction in neurons and perfusion changes in the infarct area. After 90 min of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in male rats the expression of FKBP12, 52 and 65 was analyzed by Western blot in FK506-treated and control animals and the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase activity was determined. Magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure tissue perfusion, development of vasogenic edema and infarct size. To investigate the neuronal stress signal cascade, activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2), Fas-ligand (Fas-L) and c-Jun expression and phosphorylation were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. FK506 decreased the cerebral infarct volume by 53% and reduced the cytotoxic edema. The total FKBP enzymatic activity in the infarct area was increased and blocked dose dependently by FK506. FKBP expression was selectively up-regulated by cerebral ischemia. FK506 treatment does not influence the expression patterns. c-Jun phosphorylation in neurons of the peri-infarct area and Fas-L expression was reduced by FK506 treatment whereas ATF-2 expression was preserved. Cerebral ischemic damage to the brain was reduced by FK506. It was shown for the first time that neuroprotection by FK506 also included the suppression of the cerebral peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase activity of FKBP in vivo whereas the expression levels of FKBP12, 52 and 65 following ischemia changed slightly and FK506 treatment does not suppress the expression patterns. However, changes of FKBP enzymatic activity result in suppression of the stress cell body response in the peri-infarct area as observed by suppression of c-Jun phosphorylation and Fas-L expression.
Loss of striatal dopaminergic innervation in Parkinson's disease (PD) is accompanied by widespread alterations in GABAergic activity within the basal ganglia and thalamus. Accompanying changes in GABA(B) receptor binding have been noted in some basal ganglia regions in parkinsonian primates, suggesting that plasticity of this receptor may also occur in PD. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the changes in receptor binding and the manner and extent to which different GABA(B) receptor mRNA subunits and splice-variants are affected remain unknown. This study used in situ hybridisation to examine the full profile of changes in expression of the known rat GABA(B) receptor genes and gene variants in the basal ganglia and thalamus of rats, brought about by degeneration of the nigrostriatal tract. All of the GABA(B) mRNA species examined showed unique expression patterns throughout the basal ganglia and thalamus. In addition, all exhibited a marked loss of expression (between 46 and 80%) in the substantia nigra pars compacta of animals bearing a complete 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal tract, confirming the presence of these variants in dopaminergic neurones in this region. Further analysis of autoradioagrams revealed additional changes only in GABA(B(1a)) mRNA in discrete anatomical regions. Expression of the GABA(B(1a)) variant was significantly increased in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (33+/-2%), entopeduncular nucleus (26+/-1%) and the subthalamic nucleus (16+/-1%). Since these regions all receive reduced GABAergic innervation following nigrostriatal tract lesioning, it is possible that the increased expression occurs as a compensatory measure. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that GABA(B) receptor genes exhibit regional- and subunit/variant-specific plasticity at the molecular level under parkinsonian conditions.
Retinoic acid (RA) is a potent regulator of morphogenesis, growth and cell differentiation. Incubation with RA causes arrest of proliferation and neurite extension in SH-SY5Y cells, a neuroblastoma cell line of human origin. In these cells, RA regulates the expression of the beta-amyloid precursor protein. The retinoid increases the levels of intracellular and secreted forms of APP (amyloid precursor protein), APP-mRNA levels and the activity of the APP promoter in transient transfection studies. These responses require long periods of exposition to the ligand, thus suggesting a nondirect effect of the RA receptors on the APP gene. Also in these cells, RA induces the expression of TrkB, the tyrosine kinase receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and 4 days of pretreatment with retinoic acid confers BDNF responsiveness to the APP promoter.
Fragile X syndrome is a common form of inherited mental retardation caused by the absence of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). It has been hypothesized that FMRP is involved in the processing and/or translation of mRNAs. Human and mouse target-mRNAs, containing purine quartets, have previously been identified. By using cDNA-SELEX (systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment), we identified another class of human target-mRNAs which contain U rich sequences. This technique, in contrast to oligonucleotide-based SELEX, allows the identification of FMRP targets directly from mRNA pools. Many of the proteins encoded by the identified FMRP targets have been implicated in neuroplasticity. Steady state levels of target-mRNAs were unchanged in the brain of fragile X mice. However, levels of two target-encoded proteins, an L-type calcium channel subunit and MAP1B, were downregulated in specific brain regions suggesting a defect in the expression of target-encoded proteins in fragile X syndrome.
Signal transmission from a chick hair cell to the growth cone of a vestibular ganglion cell was examined by placing an acutely dissociated hair cell on the growth cone of a cultured vestibular ganglion cell. Electrical stimuli were applied to the hair cell while monitoring the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) at the growth cone or recording whole-cell currents from the vestibular ganglion cell. Electrical stimulation of the hair cell induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases at the growth cone and inward currents in the vestibular ganglion cell. The [Ca(2+)](i) increase was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline (CNQX) (10 microM) but not by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 50 microM). Glutamate (100 nM-300 microM) applied to the vestibular ganglion cell by the Y-tube method induced inward currents which were also antagonized by CNQX, but not by APV. These results indicate that the electrical stimulation of a hair cell induced glutamate or glutamate like agent release from the hair cell, which activated non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors at the growth cone of the vestibular ganglion cell, followed by action potentials and [Ca(2+)](i) elevation in the vestibular ganglion cell. This is the first demonstration of in vitro reconstitution of functional signal transmission from a hair cell to a vestibular ganglion cell.
Astrocytes in the rat thalamus display spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations that are due to intracellular release, but are not dependent on neuronal activity. In this study we have investigated the mechanisms involved in these spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations using slices loaded with Fluo-4 AM (5 microM) and confocal microscopy. Bafilomycin A1 incubation had no effect on the number of spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations indicating that they were not dependent on vesicular neurotransmitter release. Oscillations were also unaffected by ryanodine. Phospholipase C (PLC) inhibition decreased the number of astrocytes responding to metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation but did not reduce the number of spontaneously active astrocytes, indicating that [Ca(2+)](i) increases are not due to membrane-coupled PLC activation. Spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) increases were abolished by an IP3 receptor antagonist, whilst the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine chloride prolonged their duration, indicating a role for PKC and inositol 1,4,5,-triphosphate receptor activation. BayK8644 increased the number of astrocytes exhibiting [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations, and prolonged the responses to mGluR activation, indicating a possible effect on store-operated Ca(2+) entry. Increasing [Ca(2+)](o) increased the number of spontaneously active astrocytes and the number of transients exhibited by each astrocyte. Inhibition of the endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase by cyclopiazonic acid also induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients in astrocytes indicating a role for cytoplasmic Ca(2+) in the induction of spontaneous oscillations. Incubation with 20 microM Fluo-4 reduced the number of astrocytes exhibiting spontaneous increases. This study indicates that Ca(2+) has a role in triggering Ca(2+) release from an inositol 1,4,5,-triphosphate sensitive store in astrocytes during the generation of spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations.
There is strong evidence for the presence of nucleotide (P2) receptors in sensory neurons, which might play a role in the transmission of pain signals. In contrast, virtually nothing is known about P2 receptors in satellite glial cells (SGCs), which are the main glial cells in sensory ganglia. We investigated the possibility that P2 receptors exist in SGCs in murine trigeminal ganglia, using Ca(2+) imaging, patch-clamp recordings, and immunohistochemistry. We found that ATP caused an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) in SGCs. As adenosine had no effect on [Ca(2+)](i), and the P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid largely blocked the response to ATP we conclude that P1 receptors did not contribute to the responses. We obtained the following evidence that the responses to ATP were mediated by metabotropic P2Y receptors: (i) persistence of the responses in Ca(2+)-free solution, (ii) inhibition of the response by cyclopiazonic acid, (iii) [Ca(2+)](i) increases in response to the P2Y agonists uridine triphosphate, adenosine thiodiphosphate, and 2-methylthio ADP, and (iv) failure of the P2X agonist alpha,beta-methylene ATP to elicit a response. Agonists of P2Y(1) receptors and uridine triphosphate, an agonist at P2Y(2) and P2Y(4) receptors, induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases suggesting that at least these P2Y receptor subtypes are present on SGCs. Using an antibody against the P2Y(4) receptor, we found immunopositive SGCs. Patch-clamp recordings of SGCs did not reveal any inward current due to ATP. Therefore, there was no evidence for the activation of ionotropic P2X receptors under the present conditions. The results indicate the presence of functional nucleotide (P2Y) receptors in SGCs.
Pathological activation of microglia, which reside quiescently in physiological CNS, contributes various neurodegenerative diseases. Endogenous polyamines, spermidine (SPD) and spermine (SPM) are known to be activators of cell proliferation and differentiation. We examined the effect of polyamines on microglial activation in culture. Cultured microglia prepared from the whole brains of newborn rats produced nitric oxide (NO) by the stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS-induced NO production was markedly inhibited by SPD and SPM; half effective concentrations (EC(50)) of SPD and SPM were about 3 and 1 microM, respectively. Cell viability assessed by total mitochondrial activity decreased by the incubation with SPD and SPM for 24 h at similar concentration ranges. After the treatment with SPM for 24 h, the cells changed into small round morphology, and were strongly stained with propidium iodide. By the staining with bis-benzimide trihydrochloride, condensation and fragmentation of the nucleus were often observed. Semiquantitative analysis of fragmented DNA with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique revealed that a large amount of fragmented DNA appeared in cytosol prior to disruption of the cell membrane. Fragmented DNA in the cytosol increased dose dependently with SPM; EC(50) was less than 10 microM. Furthermore, most of the cells after 24 h incubation with 10 microM SPD and SPM were positive for terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling. These results suggest that microglial cell death is induced by a low concentration of polyamines via an apoptotic process rather than necrotic one.
Spinal cord injury leads to acute local ischemia, which may contribute to secondary degeneration. Hypoxia stimulates angiogenesis through a cascade of events, involving angiogenesis stimulatory substances, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). To test the importance of angiogenesis for functional outcome and wound healing in spinal cord injury VEGF165 (proangiogenic), Ringer's (control) or angiostatin (antiangiogenic) were delivered locally immediately after a contusion injury produced using the NYU impactor and a 25 mm weight-drop. Rats treated with VEGF showed significantly improved behavior up to 6 weeks after injury compared with control animals, while angiostatin treatment lead to no statistically significant changes in behavior outcome. Furthermore, VEGF-treated animals had an increased amount of spared tissue in the lesion center and a higher blood vessel density in parts of the wound area compared with controls. These effects were unlikely to be due to increased cell proliferation as determined by bromo-deoxy-uridine-labeling. Moreover, VEGF treatment led to decreased levels of apoptosis, as revealed by TUNEL assays. In situ hybridization demonstrated presence of mRNA for VEGF receptors Flt-1, fetal liver kinase-1, neuropilin-1 and -2 in several important cellular compartments of the spinal cord. The different experiments indicate that beneficial effects seen by acute VEGF delivery was attributable to protection/repair of blood vessels, decreased apoptosis and possibly also by other additional effects on glial cells or certain neuron populations.
Activation of muscarinic receptors leads to proliferation of astroglial cells and this effect is inhibited by ethanol. Among the intracellular pathways involved in the mitogenic action of muscarinic agonists, activation of the atypical protein kinase C zeta (PKC zeta) appears to be of most importance, and is also affected by low ethanol concentrations. PKC zeta has been reported to activate nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), a transcription factor that has been shown to play an important role in cell proliferation. The aim of this study was, therefore, to determine whether muscarinic receptors would activate NF-kappaB in astroglial cells, whether such activation would play a role in the mitogenic action of muscarinic agonists, and whether it would represent a possible target for ethanol. Carbachol activated NF-kappaB in human 1321N1 astrocytoma cells, as evidenced by translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB to the nucleus, phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaBalpha in the cytosol, and increase NF-kappaB binding to DNA. Carbachol also induced translocation of p65 to the nucleus in primary rat astrocytes. Carbachol-induced NF-kappaB activation was mediated by the M3 subtype of muscarinic receptors and appeared to involve Ca(2+) mobilization and activation of PKC epsilon and PKC zeta, but not PI3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase. The NF-kappaB peptide inhibitor SN50, but not the inactive peptide SN50M, strongly inhibited carbachol-induced astrocytoma cells proliferation and p65 translocation to the nucleus. Increased DNA synthesis was also antagonized by the IkappaBalpha kinase inhibitor BAY 11-7082. Ethanol (25-100 mM) inhibited the translocation of p65 and the binding of NF-kappaB to DNA in both 1321N1 astrocytoma cells and primary rat cortical astrocytes. Together, these results suggest that activation of NF-kappaB by muscarinic receptors in astroglial cells is important for carbachol-induced DNA synthesis and that ethanol-mediated inhibition of cell proliferation may be due in part to inhibition of NF-kappaB activation.
The development of cholecystokinin-immunoreactive (CCK-IR) interneurons in the rat hippocampus was studied using immunocytochemical methods at the light and electron microscopic levels from early (P0-P8) to later postnatal (P12-P20) periods. The laminar distribution of CCK-IR cell bodies changed considerably during the studied period, which is suggested to be due to migration. CCK-IR cells appear to move from the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus to their final destination at the stratum granulosum/hilus border, and tend to concentrate in the distal third of stratum radiatum in CA1-3. The density of CCK-IR cells is rapidly decreasing during the first 4 postnatal days without any apparent reduction in their total number, therefore it is due to the pronounced growth of hippocampal volume in this period. Axons of CCK-IR interneurons formed symmetrical synapses already at P0, and by far the predominant targets were dendrites of presumed principal cells in all subfields of the hippocampus. These axon arbors began to concentrate around pyramidal cell bodies only at P8, at earlier ages CCK-IR axons crossed stratum pyramidale at right angles, and gave rise to varicose collaterals only outside this layer. The dendrites and somata of CCK-IR cells received synapses already at P0, but those were mostly symmetrical, apart from a few immature asymmetrical synapses. At P4, mature asymmetrical synapses with considerable amounts of synaptic vesicles were already commonly encountered. Thus, the innervation of CCK-IR interneurons apparently develops later than their output synapses, suggesting that they may be able to release transmitter before receiving any considerable excitatory drive. We conclude that CCK-IR cells represent one, if not the major, interneuron type that assists in the maturation of glutamatergic synapses (activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) via GABAergic depolarization of principal cell dendrites, and may contribute to the generation of giant depolarizing potentials. CCK-IR cells will change their function to perisomatic hyperpolarizing inhibition, as glutamatergic transmission in the network becomes operational.
Circadian rhythms can be phase shifted by photic and non-photic stimuli. The circadian clock, anatomically defined as the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), can be phase delayed by light during the early subjective night and phase advanced during the late subjective night. Non-photic stimuli reset the clock when presented during the subjective day. A possible pathway for the non-photic resetting of the clock is thought to originate from the intergeniculate leaflet, which conveys information to the SCN through the geniculohypothalamic tract and utilizes among others neuropeptide Y (NPY) and GABA as neurotransmitters. Photic and non-photic stimuli have been shown to interact during the early and late subjective night. Microinjections of NPY or muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, into the region of the SCN can attenuate light-induced phase shifts during the early and late subjective night. The precise mechanism for these interactions is unknown. In the current study we investigate the involvement of a GABAergic mechanism in the interaction between NPY and light during the early and late subjective night. Microinjections of NPY significantly attenuated light-induced phase delays and inhibited phase advances (P&lt;0.05). The administration of bicuculline during light exposure, before NPY microinjection did not alter the ability of NPY to attenuate light-induced phase delays and block photic phase advances. These results indicate that NPY attenuates photic phase shifts via a mechanism independent of GABA(A) receptor activation. Furthermore it is evident that NPY influences circadian clock function via differing cellular pathways over the course of a circadian cycle.
The contribution of second messenger signaling, glucose level and sex hormones to sexual dimorphism in the streptozotocin model of diabetic painful peripheral neuropathy was evaluated. Streptozotocin induced elevation of blood glucose and mechanical hyperalgesia (measured by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test) were both greater in female rats. Ovariectomy abolished and estrogen implants reconstituted this sexual dimorphism; gonadectomy in males had no effect. An inhibitor of protein kinase Cepsilon attenuated hyperalgesia in males and ovariectomized females, but not in normal females or in ovariectomized females with estrogen implants, whereas inhibitors of protein kinase Cdelta attenuated hyperalgesia in females but not in males. Inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein kinase C (non-selective), protein kinase G and nitric oxide synthase attenuated hyperalgesia equally in both sexes. Higher blood glucose levels in diabetic females were also sex hormone dependent, and magnitude of hyperalgesia correlated with blood glucose level in diabetic male and female rats. These results demonstrate sexual dimorphism in diabetic hyperalgesia, mediated by sex hormone dependent differences in protein kinase Cepsilon and protein kinase Cdelta signaling and blood glucose levels and suggest that sex may be an important factor to be considered in the treatment of symptomatic diabetic neuropathy.
Strong evidence has emerged over the last 15 years showing that the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices play an important role in normal memory function. Despite our progress in understanding the mnemonic functions of these areas, controversy still exists concerning the precise location of the boundaries of these areas in the primate brain. To provide a context for understanding the current discrepancies in the literature, we present a historical overview of the different boundary schemes and nomenclatures that have been applied to the medial temporal lobe cortices in both humans and nonhuman primates. We describe how the boundaries and the names applied to these regions have evolved over time, starting with the classic cytoarchitectonisists working in the early 1900s, and ending with the various schemes being used in the contemporary literature. We show that the current controversies concerning the boundaries of the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices can be traced directly to the classic cytoarchitectonic literature.
Head-direction (HD) cells in subcortical areas of the mammalian brain are tuned to a particular head direction in space; a population of such neurons forms a neural compass that may be relevant for spatial navigation. The development of neural circuits constituting the head-direction system is poorly understood. Inspired by electrophysiological experiments about the role of recurrent synaptic connections, we investigate a learning rule that teaches neurons to amplify feed-forward inputs. We simulate random head movements of a rat, during which neurons receive both visual and vestibular (head-velocity) inputs. Remarkably, as recurrent connections learn to amplify exclusively the visual inputs, a neural network emerges that performs spatio-temporal integration. That is, during head movements in darkness, neurons resemble HD cells by maintaining a fixed tuning to head direction. The proposed learning rule exhibits similarities with known forms of anti-Hebbian synaptic plasticity. We conclude that selective amplification could serve as a general principle for the synaptic development of multimodal feedback circuits in the brain.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has been performed to reverse motor dysfunction in severe parkinsonian patients. Recent studies suggested that neural circuitry in the basal ganglia might regulate micturition function as well. In 15 adult male cats under ketamine anesthesia, in which spontaneous isovolumetric micturition reflex had been generated, we performed electrical stimulation and extracellular single unit recording in the STN. Electrical stimulation applied in the STN elicited inhibition of the micturition reflex. None of the responses was facilitatory. Effective amplitude of the electrical stimulation for evoking inhibitory responses was less than 50 microA, which gradually increased and exceeded 250 microA as the location of the stimulation exceeded an area of the STN. Effective frequency of the electrical stimulation with given stimulus intensity was 50 Hz and higher. Total 10 neurons were recorded in the STN that were related to urinary storage/micturition cycles. All neurons were tonically active throughout storage/micturition cycles with storage phase predominance, with almost constant firing activities during the storage phase. In conclusion, our results showed that HFS-STN inhibited the micturition reflex and there were micturition-related neuronal firings in the STN in cats, suggesting the STN may be involved in neural control of micturition. The results also provide an implication that clinical HFS-STN may alter urinary function in parkinsonian patients.
To examine the role of GABA in the respiratory rhythm and pattern generation in neonatal mice, we analyzed the function of the respiratory control system of 67-kDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67)-deficient neonatal mice. In these mutant (GAD67-/-) mice, GABA levels in the brainstem were reduced to about 30% of those in wild-type (GAD67+/+) mice. In in vivo preparations, ventilatory parameters were analyzed by whole body plethysmography and electromyography of intercostal muscles. GAD67-/- mice exhibited abnormal respiratory patterns, i.e. irregular respiratory rhythm, and periodic gasp-like respiration followed by shallow breathing with short inspiratory duration and apnea. In in vitro GAD67-/- brainstem-spinal cord preparations, inspiratory C4 burst duration was shorter than that in GAD67+/+ preparations. Whole cell recordings revealed that activities of inspiratory neurons in the ventral medulla of GAD67-/- mice were characterized by a short depolarization period and a paucity of firing during the inspiratory phase. Superfusion of the in vitro GAD67-/- preparation with 10 microM GABA prolonged C4 burst duration and partly restored a normal pattern of inspiration, although the restoration was limited. These results indicate that reduced GABA levels during the perinatal period induce malfunction in the respiratory control system. We suggest that GABAergic transmission is not essential for basic respiratory rhythm generation but plays an important role in the maintenance of regular respiratory rhythm and normal inspiratory pattern in neonatal mice.
Sleep is an unavoidable activity of the brain. The delay of the time to sleep (sleep deprivation), induces an increase of slow-wave sleep and rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep (rebound) once the subject is allowed to sleep. This drive to sleep has been hypothesized to be dependent on the accumulation of sleep-inducing molecules and on the high expression of these molecule receptors. In this study we selectively deprived rats of REM sleep for 24 h by using the flowerpot technique. One group deprived of REM sleep was treated with SR141716A, a cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) receptor antagonist and then allowed to sleep for the next 4 h. Two other groups were killed, one immediately after the REM sleep deprivation period and the other after 2 h of REM sleep rebound (REM sleep deprivation plus 2 h of rebound). In both groups we determined the expression of the CB1 receptor and its mRNA. Results indicated that SR141716A prevents REM sleep rebound and REM sleep deprivation does not modify the expression of the CB1 protein or mRNA. However, REM sleep deprivation plus 2 h of sleep rebound increased the CB1 receptor protein and, slightly but significantly, decreased mRNA expression. These results suggest that endocannabinoids may be participating in the expression of REM sleep rebound.
To date, the exact role of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in inflammatory pain remains controversial. In the present study, we combined a pharmacological strategy (using a selective iNOS inhibitor) with a genomic strategy (using mice lacking the iNOS gene) to address the function of iNOS in the central mechanism of carrageenan-induced persistent inflammatory pain. In the wild type mice, intrathecal administration of L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine, a selective iNOS inhibitor, significantly inhibited thermal hyperalgesia in the late phase but not in the early phase of carrageenan inflammation. Moreover, iNOS mRNA expression in the lumbar enlargement segments of the spinal cord was dramatically induced at 24 h (late phase) after injection of carrageenan into a hind paw. Interestingly, targeted disruption of iNOS gene did not affect carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia in either the early (2-6 h) or late phase. In the lumbar enlargement segments of iNOS knockout mice, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzyme activity remained at a similar level to that of the wild type mice at 24 h after carrageenan injection. We found that intrathecal administration of 7-nitroindazole (a selective neuronal NOS inhibitor), but not L-N(5)-(1-iminoethyl)-ornithine (a selective endothelial NOS inhibitor), significantly reduced carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia in both the early phase and the late phase in iNOS knockout mice. We also found that expression of neuronal NOS but not endothelial NOS in the lumbar enlargement segments was significantly increased in iNOS knockout mice compared with wild type mice at 24 h after carrageenan injection. Our results indicate that neuronal NOS might compensate for the function of iNOS in the late phase of carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain in iNOS knockout mice. This suggests that iNOS may be sufficient, but not essential, for the late phase of the carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia.
Following 2 weeks acclimation to the running wheel in the home cages, an i.p. injection of a synthetic double-stranded RNA, polyriboinosinic:polyribocytidylic acid (poly I:C, 3 mg/kg), was performed to produce the immunologically induced fatigue in rats. The daily amounts of spontaneous running wheel activity decreased to about 40-60% of the preinjection level until day 9 with normal circadian rhythm, then gradually returned to the baseline level by day 14. Rats given a heat exposure (36 degrees C for 1 h) for the consecutive 3 days showed an increase in activity except for the first day. In the open field test, the total moving distance and the number of rearing of the poly I:C-injected rats decreased on day 1, but they were not different from the saline-injected group on day 7, suggesting that the poly I:C-induced fatigue on day 7 was not due to the peripheral problems such as muscle/joint pain, but involved the CNS. Quantitative analysis of mRNA levels using a real-time capillary reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method revealed that interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) mRNA contents in the cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamic medial preoptic, paraventricular, and ventromedial nuclei were higher in the poly I:C group than those in the saline and heat-exposed groups on day 7, although the amount of interleukin-1 beta mRNA showed no differences. Serum adrenocorticotropic hormone and catecholamine levels were not significantly different between groups. The present results indicate that the prolonged fatigue induced by poly I:C, which is evaluated by the spontaneous running wheel activity, can be used as an animal model for the immunologically induced fatigue associated with viral infection, and suggest that brain IFN-alpha may play a role in this model.
The role of sympathetic nerves in bone physiology is largely unknown. Recent studies have shown a correlation between sympathectomy and bone remodeling. The present experiments were aimed to study the effects of unilateral sympathectomy on bilateral experimentally induced pulpitis and periapical lesions in the rat maxilla and mandible. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Experimental rats (n=11) had the right superior cervical ganglion surgically removed (SCGx) and control rats (n=5) had sham surgery. Pulpal inflammation and periapical bone lesions in the maxilla and mandible were created 14 days later in both experimental and control rats by exposing the dental pulp in the first and second molars and leaving them open to the oral microflora. The rats were perfused 20 days thereafter and the jaws processed for immunohistochemistry with neuropeptide Y (NPY) and ED1 as primary antibodies. Sympathectomy resulted in an almost complete loss of NPY-immunoreactive (IR) fibers in the right SCGx jaws. In the non-sympathectomized (non-SCGx) left side and in the control rats, sprouting of NPY-IR fiber was observed in the inflamed pulp tissue adjacent to reparative dentin formation and in the apical periodontal ligament of the partially necrotic first molars. Significantly more ED1-IR osteoclasts were found in the resorptive lacunae lining the periphery of the periapical lesions on the SCGx side compared with the non-SCGx side (P&lt;0.04) and the controls (P&lt;0.03). The size of the periapical lesions were larger on the SCGx side compared with the non-SCGx side (P&lt;0.03) in the mandible, but not in the maxilla. We conclude that inflammation causes sprouting of NPY-IR nerve fibers and that unilateral removal of the SCG increases both the area of the periapical lesions and the number of osteoclasts in the inflamed region.
The inferior colliculus (IC) plays a key role in the processing of auditory information and is thought to be an important site for genesis of wild running seizures that evolve into tonic-clonic seizures. IC neurons are known to have Ca(2+) channels but neither their types nor their pharmacological properties have been as yet characterized. Here, we report on biophysical and pharmacological properties of Ca(2+) channel currents in acutely dissociated neurons of adult rat IC, using electrophysiological and molecular techniques. Ca(2+) channels were activated by depolarizing pulses from a holding potential of -90 mV in 10 mV increments using 5 mM barium (Ba(2+)) as the charge carrier. Both low (T-type, VA) and high (HVA) threshold Ca(2+) channel currents that could be blocked by 50 microM cadmium, were recorded. Pharmacological dissection of HVA currents showed that nifedipine (10 microM, L-type channel blocker), omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM, N-type channel blocker), and omega-agatoxin TK (30 nM, P-type channel blocker) partially suppressed the current by 21%, 29% and 22%, respectively. Since at higher concentration (200 nM) omega-agatoxin TK also blocks Q-type channels, the data suggest that Q-type Ca(2+) channels carry approximately 16% of HVA current. The fraction of current (approximately 12%) resistant to the above blockers, which was blocked by 30 microM nickel and inactivated with tau of 15-50 ms, was considered as R-type Ca(2+) channel current. Consistent with the pharmacological evidences, Western blot analysis using selective Ca(2+) channel antibodies showed that IC neurons express Ca(2+) channel alpha(1A), alpha(1B), alpha(1C), alpha(1D), and alpha(1E) subunits. We conclude that IC neurons express functionally all members of HVA Ca(2+) channels, but only a subset of these neurons appear to have developed functional LVA channels.
Immunohistochemistry for the somatostatin sst2A receptor was performed on the rat trigeminal ganglion to know its function in the trigeminal nervous system. The immunoreactivity was detected in 9.4% of primary sensory neurons in the ganglion. These neurons were small to medium-sized (range=106.5-1123.2 microm(2); mean+/-S.D.=506.3+/-213.2 microm(2)) and predominantly located in the rostromedial part of the ophthalmo-maxillary division. They were also immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide and the vanilloid receptor subtype 1. In addition, 13.7% of trigeminal neurons which were retrogradely traced with fluorogold from the nasal mucosa exhibited sst2A receptor-immmunoreactivity. Trigeminal neurons which innervated the facial skin and tooth pulp were devoid of the immunoreactivity. In the brainstem trigeminal sensory nuclear complex, both the neuronal cell body and the neuropil exhibited sst2A receptor-immunoreactivity in the superficial medullary dorsal horn.The present study indicates that sst2A receptor-immunoreactive trigeminal nociceptors innervate the nasal mucosa. They may project to the superficial laminae of the medullary dorsal horn.
Abnormal corticosteroid release is extensively associated with mood disorders. This association may result from the toxic actions of endogenous corticosteroids which can induce apoptosis of hippocampal neurons. Similarly, dexamethasone, a synthetic corticosteroid, can induce lethal and sublethal damage to rat hippocampal and striatal neurons and can result in steroid-induced psychoses in humans. The experiments reported here tested the hypothesis that pre-treatment with oestrogen would also attenuate dexamethasone-induced neuronal damage as oestrogens have neuroprotective actions against a variety of insults and falling levels of oestrogen are associated with increased vulnerability to mood disorders. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received three systemic injections which were a combination of vehicle, 17-beta-oestradiol (0.2 mg/kg, s.c.), the oestrogen receptor antagonist tamoxifen (10 mg/kg, s.c.) and dexamethasone (0.7 mg/kg, i.p.) and were killed 24 h after the final injection. Injections of dexamethasone (when preceded by vehicle injections) resulted in elevated levels of apoptosis and sub-lethal damage, as demonstrated by reduced levels of microtubule-associated protein-2-immunopositive neurons, in the striatum and hippocampus. This damage was regional with the dorsomedial caudate putamen and the dentate gyrus and CA1 and CA3 hippocampal sub-fields being particularly affected. Pretreatment with oestrogen substantially attenuated the dexamethasone-induced neuronal damage. This oestrogen-induced neuronal protection was in turn virtually eliminated by giving an initial injection of tamoxifen. These results suggest, therefore, that oestrogens can protect from corticosteroid-induced neuronal damage via an oestrogen receptor-mediated process.
Projection neurons in the ventral striatum, the accumbens nucleus and olfactory tubercle, were examined by combining the retrograde tracing method and immunocytochemistry with antibodies against C-terminals of the preprodynorphin (PPD), preproenkephalin (PPE), preprotachykinin A (PPTA) and preprotachykinin B (PPTB). When the retrograde tracer was injected into the ventral pallidum, about 60% and 40% of retrogradely labeled neurons in the accumbens nucleus were immunoreactive for PPD and PPE, respectively. In contrast, all accumbens nucleus neurons projecting to the ventral mesencephalic regions including the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area were immunopositive for PPD but not for PPE. Although no olfactory tubercle neurons projected fibers to the mesencephalic regions, 60% and 40% of olfactory tubercle neurons projecting to the ventrolateral portion of the ventral pallidum were immunoreactive for PPD and PPE, respectively, as were the accumbens nucleus neurons. About 70% of accumbens nucleus and olfactory tubercle neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum and all accumbens nucleus neurons projecting to the ventral mesencephalic regions showed PPTA immunoreactivity. A small population (2-12%) of accumbens neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum and mesencephalic regions displayed immunoreactivity for PPTB. Compared with the dorsal striatopallidal projection neurons that were reported to mostly express PPE, it was characteristic of the ventral striatum that only the smaller population (about 40%) of ventral striatopallidal projection neurons expressed PPE. This suggests that the ventral striatopallidal projection system is less specialized than the dorsal striatopallidal system in terms of peptide production, or that the ventral pallidum should be compared with a combined region of the globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus in the dorsal system.
Brain ischemia is frequently associated with oxidative stress in the reperfusion period. It is known that noradrenaline (NA) is released in excess under energy deprivation by the sodium-dependent reversal of the monoamine carrier. However, it is not known how oxidative stress affects NA release in the brain alone or in combination with energy deprivation. As a model of oxidative stress, the effect of H(2)O(2) (0.1-1.5 mM) perfusion was investigated in superfused rat hippocampal slices. It elicited a dose-dependent elevation of the release of [(3)H]NA and its tritiated metabolites as well as a simultaneous drop in the tissue energy charge. Mitochondrial inhibitors, i.e. rotenone (10 microM), and oligomycin (10 microM) in combination, also decreased the energy charge, but they had only a mild effect on [(3)H]NA release. However, when H(2)O(2) was added together with oligomycin and rotenone their effect on [(3)H]NA release was greatly exacerbated. H(2)O(2) and mitochondrial inhibitors also induced an increase in [Na(+)](i) in isolated nerve terminals, and their effect was additive. The effect of H(2)O(2) on tritium release was temperature-dependent. It was also attenuated by the glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (30 microM) and (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (10 microM), by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 microM), or 7-nitroindazole (50 microM) and by the vesicular uptake inhibitor tetrabenazine (1 microM). Our results suggest that oxidative stress releases glutamate followed by activation of postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors that trigger nitric oxide production and results in a flood of NA from cytoplasmic stores. The massive elevation of extracellular NA under conditions of oxidative stress combined with mitochondrial dysfunction may provide an additional source of highly reactive free radicals thus initiating a self-amplifying cycle leading to neuronal degeneration.
The effects of repeated administration of a tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine, and a selective serotonin reuptake blocker, citalopram, for 14 days (10 mg/kg p.o., twice daily), were studied ex vivo in rat frontal cortex slices prepared 48 h after last dose of the drug. Treatment with both antidepressants resulted in a decrease in the amplitude of field potentials evoked in layer II/III by stimulation of underlying sites in layer V. The amplitude ratio of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor-mediated components of the field potential was reduced. These results indicate that chronic treatment with imipramine or citalopram results in an attenuation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the cerebral cortex.
The release of dopamine from soma and dendrites of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra has been reported to be calcium-dependent, but it remains to be determined which calcium channels mediate this effect. We have used in vivo microdialysis in rat substantia nigra and striatum to investigate the effect of Ca(v)3.1-3.3 (T-type) and Ca(v)2.3 (R-type) calcium channel antagonists on somatodendritic and terminal dopamine release. Local reverse dialysis administration of 0.1-10 microM of the Ca(v)2.3 inhibitor SNX-482, or 100 microM of mibefradil, decreased the concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites in dialysate from substantia nigra, whereas 1 microM mibefradil or 40-80 microM nickel(II) induced an increase in nigral dialysate dopamine concentrations. Dopamine concentrations in striatal dialysates were decreased only by 10 microM of SNX-482 or 100 microM of mibefradil. Nickel(II) induced an increase in striatal dialysate dopamine concentration similar to that in substantia nigra. The results indicate a role for Ca(v)2.3 (R-type) voltage sensitive calcium channels in the calcium dependency of somatodendritic dopamine release, but argue against a calcium dependency mediated substantially by Ca(v)3.1-3.3 (T-type) channels.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) contain the main clock of the mammalian circadian system. The endogenous oscillation machinery involves interactive positive and negative transcriptional and posttranslational feedback loops involving the clock genes Per1, Per2, Per3, Clock, Bmal1, Cry1 and Cry2. The SCN endogenous oscillation is entrained to 24 h by the light/dark cycle. Light induced regulation of Per1 and Per2 mRNA expression have been suggested to take part in the clock resetting. However, other factors have chronobiotic and synchronizing effects on SCN activity. Especially, the nocturnal pineal gland hormone, melatonin, which is involved in the regulation of both circadian and seasonal rhythms, is known to feedback on the SCN. Melatonin applied on SCN slices immediately phase-shifts their neuronal electrical activity, while daily injections of melatonin to free running rodents resynchronize their locomotor activity to 24 h. To determine whether melatonin feedback control on SCN activity implicates transcriptional regulation of the clock genes, we monitored the expression pattern of Per 1, 2, 3, Bmal1, Cry1 and AVP mRNAs after a single melatonin injection at the end of the subjective day. Results showed that melatonin injection affected none of the mRNA expression pattern during the first circadian night. Per1, Per3, Bmal1 and AVP expression patterns were, however, significantly but differentially affected, during the second subjective night after the melatonin injection. The present results strongly suggest that the immediate phase shifting effect of melatonin on the SCN molecular loop implicates rather post-translational than transcriptional mechanisms.
To investigate the role of neurotransmitter secretion in the development and stabilization of synapses, the innervation of the diaphragm and intercostal muscles was studied in munc18-1 null mutant mice, which lack regulated secretion. We found that this mutant is completely devoid of both spontaneous and evoked neuromuscular transmission throughout embryonic development. At embryonic day (E) 14, axonal targeting and main branching of the phrenic nerve were normal in this mutant, but tertiary branches were elongated and no terminal branches were observed at this stage, in contrast to control littermates. Acetylcholinesterase staining was observed in the endplate region of mutant muscle from E14 onwards, but not as dense and confined to spots as in controls. Acetylcholine receptor staining was also present in the endplate region of the mutant muscle. In this case, the staining density and the concentration in spots (clusters) were similar to controls, but the distribution of these clusters was less organized. Starting at E15, some receptor clusters co-localized with nerve terminal staining, suggesting synapses, but most clusters remained a-neural. Electron microscopical analysis confirmed the presence of synaptic structures in the mutant. Between E14 and birth, the characteristic staining pattern of nerve branches gradually disappeared in the mutant until, at E18, an elaborate meshwork of nerve fibers with no apparent organization remained. In the same period, most of the motor neuronal cell bodies in the spinal cord degenerated. In contrast, sensory ganglia in the dorsal root showed no obvious degeneration. These data suggest that regulated secretion is not essential for initial axon path finding, clustering of acetylcholine receptors, acetylcholinesterase or the formation of synapses. However, in the absence of regulated secretion, the maintenance of the motor neuronal system, organization of nerve terminal branches and stabilization of synapses is impaired and a-neural postsynaptic elements persist.
Previous studies showed that early environmental conditions severely affect the morphology of the granule cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons in fields CA3 and CA1. The aim of the present study was to determine whether early isolation affects neuron morphology in layer II of the entorhinal cortex, from which the perforant path to the dentate gyrus and CA3 takes its origin. Male and female guinea pigs were assigned at 6-7 days of age to either a control (social) or an isolated environment where they remained for 80-90 days. The brains were Golgi-Cox stained and neurons were sampled from layer II of the entorhinal cortex. Morphometric analysis was carried out on star cells, the most abundant neuron population. Isolated males had star cells with less dendritic branches, a shorter dendritic length and a smaller dendritic spine density than control males. In contrast, isolated females had more dendritic branches than control females, though this difference was of small magnitude. While isolated males had star cells with a smaller soma than control males, isolated females had a soma larger than control females. In both environments sex differences were found in the star cell morphology. In the control environment males had more dendritic branches, a greater dendritic length, a larger soma but a smaller spine density than females. In the isolated environment males had less branches, a shorter dendritic length, a smaller spine density and a smaller soma than females. The results indicate that early isolation affects the structure of the star cells in the entorhinal cortex and that males and females react to isolation in an opposite manner. A similar sexually dimorphic response to early isolation was previously observed in the dentate gyrus and fields CA3 and CA1. The presence of widespread effects of isolation in the entorhinal cortex and numerous hippocampal structures suggests that the outcome of early isolation might be a change in learning and memory functions requiring the hippocampal region.
In vitro and in vivo electrophysiological studies were done to investigate the neuronal function of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) 23 transgenic mouse model for amyloidosis developed by Sturchler-Pierrat et al. [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 94 (1997) 13287]. Brain slices were taken from 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 month old wildtype and hemizygous type APP23 mice. Extracellular field potentials were recorded from the CA1 region of the hippocampus while stimulating the Schaffer collaterals. In addition, extracellular field potentials were elicited from areas within layer V/VI of the prefrontal cortex by stimulating the same layer V/VI. Basic synaptic function in the hippocampus was reduced in hemizygous APP23 mice compared with their wildtype littermates at 12 and 18 months of age, whereas, it was unaltered within the prefrontal cortex. Long-term potentiation in the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex of hemizygous APP23 mice was similar compared with their wildtype littermates. In vivo electrophysiological experiments were done in 3, 9, 18 and 24 month old wildtype and hemizygous APP23 mice. No differences were observed in the number of single spontaneously active units recorded within the prefrontal cortex of hemizygous APP23 mice compared with their wildtype littermates. Field potentials elicited during stimulation of cortico-cortical pathways to assess synaptic transmission and short-term synaptic plasticity were also unchanged in hemizygous APP23 mice. Furthermore, presumable antidromic field potentials recorded in the prefrontal cortex during stimulation of the striatum were similar between the hemizygous APP23 and wildtype mice at each age. The present study shows that amyloidosis impairs basic synaptic function but not long-term potentiation in the hippocampus, however, does not alter any of the neurophysiological functions measured within the prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that amyloidosis may be involved in altering some neurophysiological functions within only certain brain structures. Although APP23 mice have impaired cognitive performance, long-term plasticity, a cellular model for memory, is not affected, raising the question on the relationship between these processes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by selective vulnerability of specific neuronal populations within particular brain regions. For example, hippocampal glutamatergic cell populations within the CA1/subicular pyramidal cell fields have been found to be particularly vulnerable early in AD progression. In contrast, hippocampal GABA-ergic neurons and receptors appear resistant to neurodegeneration. Despite relative sparing of GABA(A) receptors in AD, it is possible that the specific subunit composition of these receptors may undergo alterations with disease progression. In order to address this issue, we employed quantitative Western blot analysis to examine protein levels of GABA(A) receptor subunits alpha 1, alpha 5, beta 1, beta 2 in the hippocampus of subjects displaying increasing severity of AD neuropathology. Subjects were categorized into three groups based upon Braak staging pathologic criteria: pathologically mild (stages I/II, n=9); moderate (stages III/IV, n=8); and severe (stages V/VI, n=7). Across all subject groups, levels of subunit protein were heterogeneously distributed throughout the five hippocampal subregions analyzed (subiculum, CA1-3, dentate gyrus). Statistical analyses revealed differential preservation of GABA(A) receptor subunits in AD. In particular, alpha 1, beta 1, and beta 2 displayed little difference in protein levels among pathologically mild, moderate, and severe subject groups. In contrast, although relatively modest, protein levels of the alpha 5 subunit were significantly reduced between subjects with severe neuropathology compared with pathologically mild subjects (13.5% reduction). Collectively, our data provide evidence for heterogeneous distribution and relative sparing of GABA(A) receptor subunits in the hippocampus of AD patients.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous system. Its highly diverse biological activities are mediated via the G protein-coupled receptor that uniquely requires two accessory proteins for optimal function. CGRP receptor component protein (RCP) is a coupling protein necessary for CGRP-receptor signaling. In this study, we established the anatomical distribution of RCP in the rat central and peripheral nervous system and its relationship to CGRP immunoreactivity. RCP-immunoreactive (IR) perikarya are widely and selectively distributed in the cerebral cortex, septal nuclei, hippocampus, various hypothalamic nuclei, amygdala, nucleus colliculus, periaqueductal gray, parabrachial nuclei, locus coeruleus, cochlear nuclei, dorsal raphe nuclei, the solitary tractus nucleus and gracile nucleus, cerebellar cortex, various brainstem motor nuclei, the spinal dorsal and ventral horns. A sub-population of neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia were strongly RCP-IR. Overall, the localization of RCP-IR closely matched with that of CGRP-IR. We also determined whether RCP in DRG and dorsal horn neurons can be modulated by CGRP receptor blockade and pain-related pathological stimuli. The intrathecal injection of the antagonist CGRP(8-37) markedly increased RCP expression in the lumbar DRG and spinal dorsal horn. Carrageenan-induced plantar inflammation produced a dramatic bilateral increase in RCP expression in the dorsal horn while a partial sciatic nerve ligation reduced RCP expression in the ipsilateral superficial dorsal horn. Our data suggest that the distribution of RCP immunoreactivity is closely matched with CGRP immunoreactivity in most of central and peripheral nervous systems. The co-localization of RCP and CGRP in motoneurons and primary sensory neurons suggests that CGRP has an autocrine or paracrine effect on these neurons. Moreover, our data also suggest that RCP expression in DRG and spinal cord can be modulated during CGRP receptor blockade, inflammation or neuropathic pain and this CGRP receptor-associated protein is dynamically regulated.
The expression and functional responses of P2X receptors in bladder and cutaneous sensory neurons of adult rats and mice have been studied using immunohistochemistry and patch clamp techniques. Cell bodies of bladder pelvic afferents were identified in L6 and S1 dorsal root ganglia (DRG), following Fast Blue injection into the muscle wall of the urinary bladder. Similarly, cutaneous sensory neurons were identified in L3 and L4 DRG, following Fast Blue injection into the saphenous nerve innervating the skin. Bladder sensory neurons contained only weak to moderate P2X(3)-immunoreactivity (IR), in contrast to strong P2X(3)-IR observed in a sub-population of cutaneous afferents. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed that approximately 90% of bladder afferent neurons responded to alpha beta-methylene ATP (alpha beta meATP) and ATP (30 microM) with persistent currents, which were inhibited by 2',3'-O-trinitrophenyl-ATP (TNP-ATP) (0.3 microM) to 6.4+/-1.9% and 8.0+/-2.6% of control, respectively (n=8). The remaining bladder sensory neurons demonstrated biphasic, transient or no response to P2X agonists. In contrast, only 24% of cutaneous afferent neurons gave persistent currents to alpha beta meATP (30 microM), with 66% of cells giving transient or biphasic currents and the remaining 10% being non-responsive. Our results suggest that, in contrast to DRG neurons in general, bladder sensory neurons projecting via pelvic nerves express predominantly P2X(2/3) heteromeric receptors, which are likely to mediate the important roles of ATP as a signaling molecule of urinary bladder filling and nociception.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in humans and is characterized by neuronal loss, neurofibrillary tangles and beta-amyloid deposition. The interaction between neurotrophins and their tyrosine kinase (trk) receptors is important for cellular differentiation and survival. Interestingly, marked reductions in neurotrophins and receptors have been reported in AD. The cause of the decrease in these molecules remains unclear. However, the role of beta-amyloid (A beta) appears central in understanding the mechanisms controlling neurotrophin/trk expression. In this study we exposed SHSY5Y neuroblastoma cells to A beta or hydrogen peroxide and measured the expression of trk B/truncated trk B, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/NT4 at the protein and molecular level. We show that A beta or hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) induces oxidative stress and cell cytotoxicity. The exposure of cells to A beta results in an increased trk B expression with a concurrent reduction in truncated trk B levels. H(2)O(2) exposure decreased both trk B and truncated trk B levels at the cell surface. At the molecular level trk B RNA increased in the presence of A beta and was unaffected by H(2)O(2). Similarly, BDNF and NT4 levels increased in the presence of A beta. Pre-treatment of cells with the anti-oxidant melatonin returns trk receptor expression, mRNA and BDNF/NT4 secretion to normal levels. These results are significant as they can help in the planning and implementation of AD treatment strategies involving neurotrophins.
In the present study, serotonin (5-HT) responses of hippocampal pyramidal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) neurons were studied in rats subjected twice daily for 21 days to unpredictable stressors. In hippocampal tissue from thus stressed rats mRNA expression of the 5-HT(1A) receptor and mineralo- as well as glucocorticoid receptors were examined with in situ hybridization. On average, stressed rats displayed increased adrenal weight and attenuated body weight gain compared with controls, supporting that the animals had experienced increased corticosterone levels due to the stress exposure. One day after the last stressor, under conditions that corticosterone levels were low (predominant mineralocorticoid receptor activation), the 5-HT(1A) receptor mediated hyperpolarization of CA1 neurons in response to 10 microM 5-HT was significantly reduced compared with controls. Basal membrane properties of CA1 cells in stressed rats were comparable to those of controls. The 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA expression was not changed after chronic stress exposure, in any of the hippocampal areas. A small but significant increase in mineralocorticoid receptor mRNA expression was observed after stress in the dentate gyrus, while glucocorticoid receptor expression was unchanged. The data indicate that unpredictable stress exposure for 3 weeks results in suppression of 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated responses, possibly due to posttranslational modification of the receptor.
Intraperitoneal injection of the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide produces an inflammation accompanied by immune system activation and secretion of cytokines that stimulate the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to release the anti-inflammatory corticosterone. Upstream in HPA axis are neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the paraventricular nucleus whose multipeptidergic phenotype changes during inflammation: coexisting corticotropin-releasing hormone and cholecystokinin mRNAs are up-regulated whereas neurotensin mRNA expression is induced de novo. These changes may be mediated by prostaglandins released from perivascular and microglial cells in response to circulating cytokines. We examined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry whether blockade of prostaglandin synthesis by indomethacin alters phenotypic expression in paraventricular nucleus neurons after lipopolysaccharide. Because indomethacin also elevated circulating corticosterone, animals were adrenalectomized and corticosterone replaced. Results showed that i.p. indomethacin administration suppressed lipopolysaccharide effects in a phenotype non-specific manner: one injection was sufficient to prevent both the increase in corticotropin-releasing hormone and cholecystokinin mRNAs expression and the induction of neurotensin mRNA expression. Therefore, neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons with different peptidergic phenotypes appear to respond as a whole in the acute phase response to systemic infection.
Cell volume regulation has been studied in neuronal and glial cultures but little is known about volume regulation in brain tissue with an intact extracellular space. We investigated volume regulation in hippocampal slices maintained in an interface chamber and exposed to hypo-osmotic medium. Relative changes in intracellular and extracellular volume were measured respectively as changes in light transmittance and extracellular resistance. Slices exposed to hypo-osmotic medium (200-240 mOsm/L) showed a decrease in light transmittance, which occasionally was preceded by a brief transient increase. However, hypo-osmotic exposure was always accompanied by a monotonic increase in extracellular resistance. Peak changes in light transmittance and extracellular resistance occurred at 15-20 min following exposure to hypo-osmotic medium. Optical evidence of volume regulation (RVD) was observed in six of 12 slices and occurred over the next 60-90 min. We hypothesized that the relatively low incidence of RVD was related to depletion of taurine, an osmolyte known to play an important role in volume regulation, during preparation of the slices. Indeed, taurine levels in freshly prepared slices were &lt;50% of those reported in intact hippocampus. Incubation of slices in 1 mM taurine restored taurine to levels observed in situ and increased both the likelihood and magnitude of RVD in hypo-osmotic medium. Inhibition of taurine flux with 100 microM 5-nitro-2-(3 phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid blocked both RVD and the transient undershoot of volume commonly associated with return of swollen slices to iso-osmotic medium. Taurine treatment had no effect on levels of several other amino acids but preserved slice potassium content. The results indicate a critical role for cellular taurine during hypo-osmotic volume regulation in hippocampal slices. Inconsistencies between optical measurements of cellular volume changes and electrical measurements of extracellular space are likely to result from the complex nature of light transmittance in the interface slice preparation.
Release of serotonin (5-HT) from dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) neurons projecting to the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) has a modulatory effect on the neural pathway involved in feeding, hunger, and satiety. The obese Zucker rat, an animal model of genetic obesity, exhibits differences in serotonin signaling as well as a mutated leptin receptor. To evaluate possible mechanisms underlying this difference in serotonin signaling, we have compared electrophysiological responses of DRN neurons from 14- to 25-day-old male lean (Fa/Fa) and obese (fa/fa) Zucker rats using the whole-cell patch clamp technique on cells in brain slices from these animals. We found that the resting properties of these neurons are not different, but the DRN neurons from obese rats are hyperexcitable in response to current injection. This hyperexcitability is not accompanied by an increase in the depolarization caused by current injection or by changes in the threshold for spiking. However, the hyperexcitability is accompanied by reduction in the size and time course of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) following an action potential. DRN neurons of obese rats recover from the AHP faster due to a smaller amplitude AHP and a faster time constant (tau) of decay of the AHP. These deficits are not due to changes in the spike waveform, as the spike amplitude and duration do not differ between lean and obese animals. In summary, we provide evidence that serotonergic DRN neurons from obese Zucker rats are intrinsically hyperexcitable compared with those from lean rats. These results suggest a potential mechanism for the reported increase in 5-HT release at the VMH of obese rats during feeding, and provide the first direct evidence of changes in the intrinsic activity of serotonergic neurons, which are crucial regulators of feeding behavior, in a genetic model of obesity.
Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity might contribute to the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease and other polyglutamine repeat disorders. We used murine neocortical cultures derived from transgenic and knock-in mice to test the effect of expression of expanded polyglutamine-containing huntingtin on neuronal vulnerability to excitotoxins or other insults. Neurons cultured from mice expressing either a normal length (Hdh(Q20)) or expanded (Hdh(Q111)) CAG repeat as a knock-in genetic alteration in exon one of the mouse Hdh gene [Hum Mol Genet 8 (1999) 115] had similar vulnerability to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate-mediated excitotoxicity. These neurons also exhibited similar vulnerability to oxidative stress (24 h exposure to 10-100 microM paraquat or 1-10 microM menadione), apoptosis (48 h exposure to 30-100 nM staurosporine or 1 microM dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) and proteasome inhibition (48 h exposure to 0.3-3 microM MG-132). Neocortical neurons cultured from mice transgenic for an expanded CAG repeat-containing exon 1 of the human HD gene (Mangiarini et al., 1996, R6/2 line) and non-transgenic littermate controls also had similar vulnerability to NMDA and kainate-mediated excitotoxicity. These observations suggest that expression of expanded polyglutamine-containing huntingtin does not acutely alter the vulnerability of cortical neurons to excitotoxic, oxidative or apoptotic insults.
Previous studies have revealed that zinc-enriched (ZEN) terminals are present in all parts of the CNS though with great differences in intensity. The densest populations of both ZEN terminals and ZEN somata are found in telencephalic structures, but also structures like the spinal cord demonstrate impressive ZEN systems spreading terminals several segments around the respective ZEN somata. The present study evaluates whether sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) are ZEN neurons, i.e. contain vesicles that have zinc transporter 3 (ZnT3) proteins in their membranes and contain zinc ions. ZnT3 immunoreactivity (IR) was found in the somata and processes in the postganglionic neurons of mouse SCG. Only a small fraction of neurons (less than 5%), expressed varying degrees of ZnT3. Colchicine treatment, however, increased the number of ZnT3-positive neurons three-fold, suggesting an accumulation of ZnT3 protein in the somata. A small proportion of the postganglionic axons revealed dotted accumulations of ZnT3 IR along their courses. Double labeling showed that all ZnT3-positive neurons and axons were also tyrosine hydroxylase-positive with strong immunofluorescence, while no colocalization was found between ZnT3 and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) or neuropeptide Y IR. VAChT-positive preganglionic neurons were found to terminate on ZnT3 neuronal somata. 6-Methoxy 8-para toluene sulfonamide quinoline fluorescence and zinc selenium autometallography (ZnSe(AMG)) revealed that a subgroup of SCG cells contained free or loosely bound zinc ions. It is therefore concluded that ZnT3 and zinc ions are present in a subpopulation of TH-positive, NPY-negative neurons in the rodent SCG, supporting the notion that vesicular zinc ions may play a special role in the peripheral sympathetic adrenergic system.
The mechanisms underlying selective neuronal cell death in kainic acid-mediated neurodegeneration are not fully understood. We have recently demonstrated that in cerebellar granule neurons, kainic acid induces the expression of proteins associated with cell-cycle progression. In the present study we show that 3-amino thioacridone (3-ATA), a selective cyclin-dependent kinase 4 inhibitor, attenuates kainic acid-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule neurons. When neurons were pre-treated with 3-ATA 10 microM for 24 h, they were less susceptible to damage induced by kainic acid 500 microM, since the number of dead cells decreased significantly. In flow cytometry studies using propidium iodide staining, 3-ATA also reduced the ratio of apoptotic cells induced by kainic acid. Moreover, 3-ATA decreased the proportion of cells with a condensed nucleus from 55% to 22%. Our data suggest that the cell cycle pathway is involved in the mechanism of apoptosis mediated by kainic acid and that cyclin-dependent kinase 4 plays a prominent role in this process. 3-ATA may to prevent the apoptosis associated with neurodegenerative disorders without the over-activation of excitatory amino acid receptors.
Previous anatomic and electrophysiological evidence suggests that serotonin modulates processing in the vestibular nuclei. This study examined the organization of projections from serotonergic raphe nuclei to the vestibular nuclei in rats. The distribution of serotonergic axons in the vestibular nuclei was visualized immunohistochemically in rat brain slices using antisera directed against the serotonin transporter. The density of serotonin transporter-immunopositive fibers is greatest in the superior vestibular nucleus and the medial vestibular nucleus, especially along the border of the fourth ventricle; it declines in more lateral and caudal regions of the vestibular nuclear complex. After unilateral iontophoretic injections of Fluoro-Gold into the vestibular nuclei, retrogradely labeled neurons were found in the dorsal raphe nucleus (including the dorsomedial, ventromedial and lateral subdivisions) and nucleus raphe obscurus, and to a minor extent in nucleus raphe pallidus and nucleus raphe magnus. The combination of retrograde tracing with serotonin immunohistofluorescence in additional experiments revealed that the vestibular nuclei receive both serotonergic and non-serotonergic projections from raphe nuclei. Tracer injections in densely innervated regions (especially the medial and superior vestibular nuclei) were associated with the largest numbers of Fluoro-Gold-labeled cells. Differences were observed in the termination patterns of projections from the individual raphe nuclei. Thus, the dorsal raphe nucleus sends projections that terminate predominantly in the rostral and medial aspects of the vestibular nuclear complex, while nucleus raphe obscurus projects relatively uniformly throughout the vestibular nuclei. Based on the topographical organization of raphe input to the vestibular nuclei, it appears that dense projections from raphe nuclei are colocalized with terminal fields of flocculo-nodular lobe and uvula Purkinje cells. It is hypothesized that raphe-vestibular connections are organized to selectively modulate processing in regions of the vestibular nuclear complex that receive input from specific cerebellar zones. This represents a potential mechanism whereby motor activity and behavioral arousal could influence the activity of cerebellovestibular circuits.
The context in which amphetamine is administered modulates its ability to induce both behavioral sensitization and immediate early gene expression. When given in a novel test environment amphetamine produces greater levels of c-fos and arc mRNA expression in many brain regions relative to when it is given in the home cage. The purpose of the current study was to determine if environment and drug history interact to influence amphetamine-induced c-fos mRNA expression. Rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion were treated for 7 days with saline or 0.5 mg/kg of d-amphetamine (i.v.) in a distinct and relatively novel test environment (Novel), or in their home cage (Home). Following a 10-12-day withdrawal period, a challenge injection of either saline or 0.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine was administered. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to examine c-fos mRNA expression in several regions of the basal ganglia, the central extended amygdala, and limbic forebrain. In most brain regions amphetamine given in the Novel environment produced greater c-fos mRNA expression than when given it was given at Home, and drug history had no effect on amphetamine-induced c-fos mRNA expression. However, within the subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra reticulata, and central nucleus of the amygdala prior experience with amphetamine in the Novel but not Home environment enhanced the effect of an amphetamine challenge injection on c-fos mRNA expression. In contrast, there was a decrease in c-fos mRNA expression in amphetamine-pretreated animals, regardless of environmental context, in the ventral portion of the far caudal striatum. Reexposure to an environment previously paired with amphetamine produced a conditioned increase in c-fos mRNA expression in portions of the caudate-putamen, the subthalamic nucleus, the nucleus accumbens shell and a conditioned decrease in c-fos mRNA expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala. We conclude that environmental context and drug history interact to alter the basal ganglia and central extended amygdala circuitry engaged by subsequent exposure to amphetamine, or exposure to an environment previously paired with amphetamine.
The enzyme 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 alpha-HSD) is involved in the generation of neuroactive steroids through ring-A-reduction of hormonal precursors. We examined the developmental regulation of, gender differences in, and effects of hormonal manipulations on the expression of 3 alpha-HSD in the rat hippocampus. High levels of 3 alpha-HSD mRNA were found on postnatal day 7, coinciding with the stress hyporesponsive period in the rat. Gender differences in 3 alpha-HSD expression were documented during puberty, but not in adulthood. Adrenalectomy and gonadectomy, and supplementation with individual steroid hormones influenced 3 alpha-HSD expression in a gender-specific mode. We also demonstrate that the manifestation of behavioral and endocrine consequences of early life stress depends on the individual's gender and gonadal status. Males are liable to aftereffects of neonatal maternal deprivation, regardless of their adult gonadal status. In females, however, anxiogenic aftereffects of neonatal stress become apparent only after gonadectomy. These data suggest that (i) transient increase of neurosteroid biosynthesis may contribute to stress hyporesponsiveness during early infancy; (ii) gonadal steroids regulate 3 alpha-HSD expression in the hippocampus in a sex-specific mode; (iii) physiological sex steroid secretions in females may mask behavioral consequences of adverse early life events, and (iv) concomitant treatment with the neurosteroid THP counteracts behavioral and endocrine dysregulation induced by neonatal stress in both genders.
Electrophysiological investigation of basal synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus was carried out in anesthetized obese Zucker rats (OZR). Comparison of the input/output curves of basal field excitatory postsynaptic potential indicates that these are similar in both the OZR and its lean counterpart suggesting that basal synaptic transmission is intact in the OZR. However, high frequency stimulation evokes long-term potentiation (LTP) in the lean rat but not in the OZR. Since post-tetanic potentiation and paired pulse facilitation, forms of short-term potentiation of presynaptic origin, are also severely impaired in the OZR, the results imply that impairment of CA1 hippocampal LTP in these obese rats may be due, in part, to impaired presynaptic function. The results emphasize the potential deleterious effect of obesity on learning and memory functions of the CNS.
There is accumulating evidence that suggests there are sex differences in behavioral and subjective responses to cocaine. However, it is not known whether differences in cocaine reward contribute to sex differences in these responses or whether gonadal hormones affect the rewarding properties of cocaine. In the present study, conditioned place preference (CPP), a measure of non-contingent reward, was used to determine the effects of endogenous gonadal hormones and of estrogen and progesterone replacement on cocaine reward. Neurochemical measurements were also taken to identify monoaminergic substrates which underlie the behavioral phenotype. Although both intact and gonadectomized male and female rats showed a significant CPP for cocaine, ovariectomy attenuated the magnitude of CPP. These alterations coincided with a decrease in serum levels of corticosterone. In ovariectomized rats, pretreatment with progesterone inhibited cocaine CPP while estrogen plus progesterone potentiated the magnitude of CPP. Additionally, gonadectomy and ovarian hormone replacement in female rats affected serotonin/dopamine levels and turnover ratios in the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens shell. While no effects of castration were observed, ovariectomy decreased levels of dopamine and serotonin in the ventral tegmental area. In females, progesterone replacement increased levels of serotonin and dopamine in the ventral tegmental area, while estrogen plus progesterone replacement increased dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Collectively, these results indicate that ovarian hormones may influence cocaine reward by altering monoaminergic systems, which, in turn, may contribute to the current sex disparities in overall cocaine use.
The modulation of the firing discharge of medial septal neurons and of the hippocampal electroencephalogram (EEG) mediated by actions on alpha2-adrenoreceptors (ARs) was investigated in awake rabbits. Bilateral i.c.v. infusion of a relatively low dose (0.5 microg) of the alpha2-AR agonist clonidine produced a reduction in the theta rhythmicity of both medial septal neurons and the hippocampal EEG. In contrast, a high dose of clonidine (5 microg) increased the percentage and degree of rhythmicity of theta bursting medial septal neurons as well as the theta power of the hippocampal EEG. On the other hand, administration of alpha2-AR antagonist idazoxan produced the opposite dose-dependent effect. While a low dose of the antagonist (20 microg) produced an increase in both the theta rhythmicity of medial septal neurons and the theta power of the hippocampal EEG, a high dose (100 microg) caused a reduction of theta rhythmicity in both the medial septum and hippocampus. These results suggest that low doses of alpha2-ARs agents may act at autoreceptors regulating the synaptic release of noradrenaline, while high doses of alpha2-ARs drugs may have a predominant postsynaptic action. Similar results were observed after local injection of the alpha2-AR drugs into the medial septum suggesting that the effects induced by the i.c.v. infusion were primarily mediated at the medial septal level. We suggest that noradrenergic transmission via the postsynaptic alpha2-ARs produces fast and strong activation of the septohippocampal system in situations that require urgent selective attention to functionally significant information (alert, aware), whereas the action via the presynaptic alpha2-ARs allows a quick return of the activity to the initial level.
Our hypothesis is that peripheral somatostatin (SRIF) has a role in counter-irritation-induced analgesia. Our paradigm involves the reduction of nociceptive behaviors produced by primary noxious stimuli (formalin or complete Freund's adjuvant [CFA] in the rat hind paw) by a counter-irritating stimulus (capsaicin [CAP] in the tail or muzzle). Activation of peripheral SRIF receptors is key since an SRIF receptor antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (c-SOM) and SRIF antibodies in the hind paw attenuate the counter-irritation-induced analgesia of both formalin and more persistent CFA nociception. Specificity of c-SOM is shown by reversal of its effects with octreotide, a SRIF analog. Injection of formalin in one hind paw and c-SOM in the other does not reduce the counter-irritation analgesia demonstrating local action of the c-SOM. Approximately 33% of peripheral sensory axons contain SRIF, which could release the peptide to activate SRIF receptors on cutaneous axons. Intraplantar naloxone has no effect on the counter-irritation analgesia indicating that SRIF is not activating opioid receptors. These results indicate that in addition to the classic central descending noxious inhibitory control systems that underlie counter-irritation-induced analgesia, there is a peripheral contribution arising from activation of SRIF receptors. Identifying a peripheral contribution of SRIF to mechanisms of counter-irritation analgesia offers opportunities for peripheral therapy.
The ventrolateral medulla (VLM) modulates autonomic functions, motor reactions and pain responses. The lateralmost part of the caudal VLM (VLMlat) was recently shown to be the VLM area responsible for pain modulation. In the present study, the brain sources of VLMlat afferent fibers were determined by tract-tracing techniques. Following injection of cholera toxin subunit B into the VLMlat, retrogradely labeled neurons in the forebrain occurred at the somatosensory, insular, motor, limbic and infralimbic cortices, and at the central amygdaloid nucleus. Retrogradely labeled neurons in diencephalic regions were observed in the lateral hypothalamus, posterior hypothalamus and paraventricular nucleus. In the brainstem, retrograde labeling occurred at the periaqueductal gray, red nucleus, parabrachial area, nucleus raphe magnus, nucleus tractus solitarii, lateral reticular nucleus and dorsal and ventral medullary reticular formation. In the cerebellum, retrogradely labeled neurons occurred at the lateral nucleus. Following injections of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the lateral hypothalamus or paraventricular nucleus, anterogradely labeled fibers were mainly observed in the VLMlat. Injections of BDA into the periaqueductal gray, red nucleus or lateral nucleus of the cerebellum resulted in anterograde labeling in the VLMlat and lateral reticular nucleus. The present study gives an account of the brain regions putatively involved in triggering the modulatory actions elicited from the VLMlat. These include areas committed to somatosensory processing, autonomic control, somatic and visceral motor activity and affective reactions. The findings suggest that the VLMlat may play a major homeostatic role in the integration of nociception with other brain functions.
Imidazoline drugs exert neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischaemia models. They also have effects against mouse cerebellar and striatal neuronal death induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) through the blockade of NMDA currents. Here, we investigated the effects of antazoline on NMDA toxicity and current in rat hippocampal neuronal cultures, and on an in vivo model of status epilepticus. In hippocampal cultures, antazoline (30 microM) decreased NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity and also blocked the NMDA current with voltage-dependent and fast-reversible action (inhibition by 85+/-3% at -60 mV). Status epilepticus was induced by injecting pilocarpine (200 nmol) directly into the right pyriform cortex of male adult rats. The rats then received immediately three consecutive i.p. injections at 30-min intervals of either PBS (control group) or antazoline at 10 mg/kg (low-dose group) or at 45 mg/kg (high-dose group). During the 6-h recording, status epilepticus lasted more than 200 min in all groups. In the high-dose group only, seizures completely ceased 1 h after the third injection of antazoline, then started again 1 h later. Rats were killed 1 week later, and Cresyl Violet-stained sections of their brain were analysed for damage quantification. On the ipsilateral side to the pilocarpine injection, pyriform cortex and hippocampal CA1 and CA3 areas were significantly protected in both antazoline-treated groups, whilst prepyriform and entorhinal cortices were only in the high-dose group. On the contralateral side to the pilocarpine injection, only the hippocampal CA3 area was significantly protected in the low-dose group, but all investigated structures were in the high-dose group. In conclusion, antazoline is a potent neuroprotective drug in different models of neuronal primary culture, as previously shown in striatal and cerebellar granule neurons [Neuropharmacology 39 (2000) 2244], and here in hippocampal neurons. Antazoline is also neuroprotective in vivo in the intra-pyriform pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus model.
The neuropeptide neuromedin U (NMU) has been shown to have significant effects on cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and CNS functions. The peptide was first isolated from the porcine spinal cord and later shown to be present in spinal cords of other species. Little is known about the distribution of neuromedin U receptors (NMURs) in the spinal cord and the spinal action of the peptide. Here we report on the expression of NMURs and a potential role in nociception in the rat spinal cord using a combination of behavioral and electrophysiological studies. Receptor autoradiography showed that NMU-23 binding was restricted to the superficial layers of spinal cord, a region known to be involved in the control of nociception. In situ hybridization analysis indicated the mRNA of NMUR2 was located in the same region (laminae I and IIo) as NMU-23 binding, while the mRNA for NMU receptor 1 was observed in a subpopulation of small diameter neurons of dorsal root ganglia. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of neuromedin U-23 (0.4-4.0 nmol/10 microl) dose-dependently decreased both the mechanical threshold to von Frey hair stimulation and the withdrawal latency to a noxious thermal stimulus. Mechanical allodynia was observed between 10 and 120 min, peaking at 30 min and heat hyperalgesia was observed 10-30 min after i.t. administration of NMU-23. A similar mechanical allodynia was also observed following i.t. administration of NMU-8 (0.4-4 nmol/10 microl). A significant enhancement of the excitability of flexor reflex was induced by intrathecal administration of NMU-23 (4 nmol/10 microl). Evoked responses to touch and pinch stimuli were increased by 439+/-94% and 188+/-36% (P&lt;0.01, n=6) respectively. The behavioral and electrophysiological data demonstrate, for the first time, a pro-nociceptive action of NMU. The restricted distribution of NMU receptors to a region of the spinal cord involved in nociception suggests that this peptide receptor system may play a role in nociception.
Cannabinoids are known to inhibit neurotransmitter release in the CNS through CB1 receptors. The present study compares the effects of synthetic cannabinoids on acetylcholine (ACh) release in human and mice neocortex. We further investigated a possible endocannabinoid tone on CB1 receptors in human neocortex caused by endogenous agonists like anandamide or 2-arachidonylglycerol. Brain slices, incubated with [3H]-choline, were superfused and stimulated electrically under autoinhibition-free conditions to evoke tritium overflow assumed to represent ACh release. The first series of experiments was performed with 26 pulses, 60 mA, at 0.1 Hz. In mice neocortical slices, the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 decreased ACh release (pIC50=6.68, I(max)=67%). In the human neocortex the concentration-response curve of WIN55212-2 was bell-shaped and flat (I(max observed) approximately 30%). The estimated maximum possible inhibition, however, was much larger: I(max derived)=79%. Lec, the negative logarithm (lg) of the biophase concentration of endocannabinoids in 'WIN55212-2 units,' was -6.52, the pKd of WIN55212-2 was 7.47. The CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist SR141716 enhanced ACh release in the human neocortex (by 38%) and prevented the inhibitory effect of WIN55212-2. The concentration-response curve of WIN55212-2 was changed in its shape including a shift to the right due to the presence of SR141716. A pA2 of this antagonist between 11.60 and 11.18 was obtained. SR141716 alone had no effect in mice neocortical slices. A partial agonist without inverse agonistic activity, O-1184, enhanced ACh release in the human neocortex. The endocannabinoid uptake-inhibitor AM404 decreased ACh release in human, but not in mice, neocortical slices. Change of the stimulation parameters (eight trains of pseudo-one-pulse bursts (4 pulses, 76 mA, 100 Hz), spaced by 45 s intervals) led to a stronger inhibitory effect of WIN55212-2, and abolished the disinhibitory effect of SR141716 and O-1184. The results show that activation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors leads to inhibition of ACh release in the human and mouse neocortex. The endocannabinoid tone is high in the human, but not in the mouse neocortex and is dependent on neuronal activity. SR141716 acts as a competitive CB1 receptor antagonist.
The peptide hormone ghrelin is known to be present within stomach and, to a lesser extent, elsewhere in gut. Although reports suggest that gastric function may be modulated by ghrelin acting via the vagus nerve, the gastrointestinal distribution and functions of its receptor, the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R), are not clear and may show signs of species-dependency. This study sought to determine the cellular localisation and distribution of GHS-R-immunoreactivity (-Ir) using immunofluorescent histochemistry and explore the function of ghrelin in both human and rat isolated gastric and/or colonic circular muscle preparations in which nerve-mediated responses were evoked by electrical field stimulation. The expression of GHS-R-Ir differed to a greater extent between species than between gut regions of the same species. Both the human and rat gastric and colonic preparations (n=3 each) expressed GHS-R-Ir within neuronal cell bodies and fibres, cells associated with gastric glands and putative entero-endocrine and/or mast cells. Smooth muscle cells and epithelia were devoid of GHS-R-Ir and only rat preparations expressed GHS-R-Ir on nerve fibres associated with the muscle layers. GHS-R-Ir was fully competed in all cases in pre-adsorption studies and antiserum specificity was confirmed using a cell line transiently expressing the rat GHS-R. In rat isolated forestomach circular muscle, ghrelin 0.1-10 microM had no effect on smooth muscle tension but concentration-dependently facilitated the amplitude of contractions evoked by excitatory nerve stimulation (n=4-7; P&lt;0.05 for each concentration versus vehicle; n=18). When examined under similar conditions, in both rat distal colon (n=4-6, P&gt;0.05 each) and human ascending (n=3) and sigmoid (n=1) colon, these concentrations of ghrelin were without effect (P&gt;0.05 each). The data suggest that ghrelin has the potential to profoundly affect gastrointestinal functions in both species and at least one of these functions is to exert a gastric prokinetic activity. Moreover, we suggest that this activity of ghrelin is mediated via the enteric nervous system, in addition to known vagus nerve-dependent mechanisms.
Neuronal L-type calcium channels have been implicated in pain perception and neuronal synaptic plasticity. To investigate this we have examined the effect of disrupting the gene encoding the CaV1.3 (alpha 1D) alpha subunit of L-type Ca2+ channels on neurological function, acute nociceptive behavior, and hippocampal synaptic function in mice. CaV1.3 alpha 1 subunit knockout (CaV1.3 alpha 1(-/-)) mice had relatively normal neurological function with the exception of reduced auditory evoked behavioral responses and lower body weight. Baseline thermal and mechanical thresholds were unaltered in these animals. CaV1.3 alpha 1(-/-) mice were also examined for differences in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent (100 Hz tetanization for 1 s) and NMDA receptor-independent (200 Hz in 100 microM DL-2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid) long-term potentiation within the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Both NMDA receptor-dependent and NMDA receptor-independent forms of long-term potentiation were expressed normally. Radioligand binding studies revealed that the density of (+)[3H]isradipine binding sites in brain homogenates was reduced by 20-25% in CaV1.3 alpha 1(-/-) mice, without any detectable change in CaV1.2 (alpha 1C) protein levels as detected using Western blot analysis. Taken together these data indicate that following loss of CaV1.3 alpha 1 subunit expression there is sufficient residual activity of other Ca2+ channel subtypes to support NMDA receptor-independent long-term potentiation and some forms of sensory behavior/function.
Although the major routes of dopamine metabolism seem to be established, at least in terminal regions such as the striatum, it is important to search for previously unknown metabolites and to investigate the relevance of previously suggested minor alternative pathways. An urgent issue is to verify and quantify the transformation of dopamine to putative toxic species, another is to further explore metabolism of dopamine located in cell bodies/dendrites, e.g. in the substantia nigra. We have developed a new method in order to widen the search for alternative metabolites of dopamine. The method is based on systemic injection of tritiated L-DOPA to rats in vivo. Brain tissue was homogenised and centrifuged and the resulting supernatant fractioned following passage through a liquid chromatography system. The radioactivity of each fraction was measured using a scintillation system. By identifying fractions containing major catecholamines and metabolites, according to a standard solution, novel metabolites can be searched for in the remaining fractions. It was possible to obtain sufficient radioactivity in separate fractions of supernatant of homogenised tissue, even from such a small brain nucleus as substantia nigra. Radioactivity was obtained in those fractions that contained the major catecholamines and their metabolites, as well as in other fractions where it may represent previously unknown metabolites of L-DOPA/dopamine. The method was used to evaluate the possibility that cytochrome P450 2E1 is involved in the metabolism of dopamine in the substantia nigra. Significant changes in the radioactivity pattern were induced by inhibition of the enzyme but conclusions about whether cytochrome P450 2E1 is involved in the metabolism of dopamine or not requires further studies. The method can be used to study the metabolism of dopamine and can be extended, by using other radiolabelled precursors, also to evaluate metabolism of other transmitters, e.g. serotonin.
Alzheimer's dementia may be considered a synaptic disease of central neurons: the loss of synapses, reflected by early cognitive impairments, precedes the appearance of extra cellular focal deposits of beta-amyloid peptide in the brain of patients. Distinct immunocytochemical patterns of amyloid precursor proteins (APPs) have previously been demonstrated in the synapses by ultrastructural analysis in the cerebellum and hippocampus of adult rats and mice. Now we show that during postnatal development and during aging in these structures, the immunocytochemical expression of APPs increases in the synapses in parallel with the known up-regulation of total APPs brain levels. Interestingly, as shown previously in the adult rodents, the presenilins (PSs) 1 and 2, which intervene in APPs metabolism, exhibit a synaptic distribution pattern similar to that of APPs with parallel quantitative changes throughout life. In the brain tissue, single and double immunocytochemistry at the ultrastructural level shows co-localisation of APPs and PSs in axonal and dendritic synaptic compartments during postnatal synaptogenesis, adulthood and aging. In addition, double-labelling immunocytofluorescence detects these proteins close to synaptophysin at the growth cones of developing cultured neurons. Thusly, the brain expression of APPs and PSs appears to be regulated synchronously during lifespan in the synaptic compartments where the proteins are colocated. This suggests that PS-dependent processing of important synaptic proteins such as APPs could intervene in age-induced adjustments of synaptic relationships between specific types of neurons.
The rapidly inactivating A-type K+ current (IA) is prominent in hippocampal neurons; and the speed of its inactivation may regulate electrical excitability. The auxiliary K+ channel subunit Kvbeta 1.1 confers fast inactivation to Shaker-related channels and is postulated to affect IA. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings of rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons in primary culture showed a developmental decrease in the time constant of inactivation (tau(in)) of voltage-gated K+ currents: 17.9+/-1.5 ms in young neurons (5-7 days in vitro; n=53, mean+/-S.E.M.); 9.9+/-1.0 ms in mature neurons (12-15 days in vitro; n=72, mean+/-S.E.M., P&lt;0.01). During the same developmental time, the level of Kvbeta 1.1 transcript increased more than two-fold in vitro and in vivo, determined by semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for hippocampus. The hypothesis that up-regulation of Kvbeta 1.1 led to the changes in tau(in) was tested in vitro, using antisense knockdown. Kvbeta 1.1-specific antisense DNA was introduced with a modified herpes virus co-expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein and knockdown of Kvbeta 1.1 was verified by immunocytochemistry. Following transduction with the antisense virus, mature neurons reverted to tau(in) values characteristic of young neurons: 18.3+/-2.4 ms (n=20). The effect of antisense knockdown on electrical excitability was tested using current-clamp protocols to induce repetitive firing. Treatment with the antisense virus increased the interspike interval over a range of membrane depolarization (baseline membrane potential=-40 to +20 mV). This effect was most pronounced at -40 mV, where the ISI of the first pair of action potentials was nearly doubled. These data indicate that Kvbeta 1.1 contributes to the developmental control of IA in hippocampal neurons and that the magnitude of effect is sufficient to regulate electrical excitability. Viral-mediated antisense knockdown of Kvbeta 1.1 is capable of decreasing the electrical excitability of post-mitotic hippocampal neurons, suggesting this approach has applicability to gene therapy of neurological diseases associated with hyperexcitability.
We have investigated whether the differentiation potential of attached cultures derived from the mouse lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) is influenced by in vitro expansion. Primary neuronal cultures derived from the LGE give rise to neurons expressing the striatal projection neuron markers Islet1 (ISL1) and dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kilodaltons (DARPP-32) as well as the olfactory bulb interneuron marker Er81. Our previous results showed that after expansion in vitro, LGE precursor cells can be induced to differentiate into neurons which exhibit molecular characteristics of the LGE, such as the homeobox transcription factors DLX and MEIS2. We show here that while attached LGE cultures maintain Er81 expression through five passages, they lose the ability to generate ISL1- or dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kilodaltons-expressing neurons already after the first passage. This indicates that the expansion of LGE precursor cells restricts their differentiation potential in vitro. Interestingly, the undifferentiated LGE cultures retain the expression of both the Isl1 and Er81 genes, suggesting that precursor cells for both striatal projection neurons and olfactory bulb interneurons are present in these cultures. Thus the restriction in differentiation potential of the expanded LGE cultures likely reflects deficiencies in the differentiation conditions used.
Glucose is the main substrate that fulfills energy brain demands. However, in some circumstances, such as diabetes, starvation, during the suckling period and the ketogenic diet, brain uses the ketone bodies, acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate, as energy sources. Ketone body utilization in brain depends directly on its blood concentration, which is normally very low, but increases substantially during the conditions mentioned above. Glutamate neurotoxicity has been implicated in neurodegeneration associated with brain ischemia, hypoglycemia and cerebral trauma, conditions related to energy failure, and to elevation of glutamate extracellular levels in brain. In recent years substantial evidence favoring a close relation between glutamate neurotoxic potentiality and cellular energy levels, has been compiled. We have previously demonstrated that accumulation of extracellular glutamate after inhibition of its transporters, induces neuronal death in vivo during energy impairment induced by glycolysis inhibition. In the present study we have assessed the protective potentiality of the ketone body, acetoacetate, against glutamate-mediated neuronal damage in the hippocampus of rats chronically treated with the glycolysis inhibitor, iodoacetate, and in hippocampal cultured neurons exposed to a toxic concentration of iodoacetate. Results show that acetoacetate efficiently protects against glutamate neurotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro probably by a mechanism involving its role as an energy substrate.
The KCNQ family of voltage-dependent non-inactivating K+ channels is composed of five members, four of which (KCNQ2-5) are expressed in the CNS and are responsible for the M-current. Mutations in either KCNQ2 or KCNQ3 lead to a hereditary form of dominant generalized epilepsy. Using specific antisera to the KCNQ2, KCNQ3 and KCNQ5 subunits, we found that KCNQ3 co-immunoprecipitated with KCNQ2 and KCNQ5 subunits, but no association was detected between KCNQ2 and KCNQ5. Intense KCNQ5 immunoreactivity was found to be widely distributed throughout the temporal neocortex and the hippocampal formation. In these structures, both pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons and a population of glial cells in the white matter expressed the KCNQ5 subunit. In the sclerotic areas of the CA fields of epileptic patients, a marked loss of KCNQ5 immunoreactive pyramidal neurons was found in relation with the loss of neurons in these regions. However, in the regions adjacent to the sclerotic areas, the distribution and intensity of KCNQ5 immunostaining was apparently normal. The widespread distribution of KCNQ5 subunits, its persistence in pharmacoresistant epilepsy, along with the significant role of the M-current in the control of neuronal excitability, makes this protein a possible target for the development of anticonvulsant drugs.
Recurrent networks of neurons communicating via excitatory connections are common in the nervous system. In the absence of mechanisms to control firing (collectively termed negative feedback), these networks are likely to be bistable and unable to meaningfully encode input signals. In most recurrent circuits, negative feedback is provided by a specialized subpopulation of interneurons, but such neurons are absent from some systems, which therefore require other forms of negative feedback. One such circuit is found within the enteric nervous system of the intestine, where AH/Dogiel type II neurons are interconnected via excitatory synapses acting through metabotropic receptors to produce slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (slow EPSPs). Negative feedback in this recurrent network may come from either inhibitory postsynaptic potentials arising from the terminals that produce slow EPSPs or from the after hyperpolarizing potentials (AHPs) characteristic of these neurons. We have examined these possibilities using mathematical analysis, based on the Wilson-Cowan model, and computer simulations. Analysis of steady states showed that, under appropriate conditions, both types of negative feedback can provide robust regulation of firing allowing the networks to encode input signals. Numerical simulations were performed using large, anatomically realistic networks with realistic models for metabotropic transmission and suppression of the AHP. In the presence of constant exogenous input, parameters controlling aspects of synaptic events were varied, confirming the analytical results for static stimuli. The simulated networks also responded to time varying inputs in a manner consistent with known physiology. In addition, simulation revealed that neurons in networks with inhibitory contransmission fired in erratic bursts, a phenomenon observed in neurons in unparalysed tissue. Thus, either inhibitory contransmission or AHPs, or both, can allow recurrent networks of AH/Dogiel type II neurons to encode ongoing inputs in a biologically useful way. These neurons appear to be intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs), which implies that the IPANs in a region act in a coordinated fashion.
Expression of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) is increased in sensory neurons exposed to adjuvant induced peripheral inflammation. Local elevation in expression of the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) is a main factor contributing to the neuronal response to inflammation. This study examines the role of endogenous NGF in inflammation-associated increases in PACAP expression using the adjuvant-induced peripheral inflammation model with or without systemic administration of antibodies against NGF. Quantitative in situ hybridization was used to detect changes in neuronal PACAP mRNA expression and to correlate this expression with neuronal mRNA expression of the NGF receptor tyrosine kinase (trk) A. The results from this study show that inflammation triggered increases in PACAP expression occurs in small- to medium-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that also express trkA, and that this elevation in PACAP expression is prevented by systemic injection of anti-NGF. This supports a role for NGF as a positive regulator of PACAP expression during inflammation.
Bombesin receptor subtype 3 (BRS-3) is an orphan G-protein coupled receptor that shares between 47 and 51% homology with other known bombesin receptors. The natural ligand for BRS-3 is currently unknown and little is known about the mechanisms regulating BRS-3 gene expression. Unlike other mammalian bombesin receptors that have been shown to be predominantly expressed in the CNS and gastrointestinal tract, expression of the BRS-3 receptor in the rat brain has previously not been observed. To gain further understanding of the biology of BRS-3, we have studied the distribution of BRS-3 mRNA and protein in the rat CNS. The mRNA expression pattern was studied using reverse transcription followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Using immunohistological techniques, the distribution of BRS-3 protein in the rat brain was investigated using a rabbit affinity-purified polyclonal antiserum raised against an N-terminal peptide. The BRS-3 receptor was found to be widely expressed in the rat brain at both mRNA and protein levels. Particularly strong immunosignals were observed in the cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, hypothalamus and thalamus. Other regions of the brain such as the basal ganglia, midbrain and reticular formation were also immunopositive for BRS-3. In conclusion, our neuroanatomical data provide evidence that BRS-3 is as widely expressed in the rat brain as other bombesin-like peptide receptors and suggest that this receptor may also have important roles in the CNS, mediating the functions of a so far unidentified ligand.
To gain insight into the role of melatonin and dopamine in retinal development, gene expression of two melatonin receptors, MT1 and MT2, as well as five dopamine receptors, D1, D2, D3, D4 and D5, in the rat eye was analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction across various developmental stages. MT1 transcript levels reached maximum levels at embryonic day (E) 16 and then decreased gradually until reaching adult levels by postnatal day (P) 14. MT2 transcript levels similarly peaked at E16, but then decreased dramatically until birth to its lowest levels, which were maintained throughout the postnatal period. Thus, gene expression of both the MT1 and MT2 receptors showed a striking inverse correlation with maturation of the eye. In contrast to melatonin receptors, gene expression of all dopamine receptor subtypes, except for D3, showed only an increase as development proceeds with highest levels in adulthood. The D3 message was not detected throughout the developmental period examined. Gene expression of D1-like receptors, D1 and D5, showed a substantial increase to adult levels during the fetal period at E16 and E20, respectively. Transcript levels of D2-like receptors, D2 and D4, on the other hand, were not detected before birth but increased significantly to adult levels by P7 and P14, respectively. The present findings suggest the presence of unique developmental mechanisms by which transcription of various G protein-coupled receptors are regulated in the eye.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with the accumulation of extracellular deposits of the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta). Abeta is a result of misprocessing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). Gamma-secretase is involved in APP misprocessing and one hypothesis holds that this secretase is identical to PS1. We tested this hypothesis by determining whether PS is co-localised with Abeta in situ. Using confocal analyses and a sensitive immunogold procedure we show that PS and Abeta are co-localised within discrete microdomains of neuronal plasma membranes in AD patients and in aged dogs, an established model of human brain aging. Our data indicate that APP misprocessing occurs in discrete plasma membrane domains of neurons and provide evidence that PS1 is critically involved in Abeta formation.
In order to investigate neural mechanisms by which the prefrontal cortex adaptively modifies its activities based on past experience, we examined whether or not sensory cortical projections to the medial prefrontal cortex support long-term potentiation (LTP) in rats. Monosynaptic projections from the secondary visual cortex, mediomedial area (V2MM) to the infralimbic cortex were confirmed by orthodromic as well as antidromic activation of single units. High-frequency stimulation (50 Hz, 2 s) induced LTP (approximately 45% increase over the baseline) in the V2MM projection to the infralimbic cortex. LTP induction in this pathway was completely blocked by an injection (i.p.) of CPP, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. LTP was also induced in the ventral hippocampal projection to the infralimbic cortex by the same high-frequency stimulation. The present results suggest that modification of synaptic weights of afferent sensory cortical projections is one mechanism underlying learning-induced changes in prefrontal cortical neural activities.
Modulation of sympathetic drive to the spleen is one potential mechanism whereby physical activity prevents stress-induced splenic immune suppression in rats. The current study tested the hypothesis that voluntary freewheel running reduces peripheral sympathetic drive by modulating stress-induced activity of brain regions synaptically linked to sympathetically innervated peripheral organs, including the adrenals and spleen. To this end, adrenal and splenic catecholamine content and activity of the central sympathetic circuit indexed by c-Fos protein induction, elicited by acute exposure to inescapable tail shock, were measured. Stressor exposure depleted adrenal and splenic norepinephrine content and elicited a robust increase in c-Fos in the brains of sedentary rats. Physical activity status had no effect on adrenal norepinephrine content. Indicative of attenuated sympathetic drive to the spleen, however, 6 weeks of voluntary freewheel running diminished stress-induced splenic norepinephrine depletion, and significantly attenuated stress-induced c-Fos in specific brain regions responsible for sympathetic regulation, including tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons of the locus coeruleus, A5 cell group and rostral ventrolateral medulla. Results suggest that voluntary activity attenuates sympathetic drive to the spleen during stressor exposure by selectively modulating stress-induced activity of the central sympathetic circuit. The attenuation of sympathetic responses observed in this study may be one important mechanism for the protective effect of physical activity against stress-related illness and immunosuppression.
Previous publications have demonstrated a prominent central and corticotropin releasing hormone-mediated action of the endomorphins (EMs) on both open-field behaviour and the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In the present experiments, the direct action of endomorphin-1 (EM1) on pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release, adrenal corticosterone secretion and the roles of nitric oxide (NO) and dopamine (DA) in the HPA and behavioural responses elicited by EM1 were investigated in mice. In vitro perifusion studies indicated that the action of EM1 on the HPA system appears to be confined to the hypothalamus, as EM1 did not influence the corticosterone secretion from adrenal slices and moderately attenuated the ACTH release from anterior pituitary slices. In in vivo experiments, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNArg) pretreatment brought about a profound inhibition of both the endocrine and the behavioural responses. On the other hand, haloperidol completely abolished the increases in square crossing and rearing, without affecting corticosterone release. The direct action of EM1 on striatal DA release was therefore also investigated in an in vitro superfusion system. Although EM1 did not influence the basal release of tritiated DA, it significantly enhanced the transmitter release evoked by electric impulses and pretreatment with L-NNArg resulted in a considerable inhibition of the release elicited by EM1. In conclusion, our endocrine studies suggest an important role of NO in the mediation of the EM1-evoked corticosterone secretion. They also indicate that EM1 activates the HPA axis at a hypothalamic level and dopamine is not involved in this process. In contrast, the behavioural experiments reflect that the locomotor activation induced by EM1 is mediated by NO and dopamine, and the superfusion studies demonstrate that NO transmits the dopamine release enhancing effect of EM1.
A significant number of the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain of the primate, but not the rodent brain contain the calcium binding protein calbindin-D28k (CB). Previous experiments in our laboratory have demonstrated a substantial age-related loss of CB from the human basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCN). The present study investigated the possible age-related loss of CB from the BFCN in a non-human primate species, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Quantitative analysis of matching sections as well as unbiased stereological determination of neuronal number were used in 16 adult marmosets ranging in age between 2 and 15 years. No significant changes were observed in the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive BFCN when a group of young animals (&lt; or =4 years) was compared with a 6-8-year-old group and a 9-15-year-old group. Similarly, no age-related changes were observed in Nissl-stained magnocellular basal forebrain (putatively cholinergic) neurons. In contrast, the BFCN of the two older groups of animals displayed a significant loss of CB. The age-related loss of CB occurred in all sectors of the BFCN, but was greatest in the anterior sector of this cell group. The CB loss was neurochemically specific since the BFCN in the older groups of animals continued to express other markers such as high and low affinity neurotrophin receptors. The age-related loss of CB from the marmoset BFCN was also regionally selective as CB positive neurons in other structures, such as the cerebral cortex and the striatum displayed no apparent age-related changes. These results indicate that the marmoset BFCN display a significant and selective age-related loss of CB reminiscent of that observed in the human. Therefore, the common marmoset represents an appropriate animal model in which the consequences of BFCN CB loss can be investigated in depth. Loss of CB from the aged BFCN is likely to reduce the capacity of these neurons to buffer intracellular calcium and to leave them vulnerable to insults which can result in increased calcium levels. The vulnerability of the CB-negative BFCN in the aged marmoset to various insults which disturb calcium homeostasis remains to be investigated.
We recorded somatosensory-evoked magnetic fields and potentials produced by painful intra-epidermal stimulation (ES) and non-painful transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TS) applied to the left hand in 12 healthy volunteers to compare cortical responses to noxious and innocuous somatosensory stimulations. Our results revealed that cortical processing following noxious and innocuous stimulations was strikingly similar except that the former was delayed approximately 60 ms relative to the latter, which was well explained by a difference in peripheral conduction velocity mediating noxious (Adelta fiber) and innocuous (Abeta fiber) inputs. The first cortical activity evoked by both ES and TS was in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) in the hemisphere contralateral to the stimulated side. The following activities were in the bilateral secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), insular cortex, cingulate cortex, anterior medial temporal area and ipsilateral SI. The source locations did not differ between the two stimulus modalities except that the dipole for insular activity following ES was located more anterior to that following TS. Both ES and TS evoked vertex potentials consisting of a negativity followed by a positivity at a latency of 202 and 304 ms, and 134 and 243 ms, respectively. The time course of the vertex potential corresponded to that of the activity of the medial temporal area. Our results suggested that cortical processing was similar between noxious and innocuous stimulation in SI and SII, but different in insular cortex. Our data also implied that activities in the amygdala/hippocampal formation represented common effects of noxious and tactile stimulations.
The neurochemistry of aggression and rage has largely focused on the roles played by neurotransmitters and their receptor mechanisms. In contrast, little attention has been given to the possible functions of other substances. Interleukin-1beta is an immune and brain-derived cytokine that is present in the hypothalamus. Functionally, interleukin-1 has been shown to induce the release of serotonin (5-HT), a neurotransmitter known to potently affect aggression and rage behavior. Thus, the goal of the present study was to test the hypothesis that interleukin-1beta in the medial hypothalamus could modulate defensive rage behavior in the cat. In the first experiment, electrical stimulation of sites in the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage could be elicited and where microinjections of specific compounds were later placed, facilitated defensive rage elicited from the periaqueductal gray (PAG), thus demonstrating the functional relationship between these two regions. In the second experiment, microinjections of relatively low doses of interleukin-1beta into the medial hypothalamus potentiated defensive rage behavior elicited from the midbrain periaqueductal gray in a dose-related manner. In the third experiment, pretreatment with a selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, LY-53857, blocked the facilitating effects of interleukin-1beta upon defensive rage. These findings reveal for the first time that brain cytokines can dramatically alter aggressive behavior. In particular, interleukin-1beta in the medial hypothalamus potentiates defensive rage behavior elicited from the periaqueductal gray in the cat, and the potentiating effects of interleukin-1beta on this form of emotional behavior are mediated via a 5-HT2 receptor mechanism.
Recently we demonstrated that a single 3-day episode of carrageenan-induced acute cutaneous inflammation can create a chronic state of increased susceptibility to inflammatory hyperalgesia. In this latent &quot;primed&quot; state, although there is no ongoing hyperalgesia, the hyperalgesic response to subsequent challenges with inflammatory agent (prostaglandin E2; PGE2) is greatly enhanced. Furthermore, the PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in primed skin was found to require activity of the epsilon isozyme of protein kinase C (PKCepsilon), a second messenger that is not required for PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in control animals. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that activity of PKCepsilon not only plays a critical role in the expression of primed PGE2-induced hyperalgesia, but also in the development and maintenance of the primed state itself. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotide was employed to produce a decrease in PKCepsilon in the nerve, verified by Western blot analysis. PKCepsilon was found to be essential both for the development of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesic priming, as well as for the maintenance of the primed state. Furthermore, hyperalgesic priming could be induced by an agonist of PKCepsilon (pseudo-receptor octapeptide for activated PKCepsilon) at a dose that itself causes no hyperalgesia. The finding that transient inhibition of PKCepsilon can not only prevent the development of priming, but can also terminate a fully developed state of priming suggests the possibility that selective targeting PKCepsilon might be an effective new strategy in the treatment of chronic inflammatory pain.
Rat neocortex that has been injured on the first or second postnatal day (P0-1) develops an epileptogenic, aberrantly layered malformation called a microgyrus. To investigate the effects of this developmental plasticity on inhibitory interneurons, we studied a sub-population of GABAergic cells that co-express the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor GluR1 subunit and the calcium-binding protein, calbindin (CB). Both malformed and control cortex of adult (P40-60) animals contained numerous interneurons double-stained for CB and GluR1. Immunoreactivity (IR) for CB was up-regulated in perikarya of interneurons within supragranular layers of control cortex between P12 and P40. However, in malformed adult (P40) cortex, CB-IR levels were significantly lower than in adult controls, and fell midway between levels in immature and adult control animals. Between P12 and P40, GluR1-IR was down-regulated in perikarya of interneurons in control cortex. Somatic GluR1-IR levels in malformed adult (P40) cortex were not different from adult controls. These neurons formed a dense plexus of highly GluR1-positive spiny dendrites within layer II. The dendritic plexus in the malformation was more intensely GluR1-immunoreactive than that in layer II of control cortex. This was due to apparent changes in thickness and length of dendrites, rather than to significant changes in the number of interneuronal perikarya in the microgyral cortex. Results indicate that the population of GluR1/CB-containing interneurons is spared in malformed microgyral cortex, but that these cells sustain lasting decreases in their somatic expression of calbindin and alterations of dendritic structure. Potential functional implications of these findings are discussed.
Cisplatin, a commonly used antineoplastic agent, destroys the sensory hair cells in the cochlear and vestibular system leading to irreversible hearing loss and balance problems. Cisplatin-induced hair cell damage presumably occurs by apoptosis. Recent studies suggest that p53 may play an important role initiating cisplatin-induced apoptosis in some cell types. To determine if p53 plays a role in cisplatin-mediated hair cell loss, cochlear and utricular organotypic cultures were prepared from postnatal day 3-4 rats and treated with cisplatin or cisplatin plus pifithrin-alpha (PFT), a p53 inhibitor. Control cultures were devoid of p53 immunolabeling, caspase-1 and caspase-3 labeling and p53 protein was absent from Western blots. Cisplatin (1-10 microg/ml) caused a dose-dependent loss of hair cells in cochlear and utricular cultures, up-regulated phospho-p53 serine 15 immunolabeling, increased the expression of phospho-p53 serine 15 in Western blots from 6 to 48 h after the onset of cisplatin-treatment, and increased caspase-1 and caspase-3 labeling in cochlear and vestibular cultures. Addition of PFT (20-100 microM) to cisplatin-treated cochlear and utricular cultures resulted in a dose-dependent increase in hair cell survival; suppressed the expression of p53 in Western blots and eliminated caspase-1 and caspase-3 labeling in cultures. These results suggest that the tumor suppressor protein, p53, plays a critical role in initiating apoptosis in cochlear and vestibular hair cells. Temporary suppression of p53 with PFT provides significant protection against cisplatin-induced hair cell loss and offers the potential for reducing the ototoxic, vestibulotoxic and neurotoxic side effects of cisplatin.
Hypertension affects approximately 60 million people in the United States. Recent studies have demonstrated that hypertension may produce progressive changes in the CNS. The present study is focused on reports in the literature that hypertension may significantly alter neurotransmitter systems, particularly dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE). To address this, DA and norepinephrine (NE) receptor binding was assessed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of 15 male rhesus monkeys using on-the-slide in vitro assays for the DA1, NE alpha1 and NE alpha2 receptors as well as for the DA and NE uptake transporters. Eight monkeys underwent surgical coarctation of the mid-thoracic aorta which produced sustained, untreated hypertension as defined by a systolic pressure above 150 mm Hg. Compared with normotensive controls, chronic, untreated hypertension produced a significant decrease in DA1 and NE alpha1 receptor binding and an increase in DA uptake (DAU) receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex. While the mechanisms by which untreated hypertension alters DA and NE receptors is not known, the use of this non-human primate model should provide the means to uncover neurobiological changes that occur with untreated hypertension.
Cell surface glycoconjugates are thought to mediate cell-cell recognition and play roles in neuronal development and functions. We demonstrated here that exposure of neuronal cells to nanomolar levels of gangliosides Neu5Acalpha 8Neu5Acalpha 3Galbeta 4GlcCer, Galbeta 3GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 8Neu5Acalpha 3)Galbeta 4GlcCer (GD1b), Neu5Acalpha 3Galbeta 3GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 8Neu5Acalpha 3)Galbeta 4GlcCer (GT1b) or its oligosaccharide portion induced a rapid and transient activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM-KII) in the subplasmalemma. Galbeta 3GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 3)Galbeta 4GlcCer (GM1), GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 3)Galbeta 4GlcCer, Neu5Acalpha 3Galbeta 4GlcCer, Neu5Acalpha 3Galbeta 3GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 3)Galbeta 4GlcCer (GD1a), and Neu5Acalpha 8Neu5Acalpha 3Galbeta 3GalNAcbeta 4(Neu5Acalpha 8Neu5Acalpha 3)-Galbeta 4GlcCer were ineffective. GT1b and GD1b stimulated transient elevation of bulk cytosolic Ca2+ levels while GM1 slightly elevated the levels and GD1a did not. Thus, the cytosolic Ca2+ elevation by the gangliosides may trigger the CaM-KII activation. The treatment was accompanied by peripheral actin polymerization and filopodia formation in NG108-15 cells and primary hippocampal neurons, but not in glial cells. CaM-KII inhibitors blocked both CaM-KII activation and the subsequent filopodia formation. A small G-protein cdc42 was a potential downstream target of CaM-KII activated by the gangliosides. These results suggest that oligosaccharides of the gangliosides serve as potential regulators of the filopodia formation in neuronal cells by triggering the activation of CaM-KII followed by cdc42 up-regulation via a cell surface receptor-like component. The filopodia formation induced by the gangliosides may have a physiological relevance because long-term exposure of hippocampal neurons to GT1b oligosaccharide induced advanced dendritogenesis. Furthermore, exposure of cerebellar neurons to GT1b oligosaccharide facilitated CaM-KII-dependent dendritic outgrowth and branch formation of cerebellar Purkinje neurons, in which actin isoforms were localized to motile structures in dendrites. Thus, the ganglioside/CaM-KII signal plays a role in modulating dendritic morphogenesis by inducing cdc42-mediated actin reorganization.
Cannabinoid compounds have been shown to produce antinociception and antihyperalgesia by acting upon cannabinoid receptors located in both the CNS and the periphery. A potential mechanism by which cannabinoids could inhibit nociception in the periphery is the activation of cannabinoid receptors located on one or more classes of primary nociceptive neurons. To address this hypothesis, we evaluated the neuronal distribution of cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) of the adult rat through combined in situ hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). CB1 receptor mRNA was localized mainly to medium and large diameter neurons of the maxillary and mandibular branches of the TG. Consistent with this distribution, in a de facto nociceptive sensory neuron population that exhibited vanilloid receptor type 1 immunoreactivity, colocalization with CB1 mRNA was also sparse (&lt;5%). Furthermore, very few neurons (approximately 5%) in the peptidergic (defined as calcitonin gene-related peptide- or substance P-immunoreactive) or the isolectin B4-binding sensory neuron populations contained CB1 mRNA. In contrast, and consistent with the neuron-size distribution for CB1, nearly 75% of CB1-positive neurons exhibited N52-immunoreactivity, a marker of myelinated axons. These results indicate that in the rat TG, CB1 receptors are expressed predominantly in neurons that are not thought to subserve nociceptive neurotransmission in the noninjured animal. Taken together with the absence of an above background in situ signal for CB2 mRNA in TG neurons, these findings suggest that the peripherally mediated antinociceptive effects of cannabinoids may involve either as yet unidentified receptors or interaction with afferent neuron populations that normally subserve non-nociceptive functions.
The neuronal adaptor X11alpha interacts with the conserved -GYENPTY- sequence in the C-terminus of amyloid precursor protein (APP) or its Swedish mutation (APPswe) to inhibit Abeta40 and Abeta42 secretion. We hypothesized that the -YENP- motif essential for APP endocytosis is also essential for X11alpha-mediated effects on APP trafficking and metabolism, and that X11alpha modulates APP metabolism in both secretory and endocytic pathways. X11alpha failed to interact with the endocytic-defective APPswe mutants Y738A, N740A, or P741A, and thus did not modulate their trafficking or metabolism. However, endocytic-competent APPswe Y743A had unique trafficking and metabolism including a prolonged half-life and increased secretion of catabolites compared with APPswe. In contrast to endocytic-defective mutants, X11alpha interacted with APPswe Y743A as well as with APPswe. Thus, similar to APPswe, coexpression of X11alpha with APPswe Y743A retarded its maturation, prolonged its half-life, and inhibited APPs, Abeta40, and Abeta42 secretion. Collectively, these data suggest that by direct interaction with the APPswe -YENP- motif in the cytoplasmic tail, X11alpha modulated its trafficking and processing in both secretory and endocytic compartments, and may reduce secretion of Abeta generated in either pathway.
In adult cats, the induction of homonymous binocular central retinal lesions causes a dramatic reorganization of the topographic map in the sensory-deprived region of the primary visual cortex. To investigate the possible involvement of the alpha-subunit of the calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase type II (alphaCaMKII) in this form of brain plasticity, we performed in situ hybridization and Western blotting experiments to analyze mRNA, protein and autophosphorylation levels of this multifunctional kinase. No differences in the mRNA or protein levels were observed between the central, sensory-deprived and the peripheral, non-deprived regions of area 17 of retinal lesion animals or between corresponding cortical regions of normal control animals. Western blotting with an alphaCaMKII threonine-286 phosphorylation-state specific antiserum consistently showed a small, albeit not significant, increase of alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation in the central versus the peripheral region of cortical area 17, and this both in normal subjects as well as in retinal lesion animals with a 3-day post-lesion survival time. In contrast, a post-lesion survival time of 14 days resulted in a alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation level that was four times higher in visually-deprived area 17 than in the non-deprived cortical region. This increased phosphorylation state is not a direct consequence of the decrease in visual activity in these neurons, because we would have expected to see a similar change at shorter or longer post-lesion survival times or in the visually deprived visual cortex of animals in which the left optic tract and the corpus callosum were surgically cut. No such changes were observed, leading to the conclusion that the phosphorylation changes observed at 14 days are related to a delayed reorganization of the retinotopic map of the striate cortex.
The actin-binding LIM domain protein (abLIM) is the mammalian homologue of UNC-115, a protein mediating axon guidance in C. elegans. AbLIM is widely expressed with three isoforms differing from one another by the length of their amino termini. Experiments utilizing dominant-negative mutants in the chick retina suggested a role for abLIM in axon path finding in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). To investigate which variant is involved in the regulation of mammalian RGC axon guidance, we analyzed their expression profile in mice. The longest variant, abLIM-L, is highly enriched in the ganglion cell layer. AbLIM-L is up-regulated postnatally which temporally overlaps with the period of RGC axon remodeling. In contrast, the abLIM-M and abLIM-S variants are widespread and remain relatively constant through development. By selective gene targeting, we ablated abLIM-L to explore its functional significance in vivo. AbLIM-L mutant mice exhibit no apparent morphological or functional defects in photoreceptors and inner retinal neurons. Retinofugal projections and synaptic maturation also appear normal. These data suggest that abLIM-M is likely the isoform performing the essential function related to axon guidance.
The Wobbler mouse is a model of human motor neuron disease. Recently we reported the impairment of mitochondrial complex IV in Wobbler mouse CNS, including motor cortex and spinal cord. The present study was designed to test the effect of hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) on (1) mitochondrial functions in young Wobbler mice, and (2) the onset and progression of the disease with aging. HBOT was carried out at 2 atmospheres absolute (2 ATA) oxygen for 1 h/day for 30 days. Control groups consisted of both untreated Wobbler mice and non-diseased Wobbler mice. The rate of respiration for complex IV in mitochondria isolated from motor cortex was improved by 40% (P&lt;0.05) after HBOT. The onset and progression of the disease in the Wobbler mice was studied using litters of pups from proven heterozygous breeding pairs, which were treated from birth with 2 ATA HBOT for 1 h/day 6 days a week for the animals' lifetime. A &quot;blinded&quot; observer examined the onset and progression of the Wobbler phenotype, including walking capabilities ranging from normal walking to jaw walking (unable to use forepaws), and the paw condition (from normal to curled wrists and forelimb fixed to the chest). These data indicate that the onset of disease in untreated Wobbler mice averaged 36+/-4.3 days in terms of walking and 40+/-5.7 days in terms of paw condition. HBOT significantly delayed (P&lt;0.001 for both paw condition and walking) the onset of disease to 59+/-8.2 days (in terms of walking) and 63+/-7.6 days (in terms of paw condition). Our data suggest that HBOT significantly ameliorates mitochondrial dysfunction in the motor cortex and spinal cord and greatly delays the onset of the disease in an animal model of motor neuron disease.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is primarily regarded as an astrocytic lesion factor, promoting neuronal survival and influencing plasticity processes in deafferented areas of the CNS. Postnatal loss of neurons in CNTF-deficient mice indicates a function of the factor also under physiological conditions. In the olfactory bulb, where neurogenesis, axo- and synaptogenesis continue throughout life, CNTF content is constitutively high. The cellular localization of CNTF in the rat olfactory bulb is not fully resolved, and species differences between mouse and rat are not yet characterized. In the present study, four different CNTF antibodies and double immunolabeling with specific markers for glial and neuronal cells were used to study the cellular localization of CNTF in rat and mouse olfactory bulb. Specificity of the detection was checked with tissue from CNTF-deficient mice, and investigations were complemented by immunolocalization of reporter protein in mice synthesizing beta-galactosidase under control of the CNTF promoter (CNTF lacZ-knock-in mice). In both species, CNTF localized to ensheathing cell nuclei, cell bodies and axon-enveloping processes. Additionally, individual axons of olfactory neurons were CNTF immunoreactive. Both CNTF protein content and immunoreaction intensity were lower in mice than in rats. Scattered lightly CNTF-reactive cells were found in the granular and external plexiform layers in rats. Some CNTF-positive cells were associated with immunoreactivity for the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule, which is expressed by maturing interneurons derived from the rostral migratory stream. In CNTF lacZ-knock-in mice, beta-galactosidase reactivity was found in ensheathing cells of the olfactory nerve layer, and in cells of the glomerular, external plexiform and granular layers. The study proves that CNTF is localized in glial and neuronal structures in the rodent olfactory bulb. Results in mice provide a basis for investigations concerning the effects of a lack of the factor in CNTF-deficient mice.
In the present work we examined the involvement of selected P2X receptors for extracellular ATP in the onset of neuronal cell death caused by glucose/oxygen deprivation. The in vitro studies of organotypic cultures from hippocampus evidenced that P2X2 and P2X4 were up-regulated by glucose/oxygen deprivation. Moreover, we showed that ischemic conditions induced specific neuronal loss not only in hippocampal, but also in cortical and striatal organotypic cultures and the P2 receptor antagonists basilen blue and suramin prevented these detrimental effects. In the in vivo experiments we confirmed the induction of P2X receptors in the hippocampus of gerbils subjected to bilateral common carotid occlusion. In particular, P2X2 and P2X4 proteins became significantly up-regulated, although to different extent and in different cellular phenotypes. The induction was confined to the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 subfield and to the transition zone of the CA2 subfield and it was coincident with the area of neuronal damage. P2X2 was expressed in neuronal cell bodies and fibers in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer and in the strata oriens and radiatum. Intense P2X4 immunofluorescence was localized to microglia cells. Our results indicate a direct involvement of P2X receptors in the mechanisms sustaining cell death evoked by metabolism impairment and suggest the use of selected P2 antagonists as effective neuroprotecting agents.
We used field potential and intracellular recordings in rat brain slices that included the hippocampus, a portion of the basolateral/lateral nuclei of the amygdala (BLA) and the entorhinal cortex (EC). Bath application of the convulsant 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) to slices (n=12) with reciprocally connected areas, induced short-lasting interictal-like epileptiform discharges that (i) occurred at intervals of 1.2-2.8 s, (ii) originated in CA3, and (iii) spread to EC and BLA. Cutting the Schaffer collaterals abolished them in both parahippocampal areas where slower interictal-like (interval of occurrence=4-17 s) and prolonged ictal-like discharges (duration=15+/-6.9 s, mean+/-S.D., n=7) appeared. These new types of epileptiform activity originated in either EC or BLA. Similar findings were obtained in slices (n=19) in which the hippocampus outputs were not connected with the EC and BLA under control conditions. Cutting the EC-BLA connections made independent slow interictal- and ictal-like activities appear in both areas (n=5). NMDA receptor antagonism (n=6) abolished ictal-like discharges and reduced the duration of the slow interictal-like events. Repetitive stimulation of BLA at 0.5-1 Hz in Schaffer collateral cut slices, induced interictal-like epileptiform depolarizations in EC and reversibly blocked ictal-like activity (n=14). Thus, CA3 outputs in intact slices entrain EC and BLA networks into an interictal-like pattern that inhibits the propensity of these parahippocampal areas to generate prolonged ictal-like paroxysms. Accordingly, NMDA receptor-dependent ictal-like events are initiated in BLA or EC once the propagation of CA3-driven interictal-like discharges to these areas is abated by cutting the Schaffer collaterals. Similar inhibitory effects also occur by activating BLA outputs directed to EC at rates that mimic the CA3-driven interictal-like pattern.
In neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, spike frequency adaptation and membrane afterhyperpolarization occur during a train of action potentials. Extracellular Ca2+ may regulate neuronal excitability by several mechanisms, including activation of small conductance and large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels. The overall goal of this study was to examine the role of Ca(2+)-activated K+ currents in individual suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. To this end, we used the nystatin-perforated patch technique to record currents from suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. Iberiotoxin and tetraethylammonium, antagonists of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels, had no effect on the membrane afterhyperpolarization. However, antagonists of small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels, apamin and d-tubocurarine, reduced the amplitude of the membrane afterhyperpolarization and inhibited the spike frequency adaptation that occurred during a train of action potentials. Although there was no significant difference in membrane AHP between different portions of the circadian day, apamin and d-tubocurarine increased the spontaneous firing frequency of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons during the daytime. In voltage-clamp mode, membrane depolarization-activated currents were followed by an outward tail current reversing near the K+ equilibrium potential. The tail current decayed with a time constant of 220 ms at +20 mV and 149 ms at -40 mV. Apamin irreversibly and d-tubocurarine reversibly inhibited the tail current. The tail current amplitude was also reduced by the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodide, while picrotoxin (another GABAA receptor antagonist) was without effect. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ or the addition of Cd2+ reversibly inhibited the tail current. These results indicate that apamin- and d-tubocurarine-sensitive small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels have a modulatory function on the action potential firing frequency as well as the membrane afterhyperpolarization that follows a train of action potentials in suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. Importantly, our data also indicate that a portion of the effects of bicuculline methiodide on suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons may be mediated by inhibition of small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels.
The hyperpolarization-activated h channel current (Ih) reported to be present in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons is inhibited by Cs+ and ZD7288. It was recently reported that lead (Pb2+) inhibits voltage-gated Ca2+ and K+ channels in DRG neurons but the effect of Pb2+ on Ih has so far not been reported. Using whole-cell patch clamp technique we show that Pb2+ specifically inhibited Ih. External application of 0.1, 1 and 10 microM Pb2+ reversibly reduced the amplitude of Ih in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 value of 3.7 microM and a Hill coefficient of 1.1. Pb2+ shifted the activation curve of Ih by 9.3 mV but had no effect on the slope factor. Pb2+ inhibited Ih in a voltage-dependent manner and slowed down the activation process, indicating an action of Pb2+ on the activation kinetics of h channels. Our studies thus demonstrated that Pb2+ is a dose-dependent, voltage-dependent and reversible blocker of Ih in DRG neurons.
Following a CNS lesion many glial cell types proliferate and/or migrate to the lesion site, forming the glial scar. The majority of these cells express chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CS-PGs), previously shown to inhibit axonal growth. In this study, in an attempt to diminish glial scar formation and improve axonal regeneration, proliferating cells were eliminated from the lesion site. Adult rats received a continuous infusion of 2% cytosine-D-arabinofuranoside (araC) or saline for 7 days over the lesion site, immediately following a unilateral transection of the right medial forebrain bundle. Additional groups of rats that received subdural infusions prior to the lesion, and lesioned rats which received no infusion, were also compared in the analyses. Animals were killed at 4, 7, 12 or 18 days post-lesion (dpl) and immunohistochemistry was used to determine the effects of these treatments on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-lesioned axons, and on the injury response of glial cells. Almost complete elimination of NG2 oligodendrocyte progenitor cells from the lesion site was seen up to 7 dpl in araC-infused animals; reduced numbers of reactive CD11b microglia were also seen but no effects were seen on the injury response of GFAP astrocytes. Significantly more TH axons were seen distal to the lesion in araC-treated brains, but these numbers dwindled by 18 dpl.
We have examined the effect of global transient cerebral ischemia, evoked in rat by 10 min of cardiac arrest, upon the changes in the cellular expression of two nerve growth factor (NGF) receptors (TrkA and p75) in the hippocampus. We have used immunocytochemical procedures, including a quantitative analysis of staining, along with some quantitative morphological analyses. We have found, under ischemic conditions, a decrease of TrkA immunoreactivity in degenerating CA1 pyramidal neurons and in neuropil. On the other hand, a strong, ischemia-induced up-regulation of TrkA and p75 immunoreactivity was observed in the majority of reactive astroglia population in the adjacent CA1 hippocampal region. The colocalization of the two receptors in the same reactive astroglial cells was evidenced by double immunostaining and further supported by quantitative morphological analysis of TrkA and p75 immunoreactive glial cells. Our data implicate the involvement of NGF receptors in the postischemic regulation of astrocytic function; however, the lack of NGF receptor expression on some astrocytes suggests heterogeneity of astroglia population. Our results also indicate that the lack of neuroprotective action of astroglial NGF induced in the ischemic hippocampus [J Neurosci Res 41 (1995) 684; Acta Neurobiol Exp 57 (1997) 31; Neuroscience 91 (1999) 1027] is not caused by a paucity of NGF receptors but may rather be due to the counteraction of some proinflammatory substances, released simultaneously by glia cells. On the other hand, the up-regulated astroglial TrkA receptor may be an important target for exogenous NGF, which, as previously described [J Neurosci 11 (1991) 2914; Neurosci Lett 141 (1992) 161], exerts a neuroprotective effect in ischemia.
The present investigation was carried out to elucidate the effect of the antimalarial drug quinacrine on levels of expression of the non-heme iron transporter, divalent metal transporter-1 (DMT1) and iron, in the hippocampus of rats after kainate treatment. The untreated hippocampus was lightly stained for DMT1, while an increase in DMT1 staining in astrocytes in the degenerating cornu ammonis (CA) fields, after kainate lesions. The increased DMT1 immunoreactivity was correlated with increased levels of Fe3+ and Fe2+ staining in the CA fields, as demonstrated by iron histochemistry (Perl's and Turnbull's blue stain for Fe3+ and Fe2+). The increases in DMT1 and iron staining were significantly attenuated by quinacrine. Rats injected with kainate and daily i.p. injections of quinacrine (5 mg/kg) for 7 days or 2 weeks showed significantly lower levels of DMT1 immunoreactivity and iron staining, compared with rats injected with kainate and saline. These results show that DMT1 expression is closely linked to iron levels, and provide further support for a crucial role that DMT1 plays in iron accumulation in the degenerating hippocampus.
Parvalbumin (PV)-containing GABAergic neurons in the hippocampus form dual networks linked by both dendrodendritic gap junctions and mutual inhibitory synapses. Recent physiological studies have demonstrated similar functional connectivity among cortical GABAergic neurons, but the corresponding structures have not been fully analyzed at the electron microscopic level. In this study we examined detailed ultrastructural features of gap junctions between PV neurons in the mature neocortex. Light microscopic observations and confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed frequent dendrodendritic contacts between PV neurons. Electron microscopic analysis provided direct morphological evidence for the existence of gap junctions between 22 pairs of PV-immunoreactive dendrites in the visual, auditory, and somatosensory cortices. Their ultrastructural features that were characteristic of immunolabeled profiles were consistent with the general structure of gap junctions. In one case a gap junction coexisted with a dendrodendritic chemical synapse, making a mixed synapse. Importantly, we also encountered a gap junction between PV positive and negative, presumptive non-principal cell-derived, dendrites. Quantitative analysis was made in 16 pairs of PV positive dendrites forming gap junctions in the infragranular layers of the somatosensory cortex. Diameters of these dendrites ranged from 0.3 to 2.7 microm, suggesting diverse locations of gap junctions along the proximal-distal axis of dendritic trees, but the majority (81%) were less than 1 microm. The mean size of gap junctions along apposing membranes was 0.22+/-0.09 microm. By using this size, the theoretical value of a junctional conductance was estimated to be 2.1-5.3 nS. Dendrites of PV neurons in the infragranular layers of the somatosensory cortex were reconstructed light microscopically and the sites of contacts with other PV neurons were mapped. Although these contacts do not necessarily imply gap junctional coupling, their number (5.3+/-2.3 per cell, n=11) suggested the degree of connectivity of less than 10 coupling from single PV neurons with others. Sholl analysis revealed that only 38% of their dendrites occurred within 200 microm from the soma. The present study demonstrated detailed ultrastructural features of gap junctions between mature cortical PV neurons. These features will facilitate not only identification of gap junctions in variously labeled neurons but also analysis of their functional aspects by enabling theoretical estimate of their junctional conductances.
We studied the regulation of the expression of the inducible orphan nuclear receptor known as HZF-3 (or Nurr1) in acquisition of conditioned taste aversion in rats. Our results show that HZF-3 expression in the lateral/basolateral (LA/BLA) amygdala complex was significantly up-regulated when both the conditioned and the unconditioned stimuli were paired, but not when either of the stimuli was presented alone. Induction in the LA/BLA had a faster onset than induction in the central nucleus of the amygdala. The results implicate HZF-3 in the acquisition of associative aversive experiences.
Glucose-sensitive neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area produce orexin-A (hypocretin-1) and orexin-B (hypocretin-2) and send their axons to the hippocampus, which predominantly expresses orexin receptor 1 showing a higher sensitivity to orexin-A. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effects of orexin-A on the performance of Wistar rats during the Morris water maze test and then to determine the effects of orexin-A on both the long-term potentiation and long-term depression in Schaffer collateral/commissural-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices. The results of the Morris water maze test show that 1.0 and 10 nmol of orexin-A, when administered intracerebroventricularly, retarded spatial learning. A probe test examined after training of water maze task also showed an impairment in spatial memory. The results of an electrophysiological study using hippocampal slices demonstrated that 1.0 to 30 nM of orexin-A applied to the perfusate produces a dose-dependent and time dependent suppression of the long-term potentiation. In addition, the long-term depression was not affected by orexin-A. The results of a paired-pulse facilitation experiment indicated that the effects of orexin-A were post-synaptic and not due to presynaptic transmitter release. These results show that orexin-A impairs spatial performance and these impairments can be attributed to a suppression of long-term potentiation in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 hippocampal synapses.
Neurons containing orexins are located in the perifornical hypothalamic area and are considered to have a role in sleep-wake regulation. To examine how this area is involved in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness, we recorded neuronal activity in undrugged, head-restrained rats across sleep-waking cycles. Recordings were made in the perifornical hypothalamic area where orexin-immunoreactive neurons are distributed (PFH), and in the area dorsal to the PFH, including the zona incerta and subincertal nucleus (collectively referred to as ZI). The 40 neurons recorded from in the PFH were divided into five groups: (1) neurons most active during paradoxical sleep (PS, n=14, 35%), (2) neurons active during both waking (W) and PS (n=12, 30%), (3) neurons most active during W (n=7, 18%), (4) neurons most active during slow-wave sleep (SWS, n=3, 7.5%), and (5) neurons whose activity had no correlation with sleep-waking states (n=4, 10%). Of 30 neurons recorded from in the ZI, the corresponding numbers were 13 (43%), seven (23%), six (20%), three (10%), and one (3.3%). In both areas, neuronal activity fluctuated more during PS than during W. Waking-specific neurons (group 3) in the PFH generated action potentials with longer durations than those produced by other types of neurons. About half of the neurons in the PFH that were classified in groups 1, 2, and 3 increased their firing rate after the transition from one state to another, while higher percentages of neurons of groups 1 and 2 in the ZI than those in the PFH increased their firing rate prior to the state shift from SWS to PS. In these ZI neurons, however, the firing rate varied considerably at the state shift. These results suggest that the PFH and ZI are involved in the regulation of PS or W, especially the regulation of phasic events during PS or the maintenance of W. The ZI appears to be more closely involved than the PFH in the induction of PS or some phasic phenomena associated with PS.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) initiates immediate and secondary neuropathological cascades that can result in persistent neurological dysfunction. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that experimental rat brain injury causes a rapid and persistent decrease in CNS alpha7* nicotinic cholinergic receptor (nAChr) expression. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether intermittent nicotine injections could improve cognitive performance in the Morris water maze (MWM) following experimental brain injury. Adult male rats were anesthetized and subjected to a 1.5 mm controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury of the somatosensory cortex. Animals received twice daily i.p. nicotine injections for 11 days prior to CCI, 11 days following CCI or during both pre- and post-surgical intervals. MWM training was initiated 12 days post-injury. In the training phase of cognitive testing, twice-daily nicotine treatment following injury attenuated trauma-induced deficits in the distance traveled to reach the escape platform. This group of animals also had improvements in several measures of the probe test, including time spent, distance traveled and total entries into the target quadrant. TBI caused significant deficits in alpha7* nAChr expression in several regions of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, which were largely unaffected by intermittent nicotine treatment. However, nicotine treatment up-regulated [(3)H]-epibatidine binding to non-alpha7* nAChrs, attenuating TBI-induced deficits in receptor expression in several brain regions evaluated. These results suggest that nicotine is efficacious at attenuating CCI-induced cognitive deficits in a manner independent of changes in alpha7* nAChr expression, perhaps via up-regulation of non-alpha7* nAChrs.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly, and the characteristic pathological hallmarks of the disease are neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The sequence of events leading to the extracellular deposition of amyloidbeta (Abeta) peptides in plaques or in diffuse deposits is not clear. Here we investigate the relation between disrupted axonal transport of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and/or Abeta and the deposition of Abeta in the deafferented terminal fields in APP/presenilin 1 double-transgenic AD-model mice. In the first experiment we ablated entorhinal cortex neurons and examined the subsequent changes in amyloid deposition in the hippocampus 1 month later. We show that there is a substantial reduction in the amount of diffuse amyloid deposits in the denervated areas of the hippocampus. Further, to investigate the effects of long-term deafferentation, in a second experiment we cut the fimbria-fornix and analyzed the brains 11 months post-lesion. Diffuse amyloid deposits in the deafferented terminal fields of area CA1 and subiculum were dramatically reduced as assessed by image analysis of the Abeta load. Our findings indicate that neuronal ablations decrease diffuse amyloid deposits in the terminal fields of these neurons, and, further, that pathway lesions similarly decrease the amount of diffuse amyloid deposits in the terminal fields of the lesioned axons. Together, this suggests that the axonal transport of APP and/or Abeta and subsequent secretion of Abeta at terminals plays an important role in the deposition of Abeta protein in Alzheimer's disease, and, further, that diffuse deposits do not develop into plaques.py&gt;
Since metabolic activity is accompanied by heat release, measurement of brain temperatures offers a method for assessing behavior-associated changes in neural activity. To explore this possibility, we monitored local brain (nucleus accumbens, medial-preoptic hypothalamus, and hippocampus) and body (temporal muscle) temperature in an experienced male rat during sexual behavior with a sexually receptive female. Placement of the female into a neighboring compartment increased the male's temperature and additional increases occurred when rats were allowed to see and partially interact with the female through a Plexiglas barrier with dime-size holes. The temperature increase was robust (1.5-2.0 degrees C), faster in all brain areas than in muscle, and peaked (38-39 degrees C) when the barrier was removed and full interaction was allowed. As the male repeatedly mounted and achieved intromission with the female, temperature further increased, peaking at ejaculation (+0.2-0.4 degrees C). Following ejaculation, the temperature abruptly dropped, until sexual interest and interaction resumed. These biphasic temperature fluctuations were generally similar in each recording location, but all brain sites (particularly, nucleus accumbens and medial-preoptic hypothalamus) showed more profound changes than the muscle. These data generally match single-unit and other physiological findings, suggesting that male sexual behavior is accompanied by sustained and generalized neural activation. This activation is triggered by sexually relevant stimuli (arousal), maintained during repeated mounts and intromissions, and peaked at ejaculation. These findings suggest brain temperature fluctuations not only as a sensitive index of functional neural activation, but as a powerful factor affecting various neural functions and an important part of brain mechanisms underlying motivated behavior.
It is well established that chronic food restriction enhances sensitivity to the rewarding and motor-activating effects of abused drugs. However, neuroadaptations underlying these behavioral effects have not been characterized. The purpose of the present study was to explore the possibility that food restriction produces increased dopamine (DA) receptor function that is evident in behavior, signal transduction, and immediate early gene expression. In the first two experiments, rats received intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of the D1 DA receptor agonist SKF-82958, and the D2/3 DA receptor agonist quinpirole. Both agonists produced greater motor-activating effects in food-restricted than ad libitum-fed rats. In addition, Fos-immunostaining induced by SKF-82958 in caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (Nac) was greater in food-restricted than ad libitum-fed rats, as was staining induced by quinpirole in globus pallidus and ventral pallidum. In the next two experiments, neuronal membranes prepared from CPu and Nac were exposed to SKF-82958 and quinpirole. Despite the documented involvement of cyclic AMP (cAMP) signaling in D1 DA receptor-mediated c-fos induction, stimulation of adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity by SKF-82958 in CPu and Nac did not differ between groups. Food restriction did, however, decrease AC stimulation by the direct enzyme stimulant, forskolin, but not NaF or MnCl(2), suggesting a shift in AC expression to a less catalytically efficient isoform. Finally, food restriction increased quinpirole-stimulated [(35)S]guanosine triphosphate-gammaS binding in CPu, suggesting that increased functional coupling between D2 DA receptors and G(i) may account for the augmented behavioral and pallidal c-Fos responses to quinpirole. Results of this study support the hypothesis that food restriction leads to neuroadaptations at the level of postsynaptic D1 and D2 receptor-bearing cells which, in turn, mediate augmented behavioral and transcriptional responses to DA. The signaling pathways mediating these augmented responses remain to be fully elucidated.
Kindling, an animal model of epilepsy, results in an increased volume of the hilus of the dentate gyrus and sprouting of the mossy fiber pathway in the hippocampus. Our previous studies have revealed that chronic infusion of neurotrophins can regulate not only seizure development, but also these kindling-induced structural changes. Kindling, in turn, can alter the expression of neurotrophins and their receptors. We previously showed that intraventricular administration of a synthetic peptide that interferes with nerve growth factor stability and thus its binding to TrkA and p75(NTR) receptors suppressed kindling and sprouting. However, the precise involvement of TrkA, p75(NTR), and downstream signaling effectors of neurotrophins on kindling, sprouting and hilar changes are unknown. One of these downstream effectors is Ras. In the present study, we find that intraventricular infusion of the synthetic peptide Reo3Y, which binds to p65/p95 receptors and causes a rapid inactivation of Ras protein, impairs development of perforant path kindling, reduces the growth in afterdischarge duration, blocks kindling-induced mossy fiber sprouting in area CA3 of hippocampus and in inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and prevents kindling-induced increases in hilar area. These results are consistent with a mediation of neurotrophin effects on kindling, hilar area, and axonal sprouting via Trk receptors, and suggest important roles for Ras in kindling and in kindling-induced structural changes.
As melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons express the neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3) in the rat diencephalon, their innervation by tachykininergic fibers, the origin of this innervation and the effect of a NK3 agonist on MCH mRNA expression were researched. The obtained results show that the tachykininergic system develops complex relationships with MCH neurons. Overall, MCH cell bodies appeared targeted by both NKB- and SP-inputs. These afferents have multiple hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic origins, but a local (intra-lateral hypothalamic area) origin from small interneurons was suspected as well. MCH cell bodies do not express NK1, but around 2.7% of the MCH neurons contained SP after colchicine injection. Senktide, a NK3 agonist, produced an increase of the MCH mRNA expression in cultured hypothalamic slices. This effect was reversed by two NK3 antagonists. Tachykinins enhance MCH mRNA expression, and, thus, may modulate the effect of MCH in functions such as feeding and reproductive behaviors in which this peptide has been experimentally involved.
Synaptic transmission is usually studied in vitro with electrical stimulation replacing the natural input of the system. In contrast, we analyzed in vivo transfer of visual motion information from graded-potential presynaptic to spiking postsynaptic neurons in the fly. Motion in the null direction leads to hyperpolarization of the presynaptic neuron but does not much influence the postsynaptic cell, because its firing rate is already low during rest, giving only little scope for further reductions. In contrast, preferred-direction motion leads to presynaptic depolarizations and increases the postsynaptic spike rate. Signal transfer to the postsynaptic cell is linear and reliable for presynaptic graded membrane potential fluctuations of up to approximately 10 Hz. This frequency range covers the dynamic range of velocities that is encoded with a high gain by visual motion-sensitive neurons. Hence, information about preferred-direction motion is transmitted largely undistorted ensuring a consistent dependency of neuronal signals on stimulus parameters, such as motion velocity. Postsynaptic spikes are often elicited by rapid presynaptic spike-like depolarizations which superimpose the graded membrane potential. Although the timing of most of these spike-like depolarizations is set by noise and not by the motion stimulus, it is preserved at the synapse with millisecond precision.
The trigeminal ganglion sends a projection to the granule and magnocellular regions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN; [J Comp Neurol 419 (2000) 271]), as well as to the cochlea ([Neuroscience 79 (1997) 605; Neuroscience 84 (1998a) 559]). We investigated the effects of electrically stimulating the trigeminal ganglion on unit responses in the guinea-pig VCN. Responses consisted of one, two or more phases of excitation, sometimes followed by a longer inhibitory phase. The latencies to the first excitation peak ranged between 5 and 17 ms from the onset of stimulation. These responses were preceded by a slow wave potential evoked by the stimulation. Applying kainic acid, which eliminates VIIIth nerve responses, diminished the firing rates of VCN units to trigeminal stimulation, and increased their first spike latencies. Cochlear destruction had a similar effect. The responses in VCN evoked by trigeminal ganglion stimulation therefore appear to result from direct stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion-cochlear nucleus pathway, as well as modulation by the trigeminal ganglion-cochlear pathway. Alternatively, a reduction in spontaneous rate of VCN neurons by removal of VIIIth nerve input could explain the decreased response to trigeminal stimulation after cochlear manipulations. The modulation of firing rate in second order auditory neurons by first order somatosensory neurons could influence central auditory targets and may be involved in generating or modulating perceptions of phantom sounds which can be modified by manipulations of somatic regions of the head and neck (&quot;somatic tinnitus&quot;).
Three sub-populations of sensory neurons may be distinguished based on responses to a decrease in temperature: one has a relatively low threshold for activation (cool fibers), a second has a high threshold for activation (cold nociceptors), and the third is unresponsive to a decrease in temperature. Results from several recent studies suggest that the ability to detect a decrease in temperature reflects an intrinsic property(ies) of sensory neurons and therefore may be characterized via the study of the sensory neuron cell body in vitro. However, while three unique ionic mechanisms of cold transduction have recently been identified (i.e. activation of the transient receptor potential channel M8 [TRPM8] or an epithelial Na(+) channel [ENaC] or inhibition of two pore K(+) channel [TREK-1]), the possibility that these &quot;mechanisms&quot; may be differentially distributed among sensory neurons in a manner consistent with predictions based on in vivo observations has not been investigated. To investigate this possibility, we have characterized the influence of cooling on isolated trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons from adult rats in vitro with Ca(2+) microfluorimetry in combination with a series of pharmacological interventions. We report that neurons responded to a decrease in temperature from approximately 34 degrees C to approximately 12 degrees C in one of two ways: 1) with a low threshold (30.1+/-0.6 degrees C) for activation demonstrating an increase in fluorescence with a minimal decrease in bath temperature (12.3%); 2) with a high threshold for activation (21.5+/-0.6 degrees C), demonstrating an increase in fluorescence only after a substantial decrease in bath temperature (13.3%); 74.4% did not respond to a decrease in temperature with an increase [Ca(2+)](i). These responses also were distinguishable on the basis of their rate of activation and degree of desensitization in response to prolonged application of a cold stimulus: low threshold responses were associated with a rapid (tau=12.0+/-5.7 s) increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and a time constant of desensitization of 85.8+/-20.7 s while high threshold responses were associated with a slow (tau=38.1+/-8.2 s) increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and demonstrated little desensitization over 4 min of stimulation. We refer to low threshold and high threshold cold responsive TG neurons as LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons, respectively. LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons were distributed among two distinct subpopulations of TG neurons distinguishable on the basis of cell body size and isolectin B4 staining. Both ENaC and TRPM8 appear to contribute to cold transduction, but neither is sufficient to account for all aspects of cold transduction in either population of TG neurons. Furthermore, inhibition of Ba(2+) and/or Gd(3+) sensitive two-pore K(+) channels (i.e. TREK-1 and TRAAK) was insufficient to account for cold transduction in HT(cool) or LT(cool) neurons. Our results suggest that cold transduction in sensory neurons is a complex process involving the activation and inhibition of several different ion channels. In addition, there appear to be both similarities and differences between mechanisms underlying cold transduction in LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons. Identification of specific mechanisms underlying cold transduction in LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons may enable the development of novel therapeutic interventions for the treatment of pathological conditions such as cold allodynia.
We have previously reported that the hippocampal cholinergic fiber network is severely damaged in animals withdrawn from ethanol, and that a remarkable recovery in fiber density occurs following hippocampal grafting, a finding that we suggested to be underpinned by the graft production of neurotrophic factors, which are known to be decreased after ethanol exposure. It is widely accepted that nerve growth factor (NGF) signals the neurons of the brain cholinergic system, including those of the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/VDB) nuclei, from which the septohippocampal projection arises. Because neurons in these nuclei are vulnerable to ethanol consumption and withdrawal we thought of interest to investigate, in withdrawn rats previously submitted to a prolonged period of ethanol intake, the effects of intraventricular delivery of NGF upon the MS/VDB cholinergic neurons. Stereological methods were applied to estimate neuron numbers and neuronal volumes in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunostained and Nissl-stained material. We have found that in ethanol-fed rats there was a significant reduction in the total number of Nissl-stained and cholinergic neurons in the MS/VDB, and that the suppression of ethanol intake further decreased neuron numbers. In addition, the somatic size of ChAT-IR neurons was reduced by ethanol intake, and withdrawal further aggravated neuronal atrophy. NGF treatment prevented the withdrawal-associated loss, and induced hypertrophy, of cholinergic neurons. These findings show that exogenous NGF protects the phenotype and prevents the withdrawal-induced degeneration of cholinergic neurons in the MS/VDB. These effects might be due to the trophic action of NGF upon the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, including the hippocampal fiber network that conveys this neurotrophin retrogradely to the MS/VDB, and/or upon their targets, that is, the hippocampal formation neurons.
We investigated how serotonergic neurotransmission was affected by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioning of the adult rat brain dopamine (DA) system. In this animal model for Parkinson's disease (PD), the effect of destroying ascending DA pathways on extracellular levels of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT innervation in rat striatum were examined. Profound unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal DA pathways were made by infusing 6-OHDA unilaterally into either the right medial forebrain bundle or the right substantia nigra. At 5 weeks after lesioning extracellular levels of DA and 5-HT were determined with microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography under basal conditions and after systemic injections of apomorphine or amphetamine. DA nerve-terminal destruction and 5-HT innervation were determined with quantitative autoradiography. 6-OHDA lesioning reduced extracellular levels of DA below detection limits and led to statistically significant increases in extracellular 5-HT. Apomorphine, and amphetamine, respectively increased extracellular 5-HT to 8.2- and 2.2-fold above baseline levels in intact animals; these effects were absent in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals. Basal levels of [(3)H]paroxetine binding to 5-HT transporters in caudate-putamen increased by 41% in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals. These results suggest that 6-OHDA lesioning led to hyperinnervation of 5-HT nerve terminals and increases in basal extracellular 5-HT levels, but also to an unexplained loss of apomorphine and amphetamine-induced release of 5-HT. Addressing whether this impairment has significance in the onset of PD might lead to development of new strategies to manage parkinsonian symptoms.
The orexins (also known as hypocretins) are peptide neurotransmitters made by hypothalamic neurons that are thought to play an important role in regulating wake-sleep states. One terminal area for orexin neurons is the tuberomammillary nucleus, a histaminergic cell group that is wake-active, but the relationship of the orexinergic terminals to the tuberomammillary neurons has not been examined in detail. We studied the ultrastructure of orexin A-immunoreactive axons and terminals in the tuberomammillary nucleus using pre- and post-embedding electron microscopic protocols. We confirmed an abundant projection of orexin-immunoreactive boutons to both dorsal and ventral divisions of the tuberomammillary nucleus. These terminals made asymmetric synaptic contacts with proximal and intermediate dendrites of tuberomammillary neurons. They contained small, clear synaptic vesicles and up to 30-40 dense core vesicles were seen per terminal in a single section. Both pre- and post-embedding immunostaining revealed that orexin immunoreactivity was localized to the dense core vesicles, which were always at a distance from the synaptic specialization. We also found glutamate immunoreactivity in the small synaptic vesicles which were at the active zone of the synapses of many of the same terminals. Orexinergic afferents to the tuberomammillary neurons contain separate populations of orexinergic and glutamatergic vesicles, suggesting that the release of these neurotransmitters may be differentially regulated.
Previous studies have shown that poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and DNA polymerase beta, nuclear enzymes, are associated with cell replication and DNA repair. The present study tests the hypothesis that hypoxia results in increased PARP and DNA polymerase activity in cerebral cortical neuronal nuclei to repair the hypoxia-induced damage to genomic DNA. Studies were conducted in 13 anesthetized and ventilated newborn piglets (age 3-5 days) divided into normoxic (n=5) and hypoxic (n=8) groups. Hypoxia was induced by decreasing inspired oxygen from 21% to 7% for 60 min. Cerebral tissue hypoxia was documented biochemically by determining the tissue levels of ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr). Following isolation of the cortical neuronal nuclei, the activity of PARP and DNA polymerase beta was determined. During hypoxia, the tissue ATP level decreased by 73% from 4.12+/-0.67 micromol/g brain to 1.12+/-0.34 micromol/g brain, and PCr decreased by 78% from 4.14+/-0.68-0.90+/-0.20 micromol/g brain. In hypoxic neuronal nuclei, PARP activity significantly increased from 5.88+/-0.51 pmol NAD/mg protein/h in normoxic nuclei to 10.04+/-2.02 (P=0.001). PARP activity inversely correlated with tissue ATP (r=0.78) and PCr levels (r=0.81). Administration of N-nitro-L-arginine prior to hypoxia decreased the hypoxia-induced increase in PARP activity by 67%. Endogenous DNA polymerase beta activity increased from 0.96+/-0.13 in normoxic nuclei to 1.39+/-0.18 nmol/mg protein/h in hypoxic nuclei (P&lt;0.005). DNA polymerase beta activity in the presence of exogenous template increased from 1.54+/-0.14 in the normoxic to 2.42+/-0.26 nmol/mg protein/h in the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.005). DNA polymerase beta activity in the presence or absence of template inversely correlated with the tissue ATP (r=0.95 and 0.84, respectively) and PCr levels (r=0.93 and 0.77, respectively). These results demonstrate that the activity of PARP and DNA polymerase beta enzymes increase with the increase in degree of cerebral tissue hypoxia. Furthermore, the results demonstrate a direct correlation between the PARP and the DNA polymerase beta activity. We conclude that tissue hypoxia results in increased PARP and DNA polymerase beta activities indicating activation of DNA repair mechanisms that may result in potential neuronal recovery following hypoxia and the hypoxia-induced increase in PARP activity is NO-mediated.
Maturation of the visual cortex is a visual experience-dependent process. It has been shown that visual input triggers changes in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit expression in the visual cortex. However, no data are available on the layer distribution of these molecular changes. Here we describe the laminar distribution of the cells expressing the NMDAR subunits NR2A and NR2B in the rat primary visual cortex at postnatal day (P) 21 and 37 using anti-NR2A and anti-NR2B antibodies and a stereological method to count labelled neurons. The percentage of neurons expressing the NR2A subunit in the layers II-VI remained unchanged between P21 and P37 with a slight decrease in layer V. Dark-rearing from P21 to P37 induced a pronounced decrease of the staining intensity and a significant decrease in the percentage of NR2A-expressing neurons. The changes in NR2A expression caused by dark rearing occur at similar levels in layers II-VI. The percentage of NR2B-positive cells in the different cortical layers remains unchanged from P21 to P37. The NR2B pattern was not significantly affected by dark-rearing. Thusly, the expression of NR2A depends upon visual experience after P21.
Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) composition of neural membranes is a key factor for brain development, in chemical communication of neurons and probably also their survival in response to injury. Viability of cholinergic neurons was tested during brain development following dietary supplementation of fish oil LC-PUFAs (docosahexaenoic acid [DHA], eicosapentaenoic acid, arachidonic acid) in the food of mother rats. Excitotoxic injury was introduced by N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMDA) injection into the cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis of 14-day-old rats. The degree of loss of cholinergic cell bodies, and the extend of axonal and dendritic disintegration were measured following immunocytochemical staining of cell bodies and dendrites for choline acetyltransferase and p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor and by histochemical staining of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres in the parietal neocortex. The impact of different feeding regimens on fatty acid composition of neural membrane phospholipids was also assayed at 12 days of age. Supplementation of LC-PUFAs resulted in a resistance against NMDA-induced excitotoxic degeneration of cholinergic neurones in the infant rats. More cholinergic cells survived, the dendritic involution of surviving neurons in the penumbra region decreased, and the degeneration of axons at the superficial layers of parietal neocortex also attenuated after supplementing LC-PUFAs. A marked increment in DHA content in all types of phospholipids was obtained in the forebrain neuronal membrane fraction of supplemented rats. It is concluded that fish oil LC-PUFAs, first of all DHA, is responsible for the neuroprotective action on developing cholinergic neurons against glutamate cytotoxicity.
Oncostatin M (OSM) is a member of the interleukin-6 cytokine family, which is involved in definitive hematopoiesis, the development of liver, and local inflammation. However, little is known about the role of OSM in the murine CNS. Using Northern blot analysis, we examined the regional distribution of OSM receptor beta (OSMRbeta) mRNA in the adult CNS. OSMRbeta mRNA was observed predominantly in the olfactory bulb, and with low levels in the other regions. In situ hybridization shows that OSMRbeta gene expression was found in astrocytes of olfactory bulb, epithelial cells of choroid plexus, and meningeal cells in pia mater. In addition, we investigated the gene expression of OSMRbeta in the developing CNS at different time points. Its gene expression was first observed in large neurons of the hypoglossal nucleus at 14.5 days postcoitum, which was sustained until neonatal mice. OSMRbeta mRNA and protein were mainly localized in the ventral subnucleus of the developing hypoglossal nucleus. Our results suggest that OSM contributes to the development of specific subpopulations of both neurons and astrocytes in the murine CNS.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in long-term potentiation (LTP) in pyramidal neurons in cellular area 1 (CA1) of the hippocampus. However, considerable confusion exists about the exact role of NO, and the contribution of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) isoforms of NO synthase to NO-dependent LTP (NO-LTP), with results often varying, depending on the organism and experimental paradigm used. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we contrast NO synthase expression and activity in rat, mouse, and human hippocampus. nNOS is prominently expressed in all CA1 pyramidal cells of C57B6 mice and humans, while in rats and SV129 mice, its levels are much lower and restricted to the caudal hippocampus. By contrast, eNOS is restricted to endothelial cells. We observe N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent citrulline production in pyramidal cells of mouse hippocampus, which is absent in nNOS(Delta/Delta) animals. Finally, we observe robust nNOS expression in human CA1 pyramidal cells.The considerable axial, developmental, strain and species-dependent variations in nNOS expression in CA1 pyramidal neurons can explain much of the variation observed in reports of NO-dependent LTP. Moreover, our data suggest that NO produced by eNOS in endothelial cells may play a paracrine role in modulating LTP.
Nicotine enhances cognitive and attentional processes through stimulation of the basal forebrain cholinergic system. Although muscarinic cholinergic autoreceptors have been well characterized, pharmacological characterization of nicotinic autoreceptors has proven more difficult. The present study used double-labeling in situ hybridization to determine expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit mRNAs within basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in order to gain information about possible nAChR autoreceptor properties. Cholinergic cells of the mesopontine tegmentum and striatal interneurons were also examined, as were septohippocampal GABAergic neurons that interact with cholinergic neurons to regulate hippocampal activity. alpha7 and beta2 nAChR mRNAs were found to be co-expressed in almost all cholinergic cells and in the majority of GABAergic neurons examined. alpha4 nAChR mRNA expression was restricted to cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, and to non-cholinergic cells of the medial septum and mesopontine tegmentum. These data suggest possible regional differences in the pharmacological properties of nicotinic autoreceptors on cholinergic cells. Whereas most cholinergic cells express rapidly desensitizing alpha7 homomers or alpha7beta2 heteromers, cortical projection neurons may also express a pharmacologically distinct alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. There may also be differential nAChR regulation of cholinergic and non-cholinergic cells within the mesopontine tegmentum that are implicated in acquisition of nicotine self-administration.
We previously reported that dieldrin, one of the potential environmental risk factors for development of Parkinson's disease, induces apoptosis in dopaminergic cells by generating oxidative stress. Here, we demonstrate that the caspase-3-dependent proteolytic activation of protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta) mediates as well as regulates the dieldrin-induced apoptotic cascade in dopaminergic cells. Exposure of PC12 cells to dieldrin (100-300 microM) results in the rapid release of cytochrome C, followed by the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The superoxide dismutase mimetic Mn(III)tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin chloride significantly attenuates dieldrin-induced cytochrome C release, indicating that reactive oxygen species may contribute to the activation of pro-apoptotic factors. Interestingly, dieldrin proteolytically cleaves native PKCdelta into a 41 kDa catalytic subunit and a 38 kDa regulatory subunit to activate the kinase. The dieldrin-induced proteolytic cleavage of PKCdelta and induction of kinase activity are completely inhibited by pretreatment with 50-100 microM concentrations of the caspase inhibitors benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone (Z-VAD-FMK) and benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-fluoromethylketone (Z-DEVD-FMK), indicating that the proteolytic activation of PKCdelta is caspase-3-dependent. Additionally, Z-VAD-FMK, Z-DEVD-FMK or the PKCdelta specific inhibitor rottlerin almost completely block dieldrin-induced DNA fragmentation. Because dieldrin dramatically increases (40-80-fold) caspase-3 activity, we examined whether proteolytically activated PKCdelta amplifies caspase-3 via positive feedback activation. The PKCdelta inhibitor rottlerin (3-20 microM) dose-dependently attenuates dieldrin-induced caspase-3 activity, suggesting positive feedback activation of caspase-3 by PKCdelta. Indeed, delivery of catalytically active recombinant PKCdelta via a protein delivery system significantly activates caspase-3 in PC12 cells. Finally, overexpression of the kinase-inactive PKCdelta(K376R) mutant in rat mesencephalic dopaminergic neuronal cells attenuates dieldrin-induced caspase-3 activity and DNA fragmentation, further confirming the pro-apoptotic function of PKCdelta in dopaminergic cells. Together, we conclude that caspase-3-dependent proteolytic activation of PKCdelta is a critical event in dieldrin-induced apoptotic cell death in dopaminergic cells.
GABA(A) receptors are chloride ion channels that mediate fast synaptic transmission and belong to a superfamily of pentameric ligand-gated ion channels. The recently published crystal structure of the acetylcholine binding protein can be used as a template for comparative modeling of the extracellular domain of GABA(A) receptors. In this commentary, difficulties with comparative modeling at low sequence identity are discussed, the degree of structural conservation to be expected within the superfamily is analyzed and numerical estimates of model uncertainties in functional regions are provided. Topography of the binding sites at subunit-interfaces is examined and possible targets for rational mutagenesis studies are suggested. Allosteric motions are considered and a mechanism for mediation of positive cooperativity at the benzodiazepine site is proposed.
Traditional approaches in the treatment of Parkinson's disease have typically been directed at restoring dopaminergic tone in the neostriatum of the basal ganglia. Nevertheless, the vast majority of neostriatal efferent projections use GABA as their neurotransmitter. Substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) is a major basal ganglia output area that is a target of these GABAergic projections, and research from animal models has indicated that stimulation of GABA receptors in SNr can produce motor effects consistent with an antiparkinsonian action. In the present study, implantation of engineered GABA-releasing cells into SNr reduced tremulous movements in an animal model of parkinsonian tremor. These results suggest that implantation of GABA cells into SNr, or possibly into other basal ganglia structures, could provide an alternative transplantation strategy for the treatment of Parkinsonism.
By using a double immunofluorescence, we have examined the distribution of striatal GABAergic neurons that expressed substance P receptor (SPR) in the basal ganglia of adult C57 mice. The distribution of GABA-immunoreactive neurons completely or partially overlapped with that of SPR-immunoreactive neurons in the striatum (i.e. the caudate-putamen), globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, and nucleus accumbens. Neurons showing both GABA- and SPR-immunoreactivities were, however, predominantly found in the caudate-putamen, and most of them were characterized by their large-sized aspiny neuronal profile. Semi-quantification indicated that only about 13% of the total GABA-immunoreactive neurons (including large and medium-sized) displayed SPR-immunoreactivity, and these double-labeled neurons constituted about 31% of the total SPR-immunoreactive cells in the striatum. Neurons double-labeled with GABA- and SPR-immunoreactivities were hardly detected in other aforementioned regions of the basal ganglia. In addition, double immunofluorescence also showed co-localization of SPR- with glutamic acid decarboxylase-immunoreactivity, but not with parvalbumin-immunoreactivity, in the striatal neurons. Taken together with previous reports, the present study has suggested that a sub-population of striatal GABA-ergic neurons, most possibly GABA-ergic interneurons, may also receive direct physiological modulation by tachykinins through SPR in the basal ganglia of mammals.
The ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) is a key regulator of behavioral state that promotes sleep by directly inhibiting brain regions that maintain wakefulness. Subarachnoid administration of adenosine (AD) or AD agonists promotes sleep and induces expression of Fos protein in VLPO neurons. Therefore, activation of VLPO neurons may contribute to the somnogenic actions of AD. To define the mechanism through which AD activates VLPO neurons, we prepared hypothalamic slices from 9 to 12-day-old rat pups and recorded from 43 neurons in the galaninergic VLPO cluster; nine neurons contained galanin mRNA by post hoc in situ hybridization. Bath application of AD (20 microM) to seven of these neurons had no direct effect but caused a significant decrease in the frequency of spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating a presynaptic site of action. We conclude that AD-mediated disinhibition increases the excitability of VLPO neurons thus contributing to the somnogenic properties of AD.
Exercise is thought to improve motor function and emotional well-being in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is not clear if the improvements are due to neurochemical alterations within the affected nigrostriatal region or result from a more general effect of exercise on affect and motivation. In this study we show that motorized treadmill running improves the neurochemical and behavioral outcomes in two rodent models of PD: the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model and bilateral 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model in aged C57bl mice. Exposure to the dopamine (DA) toxins 6-OHDA or MPTP resulted in permanent behavioral and neurochemical loss. In contrast, when lesioned animals were exposed to treadmill activity two times a day for the first 10 days post-lesion they displayed no behavioral deficits across testing days and had significant sparing of striatal DA, its metabolites, tyrosine hydroxylase, vesicular monoamine transporter, and DA transporter levels compared to lesion sedentary animals. These results demonstrate that exercise following nigrostriatal damage ameliorates related motor symptoms and neurochemical deficits in rodent models of PD.
Disruption of the glucocorticoid negative feedback system is observed in approximate one half of human depressives, and a similar condition is induced in animals by chronic stress. This disruption is thought to involve down-regulation of glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) in the feedback sites of the brain. However, the responsible site of the brain has not been well elucidated. Here we examined the effects of chronic stress induced by water immersion and restraint (2 h/day) for 4 weeks followed by recovery for 10 days on the GR levels in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, and hypothalamus of rats using a Western immunoblot technique. In the PFC, the cytosolic GR levels were decreased, but the nuclear GR levels were not changed. In the hippocampus, the levels of cytosolic and nuclear GRs were increased. However, there were no marked changes in the GR levels in the hypothalamus. The changes in the cytosolic GR levels were confirmed at the mRNA level by an in situ hybridization technique. We next examined the suppressive effects of dexamethasone (DEX) infusions into these regions on the circulating corticosterone levels. When DEX was infused into the PFC or hippocampus of the chronically stressed rats, the suppressive response to DEX was abolished, but the response was normal in the hypothalamus. In addition, when DEX was injected systemically to the chronically stressed rats, the suppressive response to DEX was significantly attenuated. These results suggest that the abnormal changes in GRs in the higher centers of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis are involved in the chronic stress-induced attenuation of the feedback. Since dysfunction of the PFC or hippocampus is implicated in the pathogenesis of depression, the present findings would help to understand the mechanisms underlying the disrupted feedback system and its relation to brain dysfunction in depression.
We have previously shown that stimulation of cutaneous or visceral nociceptors suppresses inflammation measured as bradykinin-induced synovial plasma extravasation in the knee joint of the rat. This suppression occurs through the activation of a spinal as well as a supraspinal reflex pathway leading to activation of the adrenal medullae and probably the release of epinephrine. These nociceptive-neuroendocrine reflex pathways are tonically inhibited by activity in abdominal vagal afferents acting through an inhibitory descending pathway projecting through the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) ipsilateral to the cutaneous afferent nociceptive input. Here we investigated whether the descending inhibitory pathway acted upon by vagal afferents is also modulated by the periaqueductal gray (PAG), similar to other bulbo-spinal pathways acting on spinal nociceptive transmission. Injection of morphine sulfate (10 nmol) in the ventrolateral PAG significantly inhibited the nociceptive-neuroendocrine reflex pathways, an effect that was significantly less after removal of vagal afferents (i.e. after release from tonic inhibition maintained by vagal afferents). Interruption of the DLF ipsilateral to the nociceptive input removed the inhibitory effect of vagal afferents and partly reduced the inhibition produced by morphine injected in the PAG. From these investigations we conclude that PAG-induced inhibition of the nociceptive-neuroendocrine reflex pathways is mediated through the DLF ipsilateral to the nociceptive input, involving the same descending inhibitory pathway that relays afferent vagal inhibition, and through other spinal and possibly supraspinal pathways.
In vivo recordings have shown that the discharge of cortical neurons is often highly variable and can have statistics similar to a Poisson process with a coefficient of variation around unity. To investigate the determinants of this high variability, we analyzed the spontaneous discharge of Hodgkin-Huxley type models of cortical neurons, in which in vivo-like synaptic background activity was modeled by random release events at excitatory and inhibitory synapses. By using compartmental models with active dendrites, or single compartment models with fluctuating conductances and fluctuating currents, we found that a high discharge variability was always paralleled with a high-conductance state, while some active and passive cellular properties had only a minor impact. Furthermore, a balance between excitation and inhibition was not a necessary condition for high discharge variability. We conclude that the fluctuating high-conductance state caused by the ongoing activity in the cortical network in vivo may be viewed as a natural determinant of the highly variable discharges of these neurons.
Efferents from the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPTg) exert widespread control over neocortical electrocorticographic (ECoG) activity and aid in maintaining high-frequency ECoG activation during waking and rapid eye movement sleep. The mechanisms and subcortical routes that allow the PPTg to influence cortical activity remain controversial. We examined the relative contributions of the thalamus and basal forebrain in ECoG activation elicited by PPTg stimulation in urethane-anesthetized rats. Stimulation (100 Hz, 2 s) of the PPTg suppressed large-amplitude, low-frequency oscillations, replacing them with high-frequency beta-gamma activity. Systemic administration of the anti-muscarinic drug scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) abolished activation elicited by PPTg stimulation, suggestive of an essential role of acetylcholine in this effect. Local infusions of lidocaine (1 microl, 1%) into the region of the cholinergic basal forebrain complex produced a strong reduction in activation elicited by PPTg stimulation. Lidocaine infusions into the reticular thalamic nucleus had no effect, but infusions into central thalamus produced a small attenuation of PPTg-evoked cortical activation. Combined basal forebrain-central thalamic infusions (1 microl/site) produced roughly additive effects, leading to a greater loss of activation than single-site infusions. These results indicate that, under the present experimental conditions, high-frequency cortical ECoG activation elicited by the PPTg involves relays in both the basal forebrain and central thalamus, with a predominant role of the basal forebrain. After concurrent central thalamic-basal forebrain inactivation, the forebrain can maintain only limited, short-lasting activation in response to PPTg stimulation. The additivity of infusion effects suggests that, rather than participating in one serial system, basal forebrain and central thalamus constitute parallel activating pathways. These findings aid in resolving previous controversies regarding the role of thalamus and basal forebrain in activation by emphasizing the importance of multiple, large-scale networks between brainstem and cortex in regulating the activation state of the mammalian neocortex.
Painful peripheral neuropathy is a major dose-limiting adverse effect of many cancer chemotherapeutic agents, such as the vinca alkaloids and taxanes. Recent studies demonstrate sexual dimorphism in second-messenger signaling for primary afferent nociceptor sensitization, and a role of second messengers in the models of metabolic and toxic painful peripheral neuropathies. This study tested the hypothesis that sexual dimorphism alters the severity and second-messenger signaling pathways for enhanced nociception in an animal model of vincristine-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.I.V. injection of vincristine induced mechanical hyperalgesia that was greater in female rats. Gonadectomy in the females but not the males abolished the sex-dependent difference in mechanical hyperalgesia; this effect of gonadectomy in females was reversed by estrogen replacement. Inhibition of protein kinase C epsilon (PKC epsilon ) attenuated vincristine-induced hyperalgesia in males and ovariectomized females, but not in normal females or in estrogen-replaced ovariectomized females. Inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein kinase G, p42 / p44-mitogen activated protein kinase and nitric oxide synthase also attenuated vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, but to a similar degree in both sexes. These data demonstrate an estrogen-dependent sexual dimorphism in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia (female&gt;male) and an unexpected opposite sexual dimorphism in the contribution of PKC epsilon to the severity of this hyperalgesia (male&gt;female).
Recent experimental and clinical studies suggest that estrogen may be an important factor influencing neuronal function during normal and pathological aging. Using different behavioral paradigms in rodents, estrogen replacement was shown to enhance learning and memory as well as attenuate learning deficits associated with cholinergic impairment. The goal of this study was to determine whether cognitive sensitivity to estrogen manipulations (short-term ovariectomy and chronic estrogen replacement) is affected by aging. Middle-aged and old female Fischer-344 rats were used to estimate the effects of estrogen manipulations at two different stages of reproductive aging. At middle age, when the females underwent an initial stage of reproductive aging (irregular cyclicity), ovariectomy did not significantly affect the acquisition of the T-maze active avoidance as compared with Sham rats, while estrogen replacement decreased behavioral vulnerability to scopolamine. However, when tested at more advanced stage of aging (consistent diestrus), old ovariectomized rats were more sensitive to scopolamine as compared with the control rats. Moreover, estrogen treatment at this age did not produce any protective effect against scopolamine. Contrasting findings of the effects of estrogen replacement in middle-aged and old rats suggest that the ability of estrogen to enhance the basal forebrain cholinergic function declines with age. These data indicate that aging processes may substantially modulate the mechanisms of estrogen action. A &quot;time window&quot; during which hormone replacement must be initiated in order to be effective could be determined in terms of the stages of reproductive senescence. This study is the first to clearly demonstrate that the cognitive effects of estrogen replacement are still preserved during the initial stages of reproductive aging (irregular cyclicity) and dramatically limited as aging progresses (cessation of proestrus).
Rod photoreceptor-specific mutations cause ectopic synapses to form between cone photoreceptor terminals and rod bipolar cell dendrites in degenerating retinas of rhodopsin transgenic (P347L) pigs and retinal degeneration mice. Since the mutations occur in rod photoreceptor-specific genes in these two models, it is not known if ectopic synaptogenesis occurs specifically due to some rod photoreceptor cell-autonomous properties of a mutation or as a general consequence of photoreceptor degeneration. In the Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat, a mutation in the receptor tyrosine kinase gene, Mertk, causes failure of the retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells to phagocytose shed photoreceptor outer segments; subsequently, both rod and cone photoreceptors die. The non-phagocytic phenotype of the RCS rat is RPE cell-autonomous and the photoreceptors degenerate secondarily. Here we show that in 35-day-old RCS rats, where a majority of rod and cone photoreceptors remained, rod bipolar cell dendrites had abnormal (flat-contact type) synaptic contacts with rod and cone terminals. Demonstration of ectopic synapses in the RCS rat suggested that ectopic synaptogenesis could occur as a result of photoreceptor degeneration, even when the rods and cones were developmentally normal. This further supported the hypothesis that ectopic synaptogenesis may be a common step in the disease progression of different forms of retinal degeneration that include photoreceptor death as a feature, such as retinitis pigmentosa.
In this study we used in situ hybridisation and double-labelling immunohistochemistry to characterise cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB(1)) expression in rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons.Approximately 25% of DRG neurons expressed CB(1) mRNA and displayed immunoreactivity for CB(1). Sixty-nine percent to 82% of CB(1)-expressing cells were also immunoreactive for neurofilament 200, indicative of myelinated A-fibre neurons, which tend to be large- and medium-sized DRG neurons (&gt;600 microm(2)). Approximately 10% of CB1-expressing cells also expressed transient receptor potential vanilloid family ion channel 2 (TRPV2), the noxious heat-transducing channel found in medium to large lightly myelinated Adelta-fibre DRG neurons. Seventeen percent to 26% of CB(1)-expressing cells co-stained using Isolectin B4, 9-10% for calcitonin gene-related peptide and 11-20% for transient receptor potential vanilloid family ion channel 1 (TRPV1), predominantly markers of small non-myelinated C-fibre DRG neurons (&lt;600 microm(2)). These findings suggest that whilst a wide range of DRG neuron phenotypes express CB(1), it is predominantly associated with myelinated fibres.
Zinc plays an important role in synaptic signaling in the mammalian cerebral cortex. Zinc is sequestered into presynaptic vesicles of subpopulations of glutamatergic neurons and is released by depolarization, in a calcium-dependent manner. As the majority of mechanisms that have been suggested to participate in experience-dependent alterations in synaptic strength in the cerebral cortex implicate signaling by glutamate, it stands to reason that zincergic signaling might also be crucial. Here we show that synaptic zinc is rapidly and dynamically modulated in relation to alterations in sensory input and that this response is highly age-dependent. Juvenile, adult, and aged mice were subjected to whisker removal and levels of staining for synaptic zinc in deprived and non-deprived cortical barrels were quantitatively assessed at post-deprivation times ranging from 3 h to 21 days. In the first 12 h, zinc levels increased slightly, but significantly, in all groups. At later time points, zinc levels increased robustly (23%) in the youngest group by 24 h and remained elevated through 7 days. By contrast, deprivation-induced changes in zinc staining in aged animals, achieved their maximal levels at 12 h (approximately 10%) and steadily declined thereafter. Adult animals revealed a biphasic, intermediate change with time. In all age groups, levels of zinc staining returned to baseline by 21 days after whisker plucking. However, only in juvenile and adult mice did we observe that the level of zinc staining in deprived barrel hollows, was correlated with the length of whiskers as they regrew. Our data suggest that alterations in the regulation of synaptic zinc may be involved with decrements of synaptic plasticity that accompany senescence.
Acute injection of morphine induces expression of the immediate-early genes c-Fos and JunB in several forebrain regions of the rat, in part through an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent mechanism. Because membrane depolarization through (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors is believed to be necessary for full activation of NMDA receptors, we determined the role of AMPA receptors in morphine-induced c-Fos expression. Rats were given the AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI-52466 (12.9 mg/kg, i.p.) 15 min before morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), or the AMPA receptor enhancer CX516 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min after morphine. The c-Fos response was attenuated by the antagonist and augmented by the enhancer. Using double immunocytochemistry, we found that morphine induced c-Fos in neurons containing the GluR2/3, but not the GluR1 and rarely the GluR4, subunits of the AMPA receptor. Double immunocytochemistry for mu opioid receptor and c-Fos showed that c-Fos expression was mainly absent in the patch compartment of the striatum, which is enriched in mu opioid receptors. The glutamatergic synapse often contains metabotropic receptors as well as ionotropic receptors. Type I metabotropic glutamate receptors are coupled to activation of protein kinase C, which has also been shown to mediate the immediate-early gene response to morphine. To determine if activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors is involved in rapid effects of morphine on the brain, rats were given the type I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle 30 min before morphine treatment. Pretreatment with AIDA completely blocked morphine-induced c-Fos expression in the caudate-putamen.Taken together, these results demonstrate involvement of both AMPA and type I metabotropic glutamate receptors in the acute effects of morphine on the forebrain, supporting an important role for glutamatergic neurotransmission mediated by non-NMDA glutamate receptors in morphine's actions.
Previously, we have shown that GABA(A) receptors and glutamate receptors in substantia nigra play distinct roles in the regulation of somatodendritic dopamine release. GABAergic input to substantia nigra was found to be the primary determinant of the level of spontaneous somatodendritic dopamine release. In contrast, acute blockade of dopamine receptors by systemic haloperidol administration produced an increase in somatodendritic dopamine release in substantia nigra that was found to be dependent exclusively upon activation of nigral glutamate receptors. The focus of the present study was to identify anatomical structures that may participate in the differential regulation of somatodendritic dopamine release by GABA and glutamate under these two conditions. To this end, we pharmacologically inhibited the activity of either globus pallidus or subthalamic nucleus using microinfusion of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol. The effects of these manipulations on spontaneous efflux of somatodendritic dopamine and on increases in this measure produced by systemic haloperidol administration were determined in ipsilateral substantia nigra using in vivo microdialysis. As observed previously, administration of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased extracellular dopamine in substantia nigra. Microinfusion of muscimol (400 ng/200 nl) into globus pallidus also produced a significant increase in somatodendritic dopamine efflux. When haloperidol was administered systemically in conjunction with microinfusion of muscimol into globus pallidus, an increase in nigral dopamine efflux was observed that was significantly greater than that which was produced singly by muscimol microinfusion into globus pallidus or by systemic haloperidol administration. The additive nature of the increases in somatodendritic dopamine release produced by these two manipulations indicates that independent neural circuitries may be involved. Inactivation of subthalamic nucleus by microinfusion of muscimol (200 ng/100 nl) had no effect on spontaneous somatodendritic dopamine efflux. Muscimol application into subthalamic nucleus, however, completely abolished the stimulatory effect of systemic haloperidol on dendritic dopamine efflux in substantia nigra. The present data extend our previous findings by demonstrating: 1) an important involvement of globus pallidus efferents in the GABAergic regulation of somatodendritic dopamine efflux in substantia nigra under normal conditions and, 2) an emergent predominant role of subthalamic nucleus efferents in the glutamate-dependent increase in somatodendritic dopamine efflux observed after systemic haloperidol administration. Thus, the relative influence of globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus in the determination of the level of somatodendritic dopamine release in substantia nigra qualitatively varies as a function of dopamine receptor blockade. These findings are relevant to current models of basal ganglia function under both normal and pathological conditions, e.g. Parkinson's disease.
It is widely recognized that methamphetamine enhances the release of dopamine at dopaminergic neuron terminals of the mesolimbic system, which induces dopamine-related behaviors. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin, binds to and activates its specific receptor tyrosine kinase, TrkB. BDNF has been shown to influence the release of dopamine in the mesolimbic dopamine system. The present study was designed to investigate roles of BDNF and TrkB in the expression of methamphetamine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens and dopamine-related behaviors induced by methamphetamine in rats. Methamphetamine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a substantial increase in the extracellular levels of dopamine and induced a progressive augmentation of dopamine-related behaviors such as rearing and sniffing. In contrast, both the stimulation of dopamine release and induction of dopamine-related behaviors by methamphetamine were significantly suppressed by pretreatment with intra-nucleus accumbens injection of either BDNF (2.0 microl/rat, 1:1000, 1:300 and 1:100) or TrkB (2.0 microl/rat, 1:1000 and 1:100) antibody. Furthermore, the basal level of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens was not affected by treatment with both BDNF and TrkB antibodies. These findings provide further evidence that BDNF/TrkB pathway is implicated in the methamphetamine-induced release of dopamine and the induction of dopamine-related behaviors.
Substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) is an important mesencephalic nucleus that functions as a relay area for basal ganglia output. SNr receives GABAergic inputs from the neostriatum and globus pallidus, and in turn sends projections to a variety of motor areas. Although a large number of studies have focused upon the behavioral functions of basal ganglia dopamine, much less is known about the behavioral functions of SNr GABA. The present studies were undertaken to investigate the role of SNr GABA in lever pressing behavior. In the first experiment, the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline was infused locally into SNr to determine if blockade of GABA receptors interfered with the performance of lever pressing on a fixed ratio 5 schedule. SNr injections of bicuculline produced a dose-related suppression of operant responding. Analysis of interresponse time bins showed that SNr bicuculline produced a response slowing characterized by a relative reduction in the number of fast interresponse times, and an increase in the relative number of pauses. In an additional experiment, microdialysis methods were used to determine if extracellular GABA is elevated during the performance of fixed ratio five lever pressing. During the 30 min lever pressing session, extracellular GABA showed a significant and substantial increase relative to baseline levels. These data support the hypothesis that SNr GABA is involved in the regulation of motor output, and indicate that GABA release in this structure is increased during behavioral stimulation.
Activation of cannabinoid CB(2) receptors attenuates thermal nociception in untreated animals while failing to produce centrally mediated effects such as hypothermia and catalepsy [Pain 93 (2001) 239]. The present study was conducted to test the hypothesis that activation of CB(2) in the periphery suppresses the development of inflammatory pain as well as inflammation-evoked neuronal activity at the level of the CNS. The CB(2)-selective cannabinoid agonist AM1241 (100, 330 micrograms/kg i.p.) suppressed the development of carrageenan-evoked thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia. The AM1241-induced suppression of carrageenan-evoked behavioral sensitization was blocked by the CB(2) antagonist SR144528 but not by the CB(1) antagonist SR141716A. Intraplantar (ipl) administration of AM1241 (33 micrograms/kg ipl) suppressed hyperalgesia and allodynia following administration to the carrageenan-injected paw but was inactive following administration in the contralateral (noninflamed) paw, consistent with a local site of action. In immunocytochemical studies, AM1241 suppressed spinal Fos protein expression, a marker of neuronal activity, in the carrageenan model of inflammation. AM1241 suppressed carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression in the superficial and neck region of the dorsal horn but not in the nucleus proprius or the ventral horn. The suppression of carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression induced by AM1241 was blocked by coadministration of SR144528 in all spinal laminae. These data provide evidence that actions at cannabinoid CB(2) receptors are sufficient to suppress inflammation-evoked neuronal activity at rostral levels of processing in the spinal dorsal horn, consistent with the ability of AM1241 to normalize nociceptive thresholds and produce antinociception in inflammatory pain states.
The intercalated cell masses are GABAergic neurons interposed between the major input and output structures of the amygdala. Dopaminergic projections to the main and paracapsular intercalated islands were examined by determining the relationship of the dopamine nerve-terminal networks to the D1-receptor immunoreactive staining of cells within the intercalated islands, using double-fluorescence immunolabelling procedures in combination with confocal laser microscopy. The relationship of terminals positive for both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (noradrenaline and/or adrenaline) to terminals positive for tyrosine hydroxylase but negative for dopamine beta-hydroxylase (dopamine terminals) was studied in relation to the D1-receptor immunoreactivity in adjacent sections at various rostrocaudal levels. The microscopy and image analysis revealed that there was only a minor dopaminergic innervation of the D1 receptor-immunoreactive cells in the rostromedial and caudal component of the main intercalated island, suggesting volume transmission as the main communication mode for dopamine in these regions. In contrast, the D1 receptor-immunoreactive areas in the rostrolateral part of the main island and also the paracapsular intercalated islands showed a high degree of dopaminergic innervation, indicating that synaptic and perisynaptic dopamine transmission plays a dominant role in these regions. It is known that amygdala neurons are involved in the elicitation and learning of fear-related behaviors. We suggest that slow dopaminergic volume transmission in the rostromedial and caudal parts of the main intercalated island may have a role in tonic excitatory modulation in these parts of the main island, allowing GABAergic activity to develop in the central amygdaloid nucleus and thereby contributing to inhibition of fear-related behavioral and autonomic responses. In contrast, a faster synaptic and perisynaptic dopaminergic transmission in the rostrolateral part of the main intercalated island and in the paracapsular intercalated islands may have a role in allowing a more rapid elicitation of fear-related behaviors.
Previous studies have shown that hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA levels are significantly increased in rats allowed free access to exercise wheels and/or administered antidepressant medications. Enhancement of BDNF may be crucial for the clinical effect of antidepressant interventions. Since increased function of the noradrenergic and/or serotonergic systems is thought to be an important initial mechanism of antidepressant medications, we sought to test the hypothesis that noradrenergic or serotonergic function is essential for the increased BDNF transcription occurring with exercise. In addition, individual transcript variants of BDNF were examined, as evidence exists they are differentially regulated by discrete interventions, and are expressed in distinct sub-regions of the hippocampus. The neurotransmitter system-specific neurotoxins p-chloroamphetamine (serotonergic) and N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (noradrenergic) were administered to rats prior to commencing voluntary wheel-running activity. In situ hybridization experiments revealed an absence of exercise-induced full-length BDNF mRNA elevations in the hippocampi of noradrenergic-lesioned rats. In addition, the striking elevation of the exon I transcript in the dentate gyrus was removed with this noradrenergic lesion. In contrast, other transcript variants (exons II and III) were elevated in several hippocampal regions as a result of this lesion. In serotonin-lesioned rats, the significant increases in full-length BDNF, exon I and exon II mRNA levels were sustained without alteration (with the exception of exon IV in the cornus ammonis subregion 4, CA4). Overall, these results indicate that an intact noradrenergic system may be crucial for the observed ability of exercise to enhance full-length and exon I hippocampal BDNF mRNA expression. In addition, these results suggest that the promoter linked to exon I may provide a major regulatory point for BDNF mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus. Elevations of other exons, such as II and III, may require the activation of separate neurotransmitter systems and intracellular pathways.
The expression of precursor-protein convertase (PC)1, PC2 and paired basic amino acid cleaving enzyme four mRNA was studied by in situ hybridisation in regions of the hypothalamus involved in energy regulation in relation to obese (ob) gene mutation and energy deficit. PC1 gene was differentially expressed in hypothalamic nuclei of mice from different genetic backgrounds or energetic status, whereas no differences in expression were observed for either the PC2 or paired basic amino acid cleaving enzyme four genes. In obese ob/ob mice, PC1 mRNA levels were increased in the paraventricular nucleus, decreased in the lateral hypothalamus and unchanged in the ventromedial nucleus and arcuate nucleus relative to lean controls. In response to intraperitoneal injection of murine leptin, PC1 mRNA levels in obese ob/ob mice decreased in the arcuate nucleus, increased in the lateral hypothalamus and were unchanged in both the paraventricular nucleus and ventromedial nucleus. In mice deprived of food for 24 h, PC1 mRNA levels were reduced in the ventromedial nucleus, increased in the lateral hypothalamus and unchanged in the paraventricular nucleus and arcuate nucleus relative to ad libitum-fed controls. Overall, whilst the data show effects related to leptin and energetic status, they do not support a strong and consistent link between PC1 gene expression and energy balance. This suggests that if PC1 is important to the control of energy balance then protein expression and activity, rather than gene expression may be the more critical parameters of regulation. The relationship between PC1 and candidate energy balance-related genes in the lateral hypothalamus was investigated by dual in situ hybridisation. PC1 mRNA was localised in prepro-orexin mRNA expressing neurons in the lateral hypothalamus, which suggests a functional relationship.
The present study was initiated to investigate the role of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) 1/2 signaling pathway in the early response of spinal cord and associated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) to rhizotomy by using Western blotting and immunohistochemical techniques in a rat model of L3 and L4 dorsal root transection. The results showed that there were a considerable amount of total and phosphorylated ERK 1/2 protein in both spinal cord and DRG in normal animals killed under pentobarbital anesthesia. The total ERK 1/2 distributed in both glia and neurons, while phosphorylated ERK 1/2 dominantly existed in the latter in the gray matter of spinal cord, as demonstrated with double immunofluorescent staining. Twenty-four and forty-eight hours after axotomy, the phosphorylation level of ERK 1/2 in the operation side of dorsal spinal cord was much higher than that in the contralateral side, while the total ERK 1/2 level seemed unchanged. The increased expression of Fos protein was also seen in the dorsal spinal cord at lesion side twelve and twenty-four hours after axotomy. Double fluorescent staining proved that the phosphorylated ERK 1/2 positive cells in the ipsilateral dorsal spinal cord after axotomy predominantly were microglia and small portion was oligodendrocytes, whereas the Fos expression was mainly in neurons. In normal DRG, most neurons, especially the medium and small-sized ones, and the satellite cells contained total ERK 1/2-like immunoreactivity, whereas only a small portion of neurons and satellite cells contained phosphorylated ERK 1/2. After unilateral dorsal rhizotomy, there were no detectable changes for the phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 in either neurons or satellite cells in DRG.Collectively, the present results suggest that both ERK and Fos signal pathways involve the cellular activation in the spinal cord following dorsal rhizotomy, with ERK mainly in microglia and Fos in neurons. The increase of phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 in microglia of spinal cord after rhizotomy implicates that ERK signaling pathway involves intracellular activity of microglia responding to the experimental injury.
Characterization of the expression pattern of connexins in neural tissue is a necessary prerequisite for understanding the functional relevance of the corresponding gap junction channels in brain. Here we describe the cell type-specific expression of connexin45 in the CNS and the spatiotemporal expression pattern from embryonic day 19.5 to adult brain using a recently described connexin45 LacZ-reporter mouse. The connexin45 gene is highly expressed during embryogenesis and up to 2 weeks after birth in nearly all brain regions. Afterward its expression is restricted to the thalamus, the CA3 region of hippocampus and the cerebellum. In adult mouse brain, the pattern of LacZ-staining in combination with the analysis of different neuronal and glial marker proteins strongly suggests that connexin45 is expressed in neurons, but presumably not in astrocytes or mature oligodendrocytes. Expression of the LacZ/connexin45 reporter gene in subsets of neurons, such as cerebral cortical, hippocampal and thalamic neurons as well as basket and stellate cells of cerebellum should be corroborated by functional investigations of connexin45 protein in electrical synapses. Based on its expression pattern during development, we suggest that the connexin45-containing gap junction channels have a rather ubiquitous role during brain development and may contribute to functional specification in certain subsets of neurons in the adult brain.
L-arginine can be metabolised by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) with the formation of L-citrulline and nitric oxide (NO), or arginase with the production of L-ornithine and urea. In contrast to studies showing a potential involvement of NOS/NO in the aging process, the role of arginase has not been well documented. The present study investigates for the first time the regional variations and age-related changes in both NOS and arginase in sub-regions of the hippocampus. In young adult rats, although the total NOS activity was not significantly different across the hippocampal CA1, CA2/3 and the dentate gyrus (DG) sub-regions, the total arginase activity showed a clear regional variation with the highest level in DG. Western blotting revealed that the highest levels of neuronal NOS (nNOS) and endothelial NOS (eNOS) proteins were located in CA1. Arginase I is expressed at a very low level in the brain (the whole hippocampus) as compared with the liver. By contrast, arginase II protein shows an extremely high expression in the brain with little or no expression in the liver. There was no regional variation in arginase I or arginase II protein expression across the sub-regions of the hippocampus. When a comparison was made between young (4-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) rats, a significant increase in total NOS activity was found in DG and significant decreases in arginase activity were observed in the CA1 and CA2/3 regions in the aged animals. Western blotting further revealed a dramatic decrease in eNOS protein expression in aged CA2/3 with no age-associated changes in nNOS, arginase I and II protein expression in any region examined. Interestingly, evidence of activity or protein expression of the inducible isoform of NOS (iNOS) was not detected in any tissue from either group. The present results, in conjunction with previous findings, support the contribution of NOS/NO to aging but question the involvement of iNOS in the normal aging process. Region-specific changes in arginase suggest that this enzyme may also contribute to aging.
(N-propargyl-(3R)-aminoindan-5-yl)-ethyl, methyl carbamate (TV3326), a known neuroprotective agent exhibiting the properties of both an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (brain selective) and an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase was administered to seven old rhesus monkeys well trained to perform versions of a delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) task. An increasing dose regimen of TV3326 was administered orally according to a schedule that allowed the animals to perform the standard DMTS task and a self-titrating version of the DMTS task each week during the study. A distractor version of the task was administered during two of the doses of TV3326. Under the conditions of this experiment TV3326 failed to significantly affect accuracy on the standard DMTS task; however, the drug was very effective in improving the ability of subjects to titrate to longer-duration delay intervals in the titrating version of the task. The maximal drug-induced extension of the self-titrated delay interval amounted to a 36.7% increase above baseline. This increase in maximum delay duration occurred without a significant change in overall task accuracy. TV3326 also significantly improved task accuracy during distractor (interference) sessions. The compound was effective enough to return group performance efficiency to standard DMTS vehicle levels of accuracy. These results were independent of whether trials were associated with a distractor or non-distractor delay interval, and they were independent of delay interval. The lack of delay selectivity in task improvement by TV3326 may not be consistent with a selective effect on attention. TV3326 was not associated with any obvious side effect or untoward reaction of the animals to the drug. Thus, TV3326 may be expected to offer a significant positive cognitive outcome in addition to its reported neuroprotective action.
This study investigated the effects of riluzole (Ril), creatine (Cr) and a combination of these treatments on the onset and progression of clinical signs and neuropathology in an animal model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the G93A transgenic mouse (n=13-17 per group). The onset of clinical signs was delayed (P&lt;0.05) by about 12 days in all treatment groups compared with control; however, no differences occurred between treatments. All animals were killed at 199 days of age. At the end of the experimental period the severity of clinical signs was less (P&lt;0.05) with all treatments compared with control. Again no differences between treatments were observed. The treatments had no effect on the number of neurons in ventral horns of the lumbar region of the spinal cord. Transgenic mice ingesting Cr displayed elevated (P&lt;0.05) total Cr levels in cerebral hemispheres (5%) and spinal cord (8%), but not skeletal muscles. These data demonstrate that treatment with Ril and Cr were both effective in delaying disease onset and clinical disability. To the age of killing, no additional benefit was conferred by co-administration of Ril and Cr.
Na(+) currents were recorded using patch-clamp techniques from small-diameter (&lt;25 micrometers) dorsal root ganglion neurons, cultured from adult rats (&gt;150 g). Late Na(+) currents maintained throughout long-duration voltage-clamp steps (&gt;/=200 ms) were of two types: a low-threshold, tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-s) current that was largely blocked by 200 nM TTX, and a high-threshold, TTX-resistant (TTX-r) current. TTX-s late current was found in approximately 28% (10/36) of small-diameter neurons and was recorded only in neurons exhibiting TTX-s transient current. TTX-s transient current activation/inactivation gating overlap existed over a narrow potential range, centered between -30 and -40 mV, whereas late current operated over a wider range. The kinetics associated with de-inactivation of TTX-s late current were slow (tau approximately 37 ms at -50 mV), strongly suggesting that different subpopulations of TTX-s channel generate transient and late current. High-threshold TTX-r late current was only present in neurons generating TTX-r transient current. TTX-r late current operated over the same potential range as that for TTX-r transient current activation/inactivation gating overlap, and activation/inactivation gating overlap could be measured even after 1.5-s-duration pre-pulses. We suggest that TTX-s late sodium current results from channel openings different from those generating transient current. As in large-diameter sensory neurons, TTX-s channels generating late openings may play a key role in controlling membrane excitability. In contrast, a single population of high-threshold TTX-r channels may account for both transient and late TTX-r currents.
Housing rats in an enriched environment improves functional outcome after ischemic stroke, this may reflect neuronal plasticity in brain regions outside the lesion. Which components of the enriched environment that are of greatest importance for recovery after brain ischemia is uncertain. We have previously found that enriched environment and social interaction alone both improve functional recovery after focal cerebral ischemia, compared with isolated housing with voluntary wheel-running. In this study, the aim was to separate components of the enriched environment and investigate the effects on some potential mediators of improved functional recovery; such as the inducible transcription factors nerve growth factor-induced gene A (NGFI-A) and NGFI-B, and the glucocorticoid and serotonin systems. After permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion, rats were divided into four groups: individually housed with no equipment (deprived group), individually housed with free access to a running wheel (running group), housed together in a large cage with no equipment (social group) or in a large cage furnished with exchangeable bars, chains and other objects (enriched group). mRNA expression of inducible transcription factors, serotonin and glucocorticoid receptors was determined with in situ hybridisation 1 month after cerebral ischemia. Rats housed in enriched or social environments showed significantly higher mRNA expression of NGFI-A and NGFI-B in cortical regions outside the lesion and in the CA1 (cornu ammonis region of the hippocampus), compared with isolated rats with or without a running wheel. NGFI-A and NGFI-B mRNA expression in cortex and in CA1 was significantly correlated to functional outcome. 5-Hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HT(1A)) mRNA expression and binding, as well as 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA expression were decreased in the hippocampus (CA4 region) of the running wheel rats. Mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression was increased in the dentate gyrus amongst wheel-running rats. No group differences were found in plasma corticosterone levels or mRNA levels of glucocorticoid receptor, corticotropin-releasing hormone, 5-HT(2C) or c-fos. In conclusion, we have found that social interaction is a major component of the enriched environment regarding the effects on NGFI-A and NGFI-B expression. These transcription factors may be important mediators of improved functional recovery after brain infarctions, induced by environmental enrichment.
The generation of new neurons in the adult mammalian brain has been documented in numerous recent reports. Studies undertaken so far indicate that adult hippocampal neurogenesis is related in a number of ways to hippocampal function.Here, we report that subjecting adult rats to fractionated brain irradiation blocked the formation of new neurons in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. At different time points after the termination of the irradiation procedure, the animals were tested in two tests of short-term memory that differ with respect to their dependence on hippocampal function. Eight and 21 days after irradiation, the animals with blocked neurogenesis performed poorer than controls in a hippocampus-dependent place-recognition task, indicating that the presence of newly generated neurons may be necessary for the normal function of this brain area. The animals were never impaired in a hippocampus-independent object-recognition task. These results are in line with other reports documenting the functional significance of newly generated neurons in this region. As our irradiation procedure models prophylactic cranial irradiation used in the treatment of different cancers, we suggest that blocked neurogenesis contributes to the reported deleterious side effects of this treatment, consisting of memory impairment, dysphoria and lethargy.
We have used whole-cell recording techniques in the mouse neuroblastoma X rat glioma hybrid NG108-15 cell line to test whether protein kinase CK2 (CK2; also known as casein kinase II) modulates the function of the serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor (5-HT(3)R) channel. The rapid application of 5-HT (50 microM) to NG108-15 cells elicits a 5-HT(3)R-mediated inward current response that rapidly reaches peak amplitude and then desensitizes in the continued presence of agonist. Internal dialysis with CK2 (20 micrograms/ml) via the patch pipette significantly increases the amplitude and decreases the rate of desensitization of the 5-HT(3)R-mediated responses. CK2 that had been heat-inactivated has no effect on either the amplitude or the kinetics of desensitization of the 5-HT(3)R responses. These data suggest that dialysis with protein kinase CK2 significantly enhanced current through the 5-HT(3)R channel, and that CK2 may be an important regulator of 5-HT(3)R channel function in the nervous system, possibly serving to facilitate the 5-HT-induced excitation of the cells.
The interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure (IPAC) receives inputs from several autonomic/limbic regions in the forebrain, including the agranular insular cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the amygdaloid complex, and the lateral hypothalamic area. We sought to identify the distribution of afferent sources to the IPAC and to determine whether these IPAC projection fibers issue collaterals to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the principal relay of primary visceral afferents. Two fluorescent tracers, FluoroGold and FluoroRed, were centered stereotaxically on the IPAC and the NTS on chloral hydrate-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Although the majority of IPAC and NTS afferents were spatially segregated, small but substantial numbers of dually labeled neurons (three to four cells/section) were observed in the dorsal bank of the posterior agranular insular cortex, exclusively in layer V. Collateral projection neurons were also found in the posterior part of the lateral hypothalamic area (two to six cells/section). The branching projections identified here may represent a potential link between affective or motivated behavior and viscerosensory processing.
Circadian rhythms can be synchronised to photic and non-photic stimuli. The circadian clock, anatomically defined as the suprachiasmatic nucleus in mammals, can be phase shifted by light during the night. Non-photic stimuli reset the circadian rhythm during the day. Photic and non-photic stimuli have been shown to interact during the day and night. Precise mechanisms for these complex interactions are unknown. A possible pathway for non-photic resetting of the clock is thought to generate from the intergeniculate leaflet, which conveys information to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) through the geniculohypothalamic tract and utilises neuropeptide Y (NPY) as its primary neurotransmitter. Interactions between light and NPY were investigated during the early (2 h after activity onset) and late (6 h after activity onset) night in male Syrian hamsters. NPY microinjections into the region of the SCN significantly attenuated light-induced phase delay, during the early subjective night. Phase advances to light were completely inhibited by the administration of NPY during the late night. The precise mechanism by which NPY attenuates or blocks photic phase shifts is unclear, but the NPY Y5 receptor has been implicated in the mediation of this inhibitory effect. The NPY Y1/Y5 receptor agonist, [Leu(31),Pro(34)]NPY, was administered via cannula microinjections following light exposure during the early and late night. [Leu(31),Pro(34)]NPY significantly attenuated phase delays to light during the early night and blocked phase advances during the late night, in a manner similar to NPY. These results show the ability of NPY to attenuate phase shifts to light during the early night and block light-induced phase advances during the late night. Furthermore, this is the first in vivo study implicating the involvement of the NPY Y1/Y5 receptors in the complex interaction of photic and non-photic stimuli during the night. The alteration of photic phase shifts by NPY may influence photic entrainment within the circadian system.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) receives input from sensory neocortical regions and sends projections to the basal forebrain (BF). The present study tested the possibility that pathways from sensory cortical regions via the PFC-BF and from the BF back to specific sensory cortical areas could modulate sensory responses. Two prefrontal areas that responded to stimulation of the primary somatosensory and visual cortices were delineated: an area encompassing the rostral part of the cingulate cortex that responded to visual cortex stimulation, and a region dorso-lateral to the first in the precentral-motor association area that reacted to somatosensory cortex stimulation. Moreover, BF neurons responded to PFC electrical stimulation. They were located in the ventral pallidum, substantia innominata and the horizontal limb of the diagonal-band areas. Of the responsive BF neurons 42% reacted only to stimulation of 'visually-responsive,' 33% responded only to the 'somatosensory-responsive' prefrontal sites and the remaining neurons reacted to both prefrontal cortical areas. The effect of BF and PFC stimulations on somatosensory and visual-evoked potentials was tested. BF stimulation increased the amplitude of both sensory-evoked potentials. However, stimulation of the 'somatosensory-responsive' prefrontal area increased only somatosensory-evoked potentials while 'visually-responsive' prefrontal-area stimulation increased only visual-evoked potentials. Atropine blocked both facilitatory effects. The proposed cortico-prefronto-basalo-cortical circuitry may have an important role in cortical plasticity and selective attention.
During postnatal development, mice undergo a so-called stress hyporesponsive period, which is characterized by low basal corticosterone levels and the inability of mild stressors to induce a corticosterone response. The stress hyporesponsiveness is in part regulated by maternal factors. Twenty-four hours of deprivation results in an activation of basal and stress-induced corticosterone and a down-regulation of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the brain. It has been hypothesized that the CRH receptor 1 (CRHr1) may play an important regulatory role during development by mediating the effects of maternal deprivation. Using CRHr1-deficient mice we examined the role of this receptor on the maternal deprivation effects and in regulating the expression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis-related genes. We could demonstrate that the CRHr1 is essential for the activation of the corticosterone response following maternal deprivation, most likely due to the lack of the receptor in the pituitary. Furthermore, we could show that the CRHr1 is regulating the expression of CRH and MRs. In contrast, effects of maternal deprivation during postnatal development on GRs are not mediated by this receptor.
Hippocampal cell firing in awake, behaving rats is often spatially selective, and such cells have been called place cells. Similar spatial correlates have also been described for neurons in the medial entorhinal and perirhinal cortices. All three regions receive sensory associational input from postrhinal cortex, which, in turn, is heavily interconnected with visuospatial neocortical regions. The spatial selectivity of postrhinal cells, however, has never been examined. Here, we report the activity of neurons in postrhinal cortex of freely moving rats performing a spatial task on a four-arm radial maze. Data are also reported for visual association cortex neurons. The four-arm radial maze was defined by multisensory cues on the surfaces of the maze arms (proximal) and complex visual cues at the surround (distal). On each recording day, rats were run in three conditions: baseline, double cue rotation (proximal +90 degrees; distal -90 degrees ), and baseline. In this task, hippocampal place field activity is robust and can be controlled by proximal or distal cues. The majority of postrhinal neurons (64%) exhibited positional correlates during performance on the task; however, characteristics of these postrhinal cells were substantially different from those previously described for hippocampal place cells. Most postrhinal cells with firing fields exhibited split or multiple subfields (93%). Unlike hippocampal place fields, the large majority of postrhinal firing fields (84%) adopted new spatial correlates when experimental cues were rotated, but did so neither predictably nor concordantly. This is the first report of positional firing correlates in the postrhinal cortex. The data are consistent with the idea that postrhinal cortex participates in visuospatial functions by monitoring changes in environmental stimuli rather than encoding stable spatial cues. Thus, postrhinal neurons appear to participate in higher-level perceptual functions rather than mnemonic functions. We propose that the response properties of postrhinal neurons represent an early step in a spatial pathway that culminates in the specific and stable place fields of the hippocampus.
The biological clock that generates circadian rhythms in mammals is located within the suprachiasmatic nuclei at the base of the hypothalamus. The circadian clock is entrained to the daily light/dark cycle by photic information from the retina. The retinal input to the clock is inhibited by exogenously applied serotonin agonists, perhaps mimicking an endogenous inhibitory serotonergic input to the clock arriving from the midbrain raphe. In the present study, a unique class of serotonergic compounds was tested for its ability to modulate retinal input to the circadian clock. The serotonergic ligands 8-(2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-8-azaspiro(4.5)decane-7,9-dione dihydrochloride (BMY 7378), S 15535, and 8-[2-(1,4-benzodioxan-2-ylmethylamino)ethyl]-8-azaspiro[4.5]decane-7,9-dione hydrochloride (MDL 73005 EF) can all be classified as mixed agonists/antagonists at type 1A serotonin receptors. Circadian wheel-running activity rhythms were monitored in Syrian hamsters maintained in constant darkness. Dim white-light pulses administered to the hamsters at circadian time 19 advanced the phase of their running rhythms by 1-2 h. Injection of BMY 7378, S 15535, and to a lesser degree MDL 73005 EF, prior to the light pulses resulted in phase advances from 5 to 6 h, and by as much as 8 h. Neither BMY 7378 nor S 15535 had any effect on light-induced phase delays in hamster activity rhythms at circadian time 14. Further, BMY 7378 is able to phase advance circadian rhythms by approximately 1 h at night even without light exposure. Finally, the effects of BMY 7378 on circadian rhythms is opposite to that observed with the prototypical serotonin 1A agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(DI-n-propyl-amino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) (8-OH-DPAT elicits non-photic phase advances in the day and inhibits photic-induced phase advances at night). These results suggest that pharmacologically blocking raphe input to the suprachiasmatic circadian clock results in substantially larger photically induced phase advances in wheel-running rhythms. This is further evidence that raphe input to the circadian clock is probably acting to dampen the clock's response to light under certain conditions. The large-magnitude phase shifts, and temporal-activity profile seen with BMY 7378 and S 15535, suggest that compounds with this unique pharmacological profile may be beneficial in the treatment of circadian phase delays recently reported to be a complication resulting from Alzheimer's disease.
An abnormality in glutamate function has been implicated in the neural substrate of depressive disorders. To investigate this in rats, the Porsolt swim test was used to assess the role of glutamate in the nucleus accumbens. Glutamate injected into the nucleus accumbens dose-dependently decreased swimming time on the test day (day 2), whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists dizocilpine and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate increased swimming, like an antidepressant. Dizocilpine injected before the conditioning trial (day 1) did not modify the swimming times during the first day but abolished behavioral depression on day 2. Microdialysis coupled to capillary-zone electrophoresis was then used to determine in vivo changes in glutamate release in 1-min samples during the swim test. On day 1, glutamate increased significantly and reached a maximum of 222% after 3 min of swimming. On day 2, baseline glutamate levels were back to normal, but when the animal was placed in the water, glutamate increased to 419% during the first minute, and the animals swam significantly less. For comparison, tail pinch on consecutive days was used as a nonspecific, repeated stressor while accumbens glutamate levels were measured. Tail pinch on the first day increased glutamate similar to the effect obtained during the first day of swimming; however, a second day of tail pinch decreased glutamate levels, instead of the potentiated response observed during the second day of swimming. These results show that accumbens glutamate plays a role in causing the behavioral aspects of depressed behavior as modeled in the swim test. The accumbens may be a potential site of action for drugs that alter behavioral depression.
Tardive dyskinesia is a movement disorder that develops in 20-30% of patients treated with chronic neuroleptics. Whilst the pathogenesis of tardive dyskinesia remains unclear, altered expression of neuropeptides in the basal ganglia has been implicated in its emergence. The peptide neurotensin is expressed in both dopamine D1 receptor-bearing neurons of the direct striatonigral pathway and dopamine D2 receptor-bearing neurons of the indirect striatopallidal pathway. Increased levels of striatal neurotensin messenger RNA (mRNA) are reported following chronic neuroleptic therapy. Chronic treatment with the typical antipsychotic haloperidol elicits neurotensin immunoreactivity in a large number of striatopallidal and a modest number of striatonigral projection neurons, whilst treatment with the potent dopamine releaser, methamphetamine, induces intense neurotensin immunoreactivity in striatonigral projection neurons. In order to determine whether increased levels of striatal neurotensin mRNA in the direct striatonigral or the indirect striatopallidal pathway play a more influential role in the development of tardive dyskinesia, we explored the effects of a specific neurotensin antagonist in a rodent model (vacuous chewing movements [VCMs] induced by chronic neuroleptics). Three groups of animals received injections of fluphenazine decanoate (25 mg/kg) or its vehicle sesame oil every 3 weeks for at least 18 weeks. They were then surgically implanted with bilateral guide cannulae aimed at the striatum, the substantia nigra pars reticulata, or the globus pallidus respectively. After recovery, animals were infused with 2-[(1-(7-chloro-4-quinolinyl)-5-(2,6-imethoxyphenyl)pyrazol-3-yl)carbonylamino]tricyclo(3.3.1.1.(3.7))decan-2-carboxylic acid (SR48692; 0.25, 0.50, and 1.0 nmol/microl), or its vehicle (10% dimethyl sulfoxide [DMSO] in saline) and observed for 60 min. Intra-striatal, intra-nigral or intra-pallidal infusion of SR48692 attenuated neuroleptic-induced VCMs. These findings lend further support to a role for neurotensin in the development of VCMs but do not clarify which pathway plays a more important role. Thus, treatments that reduce or prevent the effects of increased neurotensin expression and release may be useful in the management of tardive dyskinesia.
Repetitive sound-induced seizures, known as audiogenic kindling (AK), gradually induce the transference of epileptic activity from brainstem to forebrain structures along with behavioral changes. The aim of our work was to correlate the behavioral changes observed during the AK with possible alterations in neuronal proliferation, cell death, hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting and in the EEG pattern of Wistar audiogenic rats, a genetically susceptible strain from our laboratory. Susceptible and non-susceptible animals were submitted to repeated sound stimulations for 14-16 days and hippocampal mitotic activity was studied through the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Cell death and mossy fiber sprouting were assessed, respectively, by using Fluoro-Jade and Timm staining, 2 and 32 days after the last kindling stimulation. In addition, we used immunofluorescent double labeling for a glial and a mitotic marker to evaluate newly born cell identity. Some animals had hippocampus and amygdala electrodes for EEG recordings. Our results show that kindled animals with 6-11 generalized limbic seizures (class IV-V) had increased cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus when compared with animals with zero or one to three seizures. BrdU-positive cells labeled on day 2 and on day 32 were both GFAP negative. In the later group, rounded and well-defined BrdU-positive/GFAP-negative nuclei were seen in different portions of the granule cell layer. We did not observe any Fluoro-Jade or differential Timm staining in kindled animals at both killing times. However, EEG recordings showed intense epileptic activity in the hippocampus and amygdala of all animals with limbic seizures.Therefore, our data indicate that AK-induced limbic epileptogenicity is able to increase the hippocampal mitotic rate, even though it does not seem to promote neuronal death or mossy fiber sprouting in the supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus.
To elucidate the brain mechanisms to encode sequential events, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a sound-sequence discrimination task using young and middle-aged adult subjects. In the task, a series of six or 12 kinds of natural sounds were sequentially presented; 70-80% of the stimuli were presented in a fixed order (Non-target), but the remaining stimuli, in a random order (Target). The subjects were instructed to detect the Targets and press a button at the end of each Target. In a control task, the same sounds were randomly presented (Control), and they were instructed to press the button at the end of each sound. Behavioral results indicated that the young subjects learned the task faster than did the middle-aged subjects. Positive ERP waves were evoked by Targets and Non-targets in the parieto-occipital area around 300-700 ms after stimulus onset. The mean amplitudes during this period in the young subjects were larger in Target than Control conditions, and those in Target condition were larger in the young than middle-aged subjects. Furthermore, the mean amplitudes in the Target condition were significantly correlated with behavioral performance. Equivalent dipoles for the ERPs evoked by Targets were estimated in the medial temporal lobe including the hippocampal formation and parahippocampal gyrus. The results suggest that the ERPs around 300-700 ms latency are involved in sound-sequence information processing. Furthermore, decrease in amplitudes of this positivity in the middle-aged subjects suggests that age-related memory decline is associated with deficits in encoding and retrieval of unfamiliar sequence.
The main olfactory bulb (MOB) is the first relay on the olfactory sensory pathway and the target of the neural progenitor cells generated in the subventricular zone (SVZ) lining the lateral ventricles and which migrate along the rostral extension of the SVZ, also called the rostral migratory stream (RMS). Within the MOB, the neuroblasts differentiate into granular and periglomerular interneurons. A reduction in the number of granule cells during sensory deprivation suggests that neurogenesis may be influenced by afferent activity. Here, we show that unilateral sensory deafferentation of the MOB by axotomy of the olfactory receptor neurons increases apoptotic cell death in the SVZ and along the rostro-caudal extent of the RMS. The vast majority of dying cells in the RMS are migrating neuroblasts as indicated by double Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick-end labeling/PSA-NCAM labeling. Counting bromodeoxyuridine-labeled cells in animals killed immediately or 4 days after tracer administration showed a bilateral increase in proliferation in the SVZ and RMS which was balanced by cell death on the operated side. These data suggest that olfactory inputs are required for the survival of newborn neural progenitors. The greatest enhancement in proliferation occurred in the extension of the RMS located in the MOB, revealing a population of local precursors mitotically stimulated following axotomy. Together, these findings indicate that olfactory inputs may strongly modulate the balance between neurogenesis and apoptosis in the SVZ and RMS and provide a model for further investigation of the underlying molecular mechanisms of this activity-dependent neuronal plasticity.
These studies examined the ability of the dopamine D1-like agonist SKF 81297 and D1-like antagonist SCH 23390 in the medial prefrontal cortex to alter the reinstatement of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference behavior. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fitted with bilateral cannulae over the medial prefrontal cortex and subsequently trained in a conditioned place preference task. Animals were trained in this task using four pairings of cocaine (12 mg/kg, i.p.). Conditioned place preference was demonstrated in all animals, and this behavior was then extinguished over a 5-10-day period before testing for reinstatement. Just prior to reinstatement by immobilization stress or a cocaine priming injection (5 mg/kg, i.p.), a microinjection of the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.01, 0.1 or 1.0 microg/side), or the D1-like receptor agonist SKF 81297 (0.1, 0.3 or 1.0 microg/side) was given into the medial prefrontal cortex. SCH 23390 blocked both stress- and cocaine-induced reinstatement of conditioned place preference after the two higher doses were administered into the medial prefrontal cortex. The highest dose of SKF 81297 (1.0 microg/side) prevented immobilization stress- but not cocaine-induced reinstatement. The highest dose of these drugs given in the absence of stress or cocaine did not produce reinstatement. The results indicate that immobilization stress given within the place-preference chamber is capable of producing reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The microinjection studies suggest that D1-like receptor antagonism within the prefrontal cortex is sufficient to block reinstatement by stress and cocaine. Furthermore, the results from D1-like receptor activation in the medial prefrontal cortex point to utilization of different neural pathways for stress- and cocaine-induced reinstatement.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) catalyses hydrolysis of the endocannabinoid arachidonoylethanolamide (&quot;anandamide&quot;) in vitro and regulates anandamide levels in the brain. In the cerebellar cortex, hippocampus and neocortex of the rat brain, FAAH is located in the somata and dendrites of neurons that are postsynaptic to axon fibers expressing the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor [Proc R Soc Lond B 265 (1998) 2081]. This complementary pattern of FAAH and CB(1) expression provided the basis for a hypothesis that endocannabinoids may function as retrograde signaling molecules at synapses in the brain [Proc R Soc Lond B 265 (1998) 2081; Phil Trans R Soc Lond 356 (2001) 381] and subsequent experimental studies have confirmed this [Science 296 (2002) 678]. To assess more widely the functions of FAAH in the brain and the potential impact of FAAH activity on the spatiotemporal dynamics of endocannabinoid signaling in different regions of the brain, here we have employed immunocytochemistry to compare the distribution of FAAH and CB(1) throughout the mouse brain, using FAAH(-/-) mice as negative controls to validate the specificity of FAAH-immunoreactivity observed in wild type animals. In many regions of the brain, a complementary pattern of FAAH and CB(1) expression was observed, with FAAH-immunoreactive neuronal somata and dendrites surrounded by CB(1)-immunoreactive fibers. In these regions of the brain, FAAH may regulate postsynaptic formation of anandamide, thereby influencing the spatiotemporal dynamics of retrograde endocannabinoid signaling. However, in some regions of the brain such as the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, CB(1) receptors are abundant but with little or no associated FAAH expression and in these brain regions the spatial impact and/or duration of endocannabinoid signaling may be less restricted than in regions enriched with FAAH. A more complex situation arises in several regions of the brain where both FAAH and CB(1) are expressed but in a non-complementary pattern, with FAAH located in neurons and/or oligodendrocytes that are proximal but not postsynaptic to CB(1)-expressing axon fibers. Here FAAH may nevertheless influence endocannabinoid signaling but more remotely. Finally, there are regions of the brain where FAAH-immunoreactive neurons and/or oligodendrocytes occur in the absence of CB(1)-immunoreactive fibers and here FAAH may be involved in regulation of signaling mediated by other endocannabinoid receptors or by receptors for other fatty acid amide signaling molecules. In conclusion, by comparing the distribution of FAAH and CB(1) in the mouse brain, we have provided a neuroanatomical framework for comparative analysis of the role of FAAH in regulation of the spatiotemporal dynamics of retrograde endocannabinoid signaling in different regions of the brain.
We have investigated the requirement of beta-adrenergic receptor activation and protein synthesis for the induction and specifically for the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus of freely moving rats in dependency on different LTP-induction procedures. Three tetanization paradigms were used: a relatively weak protocol A (10 bursts of 15 biphasic pulses at 200 Hz; 10-s interburst interval; 0.2-ms pulse width per phase), a stronger protocol B (as protocol A but 20 bursts and 0.25-ms pulse width) and, as the strongest condition, protocol C (2 times protocol B; inter-tetanus interval: 5 min). All protocols led to robust late-LTP in control animals. Late- but not early-LTP was protein synthesis-dependent under all tetanization conditions as indicated by the absence of long-lasting LTP when the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin was applied before tetanization. Application of the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol before LTP induction prevented late-LTP when either protocol A or B but not when protocol C was used. Thus, repeated strong tetanization can compensate for the loss of beta-adrenergic receptor activation. We suggest that the results could provide a link to cellular mechanisms of memory consolidation in respect to the strength and relevance of the incoming sensory information during learning.
The inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA is synthesized by glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), and two isoforms of this enzyme exist: GAD65 and GAD67. Immunocytochemical studies of the spinal cord have shown that whilst both are present in the dorsal horn, GAD67 is the predominant form in the ventral horn. The present study was carried out to determine the pattern of coexistence of the two GAD isoforms in axonal boutons in different laminae of the cord, and also to examine the relation of the GADs to the glycine transporter GLYT2 (a marker for glycinergic axons), since many spinal neurons are thought to use GABA and glycine as co-transmitters. Virtually all GAD-immunoreactive boutons throughout the spinal grey matter were labelled by both GAD65 and GAD67 antibodies; however, the relative intensity of staining with the two antibodies varied considerably. In the ventral horn, most immunoreactive boutons showed much stronger labelling with the GAD67 antibody, and many of these were also GLYT2 immunoreactive. However, clusters of boutons with high levels of GAD65 immunoreactivity were observed in the motor nuclei, and these were not labelled with the GLYT2 antibody. In the dorsal horn, some GAD-immunoreactive boutons had relatively high levels of labelling with either GAD65 or GAD67 antibody, whilst others showed a similar degree of labelling with both antibodies. GLYT2 immunoreactivity was associated with many GAD-immunoreactive boutons; however, this did not appear to be related to the pattern of GAD expression. It has recently been reported that there is selective depletion of GAD65, accompanied by a loss of GABAergic inhibition, in the ipsilateral dorsal horn in rats that have undergone peripheral nerve injuries [J Neurosci 22 (2002) 6724]. Our finding that some boutons in the superficial laminae showed relatively high levels of GAD65 and low levels of GAD67 immunoreactivity is therefore significant, since a reduction in GABA synthesis in these axons may contribute to neuropathic pain.
The effects of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation on non-dopamine (putative GABAergic) neurons and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the ventral tegmental area were examined using intracellular recordings from rat midbrain slices. Perfusion of (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (t-ACPD; agonist for group I and II mGluRs), but not L-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4; agonist for group III mGluRs), produced membrane depolarization (current clamp) and inward current (voltage clamp) in non-dopamine neurons. The t-ACPD-induced depolarization was concentration-dependent (concentration producing 50% maximal depolarization [EC(50)]=6.1+/-2.5 microM), and was blocked by the antagonist (+/-)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, but not by tetrodotoxin and ionotropic glutamate-receptor antagonists. The t-ACPD-evoked responses were mimicked comparably by selective group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). Furthermore, the DHPG-induced depolarization in non-dopamine neurons was greatly reduced by mGluR1-specific antagonist 7(hydroxyimino)cyclopropachromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester. When recorded in dopamine neurons, the frequency of spontaneous GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was increased by t-ACPD but not L-AP4. However, the amplitude of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents in dopamine neurons was reduced by all three group mGluR agonists. These results reveal a dual modulation of mGLuR activation on inhibitory transmission in midbrain ventral tegmental area: enhancing putative GABAergic neuronal excitability and thus potentiating tonic inhibitory synaptic transmission while reducing evoked synaptic transmission at inhibitory terminals.
The adult dental pulp is innervated by sensory trigeminal axons and efferent sympathetic axons. Rat trigeminal ganglia extend neurites when co-cultivated in vitro with pulpal tissue explants, suggesting that pulpal cells secrete soluble molecules that stimulate the growth of trigeminal ganglion axons. In addition, cultured pulpal cells produce mRNAs for neurotrophins and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-family members. These data suggest that neurotrophic factors are involved in the formation of a pulpal innervation. Here, we examine how pulpal cells and 3T3 fibroblasts overexpressing certain neurotrophic factors (nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor or neurturin) influence survival and growth of single trigeminal ganglion neurones in vitro in quantitative terms. The results show that most of the neurotrophic factor-overexpressing fibroblasts induce similar neuronal soma diameters, but higher survival rates and neurite lengths compared with pulpal cells. With respect to neurite growth pattern, trigeminal ganglion neurones co-cultured with fibroblasts overexpressing nerve growth factor develop a geometry that is most similar to that seen in co-cultures with pulpal cells. We conclude that none of the fibroblasts overexpressing neurotrophic factors can fully mimic the effects of pulpal cells on trigeminal ganglion neurones, and that nerve growth factor promotes a neurite growth pattern most similar to the picture seen in co-cultures with pulpal cells.
Although the potential vulnerability of the postnatally developing brain toward adverse environmental influences is generally recognized, relatively little is known about the basic mechanisms involved. The plasticity and adaptability of the postnatally developing brain in response to adverse emotional experiences was analyzed in the South American Octodon degus. Our study revealed that repeated brief separation from the parents and exposure to an unfamiliar environment induces an up-regulation of dopamine (D1) and 5-hydroxytrytamine (5HT1(A))-receptor density in the precentral medial, anterior cingulate, prelimbic and infralimbic cortices in female pups. No significant changes of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor density were found in deprived animals of both genders. The acoustic presence of the mother during parental separation suppressed the D1-receptor up-regulation as well as the 5-HT1(A)-receptor up-regulation, again only in the female pups. These results demonstrate that that early adverse emotional experience alters aminergic function within the prefrontal cortex in the female but not the male brain. The mother's voice, a powerful emotional signal, can protect the developing cortex from separation-induced receptor changes.
Mutations in several classes of embryonically-expressed transcription factor genes are associated with behavioral disorders and epilepsies. However, there is little known about how such genetic and neurodevelopmental defects lead to brain dysfunction. Here we present the characterization of an epilepsy syndrome caused by the absence of the transcription factor SOX1 in mice. In vivo electroencephalographic recordings from SOX1 mutants established a correlation between behavioral changes and cortical output that was consistent with a seizure origin in the limbic forebrain. In vitro intracellular recordings from three major forebrain regions, neocortex, hippocampus and olfactory (piriform) cortex (OC) showed that only the OC exhibits abnormal enhanced synaptic excitability and spontaneous epileptiform discharges. Furthermore, the hyperexcitability of the OC neurons was present in mutants prior to the onset of seizures but was completely absent from both the hippocampus and neocortex of the same animals. The local inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission remained normal in the OC of SOX1-deficient brains, but there was a severe developmental deficit of OC postsynaptic target neurons, mainly GABAergic projection neurons within the olfactory tubercle and the nucleus accumbens shell. Our data show that SOX1 is essential for ventral telencephalic development and suggest that the neurodevelopmental defect disrupts local neuronal circuits leading to epilepsy in the SOX1-deficient mice.
Amyloid beta, the major constituent of the senile plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, is cytotoxic to neurons and has a central role in the pathogenesis of the disease. We have previously demonstrated that potent antioxidants idebenone and alpha-tocopherol prevent learning and memory impairment in rats which received a continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of amyloid beta, suggesting a role for oxidative stress in amyloid beta-induced learning and memory impairment. To test the hypothesis, in the present study, we investigated alterations in the immunoreactivity of endogenous antioxidant systems such as mitochondrial Mn-superoxide dismutase, glutathione, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase following the continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of amyloid beta for 2 weeks. The infusion of amyloid beta (1-42) resulted in a significant reduction of the immunoreactivity of these antioxidant substances in such brain areas as the hippocampus, parietal cortex, piriform cortex, substantia nigra and thalamus although the same treatment with amyloid beta (40-1) had little effect. The alterations induced by amyloid beta (1-42) were not uniform, but rather specific for each immunoreactive substance in a brain region-dependent manner. These results demonstrate a cytological effect of oxidative stress induced by amyloid beta (1-42) infusion. Furthermore, our findings may indicate a heterogeneous susceptibility to the oxidative stress produced by amyloid beta.
Understanding the regulation of the apoptotic program in neurons by intracellular pathways is currently a subject of great interest. Recent results suggest that c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK), mitogen-activated protein kinases and the transcription factor c-Jun are important regulators of this cell death program in post-mitotic neurons following survival-factor withdrawal. Our study demonstrates that ceramide levels increase upon survival-factor withdrawal in primary cultured cortical neurons. Furthermore, survival-factor withdrawal or addition of exogenous c(2)-ceramide induces JNK pathway activation in these cells. Western blot analyses of JNK and c-Jun using phospho-specific antibodies reveal that JNK and subsequent c-Jun phosphorylation occur hours before the initiation of apoptosis, reflected morphologically by neurite retraction and fragmentation, cell-body shrinkage and chromatin fragmentation. Immunocytochemistry using the same antibodies shows that phospho-JNK are localized in the neurites of control neurons and translocate to the nucleus where phospho-c-Jun concurrently appears upon ceramide-induced apoptosis. To determine if ceramide-induced c-Jun activation is responsible for the induction of the apoptotic program, we performed transient transfections of a dominant negative form of c-Jun, truncated in its transactivation region. Our results show that DNc-Jun partially protects cortical neurons from ceramide-induced apoptosis. Treatment of dominant negative c-Jun-expressing neurons with the pharmacological inhibitor of p38 kinase, SB203580, completely blocked neuronal death. Thus our data show that p38 and JNK/c-Jun pathways cooperate to induce neuronal apoptosis.
The expression of the apoptosis inducer Fas (CD95/APO-1) surface receptor by human foetal neurons was investigated in vitro and ex vivo. Immunofluorescence studies of brain and spinal cord cells in primary cultures and of cryosections obtained from 9- and 10-week-old human foetuses, respectively, showed that all Fas-expressing cells were motoneurons (5.3 and 4.2% of the neurons in brain or spinal cord cultures, respectively) on the basis of morphology, reactivity with the monoclonal antibody SMI-32, a mostly motoneuronal marker and acetylcholine esterase expression. Fas was undetectable on the other cell types in culture. The ability of Fas to induce apoptosis of cultured cells from both tissues was determined by using the terminal transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) method combined with the same double-staining procedure. Under basal culture conditions, about 9% of cells, all glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing astrocytes, were apoptotic. After a 48-h incubation with Fas ligand, mean 28.5% of brain motoneurons and 29.4% of spinal motoneurons underwent apoptosis, with an inhibition by Z-IETD-FMK, a caspase-8 inhibitor. Hence, Fas appears to be functional through a caspase-8-dependent pathway in a subpopulation of human foetal motoneurons.
We have conducted studies to determine the potential of dietary factors to affect the capacity of the brain to compensate for insult. Rats were fed with a high-fat sucrose (HFS) diet, a popularly consumed diet in industrialized western societies, for 4 weeks before a mild fluid percussion injury (FPI) or sham surgery was performed. FPI impaired spatial learning capacity in the Morris water maze, and these effects were aggravated by previous exposure of the rats to the action of the HFS diet. Learning performance decreased according to levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in individual rats, such that rats with the worst learning efficacy showed the lowest levels of BDNF in the hippocampus. BDNF immunohistochemistry localized the decreases in BDNF to the CA3 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. BDNF has a strong effect on synaptic plasticity via the action of synapsin I and cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB), therefore, we assessed changes in synapsin I and CREB in conjunction with BDNF. Levels of synapsin I and CREB decreased in relation to decreases in BDNF levels. The combination of FPI and the HFS diet had more dramatic effects on the active state (phosphorylated) of synapsin I and CREB. There were no signs of neurodegeneration in the hippocampus of any rat group assessed with Fluoro-Jade B staining. The results suggest that FPI and diet impose a risk factor to the molecular machinery in charge of maintaining neuronal function under homeostatic and challenging situations.
Pyramidal cells receive input from several types of GABA-releasing interneurons and innervate them reciprocally. Glutamatergic activation of interneurons involves both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors expressed in type I synapses, mostly on their dendritic shafts. On average, the synaptic AMPA receptor content is several times higher on interneurons than in the spines of pyramidal cells. To compare the NMDA receptor content of synapses, we used a quantitative postembedding immunogold technique on serial electron microscopic sections, and analysed the synapses on interneuron dendrites and pyramidal cell spines in the CA1 area. Because all NMDA receptors contain the obligatory NR1 subunit, receptor localisation was carried out using antibodies recognising all splice variants of the NR1 subunit. Four populations of synapse were examined: i). on spines of pyramidal cells in stratum (str.) radiatum and str. oriens; ii). on parvalbumin-positive interneuronal dendritic shafts in str. radiatum; iii). on randomly found dendritic shafts in str. oriens and iv). on somatostatin-positive interneuronal dendritic shafts and somata in str. oriens. On average, the size of the synapses on spines was about half of those on interneurons. The four populations of synapse significantly differed in labelling for the NR1 subunit. The median density of NR1 subunit labelling was highest on pyramidal cell spines. It was lowest in the synapses on parvalbumin-positive dendrites in str. radiatum, where more than half of these synapses were immunonegative. In str. oriens, synapses on interneurons had a high variability of receptor content; some dendrites were similar to those in str. radiatum, including the proximal synapses of somatostatin-positive cells, whereas others had immunoreactivity for the NR1 subunit similar to or higher than synapses on pyramidal cell spines. These results show that synaptic NMDA receptor density differs between pyramidal cells and interneurons. Some interneurons may have a high NMDA receptor content, whereas others, like some parvalbumin-expressing cells, a particularly low synaptic NMDA receptor content. Consequently, fast glutamatergic activation of interneurons is expected to show cell type-specific time course and state-dependent dynamics.
This work addresses the presence, pharmacological properties, and anatomical localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide-alpha (CGRPalpha) binding sites and the receptor's accessory proteins in endplate-enriched and non-endplate muscle membrane samples from adult rat gracilis muscles. We examined the binding of (125)I-[Tyr(0)]-CGRPalpha, the competitive binding of CGRPalpha analogs, the immunohistochemical localization of the receptor's accessory proteins, and Western blots of the receptor component protein. Results show that: (a). (125)I-[Tyr(0)]-CGRPalpha binding is saturable, specific, and consistent with the presence of a homogeneous population of binding sites (Hill coefficients=1.0) in endplate and non-endplate samples exhibiting dissociation constants of 0.39 nM and 0.38 nM, respectively; (b). the density of binding sites in the endplate samples (71.0 fmoles/mg protein) is considerably higher than that in their non-endplate counterparts (34.6 fmoles/mg protein); (c). unlabeled CGRPalpha, hCGRP8-37 and calcitonin compete with the radioligand with the same order of potency in the endplate and non-endplate samples; and (d). the localization of the receptor accessory proteins, including the receptor activity-modifying protein (RAMP1) and the receptor component protein (RCP), for the most part matches that of the motor end-plates. Thus, gracilis muscles express CGRPalpha-specific binding sites which are predominantly localized in the muscle's motor endplate regions where RAMP1, RCP, CGRPalpha, acetylcholine receptors, and acetylcholinesterase are detected in high concentrations. These findings imply that the CGRPalpha binding sites reflect the presence of physiologically functional receptors with a pharmacological profile consistent with that of the CGRPalpha receptor type 1 (CGRP1). When considered together with earlier studies on the same neuromuscular preparation, the present work further suggests that the motoneuron-dependent trophic control of acetylcholine receptors and acetylcholinesterase in skeletal muscle endplates is partly mediated by nerve-derived CGRPalpha activating specific receptors which are highly sensitive to the truncated peptide hCGRP8-37.
Status epilepticus (S.E.) is known to lead to a large number of changes in the expression of voltage-dependent ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. In the present study, we examined whether an episode of S.E. induced by pilocarpine in vivo alters functional properties and expression of voltage-gated Na(+) channels in dentate granule cells (DGCs) of the rat hippocampus. Using patch-clamp recordings in isolated DGCs, we show that the voltage-dependent inactivation curve is significantly shifted toward depolarizing potentials following S.E. (half-maximal inactivation at -43.2+/-0.6 mV) when compared with control rats (-48.2+/-0.8 mV, P&lt;0.0001). The voltage-dependent activation curve is significantly shifted to more negative potentials following S.E., with half-maximal activation at -28.6+/-0.8 mV compared with -25.8+/-0.9 mV in control animals (P&lt;0.05). The changes in voltage dependence resulted in an augmented window current due to increased overlap between the activation and inactivation curve. In contrast to Na(+) channel voltage-dependence, S.E. caused no changes in the kinetics of fast or slow recovery from inactivation. The functional changes were accompanied by altered expression of Na(+) channel subunits measured by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in dentate gyrus microslices. We investigated expression of the pore-forming alpha subunits Na(v)1.1-Na(v)1.3 and Na(v)1.5-Na(v)1.6, in addition to the accessory subunits beta(1) and beta(2). The Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.6 subunit as well as the beta(1) subunit were persistently down-regulated up to 30 days following S.E. The beta(2) subunit was transiently down-regulated on the first and third day following S.E. These results indicate that differential changes in Na(+) channel subunit expression occur in concert with functional changes. Because coexpression of beta subunits is known to robustly shift the voltage dependence of inactivation in a hyperpolarizing direction, we speculate that a down-regulation of beta-subunit expression may contribute to the depolarizing shift in the inactivation curve following S.E.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus can be modulated and prolonged by emotional/motivational influences when concurrently activated. A similar effect on LTP can be obtained by stimulating the amygdala, suggesting that this limbic structure might be part of the neural system involved in behavioural reinforcement. To confirm this we have performed a series of experiments in which the basolateral amygdala was either temporary inactivated by injection of lidocaine or permanently lesioned electrolytically. Both manipulations completely blocked the reinforcing effect of a motivational stimulus (drinking after 24-h deprivation) on LTP at the perforant pathway-dentate gyrus synapses, whilst leaving intact the non-reinforced potentiation. These results demonstrate that the basolateral amygdala is a key structure within the system involved in the modulatory interaction between the affective status of the animal and the mechanisms of functional plasticity.
Dopamine and endocannabinoids are neurotransmitters known to play a role in the activity of the basal ganglia motor circuit. While a number of studies have demonstrated functional interactions between type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptors and dopaminergic systems, we still lack detailed neuroanatomical evidence to explain their relationship. Single- and double-labeling methods (in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry) were employed to determine both the expression and localization of CB1 receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the basal ganglia. In the striatum, we found an intense signal for CB1 receptor transcripts but low signal for CB1 receptor protein, whereas in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra we found the opposite; no hybridization signal but intense immunoreactivity. Consequently, CB1 receptors are synthesized in the striatum and mostly transported to its target areas. No co-expression or co-localization of CB1 receptors and TH was found. In the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra, TH-immunoreactive fibers were interwoven with the CB1 receptor-immunoreactive neuropil and fibers. Our data suggest that the majority of the striatal CB1 receptors are located presynaptically on inhibitory GABAergic terminals, in a position to modulate neurotransmitter release and influence the activity of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. In turn, afferent dopaminergic fibers from the substantia nigra innervate CB1 receptor-expressing striatal neurons that are known to also express dopamine receptors. In conclusion, these data provide a neuroanatomical basis to explain functional interactions between endocannabinoid and dopaminergic systems in the basal ganglia.
The present study is designed to elucidate how basal ganglia afferents from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) to the mesopontine tegmental area of the brainstem contribute to gait control and muscle-tone regulation. We used unanesthetized and acutely decerebrated cats (n=27) in which the striatum, thalamus and cerebral cortex were removed but the SNr was preserved. Repetitive stimulation (50 Hz, 10-60 microA, for 5-20 s) applied to a mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR), which corresponded to the cuneiform nucleus, and adjacent areas, evoked locomotor movements. On the other hand, stimulation of a muscle-tone inhibitory region in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) suppressed postural muscle tone. An injection of either glutamatergic agonists (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and kainic acid) or GABA antagonists (bicuculline and picrotoxin) into the MLR and PPN also induced locomotion and muscle-tone suppression, respectively. Repetitive electrical stimuli (50-100 Hz, 20-60 microA for 5-20 s) delivered to the SNr alone did not alter muscular activity. However stimulating the lateral part of the SNr attenuated and blocked PPN-induced muscle-tone suppression. Moreover, weaker stimulation of the medial part of the SNr reduced the number of step cycles and disturbed the rhythmic alternation of limb movements of MLR-induced locomotion. The onset of locomotion was delayed as the stimulus intensity was increased. At a higher strength SNr stimulation abolished the locomotion. An injection of bicuculline into either the PPN or the MLR diminished the SNr effects noted above. These results suggest that locomotion and postural muscle tone are subject to modulation by GABAergic nigrotegmental projections which have a partial functional topography: a lateral and medial SNr, for regulation of postural muscle tone and locomotion, respectively. We conclude that disorders of the basal ganglia may include dysfunction of the nigrotegmental (basal ganglia-brainstem) systems, which consequently leads to the production of abnormal muscle tone and gait disturbance.
Field-potential recordings with macroelectrodes, and extra- and intracellular potentials with micropipettes were used to determine the influence of spontaneous field potentials on the activity of neocortical neurons during seizures. In vivo experiments were carried out in cats under anesthesia. Strong negative field fluctuations of up to 20 mV were associated with electroencephalogram &quot;spikes&quot; during spontaneously occurring paroxysmal activities. During paroxysmal events, action potentials displayed an unexpected behavior: a more hyperpolarized firing threshold and smaller amplitude than during normal activity, as determined with intracellular recordings referenced to a distant ground. Considering the transmembrane potential (the difference between extra- and intracellular potential) qualified this observation: firing threshold determined from the transmembrane potential did not decrease, and smaller action-potential amplitude was associated with depolarized firing threshold. The hyperpolarization of intracellular firing threshold was thus related to the field potentials. Similar field-potential effects on neuronal activities were observed when the paroxysmal events included very fast oscillations or ripples (80-200 Hz) that represent rapid fluctuations of field potentials (up to 5 mV in &lt;5 ms). Neuronal firing was phase-locked to those oscillations. These results demonstrate that: (a) strong spontaneous field potentials influence neuronal behavior, and thus play an active role during paroxysmal activities; and (b) transmembrane potentials have to be used to accurately describe the behavior of neurons in conditions in which field potentials fluctuate strongly. Since neuronal activity is presumably the main generator of field potentials, and in return these potentials may increase neuronal excitability, we propose that this constitutes a positive feedback loop that is involved in the development and spread of paroxysmal activities, and that a similar feedback loop is involved in the generation of neocortical ripples. We propose a mechanism for seizure initiation involving these phenomena.
GABA, which generally mediates inhibitory synaptic transmissions, occasionally acts as an excitatory transmitter through intense GABA(A) receptor activation even in adult animals. The excitatory effect results from alterations in the gradients of chloride, bicarbonate, and potassium ions, but its functional role still remains a mystery. Here we show that such GABAergic excitation participates in the expression of seizure-like rhythmic synchronization (afterdischarge) in the mature hippocampal CA1 region. Seizure-like afterdischarge was induced by high-frequency synaptic stimulation in the rat hippocampal CA1-isolated slice preparations. The hippocampal afterdischarge was completely blocked by selective antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors or of GABA(A) receptor, and also by gap-junction inhibitors. In the CA1 pyramidal cells, oscillatory depolarizing responses during the afterdischarge were largely dependent on chloride conductance, and their reversal potentials (average -38 mV) were very close to those of exogenously applied GABAergic responses. Moreover, intracellular loading of the GABA(A) receptor blocker fluoride abolished the oscillatory responses in the pyramidal cells. Finally, the GABAergic excitation-driven afterdischarge has not been inducible until the second postnatal week. Thus, excitatory GABAergic transmission seems to play an active functional role in the generation of adult hippocampal afterdischarge, in cooperation with glutamatergic transmissions and possible gap junctional communications. Our findings may elucidate the cellular mechanism of neuronal synchronization during seizure activity in temporal lobe epilepsy.
The process of sex reversal in fishes is socially mediated and requires a total reorganization of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis. When the ratio of males to females in a population of saddleback wrasse (Thalassoma dupperrey) is too low, the largest female becomes male over the course of 6 to 8 weeks. This event requires the conversion of external social cues into internal chemical cues. In an attempt to investigate the role monoamines might play in this process, two females were housed together in floating enclosures in order to induce sex reversal in the larger. Brains were sampled at various time points throughout the process of sex reversal. Monoamines were measured in the amygdala, preoptic area, ventral hypothalamus, locus coeruleus and raphe nucleus. Changes were demonstrated in monoamine metabolism for all brain regions examined. The most important changes in monoamine-system activation were seen during the first week of sex reversal. It is during this time that transitional animals undergo behavioral sex reversal. There is an increase in serotonergic activity in the amygdala which is likely related to territorial acquisition. The absence of male aggression results in a less stressful environment for the female and a reduction in serotonergic activity in the preoptic area allowing for an increase in noradrenergic activity potentially triggering the reorganization of the reproductive axis. In the ventral hypothalamus, there is a decrease in noradrenergic and increase in dopaminergic activity associated with this change from female to male. The locus coeruleus shows an increase in noradrenergic activity later in the process of sex reversal which is probably a response to more circulating androgens. In the raphe nucleus, there is a decrease in serotonergic activity at the time of behavioral sex reversal. This decrease in serotonergic activity is linked to the behavioral component of sex reversal. This study suggests that monoamines play a very important role in both behavioral and gonadal sex reversal in the saddleback wrasse, the former under the control of serotonin in the raphe and the latter mediated via serotonergic effects on norepinephrine in the preoptic area.
Peripheral administration of naloxone is known to produce a conditioned place aversion and to block cocaine-induced conditioned place preference. The ventral pallidum receives a dense enkephalinergic projection from the nucleus accumbens and is implicated as a locus mediating the rewarding and reinforcing effects of psychostimulant and opiate drugs. We sought to provide evidence for the involvement of pallidal opioid receptors in modulating affective state using the place-conditioning paradigm. Microinjection of naloxone (0.01-10 microg) into the ventral pallidum once a day for 3 days dose-dependently produced a conditioned place aversion when tested in the drug-free state 24 h after the last naloxone injection. This effect was reproduced using the mu-opioid receptor selective agonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP, 1 microg). Locomotor activity was reduced following injection of the highest dose of naloxone (10 microg) but elevated following CTOP (1 microg). Daily injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg) for 3 days produced a conditioned place preference 24 h later. This effect of cocaine was attenuated by concomitant intra-ventral pallidal injection of naloxone at a dose (0.01 microg) that had no significant aversive property when injected alone. In contrast, the locomotor activation induced by peripheral cocaine injection was unaffected by naloxone injection into the ventral pallidum. The data implicate endogenous opioid peptide systems within the ventral pallidum as regulators of hedonic status.
Rearing rats in social isolation from weaning into adulthood leads to deficits in prepulse inhibition and alterations in monoamine systems that modulate prepulse inhibition. For example, rats reared in social isolation have elevated dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Previous studies in rats have shown that nucleus accumbens dopamine depletion with 6-hydroxydopamine blocks the prepulse inhibition-disruptive effects of amphetamine, an indirect dopamine agonist. We tested the hypothesis that prepulse-inhibition deficits in isolation-reared rats are dependent on elevated dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Specifically, we examined whether nucleus accumbens dopamine depletion would attenuate the isolation-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition. Isolation-housed female Long-Evans rats exhibited deficient prepulse inhibition. At 9 weeks post weaning, bilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (8 microg/side) or ascorbic acid vehicle (0.1%) into the nucleus accumbens of social and isolation-reared rats were performed (8-10 rats per group). One week after surgery, prepulse inhibition deficits were exhibited by isolation-reared rats that received vehicle infusion into the nucleus accumbens, but not by those that received 6-hydroxydopamine infusions into the nucleus accumbens. 6-Hydroxydopamine infusions did not significantly change prepulse inhibition in socially reared rats. Behavioral and neurochemical evidence of nucleus accumbens dopamine depletion included: 1) a blockade of amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity in nucleus accumbens 6-hydroxydopamine-infused isolated and socially reared rats; and 2) high performance liquid chromatography measurements demonstrating a significant depletion of accumbens dopamine and its major metabolites, in addition to decreases in dopamine, homovanillic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the frontal cortex and anterior caudate. These data indicate that dopamine in the nucleus accumbens plays an essential role in the prepulse inhibition deficits associated with isolation rearing in female Long-Evans rats. The implication of a central role of nucleus accumbens dopamine in prepulse inhibition deficits in an animal model provides further evidence for a link between overactive dopamine function and sensorimotor-gating deficits in patients with schizophrenia.
Destruction of neurons in the superficial dorsal horn that express substance P receptor (NK-1R) has been reported to block development of behavioral hypersensitivity following peripheral sensitization of nociceptors. Baseline sensitivity was not altered in these rat models that assessed innate reflex responses (i.e. hind-paw withdrawal to thermal or mechanical stimulation). In the present study, we evaluated effects of intrathecal substance P-saporin (SP-sap), a toxin selective for cells expressing NK-1R, on operant escape responses of rats to thermal stimulation. For comparison, lick/guard reflex testing was performed. Injection of a modest dose (175 ng) of SP-sap into the lumbar subarachnoid space produced a partial loss of lamina I/II NK-1R-expressing dorsal horn neurons but did not affect NK-1R-expressing neurons in deeper laminae. Lick/guard responses to 0.3, 44 or 47 degrees C were not affected after SP-sap treatment, but escape responses to these temperatures were significantly attenuated. Three hours after application of mustard oil to the dorsal surface of both hind paws, escape from 44 degrees C was enhanced for controls but not SP-sap-treated rats. Lick/guard responses were enhanced by mustard oil for both SP-sap and control animals. Administration of morphine (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) before testing decreased escape responding at 47 degrees C for both controls and SP-sap rats. Thus, partial loss of NK-1R-expressing neurons in the superficial dorsal horn attenuated thermal nociceptive sensitivity and prevented secondary hyperalgesia when studied with an operant algesia assay, in contrast to innate reflexes which were less sensitive to modification by intrathecal SP-sap.
The vagus nerve modulates nociception by a mechanism dependent upon gonadal hormones and the adrenal medulla. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that this modulation is dynamically controlled by physiological stimulation of structures innervated by the subdiaphragmatic vagus. Specifically, food deprivation (fasting) was employed to increase activity in the subdiaphragmatic vagus, and the experiments were performed mainly in female rats because our previous observations suggested that baseline activity in the pathway is lower in females than in males. Consistent with the hypothesis, after a 48-h fast, female rats exhibited increased nociceptive behavior in the formalin test. In contrast, fasting had no effect on formalin-evoked nociceptive behavior in male rats. The fasting-induced effect on nociception appears to be mediated by the vagus nerve since it is prevented by subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Also similar to the previously characterized vagus-mediated modulation, the effect of fasting in the female is blocked by gonadectomy or adrenal medullectomy, and hormone replacement with 17beta-estradiol in gonadectomized female rats restored the effect of fasting. Decreased glucose metabolism apparently does not play a significant role in the effect of fasting on nociception, since the effect was unchanged when 5% glucose was provided in the drinking water throughout the fasting period. On the other hand, increasing the bulk content of the stomach (without providing nutrients) by infusion of petrolatum significantly attenuated the effect of fasting during the interphase period of the formalin response, suggesting that decreased gut distention, and possibly motility, are important in fasting-induced enhancement of nociception. These results indicate that fasting is a physiological activator of the vagus-mediated pain modulation pathway. This suggests the possibility that, especially in females, natural periodic changes in gut distention and motility may control an ongoing vagus-mediated adjustment in the organism's nociceptive sensitivity.
Arterial baroreceptor and skeletal muscle receptor afferents relay sensory information to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) during exercise. Previous studies have suggested that skeletal muscle afferent input inhibits baroreflex function; however, detailed information on the role of muscle afferents and GABAergic mechanisms in the NTS is limited. Furthermore, identification of specific afferent modalities that activate GABAergic neurons in the NTS remains unknown. In the present study, we examined the neuroanatomical and physiological interactions between spinal dorsal horn cells that transmit contraction-sensitive input from skeletal muscle and GABAergic interneurons in the NTS. Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA, 10%, 25-100 nL) microinjection into dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord was combined with glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) immunohistochemistry to visualize the nature of the relationship of BDA-labeled fibers in the NTS with GAD immunoreactivity (GAD-ir). BDA-labeled axons and terminal processes were localized in the medial, commissural, dorsomedial and dorsolateral subdivisions of the caudal NTS. Moreover, BDA-labeled fibers were observed in close proximity to GAD-ir structures throughout these regions of the NTS. The physiological interaction between skeletal muscle receptor and arterial baroreceptor afferents was investigated using an arterially perfused, decerebrate rat preparation. Activation of skeletal muscle afferents by electrically evoked twitch contraction of the forelimb attenuated baroreflex responsiveness (BR, calculated as the ratio of changes in heart rate to systemic pressure) from -1.5+/-0.3 bpm.mm Hg(-1) to -0.1+/-0.1 bpm.mm Hg(-1) (control versus contraction, P&lt;0.05, n=15). However, forelimb contraction failed to inhibit the reflex bradycardia evoked by activation of peripheral chemoreceptor afferents, indicating a reflex-specific action. Bilateral microinjection of bicuculline methiodide (BIC, 10 microM, 40-60 nL) into the caudal NTS restored baroreflex responsiveness during contraction (-1.6+/-0.2 versus -0.1+/-0.1 versus -1.5+/-0.2 bpm.mmHg(-1), control versus contraction versus contraction+BIC P&lt;0.05, n=8). We conclude that activation of ascending spinal neurons from the cervical dorsal horn by contraction-sensitive skeletal muscle afferents selectively inhibits arterial baroreceptor signaling in the NTS via activation of a GABAergic mechanism.
To study the effect of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) in isolated frog vomeronasal microvillar receptor neurones, whole-cell recordings were performed with 0.5 microM caged IP(3) dissolved in the pipette solution. IP(3) was released by photolysis of caged IP(3) initiated by a 0.8-ms ultraviolet flash from a xenon flash lamp 70 s after the start of dialysis of caged IP(3) into the cell. Flash illuminating the whole receptor neurone with caged IP(3) triggered action potentials when the current was clamped at zero and a series of transient inward currents of 12-55 pA at a holding potential of -70 mV. The average number of spikes during the first 40 s after release of IP(3) was 7.2+/-2.5 (n=6, mean+/-S.E.M.). The average maximum current and the total inward transport of charge during the first 40 s after photolysis of caged IP(3) were -24+/-8.0 pA and -1.7+/-0.8 pC, respectively (n=5, mean+/-S.E.M.). Inward membrane currents of 12-55 pA after release of IP(3) were not observed with 50 microM La(3+) in the bath. Notably, flash focused on the terminal vesicle also triggered action potentials. No action potentials were observed following flash focused on the soma or outside the dendrite. The average number of spikes during the first 40 s after release of IP(3) initiated by flash spatially restricted to the terminal vesicle was 5.0+/-2.0 (n=4, mean+/-S.E.M.).The present study indicates that local release of IP(3) in the terminal vesicle of the vomeronasal neurones triggers transient depolarizations and induces action potentials. We suggest that IP(3) might be a second messenger in the vomeronasal microvillar receptor neurones.
We have assessed the expression and kinetics of voltage-gated K(+) currents in cardiac dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in rats. The neurons were labelled by prior injection of a fluorescent tracer into the pericardial sack. Ninety-nine neurons were labelled: 24% small (diameter&lt;30 microm), 66% medium-sized (diameter 30 microm&gt;.48 microm) and 10% large (&gt;48 microm) neurons. Current recordings were performed in small and medium-sized neurons. The kinetic and pharmacological properties of K(+) currents recorded in these two groups of neurons were identical and the results obtained from these neurons were pooled. Three types of K(+) currents were identified:a) I(As), slowly activating and slowly time-dependently inactivating current, with V(1/2) of activation -18 mV and current density at +30 mV equal to 164 pA/pF, V(1/2) of inactivation at -84 mV. b) I(Af) current, fast activating and fast time-dependently inactivating current, with V(1/2) of activation at two mV and current density at +30 mV equal to 180 pA/pF, V(1/2) of inactivation at -26 mV. At resting membrane potential I(As) was inactivated, whilst I(Af), available for activation. The I(As) currents recovered faster from inactivation than I(Af) current. 4-Aminopiridyne (4-AP) (10 mM) and tetraethylammonium (TEA) (100 mM) produced 98% and 92% reductions of I(Af) current, respectively and 27% and 66% of I(As) current, respectively. c) The I(K) current that did not inactivate over time. Its V(1/2) of activation was -11 mV and its current density equaled 67 pA/pF. This current was inhibited by 95% (100 mM) TEA, whilst 4-AP (10 mM) produced its 23% reduction. All three K(+) current components (I(As), I(Af) and I(K)) were present in every small and medium-sized cardiac DRG neuron. We suggest that at hyperpolarized membrane potentials the fast reactivating I(As) current limits the action potential firing rate of cardiac DRG neurons. At depolarised membrane potentials the I(Af) K(+) current, the reactivation of which is very slow, does not oppose the firing rate of cardiac DRG neurons.
Two experiments were carried out to evaluate the effects of amphetamine withdrawal in rats on spatial learning in the water maze. A schedule of repeated d-amphetamine administration lasting for 6 days, with three injections per day (1-5 mg/kg, i.p.), was employed. Experiment 1 demonstrated that amphetamine withdrawal did not impair the acquisition of the water maze task (third to fourth withdrawal days), but amphetamine-withdrawn rats made more target-zone visits and reached the former location of the platform quicker than controls during the probe test (fifth withdrawal day). In experiment 2, retention of the location of the escape platform was assessed in animals having been pre-trained on the water maze task before treatment. On the third withdrawal day, retention of the former platform location was assessed in a probe test. Retention was only clearly seen in the measure of target zone visits, and performance did not differ between groups. Next, the animals were trained to escape to a new location in the water maze on withdrawal days 4-5. A reversal effect could be discerned across the first four trials, as evident by the animals' tendency to search in the former target quadrant. This interfered with the new learning, but amphetamine-withdrawn animals appeared to overcome it more rapidly than saline-treated controls. This finding is consistent with the view that amphetamine withdrawal can enhance behavioural switching, which could be expressed as a reduction of proactive interference during learning; and, it is in line with our previous finding that latent inhibition is also attenuated during amphetamine withdrawal.
The effects of a synthetic peptide analog of thymulin (PAT) were tested on nociceptive behavior in two animal models for peripheral mononeuropathy and in another two models for capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. Treatment with PAT (0.25-25 microg/rat, i.p.) produced significant reduction of the mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia in rats subjected to either chronic constriction injury (CCI) or spared nerve injury (SNI) models for mononeuropathy. Cold allodynia was moderately reduced in the CCI model. The inhibition of neuropathic manifestations peaked at 1-2 h post-treatment and disappeared in 3-4 h. Daily treatment with PAT, however, produced progressive attenuation of all neuropathic manifestations in the SNI model. On the other hand, pretreatment with similar doses of PAT produced dose-dependent reduction of the hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar injection of capsaicin (10 microg in 50 microl). The highest dose of PAT (50 microg) produced significant reduction of abdominal aversive behavior induced by i.p injection of capsaicin (20 microg in 100 microl). Compared with the effects of treatment with morphine or meloxicam (injected at single doses known to produce analgesia), PAT exerted equal or stronger inhibitory effects on neuropathic manifestations. The reported results suggest a possible direct action of PAT on afferent nerve fibers but its mechanisms remain to be determined.
With the nystatin-perforated whole-cell patch-clamp recording technique, the modulatory effects of adenosine on GABA-activated whole-cell currents were investigated in neurons acutely dissociated from the superficial laminae (laminae I and II) of the rat spinal dorsal horn. The results showed that: (1) GABA acted on GABA(A) receptor and elicited inward Cl(-) currents (I(GABA)) at a holding potential (V(H)) of -40 mV; (2) adenosine suppressed GABA-induced Cl(-) current with affecting neither the reversal potential of I(GABA) nor the apparent affinity of GABA to its receptor; (3) N6-cyclo-hexyladenosine, a selective A(1) adenosine receptor agonist, mimicked the suppressing effect of adenosine on I(GABA), whereas 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, a selective A(1) adenosine receptor antagonist, blocked the suppressing effect of adenosine; (4) chelerythrine, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, reduced the suppressing effect of adenosine on I(GABA); (5) pretreatment with 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy) ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetrakis (acetoxy-methyl) ester, a Ca(2+) chelator, did not affect adenosine-induced suppression of I(GABA). The results indicate that: (1) the suppression of adenosine on I(GABA) is mediated by adenosine A(1) receptor and through a Ca(2+)-independent protein kinase C transduction pathway; (2) the interactions between adenosine and GABA might be involved in the modulation of nociceptive information transmission at spinal cord level.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains a circadian clock and regulates melatonin synthesis in the pineal gland. Light exposure during the subjective night acutely increases the mRNA levels of the Period (Per)1 gene in the SCN and acutely suppresses melatonin levels in the pineal gland. Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the SCN has been demonstrated to phase-shift the circadian clock in a manner similar to light. We tested the hypothesis that activation of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors in the SCN mediates the acute effects of light on Per1 mRNA levels and pineal melatonin. NMDA, injected into the SCN of Syrian hamsters during the night, acutely suppressed melatonin levels in the pineal gland. Both the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) inhibited the light-induced increase of Per1 mRNA levels in the SCN. In the same animals, however, these antagonists had no effect on the ability of light to suppress pineal melatonin. These results support the hypothesis that EAA receptor activation in the SCN is necessary for the acute effects of light on Per1 mRNA levels. They also indicate that NMDA receptor activation in the SCN is sufficient but may not be necessary for the acute effects of light on pineal melatonin. These data suggest that there may be at least two different neurochemical cascades that transduce the effects of light in the SCN
Cholinergic systems in the dorsal horn are involved in antinociception but little is known about the organisation of receptors that mediate this process. In this study we examined immunocytochemical properties of dorsal horn neuronal cell bodies that express the m2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. Tissue was examined with confocal laser scanning microscopy and quantitative analysis performed. Immunoreactive cells were found throughout the dorsal horn and in lamina X. Quantitative analysis revealed that 22% of neuronal somata in the dorsal horn possess the receptor. The greatest concentration of cells was found in deeper laminae (IV-VI) and around lamina X. A proportion of cholinergic cells (labelled with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase) were immunoreactive for the receptor (approximately, 40% of dorsal horn cells and 44% of lamina X cells). Populations of presumed inhibitory interneurons also displayed immunoreactivity for the receptor. Between 27-34% of cells immunoreactive for GABA, nitric oxide synthase and the somatostatin receptor(2A) expressed the receptor but only 8% of parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells displayed receptor immunoreactivity. Cells labelled with neurotensin, which belong to a subgroup of excitatory neurons, displayed no receptor immunoreactivity. A small number neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive cells in lamina I possessed m2 immunoreactivity but 42% of laminae III/IV neurokinin-1 cells possessed it. This study shows that a significant proportion of cell bodies in the dorsal horn express the muscarinic m2 acetylcholine receptor. The receptor is present on some cholinergic neurons and therefore may function as an autoreceptor. It is associated with inhibitory local circuit neurons and may have a role in the modulation of specific inhibitory systems. It is also found on a proportion of projection cells that possess the neurokinin-1 receptor. This could be the basis of some of the antinociceptive actions of acetylcholine.
Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) are partly misused by males in order to become brave and intoxicated and these agents are highly associated with psychosis, disinhibition, aggression and acts of violence. Since such behavioral states have been related to an imbalanced serotonergic system and the involvement of the serotonergic 5HT(1B) and the 5HT(2) receptors, it was important to discern the impact of AAS on these receptors. The objective of our study was to investigate the effects of 2 weeks of treatment with the AAS nandrolone decanoate at three different doses (1, 5, 15 mg/kg/day) on the total specific binding of the radioligands [(125)I]-(+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) (5HT(2) receptors) by autoradiography. All doses caused a significant down-regulation of the 5HT(1B) receptor density in the hippocampal CA(1) and in the medial globus pallidus and a significant up-regulation of the 5HT(2) receptor density in the nucleus accumbens shell. Alterations in receptor density were also observed in the lateral globus pallidus, ventromedial hypothalamus, the amygdala and in the intermediate layers of various cortex regions. In conclusion, serotonergic 5HT(1B) or 5HT(2) receptors are likely to play important roles in mediating observed emotional states and behavioral changes among AAS abusers.
Microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2) is a brain specific A-kinase anchoring protein that targets the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme (PKA) to microtubules. Phosphorylation of MAP2 by different protein kinases is crucial for neuronal growth. The N-terminus of MAP2 contains the binding site for regulatory subunit II of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA-RIIbeta). Using homologous recombination, we created a mutant line of mice (delta1-158) that express truncated MAP2 lacking the N-terminal peptide and the PKA binding site. Deletion of the PKA binding site from the MAP2 gene resulted in decreased efficiency of MAP2 phosphorylation. Biochemical and immunohistochemical studies demonstrate major changes in the morphology of hippocampal neurons in delta1-158 mice. Behavioral tests indicate that delta1-158 mice were impaired (exhibited less conditioned freezing) relative to Wild-Type (WT) controls during a test of contextual, but not during auditory cue, fear conditioning when tested at 8 weeks or 8 months of age. The delta1-158 mice displayed a heightened sensitivity to shock at 8 weeks, but not at 8 months of age. We conclude that PKA binding to MAP2 and MAP2 phosphorylation is essential for the selective development of contextual memory.
During physiological activity neurons may experience localised energy demands which require intracellular signals for stimulation of mitochondrial NADH generation and subsequent delivery of ATP. To elucidate these mechanisms, we applied microfluorimetric monitoring of cytoplasmic (Fluo-3) and mitochondrial (Rhod-2) calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](c), [Ca(2+)](m)), as well as of mitochondrial oxidative metabolism (NAD(P)H), whilst simultaneously measuring changes in extracellular potassium concentration ([K(+)](o)), as an indicator of neuronal activity in hippocampal slice cultures. Changes in neuronal activity were induced by repetitive stimulation at different frequencies (5, 20, 100 Hz) and intensities. Stimulation parameters were chosen to elicit rises in [K(+)](o) of less than 3 mM which is comparable to physiologically occurring rises in [K(+)](o). The mitochondrial uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone (CCCP) reduced stimulus-induced changes in Rhod-2 fluorescence by 79%, indicating that Rhod-2 signals were primarily of mitochondrial origin. Repetitive stimulation at 20 Hz applied to areas CA1 or CA3 resulted in moderate rises in [K(+)](o) which were associated with stimulus-dependent elevations in [Ca(2+)](c) and [Ca(2+)](m) of up to 15%. The same stimuli also elicited biphasic changes in NAD(P)H fluorescence characterised by an initial decline and a subsequent prolonged elevation of up to 10%. Variation of stimulus parameters revealed close correlations between rises in [K(+)](o), in [Ca(2+)](m) and changes in NAD(P)H fluorescence. To elucidate the role of intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation in induction of NAD(P)H fluorescence signals, the effect of application of Ca(2+)-free solution on these signals evoked by repetitive antidromic stimulation of the alveus during recordings in area CA1 was studied. Lowering extracellular Ca(2+) led to complete blockade of postsynaptic field potential components as well as of rises in [Ca(2+)](c) and [Ca(2+)](m). Amplitudes of NAD(P)H signals were reduced by 59%, though rises in [K(+)](o) were comparable in presence and absence of extracellular Ca(2+). The results suggest i) that mitochondrial oxidative metabolism is fine-tuned to graded physiological activity in neurons and ii) that rapid mitochondrial Ca(2+) signalling represents one of the main determinants for stimulation of oxidative metabolism under physiological conditions.
The sec6/8 (exocyst) complex is implicated in targeting of vesicles for regulated exocytosis in various cell types and is believed to play a role in synaptogenesis and brain development. We show that the subunits sec6 and sec8 are present at significant levels in neurons of adult rat brain, and that immunoreactivity for the two subunits has a differential subcellular distribution. We show that in developing as well as mature neurons sec6 is concentrated at the inside of the presynaptic plasma membrane, while sec8 immunoreactivity shows a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution. Among established, strongly synaptophysin-positive neuronal boutons, sec6 displays highly differential concentrations, indicating a role for the complex independent of the ongoing synaptic-vesicle release activity. Sec6 is transported along neurites on secretogranin II-positive vesicles, while sec6-negative/secretogranin II-positive vesicles stay in the cell body. In PC12 cells, sec6-positive vesicles accumulate at the plasma membrane at sites of cell-cell contact. Neuronal induction of the PC12 cells with nerve growth factor shows that sec8 is not freely soluble, but may probably interact with cytoskeletal elements. The complex may facilitate the targeting of membrane material to presynaptic sites and may possibly shuttle vesicles from the cytoskeletal transport machinery to presynaptic membrane sites. Thus, we suggest that the exocyst complex serves to modulate exocytotic activity, by targeting membrane material to its presynaptic destination.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) enhances the sensitivity of sensory neurons to various forms of noxious stimulation. This occurs, in part, by the suppression of a delayed rectifier-like potassium current in these neurons. However, the molecular identity of this current remains unclear. Recent studies demonstrated that a mutant mouse lacking a delayed rectifier potassium channel gene, Kv1.1, displayed lowered thresholds to thermal stimulation in behavioral assays of pain perception, i.e. the Kcna1-null mice were hyperalgesic. Here we examined whether PGE(2) can alter the sensitivity of Kcna1-null mice to noxious stimulation and examine the capability of PGE(2) to inhibit the potassium current in these knockout mice. Behavioral assays were used to assess the effect of PGE(2) on either thermal hyperalgesia or mechanical sensitivities. In addition, the whole-cell patch-clamp technique was used to study the effects of PGE(2) on the total potassium current recorded from isolated mouse sensory neurons. Even with a reduced threshold to thermal stimulation, PGE(2) could still sensitize the response of Kcna1-null mice to thermal and mechanical stimulation by amounts that were similar to that in wild type mice. The activation properties of the potassium current were similar for both the wild type and the Kcna1-null mice, whereas the inactivation properties were different in cells exhibiting large amounts of steady-state inactivation (&gt;50%) measured at +20 mV. PGE(2) suppressed the total potassium current in both groups of mice by 40-50% without altering the voltage dependence of activation. In addition, PGE(2) produced similar amounts of suppression in both groups of mice when currents were examined with the steady-state inactivation protocol. Based on these results, it is unlikely that Kv1.1 is the molecular identity of the potassium channel(s) modulated by PGE(2) to sensitize nociceptive sensory neurons. Also, the enhanced thermal sensitivity as observed in the Kcna1-null mice might be due to more central neurons of the pain sensing pathway.
The modulation of synaptic plasticity by serotonin type II (5-hydroxytryptamine type II (5-HT(2)))-receptor stimulation was explored using intracellular, field potential and Fura-2 fluorescence image recordings in a rat amygdala slice preparation. Bath application of 5HT(2) receptor agonist 1-(2,5)-dimethoxy-4-iodophen-2-aminopropane (DOI) transformed theta-burst-stimulated (TBS) synaptic plasticity from short-term potentiation to long-term potentiation. DOI enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated potentials and calcium influx without affecting the resting membrane potential or input resistance of the neurons. In contrast, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic responses were unaffected by DOI. The facilitating effects of DOI were blocked by the 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, ketanserin, and by the 5-HT(2C)-receptor selective antagonist, RS102221. These results indicate that 5-HT(2)-receptor activation enhances NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic function in the basolateral amygdala (BLA).
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) belongs to a family of secreted, extracellular matrix-associated proteins that are involved in the regulation of cellular functions such as adhesion, migration, mitogenesis, differentiation and survival. Recent studies have also suggested the up-regulation of CTGF in response to trauma, scar formation and excitotoxicity in the CNS. To further elucidate the localization and regulation of this molecule in the rat brain we performed in situ hybridization experiments and found a very strong and selective expression of CTGF messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) on the band of layer VII neurons throughout the adult cerebral cortex. Similarly strong neuronal expression was also present in the dorsal endopiriform nucleus, extending rostrally from the ventrocaudal cortical layer VII, and in the deep layers of the olfactory glomeruli and the accessory olfactory nucleus. Double in situ hybridization confirmed selective CTGF mRNA expression on a subpopulation (approximately 35%) of microtubule-associated protein 2 mRNA-positive neurons in the cortical layer VII and the dorsal endopiriform nucleus. The nucleus of lateral olfactory tract showed moderate signal intensity; other parts of the forebrain, mesencephalon and brain stem only revealed a very weak level of CTGF mRNA expression. Non-neuronal expression was rare, considerably weaker than on cortical layer VII neurons, and normally associated with blood vessels. Developmental analysis of CTGF mRNA expression in embryonic and postnatal mouse also showed a moderately late onset at embryonic day 16-18, and confirmed the presence of CTGF mRNA in cortical layer VII in a second rodent species. Interestingly, injury experiments using direct cerebral trauma or injection of excitotoxic kainic acid into rat brain failed to up-regulate CTGF mRNA after injury and during the ensuing period of neuronal cell death, gliosis and neural scar tissue formation. Altogether, the current data suggest a constitutive role of CTGF, particularly in the adult cerebral cortex. In view of the strong ascending projections of subplate neurons into cortical layer 1, this molecule may be involved in the modulation of synaptic input to apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons.
Immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to investigate endocytosis and recycling of the native mu opioid receptor (muOR) in enteric neurons. Isolated segments of the guinea-pig ileum were exposed to increasing concentrations of muOR agonists at 4 degrees C to allow ligand binding and warming to 37 degrees C for 0 min (baseline) to 6 h in ligand-free medium to allow receptor internalization and recycling. The endogenous ligand, [Met]enkephalin, and [D-Ala(2),MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)] enkephalin (DAMGO), an opioid analog, and the alkaloids, etorphine and fentanyl, induced rapid internalization of muOR immunoreactivity in enteric neurons, whereas morphine did not. muOR internalization was prevented by muOR antagonists. Basal levels of muOR immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm were 10.52+/-2.05%. DAMGO (1 nM-100 microM) induced a concentration-dependent increase of muOR immunofluorescence density in the cytoplasm to a maximum of 84.37+/-2.26%. Translocation of muOR immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm was detected at 2 min, reached the maximum at 15-30 min, remained at similar levels for 2 h, began decreasing at 4 h, and was at baseline values at 6 h. A second exposure to DAMGO (100 nM) following recovery of internalized muOR immunoreactivity at the cell surface induced a translocation of muOR immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm comparable to the one observed following the first exposure (46.89+/-3.11% versus 43.31+/-3.80%). muOR internalization was prevented by hyperosmolar sucrose, phenylarsine oxide or potassium depletion, which inhibit clathrin-mediated endocytosis. muOR recycling was prevented by pre-treatment with bafilomycin A1, an acidotropic agent that inhibits endosomal acidification, but not by the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide. This study shows that native muOR in enteric neurons undergoes ligand-selective endocytosis, which is primarily clathrin-mediated, and recycles following endosomal acidification. Following recycling, muOR is activated and internalized by DAMGO indicating that recycled receptors are functional.
The nucleus accumbens is regarded as the limbic-motor interface, in view of its limbic afferent and somatomotor and autonomic efferent connections. Within the accumbens, there appear to be specific areas in which limbic afferent fibres, derived from the hippocampus and the amygdala, overlap. These afferent inputs have been suggested to converge monosynaptically on cells within the accumbens and are hypothesized to play a role in paradigms such as conditioned place preference. Convergence between inputs from basolateral amygdala and hippocampus can be demonstrated with electrophysiological recording methods, but these do not conclusively preclude polysynaptic mechanisms. We examined the synaptic input to the projection neurons of the accumbens, the medium-sized densely spiny neurons. We labelled the projection neurons with a small injection of biotinylated dextran amine into the accumbens, and the afferents from the basolateral amygdala and ventral subiculum of the hippocampus with injections of biotinylated dextran amine and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin respectively, and revealed the anterogradely labelled fibres with different chromogens. The labelled accumbens-projection neurons were studied with correlated light and electron microscopy for identified monosynaptic inputs. With this technique we have demonstrated anatomically that monosynaptic convergence between the ventral subicular region of the hippocampus and the basolateral region of the amygdala occurs at the level of the proximal as well as distal dendrites. Finally, we suggest that these anatomical arrangements may represent the framework for the integrative role that has been assigned to the accumbens.
In the present study, the applicability of antisense morpholino oligos for loss-of-function experiments in neurobiology was investigated. The identified withdrawal interneurons of the parietal ganglia expressing helix command neuron-specific 2 (HCS2) gene were pressure injected with HCS2 antisense or control morpholino oligo solution at a final concentration 1-4 microM. No toxic or side effects for the neural functioning were noted immediately or several hours after injection. The changes in the concentration of HCS2-encoded protein in neurons after injection were monitored by two methods, Western blotting and immunostaining of the brain. The amount of the peptide immunoreactive with the HCS2 antibody started to decline in the injected cells at day 2 post-injection, decreased four- to five-fold at day 4, and stayed at this low level thereafter. Similar results obtained by both methods suggest significant selective blockade of production of the HCS2-encoded peptide. In contrast, no substantial decrease of the HCS2-encoded polypeptide was observed after injection with control oligos. Due to the high stability of the morpholino oligos in the cell, they represent a highly efficient tool for a specific long-term blockade of gene expression in molluscan neurons.
Fragile X syndrome is an inherited cause of mental retardation. We used extra- and intracellular recordings in brain slices obtained from wild type and fragile X knockout mice to establish whether bath application of the cholinergic agent carbachol (5 microM) induces different responses in neurons of the subiculum, a limbic structure involved in learning and memory. We found that carbachol diminished excitatory post-synaptic responses induced by CA1 stratum radiatum stimulation in wild type mice, but caused an unexpected increase in knockout animals. Moreover, these responses augmented in knockout mice after carbachol washout, a phenomenon that resembled the muscarinic long-term potentiation seen in wild type mice during application of carbachol and GABA(A) receptor antagonists. We also used paired-pulse stimulation to determine whether the changes in synaptic excitability induced by carbachol were caused by pre- or post-synaptic mechanism. Under control conditions, this protocol induced facilitation in both wild type and knockout mice; in contrast, during carbachol application, this facilitatory effect was seen in wild type mice only. In conclusion, our data highlight for the first time differences in cholinergic and GABA-ergic mechanisms that may contribute to the phenotype of fragile X patients.
Cochlear sensory transduction depends on active extrusion of sodium ion (Na(+)) from the luminal fluid, endolymph. Reissner's membrane epithelium forms much of the barrier between cochlear endolymph and perilymph and we hypothesized that Reissner's membrane might be responsible for this function. We found that Reissner's membrane isolated from gerbil produced a short circuit current (I(sc)) directed into the apical side, consistent with cation absorption and/or anion secretion. I(sc) was inhibited by amiloride analogs in the potency sequence benzamil&gt;amiloride&gt;ethylisopropylamiloride, consistent with Na(+) absorption through an epithelial sodium channel in the apical cell membrane. I(sc) was also inhibited by an inhibitor of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase, ouabain, and by the K(+) channel blockers Ba(2+), 4-aminopyridine and quinine but not tetraethylammonium nor glibenclamide, consistent with the presence of a voltage-activated K(+) channel. Bumetanide, an inhibitor of the Na(+),2Cl(-),K(+)-cotransporter, had no effect on I(sc). Contrary to previous hypotheses, no evidence was found for electrogenic secretion of Cl(-) under control of cAMP since neither forskolin nor genistein affected I(sc) when Na(+) absorption was blocked. These results provide the first direct evidence that Reissner's membrane contributes to normal cochlear function by absorption of Na(+) from endolymph.
Tau hyperphosphorylation leads to formation of paired helical filament/neurofibrillary tangles, the hallmark lesion seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. An imbalanced regulation in protein kinases and protein phosphatases in the affected neurons is proposed to be a reasonable causative factor to the disease process. To verify the hypothesis, we have injected in the present study calyculin A, a potent and specific inhibitor of protein phosphatase (PP) 2A and PP1, into rat hippocampus bilaterally, thus reproduced an Alzheimer's-like deficiency in dephosphorylation system. It was found that calyculin A-injected rats developed lesions in spatial memory retention in Morris water maze test. At mean time, tau was hyperphosphorylated at Ser396/Ser404 (PHF-1) and Ser-262/Ser-356 (12E8) sites determined both by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. It is implicated that (1) PP2A and PP1 participate in the in vivo regulation of tau phosphorylation, and down-regulation of the two phosphatases will result in tau hyperphosphorylation; (2) hyperphosphorylation of tau at PHF-1 and 12E8 sites might be crucial to affect spatial memory in AD.
We used in vivo microdialysis to examine the responses to intraspecific social interactions in the striatal dopamine systems of females of two vole species displaying vastly different social structures. Both highly social prairie voles and asocial meadow voles had similar increases in extracellular dopamine associated with mating. There was a species-specific effect of social condition on extracellular dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). Exposure to a conspecific male significantly decreased extracellular DOPAC in female prairie voles isolated for approximately 18 h during surgical recovery. Such decrease in DOPAC was not seen if females experienced continued isolation or if they were housed with a sibling during surgical recovery. No changes in extracellular DOPAC were seen in meadow voles after manipulations of social environment. Together, our data indicate that mating-associated dopamine release is independent from mating systems. However, species-specific patterns of extracellular DOPAC suggest that social isolation may be a more stressful stimulus for the social prairie vole than for the asocial meadow vole.
Cytochrome oxidase activity was examined in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease with overexpression of the 751 amino acid isoform of beta-amyloid precursor protein with the Swedish mutation under control of the murine thy-1 promoter. The neuritic plaques, abundantly localized in the hippocampus and anterior neocortical areas, showed a core devoid of enzymatic activity surrounded by higher cytochrome oxidase activity at the sites of the dystrophic neurites and activated glial cells. Quantitative measures, taken only in the healthy-appearing regional areas without neuritic plaques, were higher in numerous limbic and non-limbic regions of transgenic mice in comparison with controls. Enzymatic activity was higher in the dentate gyrus and CA2-CA3 region of the hippocampus, the anterior cingulate and primary visual cortex, two olfactory structures, the ventral part of the neostriatum, the parafascicularis nucleus of the thalamus, and the subthalamic nucleus. Brainstem regions anatomically related with altered forebrain regions were more heavily labeled as well, including the substantia nigra, the periaqueductal gray, the superior colliculus, the medial raphe, the locus coeruleus and the adjacent parabrachial nucleus, as well as the pontine nuclei, red nucleus, and trigeminal motor nucleus. Functional brain organization is discussed in the context of Alzheimer's disease. Although hypometabolism is generally observed in this pathology, the increased cytochrome oxidase activity obtained in these transgenic mice can be the result of a functional compensation on the surviving neurons, or of an early mitochondrial alteration related to increased oxidative damage.
In this study it was investigated whether ventral striatal dopamine-induced changes in switching to cue-directed behavioral patterns were funnelled via the rostral areas of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata (VP/SI) complex and, if so, whether changes in switching to cue-directed behavioral patterns could be elicited in the VP/SI complex by manipulating GABAergic activity. To this end rats were bilaterally equipped with cannulae directed at the ventral striatum and/or rostral VP/SI complex and subjected to a swimming-test procedure for 6 min. Injections of the dopamine-releasing agent d-amphetamine (10 microg/0.5 microl per side) enhanced the number of different cue-directed behavioral patterns while they had no effect upon the number of different non-cue-directed behavioral patterns in line with previous studies (Life Sci - 1989 1697). This increase was attenuated by a low dose of the GABAa agonist muscimol (1 ng/0.5 microl) into the rostral VP/SI complex. This dose of muscimol when injected alone into the rostral VP/SI complex had no effect upon the number of different cue-directed behavioral patterns. Only the lowest dose of the GABAa antagonist bicuculline (10-25 ng/0.5 microl per side) into the rostral VP/SI complex slightly, and in a non-d-amphetamine-like manner, increased the number of different cue-directed behavioral patterns while none of the doses had an effect on the number of different non-cue-directed behavioral patterns. Both injections of d-amphetamine into the ventral striatum and injections of bicuculline into the rostral VP/SI complex strongly increased motor activity in the 10-min period preceding the swimming test. We conclude from the data that switching to cue-directed behavioral patterns is sensitive to manipulations with the dopaminergic activity in the ventral striatum but not with the GABAergic activity in the VP/SI complex although the VP/SI transmits it to other brain structures. In contrast motor activity is sensitive to manipulations with both ventral striatal dopamine and rostral VP/SI complex GABA.
Inhibitory interneurons are important components of the cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) network, as they are strategically positioned to control network information transfer. We investigated in detail synaptic input to individual CA1 interneurons (mainly basket and bistratified cells) after the local circuit was activated through the Schaffer-Commissural pathway and related this input to the population activity of the pyramidal cells. Synaptic responses were measured under whole-cell voltage clamp and population activity was determined from local field potentials. The synaptic input that was evoked in CA1 interneurons fell into two distinct groups. Disynaptic input with a long latency always started after the population spike with a mean latency of 3.0+/-0.3 ms (n=22) in respect to the peak of the population spike. This type of synaptic input to the interneurons was causally linked to the occurrence and amplitude of the population spike and most likely driven by CA1 pyramidal cells. Short-latency monosynaptic input occurred 0.8+/-0.2 ms (n=18) before the peak of the population spike. Its timing was strictly linked to the stimulus and showed significantly less jitter than long-latency input. In the absence of a population spike only short-latency input could be observed. Whether an interneuron receives direct monosynaptic Schaffer input or disynaptic input from the pyramidal cell population determines when that interneuron will be recruited in the network after Schaffer collateral stimulation. In addition, we found that the relation between the strength of the synaptic input and the population activity was different for the two types of input. Short-latency monosynaptic input showed large sensitivity to input changes at stimulus intensities that evoked little activity in the pyramidal cell population. In contrast, the amplitude of the long-latency disynaptic input to the interneurons closely reflected the population activity and increased gradually with stimulus intensity. Interneurons receiving the first type of input may expand the input sensitivity of the network, while interneurons receiving the second type could be involved in overall normalization of the output of the CA1 network. Our results underscore the importance of knowledge of the input to an interneuron for the understanding of its inhibitory role in the network.
Functional activation of the GABA(B) receptor inhibits learning and memory processes, though discrepant findings, in this context, have also been reported. The present study was designed to investigate the role of the GABA(B) receptor on recognition memory in the rat. For this purpose, the effects induced by the GABA(B) agonist baclofen and the GABA(B) antagonist P-(3-aminopropyl)-P-diethoxymethylphosphinic acid (CGP 35348) on memory were assessed by using the object-recognition task. In addition, the possible involvement of the nitrergic system on GABA(B) receptor's effects was also evaluated by using the same behavioral procedure. This is a working-memory paradigm based on the differential exploration of a new and familiar object. In a first dose-response study, baclofen (0.5, 2, and 4 mg/kg, i.p.), dose-dependently impaired animals' performance in this task, suggesting a modulation of acquisition and storage of information. CGP 35348 (100 and 300 mg/kg, i.p.), counteracted these baclofen-induced performance deficits. The nitric oxide donor molsidomine, at the dose of 4 but not 2 mg/kg, i.p, successfully antagonized the deficits on cognition induced by the highest dose of baclofen (4 mg/kg). These results indicate a) that the GABA(B) receptor is involved in recognition memory and b) that an NO component modulates the effects of the GABA(B) receptor on learning and memory.
The topography of amygdaloid projections to the visual cortices in the macaque monkey was examined by injecting the fluorescent tracers Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow at different locations in the occipital and temporal lobes and mapping the distribution of retrogradely labeled cells in the amygdala. Injections involving regions from rostral area TE to caudal area V1 all resulted in labeled cells within the basal nucleus of the amygdala. Relatively few double-labeled cells were observed even when the two injections were separated by less than 3 mm. The projections were rostrocaudally organized such that projections to caudal visual areas originated from dorsal and caudal portions of the magnocellular division of the basal nucleus while projections to more rostrally situated visual areas originated in more rostral and ventral portions of the basal nucleus. When injections involved rostral and medial portions of area TE, retrogradely labeled cells were observed in the accessory basal and lateral nuclei in addition to the basal nucleus. These data confirm that the amygdala gives rise to feedback projections to all levels of the &quot;ventral stream&quot; visual pathway. The projections do not appear to be diffusely distributed since few double-labeled cells were observed. The largest cells of the basal nucleus, those located in the magnocellular division, project the farthest in the visual system and innervate all occipital and temporal levels. The smaller cells, in the intermediate and parvicellular regions, project to more rostral and medial portions of the visual cortex. These results suggest that the amygdala may have substantial modulatory control over sensory processing at all stages of the ventral-stream visual cortical hierarchy.
We investigated by means of behavioral and neurochemical studies the effects of either D(1) or D(2) agonist on excessive dopamine release and hyperactivity induced by the microinjection of Bay K 8644, and an L-type Ca(2+) channel stimulant, into the rat caudate putamen under a novel environmental condition. Hyperactivity (locomotor activity and rearing counts) and significant increases in extracellular dopamine levels induced by Bay K 8644 were concomitantly observed. D(1) agonist, SKF81297, administered into the caudate putamen did not block Bay K 8644-induced hyperactivity measured by monitoring both animal activity and increases in extracellular dopamine levels detected by microdialysis. Pretreatment with the D(2) agonists, bromocriptine, talipexole and pramipexole, into the caudate putamen significantly blocked Bay K 8644-induced hyperactivity for 45 min after Bay K 8644 administration, although the single administration of these agonists significantly potentiated locomotor activity and rearing behavior. Furthermore, these agonists significantly suppressed Bay K 8644-induced extracellular dopamine levels. Our results indicate that these D(2) agonists (1) act on postsynaptic neuronal D(2) receptors under conditions of normal or low dopamine release in the caudate putamen, and (2) act on presynaptic D(2) receptors (autoreceptors) when excessive levels of dopamine are released or hyperdopamine neuronal activity is induced. Consequently, the effect of D(2) agonists in the clinical treatment of Parkinson's disease may be due to stimulation of postsynaptic D(2) receptors rather than presynaptic autoreceptors.
Methylmalonic acidemias are metabolic disorders caused by a severe deficiency of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase activity, which are characterized by neurological dysfunction, including convulsions. It has been reported that the accumulating metabolite, L-methylmalonic acid (MMA), inhibits succinate dehydrogenase leading to ATP depletion in vitro, and that the intrastriatal injection of MMA induces convulsions through secondary NMDA receptor stimulation. In this study we investigated the effect of creatine (1.2, 3.6 and 12.0 mg/kg, (i.p.), [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] succinate (1.5 micromol/striatum) and MK-801 (3 nmol/striatum) on the convulsions and on the striatal lactate increase induced by MMA (4.5 micromol/striatum) in rats. The effect of creatine on the striatal phosphocreatine content and on MMA-induced phosphocreatine depletion was also evaluated. Creatine, succinate and MK-801 pretreatment decreased the number and duration of convulsive episodes and the lactate increase elicited by MMA. Creatine, but not succinate, prevented the convulsions and the lactate increase induced by the direct stimulation of NMDA receptors. Acute creatine administration increased the total striatal phosphocreatine content and prevented MMA-induced phosphocreatine depletion. Our results suggest that MMA increases lactate production through secondary NMDA receptor activation, and it is proposed that the anticonvulsant effect of creatine against MMA-induced convulsions may be due to an increase in the phosphocreatine content available for metabolic purposes.
Previous studies have shown that intrastriatal transplants of dopamine (DA)-rich fetal ventral mesencephalic (VM) tissue can correct denervation-induced changes in the cellular expression of neuropeptide and receptor mRNAs in the rat Parkinson model. However, with the standard transplantation approach normalization of all cellular parameters has not been obtained. This may be due either to the incomplete striatal reinnervation achieved by these transplants, or to the ectopic placement of the grafts. In the present study we have used a microtransplantation approach to obtain a more complete reinnervation of the denervated striatum (20 micrograft deposits spread over the entire structure). Neurons were also implanted directly into the substantia nigra. In rats with multiple intrastriatal VM transplants the lesion-induced upregulation of mRNAs encoding for preproenkephalin (PPE), the D(2)-type DA-receptor, and the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD(67)) was normalized throughout the striatum, whereas the lesion-induced downregulation of preprotachykinin mRNA was unaffected. Intranigral grafts of either fetal DA-rich VM tissue or GABA-rich striatal tissue did not induce any changes in striatal neuropeptide and D(2)-receptor mRNA expression despite significant behavioral improvement. Comparison of the behavioral data with levels of neuropeptide expression showed that in rats with intrastriatal VM transplants a complete normalization of striatal PPE and GAD(67) mRNA expression did not translate into a complete recovery of spontaneous motor behaviors. The results show that extensive DA reinnervation of the host striatum by multiple VM microtransplants is insufficient to obtain full recovery of all lesion-induced changes at both the cellular and the behavioral level. A full reconstruction of the nigrostriatal pathway or, alternatively, modulation of basal ganglia function by grafting in non-striatal regions may be required to further improve the functional outcome in the DA-denervated brain.
The prolonged maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) seems to require heterosynaptic events during its induction. We have previously shown that stimulation of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) within a distinct time window can reinforce a transient early-LTP into a long-lasting late-LTP in the dentate gyrus (DG) in freely moving rats. We have shown that this reinforcement was dependent on beta-adrenergic and/or muscarinergic receptor activation and protein synthesis. However, since the BLA does not directly stimulate the DG the question remained by which inputs such heterosynaptic processes are triggered. We have now directly stimulated the medial septal pathway 15 min after induction of early-LTP in the DG and show that this input is capable of reinforcing early into late-LTP in a frequency-dependent manner. This septal reinforcement of DG LTP was dependent on beta-adrenergic receptor activation and protein synthesis. We suggest that the reinforcing effect of the BLA stimulation can, potentially, be mediated via the septal input to the DG, though it differs in its ability to induce or modulate functional plasticity.
Emotional stress activates oxytocin neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and stimulates oxytocin release from the posterior pituitary. Oxytocin neurons in the hypothalamus have synaptic contact with prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) neurons. Intracerebroventricular administration of PrRP stimulates oxytocin release from the pituitary. These observations raise the possibility that PrRP neurons play a role in oxytocin response to emotional stress. To test this hypothesis, we first examined expression of Fos protein, an immediate early gene product, in the PrRP neurons in the medulla oblongata after conditioned-fear stimuli. Conditioned-fear stimuli increased the number of PrRP cells expressing Fos protein especially in the dorsomedial medulla. In order to determine whether PrRP cells projecting to the supraoptic nucleus are activated after conditioned-fear stimuli, we injected retrograde tracers into the supraoptic nucleus. Conditioned-fear stimuli induced expression of Fos protein in retrogradely labeled PrRP cells in the dorsomedial medulla. Finally we investigated whether immunoneutralization of endogenous PrRP impairs oxytocin release after emotional stimuli. An i.c.v. injection of a mouse monoclonal anti-PrRP antibody impaired release of oxytocin but not of adrenocorticotrophic hormone or prolactin and did not significantly change freezing behavior in response to conditioned-fear stimuli. From these data, we conclude that PrRP neurons in the dorsomedial medulla that project to the hypothalamus play a facilitative role in oxytocin release after emotional stimuli in rats.
Ascending output from the basal ganglia to the primate motor thalamus is carried by GABAergic nigro- and pallido-thalamic pathways, which interact with intrinsic thalamic GABAergic systems represented in primates by local circuit neurons and axons of the reticular thalamic nucleus. Disease-triggered pathological processes in the basal ganglia can compromise any of these pathways either directly or indirectly, yet the effects of basal ganglia lesioning on its thalamic afferent-receiving territories has not been studied in primates. Two GABA(A) receptor ligands, [(3)H]muscimol and [(3)H]flunitrazepam, were used to study the distribution and binding properties of the receptor in intact monkeys, those with kainic acid lesions in the globus pallidus, and those with ibotenic acid lesions in the reticular nucleus using quantitative autoradiographic technique on cryostat sections of fresh frozen brain tissue. In control monkeys the binding affinities for [(3)H]muscimol averaged 50 nM in the thalamic nuclei and 86 nM in the basal ganglia while the binding densities varied (maximum density of binding sites [Bmax] range of 99.4-1000.1 fmol/mg of tissue). Binding affinities and Bmax values for [(3)H]flunitrazepam averaged 2.02 nM and 81-113 fmol/mg of tissue, respectively. Addition of 100-microM GABA increased average affinity to 1.35 nM whereas Bmax values increased anywhere from 1-50% in different nuclei. Zolpidem (100 nM) decreased binding by 68-80%. Bmax values for both ligands were decreased at the two survival times in both medial and lateral globus pallidus implying involvement of both nuclei in the lesion. Statistically significant, 40% decrease (P=0.055) of Bmax for [(3)H]muscimol was observed in the ventral anterior nucleus pars densicellularis (VAdc, the main pallidal projection territory in the thalamus) 1 week after globus pallidus lesioning and a 36% decrease (P=0.017) 4 months post-lesioning. In contrast, [(3)H]flunitrazepam Bmax values in the VAdc of the same animals were increased by 23% (P=0.021) at 1 week and 28% (P=0.005) 4 months postlesion, respectively. One week after the reticular nucleus lesioning, the binding densities of [(3)H]muscimol and [(3)H]flunitrazepam were decreased in the thalamic nuclei receiving projections from the lesioned reticular nucleus sector by approximately 50% (P&lt;0.05) and 10-33% (P&lt;0.05), respectively. The results suggest that different GABA(A) receptor subtypes are associated with different GABAergic systems in the thalamus which react differently to deafferentation.
This study aimed to investigate whether continuous, low-dose, intracerebral infusion of either brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) could protect against striatal neuronal loss in mild neonatal hypoxic/ischaemic brain injury. Continuous, low-dose, intracerebral treatment is likely to minimise unwanted side effects of a single high dose and lengthen the time window for neuroprotection. A milder, albeit brain damage-inducing, hypoxic/ischaemic injury paradigm was used since this situation is likely to produce the highest survival rates and thus the greatest prevalence. Anaesthetised postnatal day 7 rats were each stereotaxically implanted with a brain infusion kit connected to a micro-osmotic pump. The pump continuously infused either BDNF (4.5 microg/day), NT-3 (12 microg/day), or vehicle solution into the right striatum for 3 days from postnatal day 7. The intrastriatal presence of BDNF or NT-3 was verified immunohistochemically. On postnatal day 8, the rats underwent right common carotid artery ligation followed by hypoxic exposure for 1.5 h. Animals were weighed daily thereafter and killed 1 week later on postnatal day 14. The total number of medium spiny neurons within the right striatum was stereologically determined using an optical disector/Cavalieri combination. Other measures of neuroprotection such as brain weight and striatal infarct volume were also undertaken. BDNF or NT-3 significantly increased the total number of surviving medium spiny neurons by 43% and 33% respectively. This significant neuroprotection was not evident when brain weight, striatal volume, striatal infarct volume, and neuronal density measures for NT-3, were compared. These measures therefore missed the protective effect demonstrated by the total neuronal count. This suggests that stereological measurement of total neuronal number is needed to detect neuroprotection at 1 week after low-dose, continuously infused, neurotrophin treatment and mild hypoxic/ischaemic injury. The results also suggest that lower treatment doses may be more useful than previously thought. BDNF may be particularly useful since it fostered both neuroprotection and normal weight gain. The ability to rescue striatal neurons from death may contribute toward a potential short-term, low-dose neurotrophin treatment for mild perinatal hypoxic/ischaemic brain injury in humans.
The central nucleus of amygdala (CeA) plays an important role in pain regulation. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactive fibers and CGRP receptors are distributed densely in CeA. The present study was performed to elucidate the role of CGRP in nociceptive regulation in the CeA of rats. Intra-CeA injection of CGRP induced dose-dependent increases in the hind-paw withdrawal latency tested by hotplate test and Randall Selitto Test, indicating an antinociceptive effect of CGRP in CeA. Furthermore, the antinociceptive effect of CGRP was blocked by intra-CeA administration of the CGRP receptor antagonist CGRP8-37, suggesting that CGRP receptor1 is involved in the CGRP-induced antinociception. The CGRP-induced antinociception was attenuated by s.c. injection of the opioid antagonist naloxone, suggesting an involvement of endogenous opioid systems in CGRP-induced antinociception. Moreover, it was demonstrated that opioid receptors in the periaqueductal gray, but not in CeA, contributed to the CGRP-induced antinociception, indicating the importance of the pathway between CeA and the periaqueductal gray in CGRP-induced antinociception. Combining retrograde fluorescent tracing with immunohistochemistry, we found that met-enkephalinergic neurons were innervated by CGRP-containing terminals in CeA. Furthermore, most neurons in the CeA retrogradely traced from the periaqueductal gray were contacted by CGRP-containing terminals and some of them were surrounded by characteristic basket-like structures formed by the terminals, suggesting that CGRP innervates the neurons which project from CeA to the periaqueductal gray. The results indicate that CGRP activates the met-enkephalinergic neurons, which project from CeA to the periaqueductal gray, producing antinociceptive effect in rats.
Synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus is dependent on activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-subtype of glutamate receptors. In this study, we show that synaptic plasticity in turn regulates NMDA receptors, since subunits of the NMDA receptor complex are bidirectionally and independently regulated in the dentate gyrus following activation of perforant synapses in awake animals. Low-frequency stimulation that produced a mild synaptic depression resulted in a decrease in the NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2B 48 h following stimulation. High-frequency stimulation that produced long-term potentiation resulted in an increase in NR1 and NR2B at the same time point. Further investigations revealed that in contrast to NR2B, NR1 levels increased gradually after long-term potentiation induction, reaching a peak level at 48 h, and were insensitive to the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist 3-3(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphate. The increased levels of NR1 and NR2B at 48 h were found associated with synaptic membranes and with increased NMDA receptor-associated proteins, postsynaptic density protein 95, neuronal nitric oxide synthase and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, alpha subunit. These data suggest that the persistence of long-term potentiation is associated with an increase in the number of NMDA receptor complexes, which may be indicative of an increase in synaptic contact area.
In humans, mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene or exposure to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produce Parkinson's disease with loss of dopaminergic neurons and depletion of nigrostriatal dopamine. alpha-Synuclein is a vertebrate-specific component of presynaptic nerve terminals that may function in modulating synaptic transmission. To test whether MPTP toxicity involves alpha-synuclein, we generated alpha-synuclein-deficient mice by homologous recombination, and analyzed the effect of deleting alpha-synuclein on MPTP toxicity using these knockout mice. In addition, we examined commercially available mice that contain a spontaneous loss of the alpha-synuclein gene. As described previously, deletion of alpha-synuclein had no significant effects on brain structure or composition. In particular, the levels of synaptic proteins were not altered, and the concentrations of dopamine, dopamine metabolites, and dopaminergic proteins were unchanged. Upon acute MPTP challenge, alpha-synuclein knockout mice were partly protected from chronic depletion of nigrostriatal dopamine when compared with littermates of the same genetic background, whereas mice carrying the spontaneous deletion of the alpha-synuclein gene exhibited no protection. Furthermore, alpha-synuclein knockout mice but not the mice with the alpha-synuclein gene deletion were slightly more sensitive to methamphetamine than littermate control mice. These results demonstrate that alpha-synuclein is not obligatorily coupled to MPTP sensitivity, but can influence MPTP toxicity on some genetic backgrounds, and illustrate the need for extensive controls in studies aimed at describing the effects of mouse knockouts on MPTP sensitivity.
Hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is a characteristic feature of depressive illness. The centrally located corticosteroid receptors, the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors, are thought to be important modulators of this axis and changes in the levels of these receptors, particularly in the hippocampus, may underlie the hyperactivity observed. Various antidepressant drugs increase hippocampal mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor levels in vivo. These effects are thought to be mediated via alterations in monoaminergic neurotransmission. We examined whether serotonin (5HT) and noradrenaline (NA) have direct effects on glucocorticoid receptor and mineralocorticoid receptor expression in primary hippocampal neurones, and whether antidepressants also exert direct effects on target neurones. Exposure of hippocampal cells to 5HT for 4 days increased both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor mRNA and protein expression. The induction of mineralocorticoid receptor mRNA was completely blocked by the 5HT(7) receptor antagonist SB 269970. In contrast glucocorticoid receptor induction was insensitive to the 5HT(7) receptor, whilst studies with the 5HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-proplamino) tetralin hydrochloride and the 5HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-2-[O-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexane carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635) suggest a partial role for 5HT(1A) receptors in hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor regulation. Treatment with NA for 4 days also increased glucocorticoid receptor expression but had no effect on mineralocorticoid receptor expression. This was blocked by propanolol suggesting action via beta-adrenergic receptors. Similarly to NA, fluoxetine and amitriptyline also selectively increased glucocorticoid receptor mRNA and protein levels over this time course. However, glucocorticoid receptor induction by fluoxetine or amitriptyline was not blocked by WAY 100635 or propanolol. These results show that 5HT, NA and antidepressants act directly but via distinct mechanisms on hippocampal neurones to regulate mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor expression. Thusly, manipulation of neurotransmitter or antidepressant levels in the brain may aid in reversing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity by restoring hippocampal corticosteroid receptor balance.
The postnatal expression of GABA(A) receptor subunit mRNAs in the rat brain, including the hippocampus, exhibits a unique temporal and regional developmental profile in vivo, which may be altered by external stimuli. Using the in situ hybridization technique we have now studied the in vitro expression of alpha1,alpha2, alpha 4, alpha 5, beta 1, beta 3, gamma 2, and gamma 3 subunit mRNAs of GABA(A) receptors in organotypic hippocampal slices cultured for 7 days. To find out whether neuronal activity regulates the subunit expression, a subset of cultures was chronically treated either with a GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin, or by a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA)-receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX). In untreated control cultures, the expression pattern of the subunits varied regionally, the most abundantly expressed subunits being alpha 2 and alpha 5 in all subregions. All studied subunits were expressed in CA3a/b and CA1, whereas in CA3c and in granule cells of the dentate gyrus (DG) no signal of alpha 4 and gamma 3 was detected. The drug treatment differently affected the regional subunit expression. In picrotoxin-treated cultures, the expression of alpha1, alpha 5 and gamma 2 mRNAs was significantly increased in pyramidal cell layers, and in DNQX-treated cultures the expression of alpha2 mRNA in CA3c and DG, and that of beta1 in DG. Changes in the expression of GABA(A) receptor subunit mRNAs in treated cultures suggest that neuronal activity can regulate their regional expression in vitro. Since the expression profile in untreated control cultures closely resembled that observed earlier in vivo, organotypic hippocampal slice cultures could serve as a good model system to study the regulatory mechanisms of receptor expression under well-controlled experimental conditions in the developing hippocampus.
Dp71 is the major product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene in the brain. In order to study the function of Dp71 in the nervous system we examined the expression of Dp71 isoforms in PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cell line, a well-established system to study neuronal differentiation. We show by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays that PC12 cells express two Dp71 isoforms. One isoform lacks exon 71 and the other isoform lacks exons 71 and 78 (Dp71d and Dp71f isoforms respectively). Nerve growth factor-induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells results in differential regulation of the expression and subcellular localization of Dp71 isoforms: a) the amount of Dp71f protein increases nine-fold in total extracts while Dp71d increases up to seven-fold in nuclear extracts; b) Dp71f relocates from the cytoplasm to neuritic processes, being prominent at varicosities and the growth cone; c) Dp71d relocates almost entirely to the nucleus and is detected to a lower extent in the cytoplasm and neuritic processes. Dp71f co-localizes with beta-dystroglycan and synaptophysin while Dp71d co-localizes with beta-dystroglycan in the nucleus. Dp71d accumulates at cell-cell contacts where Dp71f is absent. These results suggest that Dp71d and Dp71f associate with different subcellular complexes and therefore may have distinct functions in PC12 cells.
Victims of minimal traumatic brain injury (mTBI) do not show clear morphological brain defects, but frequently suffer lasting cognitive deficits, emotional difficulties and behavioral disturbances. In the present study we adopted a non-invasive closed-head weight-drop mouse model to produce mTBI. We examined the effects of 20, 25, or 30 g weight drop 7, 30, 60 and 90 days following injury on mice's ability to perform the Morris water maze. The mice suffered profound long-lasting learning and memory deficits that were force- and time-dependent. Although the injured mice could acquire the task, they could not improve their initial escape latency by more than 50%, while normal mice improved by up to 450% (P&lt;0.001). In order to directly compare the learning ability of individual mice following our mTBI we have devised a new measure which we term learning rate. We define learning rate as the rate the mouse improved its own performance in consecutive trials in a given experimental day. The learning rate of control mice increased linearly throughout the testing period with a slope of approximately 0.9. Injured mice that sustained 20 and 25 g weight drop could also improve their learning rate linearly but with a slope of only 0.2. Mice who sustained 30 g weight drop could not improve their learning rate linearly and reached a plateau after the third experimental learning day. These results indicate that the severity of injury may correlate with the degree of integration of the learning task. These cognitive deficits occurred without any other clear neurological damage, no evident brain edema, no notable damage to the blood-brain barrier and no early anatomical changes to the brain (observed by magnetic resonance imaging imaging). These results demonstrate that persistent deficits of cognitive learning abilities in mice, similar to those observed in human post-concussive syndrome, can follow mTBI without any anatomical damage to the brain and its surrounding tissue.
Estrogen has been implicated in modulation of pain processing. Although this modulation occurs within the CNS, estrogen may also act on primary afferent neurons whose cell bodies are located within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Primary cultures of rat DRG neurons were loaded with Fura-2 and tested for ATP-induced changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) by fluorescent ratio imaging. ATP, an algesic agent, induces [Ca(2+)](i) changes via activation of purinergic 2X (P2X) type receptors and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC). ATP (10 microM) caused increased [Ca(2+)](i) transients (226.6+/-16.7 nM, n = 42) in 53% of small to medium DRG neurons. A 5-min incubation with 17 beta-estradiol (100 nM) inhibited ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) (164+/-14.6 nM, P&lt;0.05) in 85% of the ATP-responsive DRG neurons, whereas the inactive isomer 17 alpha-estradiol had no effect. Both the mixed agonist/antagonist tamoxifen (1 microM) and specific estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182780 (1 microM) blocked the estradiol inhibition of ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients. Estradiol coupled to bovine serum albumin, which does not diffuse through the plasma membrane, blocked ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i), suggesting that estradiol acts at a membrane-associated estrogen receptor. Attenuation of [Ca(2+)](i) transients was mediated by estrogen action on VGCC. Nifedipine (10 microM), an L-type VGCC antagonist mimicked the effect of estrogen and when co-administered did not increase the estradiol inhibition of ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients. N- and P-type VGCC antagonists omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM) and omega-agatoxin IVA (100 nM), attenuated the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients. Co-administration of these blockers with estrogen induced a further decrease of the ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) flux. Together, these results suggest that although ATP stimulation of P2X receptors activates L-, N-, and P-type VGCC, estradiol primarily blocks L-type VGCC. The estradiol regulation of this ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients suggests a mechanism through which estradiol may modulate nociceptive signaling in the peripheral nervous system.
Integrin adhesion receptors regulate gene expression during growth and differentiation in various cell types. Recent work, implicating integrins in functional synaptic plasticity, suggest they may have similar activities in adult brain. The present study tested if integrins binding the arginine-glycine-aspartate (RGD) matrix sequence regulate neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor gene expression in cultured hippocampal slices. The soluble RGD-containing peptide glycine-arginine-glycine-aspartate-serine-proline (GRGDSP) increased neurotrophin mRNA levels in transcript- and subfield-specific fashions. Integrin ligand effects were greatest for brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcripts I and II and barely detectable for transcript III. In accordance with increased nerve growth factor mRNA levels, GRGDSP increased c-fos expression as well. In contrast, growth-associated protein-43, amyloid precursor protein and fibroblast growth factor-1 mRNAs were not elevated. Ligand effects on brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcript II and c-fos mRNA did not depend on the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton, neuronal activity, or various signaling pathways but were blocked by L-type voltage-sensitive calcium-channel blockers. These results indicate that in mature hippocampal neurons integrin engagement regulates expression of a subset of growth-related genes at least in part through effects on calcium influx. Accordingly, these synaptic adhesion receptors may play the same role in maintaining an adult, differentiated state in brain as they do in other tissues and changes in integrin activation and/or engagement may contribute to dynamic changes in neurotrophin expression and to neuronal calcium signaling.
The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the brain's circadian clock, is composed mainly of GABAergic neurons, that are interconnected via synapses with GABA(A) receptors. Here we report on the subcellular localization of these receptors in the SCN, as revealed by an extensively characterized antibody to the alpha 3 subunit of GABA(A) receptors in conjunction with pre- and postembedding electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. GABA(A) receptor immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal perikarya, dendritic processes and axonal terminals. In perikarya and proximal dendrites, GABA(A) receptor immunoreactivity was expressed mainly in endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes, while in the distal part of dendrites, immunoreaction product was associated with postsynaptic plasma membrane. Many GABAergic axonal terminals, as revealed by postembedding immunogold labeling, displayed GABA(A) receptor immunoreactivity, associated mainly with the extrasynaptic portion of their plasma membrane. The function of these receptors was studied in hypothalamic slices using whole-cell patch-clamp recording of the responses to minimal stimulation of an area dorsal to the SCN. Analysis of the evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents showed that either bath or local application of 100 microM of GABA decreased GABAergic transmission, manifested as a two-fold increase in failure rate. This presynaptic effect, which was detected in the presence of the glutamate receptor blocker 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and the selective GABA(B) receptor blocker CGP55845A, appears to be mediated via activation of GABA(A) receptors. Our results thus show that GABA(A) receptors are widely distributed in the SCN and may subserve both pre- and postsynaptic roles in controlling the mammalian circadian clock.
Previous studies have shown that spikes can be generated in the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Some have suggested that, in response to synaptic inputs, spikes are initiated near the soma and propagate back into the dendrites, but some recent studies have shown that intense synaptic inputs initiate spikes in the dendrite. Here, we report the optical detection of spike propagation along the apical dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Rat hippocampal slices were stained with the fluorescent voltage-sensitive dye, JPW1114, and optical signals monitored using a 16 x 16 photodiode array system at a frame rate of 4 kHz. A stimulating electrode was placed at the boundary between the stratum (str.) lacnosum-moleculare and the str. radiatum to stimulate the Schaffer collateral, and fast and slow signal components were detected in the dendritic and somatic regions. By comparing the optical signals with whole-cell recordings, we confirmed that the fast component was due to a population of dendritic spikes in pyramidal neurons. The fast component appeared in dendritic locations near the input sites in response to synaptic activation, and signal onset at the soma was delayed by a few milliseconds compared with that at the input sites. Local perfusion of a Na(+) channel blocker near the soma eliminated the fast component at the soma, but had no effect on the fast component at the input sites. Our results indicate that dendritic spikes can be initiated in dendrites near the input site and propagate orthodromically toward the proximal dendrites and the soma.
A pre-embedding immunocytochemical method was used to study the subcellular distribution of the voltage-dependent potassium channel Kv3.1b in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) in developing and adult rat. The main finding was the localization of the channel in specific membrane compartments of the calyces of Held and principal globular neurons. Thus, at postnatal day (P) 9 immunoparticles were densely localized in plasma membranes of globular cell bodies and their main dendrites. At P16, a strong Kv3.1b labeling was still observed in these globular cell compartments, but the most remarkable feature was the presence of immunoparticles in synaptic terminal membranes of the calyces of Held. However, the presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations of the calyx of Held-globular cell synapses were virtually devoid of immunoparticles. This same subcellular distribution of Kv3.1b was seen in adult, with membranes of calycine terminals more uniformly labeled. The developmental profile of Kv3.1b expression in MNTB coincides with the functional maturation of the calyx of Held-principal globular neuron synapse. The presence of the channel in this system is crucial for the high-frequency synaptic transmission of auditory signals.
For the last 100 years secretin has been extensively studied for its hormonal effects on digestion. Recent observations that the deficits in social reciprocity skills seen in young (3-4-year-old) autistic children are improved after secretin infusions suggest an additional influence on neuronal activity. We show here that i.v. administration of secretin in rats induces Fos protein expression in the neurons of the central amygdala as well as the area postrema, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, external lateral parabrachial nucleus and supraoptic nucleus. However, secretin infusion did not induce Fos expression in the solitary tract nucleus or paraventricular nucleus, regions normally activated by related peptides such as cholecystokinin. The peak blood levels of secretin that induce Fos protein expression in rat brain are similar to the peak blood levels observed during i.v. treatment with secretin in humans. The amygdala is known to be critical for developing reciprocal social interaction skills and abnormalities in this brain region have been demonstrated in autistic children.
The circling rat is an autosomal recessive mutant (homozygous ci2/ci2) characterized by lateralized rotational behavior, locomotor hyperactivity, ataxia, stereotypic head movements, and deafness. Previous neurochemical investigations showed that ci2 rats of both genders have a lower tissue content of dopamine in the striatum ipsilateral to the preferred direction of circling. For further evaluation as to whether this striatal imbalance has functional consequences within basal ganglia structures, the spontaneous extracellular single unit activity of GABAergic neurons located in the striatum and, downstream to the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system, the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) was recorded bilaterally in anesthetized ci2 rats. Heterozygous (ci2/+) littermates that display normal behavior, and rats from the background strain (LEW/Ztm) served as controls. No significant hemispheric imbalances in striatal discharge rate and firing pattern were evident in ci2 rats. Furthermore, there were no significant intergroup differences in striatal activity. However, the mean spontaneous discharge rate of SNr neurons was significantly increased in both brain sides, and there was a significant shift toward rhythmic burst-like firing in ci2 mutants. Again, no hemispheric differences were detected. The data substantiate previous findings of altered basal ganglia function in ci2 rats. The abnormal basal ganglia output activity, i.e. of the SNr, is likely to contribute to the complex behavioral disturbances seen in ci2 rats.
Two anatomical experiments were performed to test the hypothesis that single CNS neurons link the central areas that regulate the somatomotor and sympathetic systems. First, the retrograde neuronal tracer cholera toxin beta-subunit was injected into the lateral parafascicular thalamic nucleus, a region that projects to both the motor cortex and striatum. Several days later, a second injection of the retrograde transneuronal tracer, pseudorabies virus (PRV), was made in the same rats in the stellate ganglion, which provides the main sympathetic supply to the heart. Using immunohistochemical methods, we demonstrate that the cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) are connected to both systems. The second experiment used two isogenic strains of Bartha PRV as double transneuronal tracers. One virus contained the unique gene for green fluorescent protein (GFP) and the other had the unique gene for beta-galactosidase (beta-gal). GFP-PRV was injected in the stellate ganglion and beta-gal-PRV was injected into the primary motor cortex. Double-labeled neurons were found in the lateral hypothalamic area (50% contained orexin) and PPN (approximately 95% were cholinergic). Other double-labeled neurons were identified in the deep temporal lobe (viz., amygdalohippocampal zone and lateral entorhinal cortex), posterior hypothalamus, ventral tuberomammillary nucleus, locus coeruleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, periaqueductal gray matter, dorsal raphe nucleus, and nucleus tractus solitarius. These results suggest these putative command neurons integrate the somatomotor and cardiosympathetic functions and may affect different behaviors (viz., arousal, sleep, and/or locomotion).
Recent experimental evidence indicates that neurotrophic factors play a role in the pathophysiology of epilepsy. The objective of this study was to explore whether signaling through one of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptors, GFRalpha2, influences the severity of kindling-evoked, rapidly recurring seizures and the subsequent development of permanent hyperexcitability. We applied the rapid kindling model to adult mice, using 40 threshold stimulations delivered with 5-min interval in the ventral hippocampus. Generalized seizures were fewer and developed later in response to kindling stimulations in mice lacking GFRalpha2. However, GFRalpha2 gene deletion did not influence the acquisition of the permanent abnormal excitability as assessed 4 weeks later. In situ hybridization revealed marked and dynamic changes of GFRalpha2 mRNA levels in several forebrain areas following the stimulus-evoked seizures. Our findings provide evidence that signaling through the GFRalpha2 receptor contributes to seizure generalization in rapid kindling.
High densities of mRNAs for three rhythm-related genes, rPeriod1 (rPer1), rPer2, and rClock, which share high homology in Drosophila and mice, were found in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The SCN, however, is not the only brain region that expresses these genes. To understand the distributions and possible physiological roles of these rhythm-related genes, we examined the gene expressions of rPer1, rPer2, and rClock in different brain regions by serial coronal, sagittal, and horizontal brain sections in Sprague-Dawley male rats. Animals were housed in a light-controlled room (lights on from 0600 to 1800 h) and killed at 1000 or 1200 h, which corresponds to Zeitgeber time 4 or 6. Semi-quantitative in situ hybridization with (35)S-riboprobes was used to evaluate mRNA levels. The mRNAs of rPer1, rPer2, and rClock were widely distributed in the rat CNS, including the olfactory bulb, cortex, piriform cortex, SCN, ventromedial hypothalamus, arcuate nucleus, hippocampus, mammillary nucleus, pontine nucleus, superior and inferior colliculus, cerebellum, median eminence/pars tuberalis, pineal gland, and pituitary. The expression patterns of mRNAs for rPer1 and rPer2 were almost identical. In contrast, different expression patterns were observed between rClock and rPer1 or rPer2 in several brain regions, including the hypothalamic supraoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei, the paraventricular zone of the caudate putamen, the superior olivary nucleus, and anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary. These findings suggest that the different expression patterns observed for rPer1, rPer2, and rClock might be due to their different physiological role(s) in those brain regions.
Psychomotor stimulants and neuroleptics exert multiple effects on dopaminergic signaling and produce the dopamine (DA)-related behaviors of motor activation and catalepsy, respectively. However, a clear relationship between dopaminergic activity and behavior has been very difficult to demonstrate in the awake animal, thus challenging existing notions about the mechanism of these drugs. The present study examined whether the drug-induced behaviors are linked to a presynaptic site of action, the DA transporter (DAT) for psychomotor stimulants and the DA autoreceptor for neuroleptics. Doses of nomifensine (7 mg/kg i.p.), a DA uptake inhibitor, and haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), a dopaminergic antagonist, were selected to examine characteristic behavioral patterns for each drug: stimulant-induced motor activation in the case of nomifensine and neuroleptic-induced catalepsy in the case of haloperidol. Presynaptic mechanisms were quantified in situ from extracellular DA dynamics evoked by electrical stimulation and recorded by voltammetry in the freely moving animal. In the first experiment, the maximal concentration of electrically evoked DA ([DA](max)) measured in the caudate-putamen was found to reflect the local, instantaneous change in presynaptic DAT or DA autoreceptor activity according to the ascribed action of the drug injected. A positive temporal association was found between [DA](max) and motor activation following nomifensine (r=0.99) and a negative correlation was found between [DA](max) and catalepsy following haloperidol (r=-0.96) in the second experiment. Taken together, the results suggest that a dopaminergic presynaptic site is a target of systemically applied psychomotor stimulants and regulates the postsynaptic action of neuroleptics during behavior. This finding was made possible by a voltammetric microprobe with millisecond temporal resolution and its use in the awake animal to assess release and uptake, two key mechanisms of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Moreover, the results indicate that presynaptic mechanisms may play a more important role in DA-behavior relationships than is currently thought.
It is known that the level of activity in nociceptive primary afferent nerve fibers increases in neuropathic conditions that produce pain, but changes in the temporal patterning of action potentials have not been analyzed in any detail. Because the patterning of action potentials in sensory nerve fibers might play a role in the development of pathological pain states, we studied patterning of mechanical stimulus-evoked action potential trains in nociceptive primary afferents in a rat model of vincristine-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Systemic administration of vincristine (100 microg/kg) caused approximately half the C-fiber nociceptors to become markedly hyperresponsive to mechanical stimulation. Instantaneous frequency plots showed that vincristine induced an irregular pattern of action-potential firing in hyperresponsive C-fibers, characterized by interspersed occurrences of high- and low-frequency firing. This pattern was associated with an increase in the percentage of interspike intervals 100-199 ms in duration compared with that in C-fibers from control rats and vincristine-treated C-fibers that did not become hyperresponsive. Variability in the temporal pattern of action potential firing was quantified by determining the coefficient of variability (CV2) for adjacent interspike intervals. This analysis revealed that vincristine altered the pattern of action-potential timing, so that combinations of higher firing frequency and higher variability occurred that were not observed in control fibers. The abnormal temporal structure of nociceptor responses induced by vincristine in some C-fiber nociceptors could contribute to the pathogenesis of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain, perhaps by inducing activity-dependent post-synaptic effects in sensory pathways.
Activation of spinal cord-projecting neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) has been implicated in a host of sympathetic nervous system functions. Here, we report two distinct activity patterns among electrophysiologically identified PVN spinal neurons that may contribute to the varied functional responses elicited by PVN activation. Extracellular single-unit recording was performed in anesthetized rats, and PVN neurons were antidromically identified by electrical stimulation of the spinal cord (T1-3 or T10-12). Axonal conduction velocity was determined for each identified neuron and revealed two distinct groups of cells, designated Group I (n=19) and Group II (n=34). Conduction velocity was significantly (P&lt;0.01) different between Group I (3.67+/-0.29 m/s) and Group II (0.45+/-0.01 m/s) cells and indicates that axons of Group I cells are larger and/or more heavily myelinated than those of Group II, which appear to be unmyelinated. The majority of Group I (15/19: 79%) and Group II (23/34: 68%) cells discharged spontaneously. Basal firing rates were significantly different between groups (Group I: 2.7+/-0.85 versus Group II: 1.8+/-0.64 spikes s(-1); P&lt;0.05). Spike-triggered averaging of renal sympathetic nerve activity revealed sympathetic-related discharge among a majority of Group I (11/15:73%) and Group II (17/23: 74%) neurons. In addition, seven of 11 Group I cells showed cardiac-related discharge. Pulse-rhythmic discharge was not detectable in any Group II cells tested (n=17). Among 11 Group I cells tested for barosensitivity, discharge in eight (73%) was graded by changes in mean arterial pressure. None of the 16 Group II cells tested for arterial pressure sensitivity responded.We conclude that the PVN spinal pathway is comprised of at least two functionally distinct cell types. The response profile and activity patterns of Group I cells suggest involvement in regulating vasomotor components of sympathetic outflow. By comparison, the activity of Groups II cells suggests a possible role in non-vasomotor sympathetic control.
This study examined the role of spinal GABAergic, serotoninergic and alpha(2) adrenergic receptors in the antinociception produced by the microinjection of equi-antinociceptive doses of selective opioid receptor agonists in the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) or the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha (NGCpalpha) of the rat. Rats were pretreated with intrathecal administration of either the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP35348, the serotonin(1/2) receptor antagonist methysergide, the alpha(2) adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine or saline. Ten minutes later, either the delta(1) opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2,5)]enkephalin (DPDPE), delta(2) opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),Glu(4)]deltorphin (DELT) or mu opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),NMePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin (DAMGO) was microinjected into the NRM, NGCpalpha or sites in the medulla outside these two regions. The increase in tail-flick latency produced by microinjection of DPDPE into the NRM or NGCpalpha was antagonized by intrathecal pretreatment with either methysergide or yohimbine. Intrathecal pretreatment with CGP35348 antagonized the antinociception produced by microinjection of DPDPE in the NRM, whereas bicuculline antagonized the antinociception produced by microinjection of DPDPE in the NGCpalpha. The increase in tail-flick latency produced by microinjection of DELT into the NGCpalpha, but not the NRM was antagonized by intrathecal pretreatment with yohimbine or CGP35348. Intrathecal pretreatment with methysergide or bicuculline did not antagonize the antinociception produced by microinjection of DELT into either the NRM or the NGCpalpha. The increase in tail-flick latency produced by microinjection of DAMGO in the NRM was antagonized by intrathecal pretreatment with methysergide or CGP35348, but not by bicuculline or yohimbine. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that the antinociception produced by activation of delta(1), delta(2) or mu opioid receptors in the rostral ventromedial medulla is mediated by different neural substrates.
We examined the effect of iontophoretic application of bicuculline methiodide and strychnine hydrochloride on the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR)-induced inhibition of dorsal horn cells in paralyzed cats. The activity of 60 dorsal horn cells was recorded extracellularly in laminae I, II, V-VII of spinal segments L7-S1. Each of the cells was shown to receive group III muscle afferent input as demonstrated by their responses to electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve (mean latency and threshold of activation: 20.1+/-6.4 ms and 15.2+/-1.4 times motor threshold, respectively). Electrical stimulation of the MLR suppressed transmission in group III muscle afferent pathways to dorsal horn cells. Specifically the average number of impulses generated by the dorsal horn neurons in response to a single pulse applied to the tibial nerve was decreased by 78+/-2.8% (n=60) during the MLR stimulation. Iontophoretic application (10-50 nA) of bicuculline and strychnine (5-10 mM) suppressed the MLR-induced inhibition of transmission of group III afferent input to laminae I and II cells by 69+/-5% (n=10) and 29+/-7% (n=7), respectively. Likewise, bicuculline and strychnine suppressed the MLR-induced inhibition of transmission of group III afferent input to lamina V cells by 59+/-13% (n=14) and 39+/-11% (n=10), respectively. Our findings raise the possibility that GABA and glycine release onto dorsal horn neurons in the spinal cord may play an important role in the suppression by central motor command of thin fiber muscle afferent-reflex pathways.
We recently reported that exogenously applied orphanin FQ, the endogenous ligand for opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL(1)) receptor, produces sex-specific modulation of trigeminal nociception, and that estrogen contributes to these sex-related differences. Estrogen could produce these sex-related differences by altering the expression of the ORL(1)-receptor gene in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. Utilizing in situ hybridization, we compared levels of ORL(1) receptor mRNA and investigated its colocalization with estrogen receptor mRNA in trigeminal neurons. Our results showed that in male rats, ORL(1) receptor mRNA is abundantly expressed in the rostral part of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis, and at the junction of caudalis and interpolaris (Vc/Vi). In comparison with males, levels of ORL(1) receptor mRNA were not significantly different in proestrus females, but were significantly higher in the rostral trigeminal nucleus caudalis and at the junction of Vc/Vi of diestrus females. In addition, ovariectomy raised the levels in the rostral trigeminal nucleus caudalis, and at the junction of Vc/Vi. Levels were reduced to proestrus levels in these regions following estradiol replacement. Our results also showed that ORL(1) receptor mRNA is present in majority of estrogen receptor (alpha and/or beta) mRNA-containing neurons. We conclude that there are sex-related differences in the ORL(1)-receptor gene expression in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis, which appear to be determined in part by estrogen levels.
Immunofluorescence labeling was performed to study the expression of high voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel subunits on rat retinal cholinergic and dopaminergic amacrine cells, which were double labeled with antibodies against choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine hydroxylase, respectively. The alpha(1A) subunit was predominantly expressed on the processes but not on the somata of cholinergic amacrine cells, whereas staining for alpha(1B) and alpha(1E) was observed in both structures of the cells. Immunoreactivity of alpha(1C) and alpha(1D) was not found in the cholinergic amacrine cells. Dopaminergic amacrine cells, on the other hand, exhibited a differential expression pattern of the Ca(2+) channel subunits, with alpha(1A), alpha(1C) and alpha(1E) being expressed on both somata and processes and alpha(1B) predominantly on the processes of the cells. No alpha(1D) labeling was seen. These results suggest that Ca(2+) channel subunits differentially expressed on the cholinergic and dopaminergic amacrine cells may endow these two cell types with different physiological properties.
Penile erection induced by alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and melanocortin receptors (MC-R) in areas of the spinal cord and periphery has not been demonstrated. To elucidate sites of the proerectile action of melanocortin peptides, in awake male rats we administered the MC-R agonist Ac-Nle-c[Asp-His-DPhe-Arg-Trp-Lys]-NH(2) (MT-II) i.c.v., intrathecal (i.th.) and i.v. and scored penile erection and yawning. Injection of the MC-R antagonist Ac-Nle-c[Asp-His-DNal(2')-Arg-Trp-Lys]-NH(2) (SHU-9119) i.c.v. or i.th. in combination with i.th. MT-II differentiated spinal from supraspinal effects. To exclude a site of action in the penis, we recorded intracavernous pressure responses to intracavernosal injection of MT-II in the anesthetized rat.I.c.v., i.th., and i.v. MT-II induced penile erections in a dose-dependent fashion. Yawning was observed with i.c.v. and i.v. MT-II, while spinal injection did not produce this behavior. Intrathecal delivery of MT-II to the lumbosacral spinal cord was more efficacious in inducing erections than i.c.v. or i.v. administration; SHU-9119 blocked the erectile responses to i.th. MT-II when injected i.th. but not i.c.v. Intracavernosal MT-II neither increased intracavernous pressure nor augmented neurostimulated erectile responses. We confirmed the central proerectile activity of MT-II and demonstrated that in addition to a site of action in the brain, the distal spinal cord contains melanocortin receptors that can initiate penile erection independent of higher centers. These results provide new insight into the central melanocortinergic pathways that mediate penile erection and may allow for more efficacious melanotropin-based therapy for erectile dysfunction.
Previous studies have demonstrated that ovarian steroids exert neuroprotective effects in a variety of in vitro and in vivo systems. The mechanisms underlying these effects remain poorly understood. In the present study, the neuroprotective effects of estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P) were examined in two models of apoptosis induced by growth factor insufficiency: partially nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells, after serum and NGF withdrawal; and axotomized immature rat facial motor motoneurons. E(2) and P both increased the survival of trophically withdrawn NGF-differentiated PC12 cells, at physiologically relevant concentrations. However, neither steroid had a significant effect on the survival of PC12 cells that had not been NGF treated. Exposure to NGF had no effect on the expression of estrogen receptor (ER)beta, but markedly increased the levels of ERalpha and altered the expression of the progesterone receptor (PR) from predominantly PR-B in NGF naive cells, to predominantly PR-A after NGF. The survival promoting effects of E(2) and P were blocked by the specific steroid receptor antagonists Faslodex (ICI 182780) and onapristone (ZK98299), respectively. Inhibitors of RNA (actinomycin D) or protein (cycloheximide) synthesis also abrogated the protective effects of both steroids. In immature rats, E(2) and P both significantly increased the numbers of surviving facial motor neurons at 21 days after axotomy. These data demonstrate significant protective effects of E(2) and P in two well-characterized models of apoptosis induced by trophic withdrawal and suggest that, at least in PC12 cells, the effects of the steroids are mediated via interaction with nuclear steroid receptor systems. The lack of steroid responsiveness in NGF-naive PC12 cells despite the presence of abundant ERbeta and PR-B are consistent with the view that ERalpha and PR-A may be particularly important as mediators of the neuroprotective effects of their corresponding hormonal ligands.
Most patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the most common type of epilepsy, show pronounced loss of neurons in limbic brain regions, including the hippocampus. The massive neurodegeneration in the hippocampus is known as hippocampal sclerosis, and is considered one of the hallmarks of this type of difficult-to-treat epilepsy. There is a long and ongoing debate on whether this sclerosis is the result of an initial pathological event, such as a status epilepticus (S.E.), stroke or head trauma, which often precedes the development of TLE, or is caused by the spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) once epilepsy has developed. At present, pharmacological prevention of limbic sclerosis is not available. In a clinical situation, such prevention would only be possible if delayed cell death developing after an initial pathological event is involved. Assuming that sclerotic brain lesions provoke epileptogenesis and that delayed cell death is involved in these lesions, it should be possible to prevent both the lesions and the epilepsy by a prophylactic treatment after an initial insult such as an S.E. In order to test this hypothesis, we used a rat model of TLE in which limbic brain lesions and epilepsy with SRS develop after a kainate-induced S.E. A single low dose of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker dizocilpine (MK-801) significantly reduced the damage in limbic regions, including the hippocampus and piriform cortex, and completely protected several rats from such damage when given after an S.E. of 90 min induced by kainate, strongly suggesting that delayed cell death is involved in the damage. This was substantiated by the use of molecular and immunohistochemical markers of delayed active (&quot;programmed&quot;) cell death. However, the neuroprotection by dizocilpine did not prevent the development of SRS after the S.E., suggesting that structures not protected by dizocilpine may play a role in the genesis of SRS or that epileptogenesis is not the consequence of structural lesions in the limbic system. The only brain regions that exhibited neuronal damage in all rats with SRS were the hilus of the dentate gyrus and the mediodorsal thalamus, although treatment with dizocilpine reduced the severity of damage in the latter region. The data indicate that NMDA receptor blockade immediately after a prolonged S.E. is an effective means to reduce the damage produced by a sustained S.E. in several brain regions, including the hippocampus, but show that this partial neuroprotection of the limbic system does not prevent the development of epilepsy.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is characterised by slowly propagating waves of cellular depolarization and depression and involves transient changes in blood flow, ion balance and metabolism. In cerebral ischaemia, peri-infarct CSD-like depolarization potentiates infarct growth, whereas preconditioning with a CSD episode protects against subsequent ischaemic insult. Thus, many of the long-lasting molecular changes that occur in CSD-affected tissue are presumed to be part of a 'neuroprotective cascade.' 3',5'-Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) has been shown to be a neuroprotective mediator and the nitric oxide system, which increases cGMP production by soluble guanylate cyclase, is up-regulated by CSD. Atrial and C-type natriuretic peptide (ANP/CNP) are present in cerebral cortex and their actions are mediated via particulate guanylate cyclase receptors and cGMP production. Therefore, in further efforts to characterise the role of cGMP-related systems in CSD and neuroprotection, this study investigated possible changes in cortical natriuretic peptide expression following acute, unilateral CSD in rats. Using in situ hybridisation, significant 20-80% increases in ANP mRNA were detected in layers II and VI of ipsilateral cortex at 6 h and 1-14 days after CSD. Ipsilateral cortical levels were again equivalent to control contralateral values after 28 days. Assessment of cortical concentrations of ANP immunoreactivity by radioimmunoassay revealed a significant 57% increase at 7 days after CSD. Despite using a sensitive signal-amplification protocol, authentic ANP-like immunostaining was readily detected in subcortical nerve fibres, but was not reliably detected in normal or CSD-affected neocortex, suggesting the presence of very low levels, and/or active or differential processing of the peptide. Cortical CNP mRNA levels are not altered by CSD, indicating the specificity of the observed effects.Overall, these novel findings demonstrate a prolonged increase in cortical ANP expression after an acute episode of CSD. The overlap between the described time course of CSD-induced protection against ischaemic insult and demonstrated increases in ANP levels, suggest that ANP (like nitric oxide) may contribute to CSD-induced neuroprotection, via effects on cGMP production and other signal-transduction pathways.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, an ionotropic glutamate receptor, is implicated in motor activity that is regulated in the striatum and nucleus accumbens of the brain. A Src family kinase Lyn is highly expressed in striatum, cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum in the brain. Here we show that spontaneous motor activity is suppressed in lyn-/- mice. S.c. injection of methylphenidate, which causes accumulation of dopamine in synapses, reveals that dopaminergic pathway is normal in lyn-/- mice. After blocking the NMDA receptor, motor activity of lyn-/- mice increased to the same level as that of wild type mice. Therefore, the NMDA receptor-mediated signaling is enhanced in lyn-/- mice, indicating that Lyn regulates the NMDA receptor pathway negatively. Intriguingly, the activity of protein kinase C (PKC), an enzyme regulated downstream of NMDA receptors, is increased in lyn-/- mice. The present data suggest that the NMDA receptor signal that is enhanced in the absence of Lyn suppresses the motor activity, probably through inhibition of dopaminergic pathway at striatum. We conclude that Lyn contributes to coordination of motor activity through regulation of the NMDA pathway. It appears that this negative regulation involves suppression of downstream signaling of NMDA receptor such as those mediated by PKC.
The mu-opioid receptor (MOR) in the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) appears early during prenatal development, and shows a patch-like distribution throughout the postnatal period and adulthood. In the adult rat CPN, neurons in patch compartments receive glutamatergic excitatory input mainly from the cortex through synapses onto spines, many of which express MORs. Thus, MOR expression in spines may be related to corticostriatal synaptogenesis. We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine potential age-dependent changes in the distribution pattern of MOR during postnatal synaptogenesis in the rat CPN. Immunogold-silver labeling revealed that the dendritic plasmalemmal density of MOR at postnatal day (P) 0 was significantly lower than, but after P10 was similar to, that of adult. In contrast, such age-dependent changes were not observed in axon terminals. Stereological analysis of immunoperoxidase labeling for MOR showed a good correlation in the developmental numerical densities of synapses with MOR-labeled spines and those of total asymmetric axospinous synapses, linear correlation coefficient r=0.99. Synapses with MOR-labeled dendrites, however, had a low correlation with axodendritic synapses (r=0.61), and synapses with MOR-labeled terminals showed no correlation with axospinous and axodendritic synapses (r=0.19). These results provide ultrastructural evidence that the targeting of MOR on the plasma membrane of dendrites and spines parallels the peak period of synaptogenesis during the third postnatal week in the rat CPN. Thus, the postnatal spatiotemporal expression pattern of MOR appears to match the functional maturation of corticostriatal glutamate transmission.
The cannabinoid receptor one (CB1) is responsible for the effects of cannabis on motor and cognitive function in the CNS. There is to date very limited information about the CB1 gene expression in the human brain, in particular during fetal development. In the present study, in situ hybridization experiments were used to examine the microscopic and macroscopic organization of the CB1 mRNA expression in normal human fetal (approximately 20 weeks of development) and adult brains. The fetal brain showed a distinct heterogeneous pattern of the CB1 mRNA expression which was low to moderate in many brain areas. The most striking feature of the fetal brain was the intense expression in the hippocampal CA region and basal nuclear group of the amygdaloid complex. Many of the same brain areas that showed positive expression of the CB1 mRNA in the fetal brain also expressed the gene in the adult brain. However, aside from an intense expression in the hippocampus which resembled that in fetal brain, the adult brain showed very high expression throughout the cerebral cortex, caudate nucleus, putamen and cerebellar cortex. These results document a different pattern of the anatomical organization of the CB1 mRNA expression in the mid-gestation fetal and adult human brain. Overall, the high CB1 mRNA expression in the fetal hippocampus and amygdala indicates that these limbic structures might be most vulnerable to prenatal cannabis exposure.
Cell death is a critical component of normal nervous system development; too little or too much results in abnormal development and function of the nervous system. The leaner mouse exhibits excessive, abnormal cerebellar granule cell and Purkinje cell death during postnatal development, which is a consequence of a mutated calcium ion channel subunit, alpha(1A). Previous studies have shown that leaner cerebellar Purkinje cells die in a specific pattern that appears to be influenced by functional and anatomical boundaries of the cerebellum. However, the mechanism of Purkinje cell death and the specific timing of the spatial pattern of cell death remain unclear. By double labeling both leaner and wild-type cerebella with Fluoro-Jade and terminal deoxynucleotide transferase-mediated, deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling or Fluoro-Jade and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry we demonstrated that the relatively new stain, Fluoro-Jade, will label neurons that are dying secondary to a genetic mutation. Then, by staining leaner and wild-type cerebella between postnatal days 20 and 80 with Fluoro-Jade, we were able to show that Purkinje cell death begins at approximately postnatal day 25, peaks in the vermis about postnatal day 40 and in the hemispheres at postnatal day 50 and persists at a low level at postnatal day 80. In addition, we showed that there is a significant difference in the amount of cerebellar Purkinje cell death between rostral and caudal divisions of the leaner cerebellum, and that there is little to no Purkinje cell death in the wild type cerebellum at the ages we examined. This is the first report of the use of Fluoro-Jade to identify dying neurons in a genetic model for neuronal cell death. By using Fluoro-Jade, we have specifically defined the temporospatial pattern of postnatal Purkinje cell death in the leaner mouse. This information can be used to gain insight into the dynamic mechanisms controlling Purkinje cell death in the leaner cerebellum.
To investigate developmental changes in neurosteroid modulation of GABA(A) receptors, whole-cell currents were elicited by applying GABA with allopregnanolone or pregnenolone sulfate (PS) to dentate granule cells (DGCs), acutely isolated from 7-14-day-old and adult rats. GABA evoked larger currents from dentate granule cells acutely isolated from adult rats (adult DGCs) than from neonatal DGCs, due to increased efficacy (1662+/-267 pA in adult DGCs versus 1094+/-198 pA in neonatal DGCs, P=0.004), and current density (0.072+/-0.01 pA/microm(2) in neonatal rat DGCs to 0.178+/-0.02 pA/microm(2) in adult DGCs), but unchanged potency (EC(50) was 18.5+/-2 microm in adult DGCs, and 26.6+/-7.9 microm in neonatal DGCs, P=0.21). Allopregnanolone sensitivity of GABA(A) receptor currents increased during development due to an increased potency (21.1+/-4.7 nM in adult DGCs versus 94.6+/-9 nM in neonatal DGCs, P=0.0002). The potency and efficacy of PS inhibition of GABA(A) receptor currents were remained unchanged during development (13+/-6 microm and 13.2+/-5.9 microm, P=0.71 and 85.5%+/-3.5% and 83.6%+/-0.8%, P=0.29, respectively). To investigate possible mechanism of developmental changes in GABA(A) receptor properties, in situ hybridization for alpha1, alpha4 and gamma2 subunit mRNAs was performed in dentate gyrus of the two age groups. Qualitatively, alpha1 subunit mRNA was expressed at low levels in neonatal rats while it was well expressed in adult rats. The alpha4 and gamma2 subunits were well expressed in the dentate gyrus of adult and neonatal rats. Immunohistochemical staining for alpha1 subunit in hippocampal slices from neonatal and adult rats was examined under confocal laser scanning microscope. This demonstrated that cell bodies and dendrites of granule cells are moderately positive for the alpha1 staining in adult rats but weakly so in neonatal rats. Higher-magnification images demonstrate large number of clusters of alpha1-subunit in the cell bodies of dentate granule cells of adult rat but rare clusters in granule cells of neonatal rats. Maturation of GABA(A) receptors in DGCs is characterized by increased number of GABA(A) receptors that are more sensitive to endogenous neurosteroid allopregnanolone, which might be related to increased expression of alpha1 subunit.
Evidence for the presence of the vitamin D receptor in brain implies this vitamin may have some function in this organ. This study investigates whether vitamin D(3) acts during brain development. We demonstrate that rats born to vitamin D(3)-deficient mothers had profound alterations in the brain at birth. The cortex was longer but not wider, the lateral ventricles were enlarged, the cortex was proportionally thinner and there was more cell proliferation throughout the brain. There were reductions in brain content of nerve growth factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and reduced expression of p75(NTR), the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor. Our findings would suggest that low maternal vitamin D(3) has important ramifications for the developing brain.
The localisation of the gene transcripts of a recently discovered peptidase, neprilysin 2 (NEP2), was established by in situ hybridisation in rat tissues during development and adulthood. It was compared with those of neprilysin (NEP), a closely related enzyme in terms of sequence homology or substrate specificity, and of endothelin-converting enzyme 1 (ECE-1) which, like the other two, belongs to the M-13 sub-family of zinc-dependent metallopeptidases. The ontogeny of the three enzymes differed markedly, the expression of NEP2 being restricted to developing and differentiating fields of the CNS, whereas NEP and ECE-1 genes were broadly expressed early on in the CNS and periphery. In contrast to the wide expression of NEP and ECE-1 in peripheral adult tissues and in CNS, NEP2 was almost exclusively expressed in selected neuronal populations of the brain and spinal cord. The only exceptions were the intermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary as well as the choroid plexuses, where NEP2 was also strongly expressed. These localisations as well as those in the hypothalamic nuclei, together with the previously established pattern of cleaved peptides, suggest the involvement of NEP2 in the metabolism of neurohormones of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis.Complementary distributions of NEP and NEP2 mRNAs were observed in a large number of brain areas with, for instance the former being highly expressed in the striatum in which NEP2 transcripts were almost undetectable. In contrast, NEP2 was highly expressed in numerous thalamic, hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei from which NEP was absent. Since both peptidases are able to cleave the same neuropeptides, this pattern may suggest a complementary role in their peptide inactivation functions in the CNS. Finally, ECE-1 mRNAs were generally observed in neuronal populations known to express the pre-proendothelin-1 gene, confirming the function of the metallopeptidase in endothelin-1 generation.
The loss of afferent synaptic boutons is a prominent alteration induced by axotomy on adult central neurons. In this work we attempted to prove whether synapse loss could be reverted by reconnection with a new target. We severed the medial longitudinal fascicle of adult cats and then transplanted embryonic cerebellar primordia at the lesion site immediately after lesion. As previously shown, the transected axons from abducens internuclear neurons penetrate and reinnervate the graft [J Comp Neurol 444 (2002) 324]. By immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy we studied the synaptology of abducens internuclear neurons under three conditions: control, axotomy and transplant (2 months of survival time). Semithin sections of the abducens nucleus were immunostained against calretinin, to identify abducens internuclear neurons, and either synaptophysin (SF), to label synaptic terminals, or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) to detect the astrocytic reaction. Optical and linear density of SF and GFAP immunostaining were measured. Data revealed a significant decrease in the density of SF-labeled terminals with a parallel increase in GFAP-immunoreactive elements after axotomy. On the contrary, in the transplant group, the density of SF-labeled terminals was found similar to control, and the astrocytic reaction induced by lesion was significantly reduced. At the ultrastructural level, synaptic coverage and linear density of boutons were measured around the somata of abducens internuclear neurons. Whereas a significant reduction in both parameters was found after axotomy, cells of the transplant group received a normal density of synaptic endings. The ratio between F- and S-type boutons was found similar in the three groups. Therefore, these findings indicate that the grafting of a new target can prevent the loss of afferent synaptic boutons produced by the axotomy.
Beta(2)-adrenergic receptors (beta(2)-AR) and CB1 cannabinoid receptors share the property of being constitutively active. The CB1 cannabinoid receptor can also sequester G(i/o) proteins; however, it is not known whether the beta(2)-AR can also sequester G proteins. Beta(2)-ARs were heterologously expressed in rat superior cervical ganglion neurons by microinjection of cDNA and studied using the patch-clamp technique. The beta-AR agonist isoproterenol increased the Ca(2+) current 25.9+/-1.6% in neurons microinjected with 100 ng/microl beta(2)-AR cDNA but was without effect on control neurons. Pretreatment with cholera toxin (CTX) abolished the effect of isoproterenol, indicating coupling via G(s) proteins. In neurons microinjected with 200 ng/microl beta(2)-AR cDNA, isoproterenol had the opposite effect of inhibiting the Ca(2+) current 36.5+/-2.0%. Inhibition of the Ca(2+) current was sensitive to pertussis toxin, indicating beta(2)-AR coupling to G(i/o) proteins. Pretreatment with CTX resulted in a greater 54+/-3.8% inhibition of the Ca(2+) current, indicating that G(s) coupling masks the full effect of G(i/o) coupling. Expression of beta(2)-ARs abolished signaling by G(s)-coupled receptors for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). VIP inhibited the Ca(2+) current 49.5+/-0.5% in control neurons but had no effect in neurons expressing beta(2)-ARs. In contrast, expression of beta(2)-ARs had no effect on signaling by the G(i/o)-coupled alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor. This study demonstrates that the beta(2)-AR couples to both G(s) and G(i/o) proteins but specifically sequesters G(s) proteins, preventing their interaction with another G(s)-coupled receptor. beta(2)-adrenergic receptors thus have the potential to prevent other G(s)-coupled receptors from transducing their biological signals.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been shown to modulate autonomic function by acting both peripherally and centrally. A growing body of evidence indicates that the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), an important site for autonomic and endocrine homeostasis, constitutes an important locus mediating central NO actions. However, the cellular targets and mechanisms mediating NO actions within the PVN are not completely understood. Here, we examined whether NO influences the firing activity of identified PVN neurons that innervate two functionally different autonomic centers, the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). Perforated patch-clamp recordings were performed in hypothalamic slices containing retrogradely labeled PVN neurons innervating the DVC or the RVLM. Application of the NO donors dyethylamine- or 1-propanamine, 3-(2-hydroxy-2-nitroso-1-propylhydrazino) NONOate inhibited the firing activity of both DVC- and RVLM-projecting PVN neurons. Furthermore, application of 2-(4-carboxypheny)-4,4,5,5,-tetramethilimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (carboxy-PTIO), or the relatively selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor 7-nitroindazole alone, increased their basal firing activity, suggesting the presence of an endogenous NO inhibitory tone. GABAergic synaptic activity in PVN neurons was potentiated by NO donors, an action that involved a presynaptic mechanism. Furthermore, the NO-mediated inhibition of firing activity was blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, suggesting that NO-inhibitory actions involved potentiation of local GABAergic synaptic activity. Immunohistochemical studies showed that approximately 25% of DVC- and RVLM-projecting PVN neurons express nNOS, suggesting that a proportion of these medullary-projecting PVN neurons contribute to the cellular source of NO within the PVN. In summary, NO has been identified as an important molecule controlling autonomic function under physiological and pathological conditions. Here, we provide information on the cellular mechanisms mediating central NO actions. Our results demonstrate for the first time that NO modulates the activity of identified populations of PVN neurons that innervate the medulla oblongata, an action that is likely mediated by enhancing synaptic GABAergic function. This work suggests that NO-GABA interaction in PVN neurons that innervate the medulla constitutes an efficient cellular mechanism mediating NO central regulation of autonomic function.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with impairments of cognitive function both in humans and animal models. In diabetic rats cognitive deficits are related to alterations in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Many similarities with the pathophysiology of normal brain aging have been noted, and the view emerges that the effects of diabetes on the brain are best described as &quot;accelerated brain aging.&quot;In the present study we examined whether CA1 pyramidal neurons from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats display an increased slow afterhyperpolarization, often considered as a hallmark of neuronal aging. We found no differences in resting membrane potential, input resistance, membrane time-constant, and action potential amplitude and duration between CA1 pyramidal neurons from streptozotocin-induced diabetic and age-matched control rats. During a train of action potentials, however, there is an increased broadening of the action potentials in diabetic animals, so-called &quot;spike broadening.&quot; The amplitude of the slow afterhyperpolarization elicited by a train of action potentials is indeed increased in diabetic animals. Interestingly, when the slow afterhyperpolarization is elicited by a Ca(2+) spike, there is no difference between control and diabetic rats. This indicates that the increased slow afterhyperpolarization in diabetes is likely to be due to an increased Ca(2+) influx resulting from the increased spike broadening. These data underscore the notion that the diabetic brain at the neuronal level shares properties with brain aging.
Maternal care influences hippocampal development in the rat. The offspring of mothers that exhibit increased levels of pup licking/grooming and arched-back nursing (High LG-ABN mothers) show increased hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor binding and enhanced hippocampal-dependent spatial learning. In these studies we examined whether environmental enrichment from days 22-70 of life might reverse the effects of low maternal care. Environmental enrichment eliminated the differences between the offspring of High and Low LG-ABN mothers in both Morris water maze learning and object recognition. However, enrichment did not reverse the effect of maternal care on long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus or on hippocampal NMDA receptor binding. In contrast, peripubertal enrichment did reverse the effects of maternal care on hippocampal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor binding. These findings provide evidence for the reversal of the effects of reduced maternal investment in early life on cognitive function in adulthood. Such effects might involve compensatory changes associated with peripubertal enrichment.
There are two different proposals regarding the role of the cerebellar flocculus in the adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex: that the flocculus is the site for both the induction and retention of the adaptation, or that the flocculus plays an important role in the induction, but the vestibular nuclei to which the flocculus issues its efferents are the site of retention. To locate the memory trace for the adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, we determined effects of acute pharmacological shutdown of the bilateral cerebellar flocculi in four Macaca fuscata. The gain of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex was measured by sinusoidal oscillation of the turntable by 10 degrees (peak-to-peak) at 0.33 Hz in the dark. Two hours of 0.33 Hz-10 degrees sinusoidal oscillation of the turntable while viewing the stationary checked-pattern screen through a x2.2 magnifying lens adaptively increased the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex gain by 0.2 on the average. The gain increase lasted for 1 h when the monkeys were left with their heads fixed in darkness, but it disappeared within 24 h after the monkeys were returned to their cages where they had free movements. The effects of injections of 5 or 10% lidocaine chloride into the bilateral floccular areas (8 microl for each side) immediately after adaptation occurred were determined in nine sessions. The gain of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex immediately decreased to the level before the adaptation. These effects of lidocaine lasted for at least 1 h. On the contrary, injections of the same amount of Ringer's solution, tested in eight sessions, hardly affected gain of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex over 1-h period. These depressant effects of lidocaine injections were specific to the gains increased by adaptation. These results suggest that the memory trace for the short-term adaptation of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex gain induced by 2 h of sustained visual-vestibular interactions resides within the flocculus.
The present study investigates the contribution of peripheral N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors to acute nociception and persistent inflammatory pain in the rat. Immunohistochemical localization of the NMDA receptor one (NMDAR1) subunit demonstrates that 47% of unmyelinated axons in the normal digital nerve are positively labeled. In concert with the overall progression of inflammation following injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the hind paw, a significant increase in the proportion of NMDAR1-labeled unmyelinated digital axons occurs at 2 and 7, but not 14 days following hind-paw inflammation. In behavioral studies, we confirm an increased mechanical sensitivity in CFA-injected hind paws. Furthermore, activation of NMDA receptors following intraplantar NMDA (1.0 mM) in normal animals results in a mechanical sensitivity similar to that observed in inflamed animals. Conversely, a low concentration of NMDA (0.5 mM) that has little affect on mechanical thresholds in normal animals produces a significant increase in mechanical sensitivity in the inflamed state. CFA-induced mechanical sensitivity involves NMDA-receptor activation demonstrated by the observation that injection of MK-801 alone into the inflamed hind paw returns mechanical sensitivity to normal (pre-inflammation) levels. In single-unit studies, there is a dose-dependent increase in NMDA-induced nociceptor activity in both normal and inflamed skin, but the amount of NMDA required to induce activation is reduced in inflamed skin. In addition, NMDA-induced discharge rates and percentage of NMDA-activated nociceptors are significantly increased in inflamed compared with normal skin, and this activation can be blocked by co-administration of MK-801. Exposure of nociceptors in normal skin to 1 mM NMDA sensitizes the units to reapplication of NMDA and to heat. Nociceptors that demonstrate sensitization to heat in persistent inflammation show an enhanced sensitization when exposed to exogenous NMDA. Thus, peripheral NMDA receptors not only play an important role in modulating the responses of nociceptors in normal skin, but their upregulation and activation on peripheral nociceptors contributes significantly to the mechanical sensitivity and heat sensitization that accompanies persistent inflammation.
The relationship between substance P release and the activation of its receptor in the spinal cord remains unclear. Substance P release is usually measured by radioimmunoassay, whereas the internalization of the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor has been used to assess its activation by noxious stimuli. Our objective was to compare substance P release and NK1 receptor internalization produced by capsaicin in rat spinal cord slices. Superfusion of the slices with capsaicin for 3 min produced a gradual increase in substance P release that peaked 3-7 min afterward, and then decreased to baseline levels. The concentration-response curve for capsaicin was biphasic, with concentrations above 10 microM producing significantly less release. The effective concentration for 50% of response (EC(50)) for capsaicin, calculated from its stimulatory phase, was 2.3 microM. However, the potency of capsaicin to elicit NK1 receptor internalization in the same slices was one order of magnitude higher (EC(50)=0.37 microM) in lamina I, probably because NK1 receptors become saturated at relatively low concentrations of substance P. The potency of capsaicin to produce internalization was progressively lower in lamina III (EC(50)=1.9 microM) and lamina IV (EC(50)=14.5 microM), suggesting that neurokinins released in laminae I-II become diluted as they diffuse to the inner dorsal horn. To study the correlation between these two measures, we plotted substance P release against NK1 receptor internalization and fitted a saturation binding function to the points. The correlation was good for laminae I (R(2)=0.82) and III (R(2)=0.78), but it was poor (R(2)=0.35) for lamina IV because NK1 receptor internalization kept on increasing at high concentrations of capsaicin, whereas substance P release decreased. In conclusion, amounts of substance P able to activate NK1 receptors may fall under the threshold of detection of radioimmunoassay. Conversely, radioimmunoassay often detects levels of substance P release well over those required to saturate NK1 receptors in the superficial dorsal horn, but that may be able to activate these receptors in nearby regions of the spinal cord.
The expression of transcript for hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-sensitive cation channel (HCN) isoforms underlying hyperpolarization-activated, inward current (I(h)) has been determined for a model hair-cell preparation from the saccule of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Based upon identification from homology to known vertebrate HCN cDNA sequence, cloning of PCR products amplified with degenerate primers indicated an expression frequency of 7:2:1 (HCN1:HCN2:HCN4) for the hair-cell sheet compared with 1:1:7 for brain. Full-length sequence has been obtained for the HCN1-like isoform representing the primary HCN transcript expressed in the hair-cell preparation. The channel protein is 938 amino acids in length with 93% amino acid identity for the region extending from the S1-S6 membrane spanning domains through the voltage-pore and cyclic nucleotide-binding domains, compared with HCN1 for rabbit, rat, mouse and human. The N- and C-terminal regions are less homologous, with 39-51% and 43-44% amino acid identities, respectively. Compared with other vertebrate HCN1, the hair-cell HCN1 contains additional consensus phosphorylation sites associated with unique repeats in the carboxy terminus. The HCN1-like transcript has been localized to hair cells of the saccular sensory epithelia by in situ hybridization. Previous electrophysiological studies have identified I(h) as the sole inwardly rectifying ion channel in a specific population of hair cells of the saccule of frogs [J Neurophysiol (1995) 73:1484] and fish [J Physiol (1996) 495:665]. I(h) is an important determinant of the resting membrane potential, and for this population of hair cells, is predicted to maintain the membrane potential within a voltage range allowing the voltage-gated calcium channels to open, permitting &quot;spontaneous&quot; release of transmitter. The molecular properties of the HCN1-like isoform underlying I(h) expressed in the saccular hair cells of the teleost, trout, may consequently impact spontaneous release of transmitter from hair cells of the saccule.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is a recently identified neuropeptide that has been implicated in a multitude of CNS functions. These include nociception, feeding, cognition, locomotion, stress and neuroendocrine control. The endogenous receptor for this ligand is the nociceptin/orphanin FQ peptide (NOP) receptor. The distribution of NOP in rodent has been widely reported by the use of in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and autoradiographic radioligand binding but less is known of its localization in higher species. We have therefore sought to optimize and determine the distribution of (125)I[Tyr(14)]N/OFQ binding sites in macaque primate brain and spinal cord. Highest levels of binding were observed in neocortical areas, hippocampus, amygdala, caudate nucleus and putamen, medial thalamic nuclei and superficial laminae of the superior colliculus. These novel data present for the first time, the distribution of N/OFQ receptors in non-human primate CNS and, by comparison with localization in the rat, reveal that species differences may exist in the distribution of this neuropeptide receptor. These data have important implications regarding the roles of N/OFQ across species and may have ramifications in the interpretation of preclinical pharmacological studies.
We have previously shown that the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine facilitates N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and electrically evoked responses in pyramidal cells of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In the present study, we investigated the role of protein kinase C (PKC) in the action of clozapine. Bath administration of the PKC activator phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), but not the inactive isomer 4alpha-PMA, significantly enhanced the NMDA-evoked inward current and electrically evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. Chelerythrine, a selective blocker of PKC, completely prevented the potentiating action produced by either clozapine or PMA on these currents in the mPFC cells. Intracellular injection of the PKC inhibitor PKC-I, but not the control substance PKC-S, through the recording electrode totally blocked clozapine's potentiating effect, indicating that a post-synaptic expressed PKC is critically involved in the augmenting action of clozapine on NMDA-evoked currents. Of the PKC inhibitor PKC-I, but not the control substance PKC-S, through the recording electrode totally blocked clozapine's potentiating effect, indicating that a post-synaptic expressed PKC is critically involved in the augmenting action of clozapine on NMDA-evoked currents. To further test the role of PKC in mediating the augmenting action of clozapine, we performed experiments in PKCgamma mutant and wild-type mice. In contrast to results in pyramidal cells from rats or wild-type mice, neither clozapine nor PMA was able to potentiate NMDA-induced currents in the mPFC from the PKCgamma mutant mice. Taken together, these results suggest that the PKC signal transduction pathway is critically involved in the facilitating action of clozapine on the NMDA-induced responses in pyramidal cells of the mPFC.
We sought to clarify the involvement of caspase-12, a representative molecule related to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced cell-death signaling pathways, in neuronal death resulting from ischemia/reperfusion in mice. Transient focal cerebral ischemia (1 h) was produced by intraluminal occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). We assessed the expression patterns of caspase-12, Bip/GRP78, an ER-resident molecular chaperone whose expression serves as a good marker of ER stress, and caspase-7 by Western blotting and/or immunohistochemistry. Double-fluorescent staining of caspase-12 immunohistochemistry and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated DNA nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method was performed to clarify the involvement of caspase-12 in cell death. We confirmed that ER stress was induced during reperfusion in our model, as witnessed by up-regulated Bip/GRP78 expression in the MCA territory. Western blot analysis revealed that caspase-12 activation occurred at 5-23 h of reperfusion, and immunoreactivity for caspase-12 was enhanced mainly in striatal neurons on the ischemic side at the same time points. We found the co-localization of caspase-12 immunoreactivity and DNA fragmentation detectable by the TUNEL method. We did not detect the presence of caspase-7 in the ER fraction at the period of caspase-12 cleavage. Our results imply that cerebral ischemia/reperfusion induces ER stress and that caspase-12 activation concurred with ER stress. Caspase-12 seems to be involved in neuronal death induced by ischemia/reperfusion. Caspase-7 is not likely to contribute to the cleavage of caspase-12 in our experimental model.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays fundamental roles in synaptic plasticity in rat hippocampus. Recently, using rat hippocampal slices, we found that BDNF induces activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 2 (CaMKII), a critical mediator of synaptic plasticity. CaMKII in turn activates the p38 subfamily of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) and its downstream effector, MAPK-activated protein kinase 2 (MAPKAPK-2). Herein, we determined whether some kinases of this pathway connect BDNF to the cyclic AMP response element -binding protein (CREB), a transcription factor also involved in plasticity and survival. Crude cytosolic and nuclear fractions were prepared from hippocampal slices of adult rat, and then kinase involvement in CREB phosphorylation was studied with a combination of pharmacologic inhibition and antibody depletion. In addition, the regional localization of this signaling pathway was immunohistochemically investigated. We show that: (i). the BDNF-stimulated CaMKII cascade phosphorylates the key positive regulatory site of CREB via its end MAPKAPK-2 component; (ii). this process appears to be highly localized in the outermost cell layer of the dentate gyrus. The present findings suggest that CaMKII is involved in neurotrophic-dependent activation of CREB in the dentate gyrus. Such a signaling process could be important for controlling synaptic plasticity in this major area for the afferent inputs to the hippocampal formation.
We examined astrocytic basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity (FGF-2-IR) and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (TH-IR) in the cell-body region of midbrain dopaminergic neurons after unilateral infusions of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle in male and female rats. In addition, to determine whether neonatal exposure to gonadal hormones has consequences on the expression of astrocytic FGF-2 and cell loss in response to injury in adulthood, we studied the effects of these lesions in adult male and female rats that had been exposed or not to testosterone in the neonatal period. In both males and females there was a progressive loss of TH-expressing cells that peaked 5 weeks after the lesions. Females showed less loss of TH-expressing cells than males, but this effect was not estrogen dependent. Lesions led to an increase in expression of astrocytic FGF-2 that was greater in males than in females. Finally, it was found that, regardless of genetic sex, rats exposed to testosterone neonatally showed greater astrocytic FGF-2 expression after lesions than those not exposed, and that among those not exposed to testosterone, estrogen treatment had a modest protective effect. Analysis of behavior and striatal dopamine content showed that the percent of striatal dopamine depletion 14 days after the lesion correlated with the amount of behavioral asymmetry displayed by animals on all tests conducted after lesioning. In groups killed 2 and 5 weeks after the lesion, the amount of behavioral asymmetry correlated with the percent loss of TH-IR cells and with the percent increase in FGF-2-IR cells in the midbrain. These relationships were not evident in groups killed 3 and 7 days after the lesion, possibly because the changes in the number of FGF-2- and TH-IR cells were not fully manifested. The present findings show that hormonal events early in life can alter the response of midbrain dopamine neurons to insult and injury in adult life and suggest that the slow degeneration of these neurons may release signals triggering a sustained activation of adjacent astrocytes which, in turn, may lead to induction of astrocytic FGF-2.
To evaluate the effect of GABA(B) receptor in drug-kindled seizures, the gene expression of GABA(B) receptor in cocaine- and lidocaine-kindled rats was examined in this study. Rats were injected (i.p.) daily with cocaine (55 mg/kg) or lidocaine (65 mg/kg) until they experienced a motor seizure (kindling). After kindling, rats received a 1-day, 10-day, or 30-day drug washout period. The rats in the 1-day washout group were killed after the washout. Those in the 10-day and 30-day groups were challenged either with drug or saline, and killed 24 h later. Control rats were injected and challenged with saline. GABA(B)R1a, 1b and R2 mRNAs in discrete regions of brain were detected by in situ hybridization; GABA(B)R1a protein level was measured by Western blotting. Ninety percent of the cocaine-treated rats and 100% of the lidocaine-treated rats were kindled by day 12. Those rats responded to the challenge cocaine or lidocaine with a motor seizure after the 10-day and 30-day washout. GABA(B) receptor mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus were significantly increased after the 1-day and 10-day washout, but not the 30-day washout. In addition, the levels in drug-treated and drug-challenged rats were significantly greater than those in drug-treated and saline-challenged rats after the 10-day washout. Those data suggest that changes of GABA(B) receptor gene expression could be a factor underlying the development of drug-kindled seizure, but not a necessary component for the maintenance of this phenomenon.
The location of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) in the spinal cord of the reeler mouse mutant is abnormal. Instead of their normal location in the intermediolateral column, the majority of SPN in the reeler cluster around the central canal. To determine whether ectopically located SPN in the reeler form appropriate synaptic connections with their pre- and postsynaptic partners, we examined 1). whether the axons of descending neural pathways that normally terminate on SPN follow them to their ectopic location, and 2). whether the central autonomic neural circuit that controls sympathetic output to the kidney is organized normally in the reeler. Using antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase, serotonin, neuropeptide Y, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide as markers for adrenergic, serotonergic and peptidergic terminals, we found that axons which normally innervate SPN follow these neurons to their ectopic spinal location in the reeler. Injection of pseudorabies virus into the kidney of wild type and reeler mutant mice revealed similar patterns of renal sympathetic and pre-sympathetic control circuits in the spinal cord, brainstem and forebrain. These results indicate that the presynaptic inputs and postsynaptic targets of SPN in the reeler are normal, despite the ectopic spinal location of their cell bodies.
The mechanisms underlying the decreased vulnerability of the immature brain to seizure-induced neuronal death remain unknown. We asked whether oxidative stress plays a role in the resistance of immature animals to seizure-induced brain damage. Mitochondrial aconitase inactivation and 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were used as indices of steady-state mitochondrial superoxide (O(2)(-)) production and oxidative DNA damage, respectively. Kainate-induced seizures resulted in increased mitochondrial aconitase inactivation and 8-OHdG formation in adult (postnatal day 30 or more), but not in immature rats (postnatal days 12 and 21). Kainate administration did not induce manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) or CuZnSOD in immature or adult rats. This developmental increase in mitochondrial O(2)(-) production and oxidative DNA damage following kainate seizures suggests that mitochondrial oxidative stress may be a key factor that renders the developing brain resistant to seizure-induced brain damage.
The cell-specific distribution of multidrug resistance extrusion pumps was studied in developmental glioneuronal lesions, including focal cortical dysplasia (15 cases) and ganglioglioma (15 cases) from patients with medically intractable epilepsy. Lesional, perilesional, as well as normal brain regions were examined for the expression of the multidrug resistance gene 1 encoded P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and the multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1) by immunocytochemistry. In normal brain MRP1 expression was below detection, whereas P-gp staining was present only in blood vessels. MRP1 and P-gp immunoreactivity was observed in dysplastic neurons of 11/15 cases of focal cortical dysplasia, as well as in the neuronal component of 14/15 ganglioglioma. Glial cells with astrocytic morphology within the lesion showed multidrug-resistant protein immunoreactivity (P-gp&gt;MRP1). Moderate to strong MRP1 and P-gp immunoreactivity was observed in a population of large ballooned neuroglial cells. P-gp appeared to be most frequently expressed in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive balloon cells (glial type), whereas MRP1 was more frequently expressed in microtubule-associated protein 2-positive balloon cells (neuronal type). In both types of lesions strong P-gp immunoreactivity was found in lesional vessels. Perilesional regions did not show increased staining in vessels or in neuronal cells compared with normal cortex. The predominant intralesional cell-specific distribution of multidrug transporter proteins supports the hypothesis of a constitutive overexpression as common mechanism underlying the intrinsic pharmaco-resistance to antiepileptic drugs of both malformative and neoplastic glioneuronal developmental lesions.
This study investigates whether maternal stress during pregnancy induces maternal and fetal hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) neuronal activation and the effects of maternal stress on fetal hypothalamic and PVN brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. Pregnant rats were exposed to three types of maternal stress with varying severity (restraint, forced walking and immobilization) for 30 min on gestational day 21. Severity of stress was assessed by measurement of maternal plasma corticosterone 30 min following the stimulus. Maternal plasma corticosterone increased in each stress response group (immobilization&gt;forced walking&gt;restraint). Further, the expression of Fos protein, a marker of neuronal activation, increased in the fetal and maternal PVN in direct relation to the severity of stress treatments. Forced walking and immobilized stress, but not restraint stress, significantly increased BDNF expression in the fetal hypothalamus.These findings suggest that the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response following maternal stress mirrors maternal HPA activation. In addition, BDNF may play a role in protecting fetal brain neurons from damage caused by severe stress.
Apart from the extensive loss of motor neurons, degeneration of midbrain dopaminergic cells has been described in both familial and sporadic forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mice overexpressing the mutant human Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) show an ALS-like phenotype in that they show a progressive death of motor neurons accompanied by degeneration of dopaminergic cells. To describe the functional alterations specifically associated with this dopaminergic dysfunction, we have investigated the corticostriatal synaptic plasticity in mice overexpressing the human SOD1 (SOD1+) and the mutated (Gly(93)--&gt;Ala) form (G93A+) of the same enzyme. We show that repetitive stimulation of the corticostriatal pathway generates long-term depression (LTD) in SOD1+ mice and in control (G93A-/SOD1-) animals, whereas in G93A+ mice the same stimulation generates an N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-dependent long-term potentiation. No significant alterations were found in the intrinsic membrane properties of striatal medium spiny neurons and basal corticostriatal synaptic transmission of G93A+ mice. Bath perfusion of dopamine or the D(2) dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole restored LTD in G93A+ mice. Consistent with these in vitro results, habituation of locomotor activity and striatal-dependent active avoidance learning were impaired in G93A+ mice. Thus, degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of G93A+ mice causes substantial modifications in striatal synaptic plasticity and related behaviors, and may be a cellular substrate of the extrapyramidal motor and cognitive disorders observed in familial and sporadic ALS.
The alpha5beta1 integrin is present in high concentrations in the apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in adult rats but is virtually absent in the basal dendrites. Moreover, alpha5beta1 does not appear in apical dendritic branches until the third post-natal week. Given that integrins contribute to the consolidation of synaptic plasticity, these results raise the possibility of developmental and regional differences in the stability of long-term potentiation (LTP). The present study tested this point using a LTP reversal paradigm in field CA1 of hippocampal slices. In accord with earlier reports, low-frequency afferent stimulation (5 Hz) introduced 30 s after theta burst stimulation (TBS) completely reversed LTP but was ineffective 30 min and 60 min later in slices from adult rats. The same low-frequency trains caused a partial reversal of LTP when applied 30 and 60 min post-TBS in slices from 21-day-old rats and a complete reversal at all time points in slices from 10-day-old rats. LTP in the basal dendrites of adult rats did not fully consolidate; i.e. potentiation was partially reversed by low-frequency stimulation even after delays of 30 or 60 min. Moreover, spaced (10 min) applications of 5- Hz pulses beginning at 30 min post-TBS completely erased LTP. The reversal effect in both apical and basal dendrites was blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonists but an integrin antagonist had differential effects across the two dendritic domains. These results constitute evidence that the stability of LTP increases with age in the apical dendrites but remains incomplete even in adulthood in the basal dendrites. The possibilities that the developmental and regional variations in LTP consolidation are correlated with integrin expression and linked to different types of memory processing are discussed.
Organotypic hippocampal cultures have been recently used to study in vitro ischaemic neuronal death. Sub-lethal periods of ischaemia in vivo confer resistance to lethal insults and many studies have demonstrated the involvement of heat shock proteins in this phenomenon. We used organotypic hippocampal cultures to investigate the involvement of heat shock protein (HSP) 27 in preconditioning to oxygen and glucose deprivation. Neuronal damage was assessed using propidium iodide fluorescence; HSP27 phosphorylation and immunocontent were obtained using (32)Pi labelling followed by sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. We observed that immunocontent of HSP27 was increased after lethal or sub-lethal treatment, indicating it is a response to metabolic stress. Treatments with 5 or 10 min of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) or 1- microM N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced tolerance to 40 min of OGD associated with an increase in HSP27 immunocontent and phosphorylation. These data suggest that, in vitro, phosphorylated HSP27 might be involved in preconditioning, probably acting as a modulator of actin filaments or by the blockage of neurodegenerative processes.
The genetically epileptic mouse strain (El) is used as a model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. To address the question of whether altered function of the neuronal GABA transporter GAT1 is involved in the pathology of epilepsy of El mice, we expressed in Xenopus oocytes cloned GAT1 of mouse brain by injection of complementary ribonucleic acid (cRNA) and co-injected messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) isolated from the hippocampus of non-epileptic control mother strain (ddY) mice and from El mice. GABA transporter activity was investigated by measurements of [(3)H]-GABA uptake as well as by steady-state and transient current measurements under voltage clamp.Co-injection of hippocampal mRNA into oocytes reduced GAT1-mediated transport. This effect was more pronounced for mRNA from ddY mice than for that from El mice that never experienced seizures, El(-), and being absent for mRNA from El mice that have had high seizure experience, El(+). The pronounced inhibition of GABA transport after injection of mRNA from the ddY strain results from reduced expression of functional GAT1, but to about one third also from a reduced GABA translocation rate. The reduced translocation can be attributed to a reduced forward rate of a step associated with extracellular Na(+) binding. If the results can be applied to the mouse brain, we may hypothesise that in ddY mice some GAT down-regulating factor translated from hippocampal mRNA may be involved to keep GAT1 activity low, and hence GABA concentration in synaptic cleft high. In El(-) mice such regulatory mechanism may be reduced or counteracted by another unknown factor present in El(-) brain. The repeated seizure experience in El(+) mice enhances this compensatory effect.
Alterations in hippocampal physiology affect cognition in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated dementia (HAD). The mechanism for how this occurs is not well understood. To address this, we investigated how changes in synaptic transmission and plasticity are affected by viral infection and macrophage activation using a severe combined immunodeficiency mouse model of human HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE). HIVE was induced in mice by stereotactic injection of HIV-1-infected human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) into the striatum. Animals were sacrificed after 3, 7 and 15 days. Hippocampal slices were prepared from HIV-1, MDM- and sham-injected animals. Electrically evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Neuronal physiology was assessed by input-output and by long-term potentiation (LTP) assays. We observed that a higher stimulation intensity (mA) was required to induce a 1-mV response in the HIVE mice (0.32+/-0.06) compared with shams (0.17+/-0.01) at day 7. The stimulation intensities at day 15 were 0.44+/-0.07 and 0.23+/-0.05 in the HIVE and shams, respectively. An impairment of synaptic function was detected through measuring synaptic responses induced by stimuli with different intensities. Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) showed deficits in HIVE mice at days 3, 7, and 15. At day 3, PPF ratios were 1.13+/-0.02 and 1.24+/-0.04 in HIVE and sham. The induction and maintenance of LTP was also impaired in HIVE mice. The average magnitude of LTP was 131.23+/-15.26% of basal in HIVE as compared with sham animals of 232.63+/-24.18%. MDM-injected mice showed an intermediate response. Taken together, the results show a range of neuronal synaptic transmission and plasticity changes in HIVE mice that may reflect the mechanisms of cognitive dysfunction in human HAD.
Recent evidence has emphasised the importance of mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in the modulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Whilst extracellular-regulated kinase activation is now regarded as a critical step in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), activation of p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is associated with its inhibition. Here, the effects of the novel JNK inhibitor anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-1 (SP600125) were investigated on the inhibition of LTP by cytokines interleukin-1beta, interleukin-18 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha in the dentate gyrus. Perfusion of SP600125 alone prior to tetanic stimulation of the medial perforant path did not significantly affect baseline synaptic transmission, post-tetanic potentiation or the magnitude of induced LTP. When SP600125 was perfused onto slices prior to application of cytokines, this resulted in a complete reversal of the cytokine-mediated inhibition of LTP. Moreover, the magnitude of LTP attained in these slices was significantly greater than that obtained in vehicle control slices. Next, we investigated the effects of the JNK inhibitor on the impairment of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated potentials (NMDA-EPSPs) by interleukin-18. Whilst not affecting baseline amplitude when perfused alone, prior perfusion of SP600125 alleviated the depressive effect of interleukin-18 on NMDA-EPSPs. Finally, we examined the possibility of JNK involvement in the induction of long-term depression (LTD) in the dentate gyrus. Perfusion of SP600125 prior to low-frequency stimulation of the perforant path resulted in a significant attenuation of induced LTD, which suggests that JNK activation is a critical mediator of LTD in the dentate gyrus. These results directly implicate, for the first time, differential activation of JNK in the modulation of distinct forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Whereas acute over-activation of JNK by pathophysiological concentrations of cytokines is detrimental to LTP, physiologic activation of JNK appears necessary for the induction of LTD.
The possible neuroprotective effect of physical exercise was investigated in rats after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), a focal stroke model. It was found that physical exercise in the form of a 12-week treadmill running programme reduced the volume of infarction caused by MCAO. At the molecular level, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed that the runner had increased gene expression for nerve growth factor (NGF) over the nonrunner with or without MCAO. Expression of the NGF receptors, p75, was increased only in the absence of MCAO. In addition, runners showed a significantly higher number of cholinergic neurons, which constitutively expressed p75, in the horizontal diagonal band of Broca. The present findings suggest that neuroprotection after physical exercise may be a result of an increase in an endogenous neurotrophic factor nerve growth factor and the proliferation of its receptive cholinergic neurons.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) activity is required for CNS development. The Cdk5 activator, p35, is well characterized but its isoform, p39, has been less studied. Previously, p39 mRNA expression in rat brain was shown to peak at 3 weeks postnatal, and the level remains high in the adult cerebellum [Neurosci Res 28 (1997) 355]. However, p39 protein expression and specific localization in the cerebellum, where p39 mRNA level significantly exceeds that of p35, have not been examined. Here, we explored the specific cerebellar localization of the p39 protein in the developing and adult mice. Adult cerebellar Purkinje cell somata and dendritic arbors were strongly positive for p39 but only rare and barely detectable p39 was observed in Purkinje cell axons. Cdk5 also localized in Purkinje cell somata and dendrites of the adult cerebellum, but p35 localized only in Purkinje cell somata, further suggesting a functional difference between p35 and p39. During development, cerebellar p39 was first noted at P10. Primary cultures of a developing cerebellum also showed strong p39 immunoreactivity in Purkinje cell somata and dendrites, but weak p39 immunoreactivity in Purkinje cell axons. Starting from P10, p39 was observed in a subset of Purkinje cells that form parasagittal bands throughout the vermis and hemispheres. These bands were bilaterally symmetrical and continuous from one lobule to another. Conversely, Cdk5 and p35 showed a uniform staining pattern. The pattern of p39 closely resembled that of zebrin II/aldolase C, suggesting that p39 may play a role in the adult cerebellum rather than in pattern development. This premise is consistent with the normal pattern of zebrin II/aldolase C zones and stripes in mutant p39-/- mice. The alternating p39 parasagittal band pattern may reflect a role for p39 or Cdk5/p39 in the functional compartmentation of the cerebellum.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) contain the master circadian pacemaker in mammals. Generation and maintenance of circadian oscillations involve clock genes which interact to form transcriptional/translational loops and constitute the molecular basis of the clock. There is some evidence that the SCN clock can integrate variations in day length, i.e. photoperiod. However, the effects of photoperiod on clock-gene expression remain largely unknown. We here report the expression pattern of Period (Per) 1, Per2, Per3, Cryptochrome (Cry) 1, Cry2, Bmal1 and Clock genes in the SCN of Syrian hamsters when kept under long (LP) and short (SP) photoperiods. Our data show that photoperiod differentially affects the expression of all clock genes studied. Among the components of the negative limb of the feedback loop, Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry2 but not Cry1 genes show a shortened duration of their peak expression under SP compared with LP. Moreover, mRNA expression of Per1, Per3 and Cry1 are phase advanced in SP compared with LP. Per3 shows an mRNA peak of higher amplitude under SP conditions whereas Per1 and Per2 peak amplitudes are unaffected by photoperiod changes. Bmal1 expression is phase advanced without a change of duration in SP compared with LP. Furthermore, the expression of Clock is rhythmic under SP whereas no rhythm is observed under LP. These results, which provide further evidence that the core clock mechanisms of the SCN integrate photoperiod, are discussed in the context of the existing molecular model.
The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) interacts with anatomical systems thought to be involved in mediating sensitisation of the locomotor response to repeated d-amphetamine. The PPTg has direct and indirect connections with the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex, and also influences midbrain dopamine activity through direct projections to substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. In this experiment, the development of behavioural sensitisation to the locomotor stimulant effects of repeated d-amphetamine was examined in rats bearing excitotoxic lesions of the PPTg, and sham-lesioned controls. Rats were given repeated d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) treatment in an on-off procedure, with saline and d-amphetamine given on alternate days, such that rats received a total of seven d-amphetamine and seven saline treatments. Locomotor responses were measured in photocell cages. On the first day of d-amphetamine treatment, there was no difference between excitotoxin and sham-lesioned rats. Development of sensitisation to the locomotor stimulant effects of d-amphetamine was delayed in PPTg-lesioned rats, relative to the sham-lesioned control rats. However, there was no difference between lesion and control groups in the locomotion seen on saline-treatment days. These data suggest that the PPTg is involved in the development of behavioural sensitisation to the locomotor stimulant effects of repeated d-amphetamine, and indicate that traditional striatal circuitry models of the mechanisms underlying sensitisation should be extended to include the PPTg.
Dopamine (DA) is a neurotransmitter that has been implicated in a wide variety of psychiatric disorders that include attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia, and drug abuse. Recently, we have been working with a mouse in which the gene for the DA transporter (DAT) has been disrupted. This mouse is hyperactive in the open field, displays an inability to inhibit ongoing behaviors, and is deficient on learning and memory tasks. Psychostimulants such as amphetamine and methylphenidate attenuate the hyperlocomotion of the mutants, but stimulate activity of the wild type (WT) controls. The objective of the present study is to examine the neural basis for the differential responses to psychostimulants in these mice. WT and DAT knockout (KO) animals were given vehicle or methylphenidate, amphetamine, or cocaine and brain sections were immunostained for Fos. In WT mice, methylphenidate induced Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in the mesostriatal and mesolimbocortical DA pathways that included the anterior olfactory nucleus, frontal association cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, claustrum, lateral septum, nucleus accumbens, basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and dorsal raphe. Additional areas of activation included the granular dentate gyrus, Edinger-Westphal nucleus, and periaqueductal gray. While the mutants showed little response in most of these same areas, the anterior olfactory nucleus, caudal caudate-putamen, lateral septum, basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala, and bed nucleus of stria terminalis were activated. Amphetamine and cocaine produced similar changes to that for methylphenidate, except these psychostimulants also induced Fos-LI in the nucleus accumbens of the KO animals. Since the DAT gene is disrupted in the KO mouse, these findings suggest that dopaminergic mechanisms may mediate the WT responses, whereas non-dopaminergic systems predominate in the mutant. In the mutants, it appears that limbic areas and non-dopaminergic transmitter systems within these brain regions may mediate responses to psychostimulants. Inasmuch as the KO mouse may represent a useful animal model for ADHD and because psychostimulants such as cocaine are reinforcing to these animals, our results may provide some useful insights into the neural mechanisms-other than DA-that may contribute to the symptoms of ADHD and/or drug abuse in human patients.
We have studied the Ca(2+) dynamics of bursting-spiking neurons in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion. Neurons in this ganglion undergo spontaneous oscillations in membrane voltage with a period of 1-10 s in situ. We found that neurons isolated from the ganglion and filled with the fluorescent calcium indicator Fluo-4 show simultaneous changes of membrane potential and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](I)). These Ca(2+) signals are highly heterogeneous both in terms of amplitude and time constants. They showed variable spatial distributions with the soma exhibiting low and slow signals, and a region in the process with large and fast signals. Ca(2+) transients in the processes are dependent on external Ca(2+) and can be blocked by Co(2+), but not other, more specific Ca(2+) current blockers. Rather, nifedipine a known Ca(2+) current blocker, affects the distribution of the Ca(2+) signal, which suggests a specific localization of Ca(2+) channels. Although the signal is not absolutely dependent on action potentials, it is greatly reduced when action potentials are blocked by tetrodotoxin. Termination of the signal depends only slightly on Ca(2+) buffering mechanisms such as mitochondria, Ca(2+)/Na(+) and Ca(2+)/H(+) exchangers. We also demonstrate the presence of caffeine-sensitive internal stores in stomatogastric ganglion cells. The store distribution is different but overlaps with the voltage-dependent distribution. The maximal caffeine-activated Ca(2+) signal is in the soma and it is smaller in the processes. Unlike the voltage-activated Ca(2+) signal this signal is not blocked by Co(2+). Nevertheless, the two types of signal interact during caffeine application. This unique spatial separation of two Ca(2+) sources may have important functional implication.
To foster axonal growth from a Schwann cell bridge into the caudal spinal cord, spinal cells caudal to the implant were transduced with adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors encoding for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (AAV-NT-3). Control rats received AAV vectors encoding for green fluorescent protein or saline. AAV-BDNF- and AAV-NT-3-transduced 293 human kidney cells produced and secreted BDNF or NT-3, respectively, in vitro. The secreted neurotrophins were biologically active; they both promoted outgrowth of sensory neurites in vitro. In vivo, transgene expression was observed predominantly in neurons for at least 16 weeks after injection. Compared with controls, a modest though significant improvement in hind-limb function was found in rats that received AAV-BDNF and AAV-NT-3. Retrograde tracing demonstrated that twice as many neurons with processes extending toward the Schwann cell graft were present in the second lumbar cord segment of AAV-BDNF- and AAV-NT-3-injected animals compared with controls. We found no evidence, however, for growth of regenerated axons from the Schwann cell implant into the caudal cord. Our results suggest that AAV vector-mediated overexpression of BDNF and NT-3 in the cord caudal to a Schwann cell bridge modified the local lumbar axonal circuitry, which was beneficial for locomotor function.
In the adult forebrain, new neuroblasts constantly migrate from the subventricular zone along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb, where many become neurons. It is unclear whether this process is different in commonly used mouse strains and whether it is related to olfactory function. Adult male BALB/c, C57BL/6, and 129/S1 (formerly 129SV) mice were tested for olfactory sensitivity plus discrimination, using male mouse urine from the two other strains. BALB/c mice had the greatest olfactory sensitivity, followed by 129/S1, and C57BL/6 mice, by an order of magnitude each. Newly formed cells were pulse-labeled for 3 h with i.p. 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) injections and the animals analyzed 24 h later. In 129/S1 mice, a greater proportion of neuroblasts were present closer to the olfactory bulb than in BALB/c mice, followed by C57BL/6 mice. The total number of BrdU-labeled cells did not differ, suggesting differences in migration and not proliferation. The impaired olfactory function in C57BL/6 mice might be caused by the reduced number of neuroblasts that reach the olfactory bulbs. However, olfactory function in BALB/c and 129/S1 mice did not correlate with their putative migration speed, suggesting a more complex nature of cellular processes that contribute to olfactory function. These results caution against comparing studies of olfactory function or neural precursors that use different strains of mice, and question the use of C57BL/6 mice as a &quot;normal&quot; strain or as transgenic background. Perhaps more importantly, the results point to an opportunity to identify genes that regulate olfactory function and neuroblast behavior.
Both photic and nonphotic stimuli entrain circadian rhythms. Although the adaptive significance of nonphotic clock resetting is unknown, one possibility is that nonphotic cues modulate circadian responses to light. Results of studies on the interaction between photic and nonphotic stimuli support this idea. During the day, light blocks the effects of nonphotic stimuli on the phase of locomotor rhythms and on expression of clock genes in suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) neurons. At night, novelty-induced activity prior to and during exposure to light attenuates the phase-shifting response to that light, but the effects of this manipulation on clock gene expression are unknown. The present experiments explore the interaction between behavioral state and response to light at the molecular level. We show that confining hamsters to novel wheels immediately after a light pulse during the late subjective night attenuates light-induced phase advances of wheel-running rhythms and the transient effects on circadian period. In contrast to the striking effect of novelty-induced activity on behavioral responses to light, Fos protein and Per1 mRNA were robustly expressed in the SCN of all light-pulsed animals, regardless of behavioral treatment. Our results are inconsistent with the idea that light and nonphotic stimuli block each other's effects on phase shifts by inducing or attenuating transcription of Per1. Photic regulation of clock genes and spontaneous rhythmic expression of clock genes are probably mediated by different mechanisms.
A splice variant of choline acetyltransferase mRNA has recently been identified in the pterygopalatine ganglion of rat. An antibody against this variant protein (designated pChAT) was demonstrated to immunolabel peripheral cholinergic neurons. In the present study, we investigated the expression of pChAT in rat brain. Amongst the brain regions examined, magnocellular neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus were immunohistochemically labelled with anti-pChAT antibody, whilst no immunolabelling was detected in cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain or striatum. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the expression of pChAT mRNA in the posterior hypothalamus. The distribution of pChAT-positive neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus was compared with that of neurons positive for adenosine deaminase, which is contained in all neurons of this nucleus. After colchicine treatment to inhibit axonal transport of enzyme, virtually all pChAT-positive cells contained adenosine deaminase. Conversely, about 85% of adenosine deaminase-positive cells contained pChAT in the ventral area, whilst 19% of adenosine deaminase-positive cells were pChAT-positive in the dorsal area. Long axonal projections of pChAT-positive cells in the tuberomammillary nucleus were shown by retrograde labelling of these cells after injection of cholera-toxin B subunit into the cerebral cortex. This study demonstrates that a splice variant of choline acetyltransferase is expressed in the tuberomammillary nucleus of rat. The results raise the possibility that some of the known diverse projection areas of this nucleus may have a cholinergic component.
The involvement of mesostriatal dopaminergic neurons in cognitive operations is not well understood, and needs to be further clarified. The use of latent inhibition paradigms is a means of investigating cognitive processes. In this study, we investigated the involvement in latent inhibition of dopaminergic inputs in the anterior part and posterior part of the dorsal striatum. The latent inhibition phenomenon was observed in a conditioned olfactory aversion paradigm. Changes in extracellular dopamine levels induced by the conditioned olfactory stimulus (banana odor) were monitored in the two parts of the dorsal striatum in the left hemisphere after pre-exposure to the olfactory stimulus using in vivo voltammetry in freely moving rats. During the conditioning session animals received either an i.p. injection of NaCl (0.9%) (control groups) or an i.p. injection of LiCl (0.15 M) (conditioned groups). Dopamine variations and place preference or aversion toward the stimulus were analyzed simultaneously in pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed animals. Data collected during the retention (test) session were as follows. Where the anterior part of the striatum was concerned, similar enhancements in dopamine levels (+100%) were obtained in pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed control animals, as well as in the pre-exposed experimental animals. In contrast, dopamine levels in the non-pre-exposed experimental group (conditioned animals) remained fairly consistently close to the baseline after the presentation of the olfactory stimulus. Where the posterior part of the striatum was concerned, increases in extracellular dopamine levels were similar (+50%) for the different groups. The present results suggested that dopaminergic neurons reaching the anterior part of the dorsal striatum are implicated in the latent inhibition phenomenon and affective perception, whereas dopaminergic terminals in the posterior part of the dorsal striatum appeared to be involved neither in latent inhibition nor in affective perception of the stimulus, seeming only to be affected by the intrinsic properties of the stimulus. Cognitive as well as affective deficits have been reported in patients with schizophrenia. Thus the present data may be considered in the context of the pathophysiology of schizophrenic psychoses.
Tolerance develops to the antinociceptive effects of morphine with repeated microinjections into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (PAG). This tolerance could be caused by adaptations within the PAG or anywhere along the descending pathway (rostral ventromedial medulla to spinal cord). If tolerance is caused by a change along the descending pathway, then tolerance should develop to direct activation of PAG output neurons. However, if tolerance is caused by a change to neurons within the PAG, then tolerance will not occur with repeated direct activation of PAG output neurons. This hypothesis was tested by assessing antinociception following repeated microinjections of the GABA antagonist bicuculline and the excitatory amino acid kainate into the ventrolateral PAG. Microinjection of bicuculline and kainate produces antinociception by disinhibition and direct excitation of ventrolateral PAG output neurons, respectively. Repeated administration of these drugs into the ventrolateral PAG produced antinociception with no evidence of tolerance. That is, the hot-plate latency and responsiveness to intraplantar formalin administration was comparable whether rats received the drug for the first or fifth time. Moreover, microinjection of bicuculline or kainate produced comparable antinociception in rats pretreated with these drugs and saline-treated control rats. These data demonstrate that repeated activation of ventrolateral PAG output neurons is not sufficient to produce tolerance. Thus, tolerance must be caused by a change in neurons preceding output neurons in this circuit, presumably opioid-sensitive GABAergic neurons.
Various hypothalamic neuropeptides are involved in central regulation of food intake and expression of genes encoding these peptides changes with alterations in the bodyweight/metabolic status/nutritional status. Orexin(s) and dynorphin have been implicated in the regulation of appetite and neuroendocrine systems, but the function of these peptides is not well understood. We have employed in situ hybridization to examine the effects of long-term alterations in the bodyweight on expression of mRNA for preproorexin and prodynorphin in the putative feeding centers of the ovine hypothalamus. Expression of preproorexin was localized to the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, perifornical area and lateral hypothalamic area. Cells expressing prodynorphin were localized to the periventricular, supraoptic, paraventricular, ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei and the thalamus. Small numbers of single scattered cells were seen in other brain areas. A few scattered prodynorphin-expressing cells were found in the lateral hypothalamic area but, in contrast to observations in the rat, there was no colocalization with preproorexin. Long-term alterations in the bodyweight did not influence the level of expression of preproorexin or prodynorphin. These findings suggest that orexin and dynorphin may not play a direct role in appetite regulation in sheep, although regulation at the level of the receptors for these peptides remains a possibility.
Previous studies have shown significant correlated discharges (noise correlation) and synergistic information coding among adjacent cortical neurons. In order to investigate whether such interactions are present at an earlier stage of sensory processing, we compared noise correlation and synergistic information transmission in the ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPLn) of thalamus and primary somatosensory cortex (SI) of anesthetized rats. A hind paw was stimulated electrically and responses of several neighboring neurons were recorded simultaneously with a tetrode. Analyses indicated that noise correlation in the SI was about four times higher than in the VPLn, and, interestingly, it was significantly reduced following sensory stimulation in both regions. Spike count distributions of individual VPLn units contained higher amounts of information about the delivery of external stimulation compared with those of SI units. When simultaneously recorded units were considered together, transmission of information was more interactive (synergistic or redundant) among SI than VPLn units. On average, information transmission was independent in the VPLn, but synergistic in the SI. The difference in synergistic information coding was largely attributable to different levels of noise correlation and their modulation by external sensory stimulation. These results indicate that neuronal interactions are relatively low at the thalamic level, but much enhanced at the cortical level along the somatosensory pathway. The enhanced neuronal interactions in the cortex may reflect the role of cortex in extracting higher features of sensory stimuli.
Hypothalamic nuclei, particularly the paraventricular nuclei (PVN), are important brain sites responsible for central nervous system responses during an immune challenge. The brainstem catecholamine cells of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and ventrolateral medulla (VLM) have been shown to play critical roles in relaying systemic immune signals to the PVN. However, whilst it is well recognised that PVN divisions also innervate the NTS and VLM, it is not known whether descending PVN pathways can modulate the recruitment of brainstem cells during an immune challenge. Using systemic administration of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta, in combination with Fos immunolabelling, we firstly investigated the effect of PVN lesions on NTS and VLM catecholamine and non-catecholamine cell responses. We found that ibotenic acid lesions of the PVN significantly reduced numbers of Fos-positive non-catecholamine, noradrenergic and adrenergic cells observable in the VLM and NTS after interleukin-1beta administration. We then investigated the origins of descending inputs to the VLM and NTS, activated by systemic interleukin-1beta, by mapping the distribution of Fos-positive retrogradely-labelled cells in divisions of the PVN after iontophoretically depositing choleratoxin-b subunit into the NTS or VLM one week prior to interleukin-1beta administration. We found that, after either NTS or VLM deposits, the majority of retrogradely-labelled Fos-positive cells activated by interleukin-1beta were localised in the medial and lateral parvocellular PVN divisions. Retrogradely-labelled Fos-positive cells were also observed in the NTS after VLM deposits, and in the VLM after NTS tracer deposits, suggesting reciprocal communication between these two nuclei after systemic interleukin-1beta. Thus the present study shows that the PVN has the capacity to modulate NTS and VLM responses after an immune challenge and that these may result from descending projections arising in the medial and lateral PVN divisions. These findings suggest that central nervous system responses to an immune challenge are likely to involve complex reciprocal connections between the PVN and the brainstem as well as between brainstem nuclei themselves.
Several lines of evidence suggest that neuropeptide FF (NPFF) is involved in nociception and in the modulation of opioid-mediated analgesia. Following the identification of the precursor protein for NPFF, two NPFF receptors and a second PQRF-NH(2) containing peptide, termed NPVF, were identified. To further explore the functional role of PQRF-NH(2) peptides, we have studied their distribution and also the regulation of NPFF and NPVF systems in the spinal cord of rats with peripheral inflammation. The distribution of NPFF gene expression is very similar to that of NPFF immunoreactive peptide but is distinct from NPVF gene expression. In the rat spinal cord, gene expression of NPFF but not that of NPVF was up-regulated by persistent pain induced by carrageenan inflammation. The distribution of NPFF receptor 2 gene expression is very similar to that of the NPFF peptide with a striking localization in the superficial layer of spinal cord. In rats with carrageenan inflammation of the hind paw, expression of both NPFF and NPFF receptor 2 genes was up-regulated in the spinal cord, while expression of NPVF and NPFF receptor 1 genes was not affected. The results of this study demonstrate a coordinated involvement of the spinal NPFF system in the persistent nociceptive pain states. Several studies have found a potentiation and prolongation of morphine analgesia by NPFF, therefore, it is highly possible that the endogenous spinal NPFF system contributes to the enhanced analgesic potency of morphine in animals with peripheral inflammation.
The influence of housing in an enriched or impoverished environment and anti-ischemic treatment (piracetam) on the organization of the intact regions of the somatosensory cortical maps adjacent to a focal cortical injury were investigated in adult rats. Response properties of small clusters of neurons were recorded in the area of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) devoted to the contralateral forepaw representation. Electrophysiological maps were elaborated on the basis of the sensory &quot;submodality&quot; (cutaneous or noncutaneous) and the location of the receptive fields (RFs) of layer IV neurons. Recordings were made before, and 3 weeks after induction of a focal neurovascular lesion to the SI cortex. The main results were: 1) the focal ischemic injury induced a cellular loss which was less severe in the piracetam treated rats, regardless of the housing conditions; 2) the lesion resulted in a compression of the remaining forepaw map, a fragmentation of the representational zones serving the cutaneous surfaces (low-threshold inputs) and an enlargement of noncutaneous zones (high-threshold inputs) in the spared cortical sectors surrounding the lesion. These changes were found in all placebo rats, with the most detrimental effects in the animals exposed to an impoverished environment, and in the piracetam-plus-impoverished rats. In contrast, a limited compression of the forepaw map and a preservation of most representational sectors were observed in the piracetam-plus-enriched animals, 3) the size of the cutaneous RFs of the neurons within the intact cortical zones remained unchanged, regardless of environment or treatment; 4) consistent with the map changes, the skin surfaces lacking low-threshold cutaneous RFs increased after the lesion in all animal groups but the piracetam-plus-enriched rats; 5) cortical responsiveness as assessed with mechanical threshold evaluation was diminished in the placebo rats, whatever the environment, and in the piracetam-impoverished rats, but was not significantly affected in the piracetam-enriched animals. Our findings, based on the first double electrophysiological mapping in the rat SI cortex, highlight the protective effects of an environmental therapy associated with an anti-ischemic treatment on the neurophysiological properties of cortical neurons following a focal neurovascular injury to the neocortex.
Geniculate ganglion neurons provide a major source of innervation to mammalian taste organs, including taste buds in the soft palate and in fungiform papillae on the anterior two thirds of the tongue. In and around the fungiform papillae, before taste buds form, neurotrophin mRNAs are expressed in selective spatial and temporal patterns. We hypothesized that neurotrophins would affect electrophysiological properties in embryonic geniculate neurons. Ganglia were explanted from rats at gestational day 16, when growing neurites have entered the papilla core, and maintained in culture with added brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 4 (NT4), nerve growth factor (NGF) or neurotrophin 3 (NT3). Neuron survival with BDNF or NT4 was about 80%, whereas with NGF or NT3 less than 15% of neurons survived over 6 days in culture. Whole cell recordings from neurons in ganglion explants with each neurotrophin condition demonstrated distinctive neurophysiological properties related to specific neurotrophins. Geniculate neurons cultured with either BDNF or NT4 had similar passive-membrane and action potential properties, but these characteristics were significantly different from those of neurons cultured with NGF or NT3. NGF-maintained neurons had features of increased excitability including a higher resting membrane potential and a lower current threshold for the action potential. About 70% of neurons produced repetitive action potentials at threshold. Furthermore, compared with neurons cultured with other neurotrophins, a decreased proportion had an inflection on the falling phase of the action potential. NT3-maintained neurons had action potentials that were of relatively large amplitude and short duration, with steep rising and falling slopes. In addition, about 20% responded with a repetitive train of action potentials at threshold. In contrast, with BDNF or NT4 repetitive action potential trains were not observed. The data demonstrate different neurophysiological properties in developing geniculate ganglion neurons maintained with specific neurotrophins. Therefore, we suggest that neurotrophins might influence acquisition of distinctive neurophysiological properties in embryonic geniculate neurons that are fundamental to the formation of peripheral taste circuits and a functioning taste system.
Both nicotinic and muscarinic cholinergic receptors are present in the optic tectum. To begin to understand how the activation of these receptors affects visual activity patterns, we have determined the types of physiological responses induced by their activation. Using tectal brain slices from the leopard frog, we found that application of nicotine (100 microM) evoked long-lasting responses in 60% of patch-clamped tectal cells. Thirty percent of these responses consisted of an increase in spontaneous postsynaptic currents (sPSCs) and had both a glutamatergic and GABAergic component as determined by the use of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (50 microM) and bicuculline (25 microM), respectively. Remaining response types consisted of an inward membrane current (16%) and an increase in sPSCs combined with an inward membrane current (14%). All responses could be elicited in the presence of tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM). Muscarinic receptor-mediated responses, induced by carbachol (100 microM) application after nicotinic receptor desensitization, produced responses in 70% of tectal cells. In contrast to responses elicited by nicotine, carbachol-induced responses could be evoked multiple times without significant decrement. Responses consisted of either an outward current (57%), a decrease in sPSCs (5%) or an increase in sPSCs, with (almost 6%) or without (almost 3%) an outward current. The response elicited by carbachol was not predicted by the response of the cell to nicotine. Our results suggest that nicotinic receptors are found predominantly at presynaptic locations in the optic tectum while muscarinic receptors are most often present at postsynaptic sites. We conclude that both of these receptor types could substantially modulate visual activity by changing either the input to tectal neurons or the level of their response to that input.
We have used cocaine-conditioned locomotion in rats as an animal model for cocaine-conditioned responses that contribute to drug craving and relapse in human addicts. The purpose of the present study was to examine the ability of the GABA(B) agonist, baclofen, to attenuate such associative responses. First, experiments were conducted to identify a dose range of baclofen that did not impede exploratory or spontaneous behavior. This dose range was used during testing for conditioned locomotion specific to a flashing light and metronome, which were previously associated with administration of cocaine (PAIRED group) or saline (UNPAIRED group). At 2.0 mg/kg, baclofen attenuated conditioned locomotion in PAIRED subjects to the level of UNPAIRED subjects receiving saline or 2.0 mg/kg baclofen. Considering the importance of glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) during associative responses to reward-related stimuli, the effect of baclofen on extracellular levels of glutamate in the NAc was tested with microdialysis. Baclofen (2.0 mg/kg) did not alter basal glutamate levels. However, baclofen pretreatment prevented the predatory odor, 2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline, from increasing glutamate levels. This is the first report of baclofen modulating extracellular levels of glutamate in the NAc. Baclofen may prove to have general utility for suppressing stimulus-evoked increases in NAc glutamate levels. This could explain its ability to prevent cocaine-conditioned responses. In summary, our results suggest that enhancing GABA(B) transmission inhibits cocaine-conditioned responses, possibly by suppressing glutamate transmission in the NAc. A better understanding of interactions between GABA and glutamate transmission in the NAc may lead to the development of pharmacotherapies for cocaine craving.
In the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), nitric oxide (NO) modulates neuronal circuits controlling autonomic functions. A proposed source of this NO is via nitric oxide synthase (NOS) present in vagal afferent fibre terminals, which convey visceral afferent information to the NTS. Here, we first determined with electron microscopy that neuronal NOS (nNOS) is present in both presynaptic and postsynaptic structures in the NTS. To examine the relationship of nNOS to vagal afferent fibres the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the nodose ganglion and detected in brainstem sections using peroxidase-based methods. nNOS was subsequently visualised using a pre-embedding immunogold procedure. Ultrastructural examination revealed nNOS immunoreactivity in dendrites receiving vagal afferent input. However, although nNOS-immunoreactive terminals were frequently evident in the NTS, none were vagal afferent in origin. Dual immunofluorescence also confirmed lack of co-localisation. Nevertheless, nNOS immunoreactivity was observed in vagal afferent neurone cell bodies of the nodose ganglion. To determine if these labelled cells in the nodose ganglion were indeed vagal afferent neurones nodose ganglion sections were immunostained following application of cholera toxin B subunit to the heart. Whilst some cardiac-innervating neurones were also nNOS immunoreactive, nNOS was never detected in the central terminals of these neurones. These data show that nNOS is present in the NTS in both pre- and postsynaptic structures. However, these presynaptic structures are unlikely to be of vagal afferent origin. The lack of nNOS in vagal afferent terminals in the NTS, yet the presence in some vagal afferent cell bodies, suggests it is selectively targeted to specific regions of the same neurones.
Cerebral ischemia triggers a multitude of pathophysiological and biochemical events that separately affect the evolution of focal ischemia and, therefore, stroke treatment should logically employ all known neuroprotective agents. We hypothesized that a treatment combining nimodipine and citicoline might have a potential neuroprotective effect. To assess this idea, Sprague-Dawley rats underwent transient bilateral common carotid artery ligation with simultaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion for 60 min. Four treatment groups were established. Animals received either: a) saline (control group); b) intracarotid nimodipine infusion during 30 min in the ischemia-reperfusion (nimodipine group); c) i.p. postischemic citicoline injections once daily for 7 days (citicoline group); or d) intracarotid nimodipine bolus during ischemia-reperfusion plus i.p. postichemic citicoline injections (combination group). They were killed after either 7 or 3 days after reperfusion. In the first case, the volume of the infarcted tissue was studied by a stereological procedure and in the second case, in situ end-labeling of nuclear DNA fragmentation (TUNEL) and Bcl-2 expression were employed to determine the level of apoptosis. The infarct volume was significantly reduced in both the nimodipine and the citicoline treatment groups after 7 days of reperfusion; combination of both drugs produced an additive effect. After 3 days of reperfusion, the number of Bcl-2-positive neurons was significantly increased while that of TUNEL-positive cells significantly decreased at the infarct border in the combined-treatment animals. Our findings demonstrate a neuroprotective effect from an acute single dose of nimodipine during ischemia-reperfusion and prolonged post-ischemic treatment with citicoline in a model of focal cerebral ischemia. These results suggest that a possible mechanism of neuroprotective action would be mediated by increased Bcl-2 expression and decreased apoptosis within the boundary zone of the infarct together with neutralization of the ischemia-reperfusion injury.
We monitored survival of Purkinje cells in rat cerebellar slices to test the hypothesis that isoflurane preconditioning reduces ischemia-induced neuronal death. Preconditioning the brain slices with isoflurane, a volatile anesthetic commonly used in clinical practice, at 1-4% for 15 min at 37 degrees C significantly decreased Purkinje cell injury and death caused by a 20-min ischemia (simulated by oxygen-glucose deprivation, OGD). The effective concentration for half of the maximal effect (EC(50)) for this isoflurane preconditioning-induced neuroprotection was 1.17+/-0.31% and the maximal protective effects were achieved at 3% or higher concentrations of isoflurane. In addition, preconditioning the cells with isoflurane for 15-30 min was needed for the preconditioning to be maximally protective. Although farnesyl protein transferase inhibitor III blocked the protective effects of OGD preconditioning (a 3-min OGD 15 min before the 20-min OGD), this inhibitor did not affect the neuroprotection induced by isoflurane preconditioning. While DL-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartic acid (THA), a specific glutamate transporter inhibitor, did not change basal OGD-induced cell death rate, THA blocked the neuroprotection induced by isoflurane preconditioning but not by OGD preconditioning. Glybenclamide, a K(ATP) channel inhibitor, did not block the neuroprotection induced by either isoflurane or OGD preconditioning. Our results suggest that isoflurane preconditioning is neuroprotective. The isoflurane concentrations and times needed for the preconditioning to be neuroprotective are clinically relevant. The mechanisms of this protection seem to involve modulation of glutamate transporter activity.
Nerve-derived agrin is a specific isoform of agrin that promotes clustering of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and other components of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). We investigated the effects of agrin on functional maturation of NMJs at the early stages of synaptogenesis in human muscle. Specifically, we assessed the importance of agrin for the differentiation of developing NMJs to the stage where they are able to transmit signals that result in contractions of myotubes. We utilized an in vitro model in which human myotubes are innervated by neurons extending from spinal cord explants of fetal rat. This model is suitable for functional studies because all muscle contractions are the result of neuromuscular transmission and can be quantitated. An anti-agrin antibody, Agr 33, was applied to co-cultures during de novo NMJ formation. Quantitative analyses demonstrated that Agr 33 reduced the number of AChR clusters to 20% and their long axes to 50% of control, yet still permitted early, NMJ-mediated muscle contractions that are normally observed in 7-10-day-old co-cultures. However, at later times of development, the same treatment completely prevented the increase in the number of contracting units as compared with untreated co-cultures. It is concluded that there are two modes of functional maturation of NMJs with regard to agrin effects: one that is insensitive and the other that is sensitive to agrin blockade. Agrin-insensitive mode is limited to the small population of NMJs that become functional at the earlier stages of functional innervation. However, most of the NMJs become contraction-competent at the later stages of the innervation process. These NMJs become functional only if agrin action is uncompromised. This is the first characterization of the contribution of agrin to NMJ development on human muscle.
This study was designed to determine the effects of opiate drugs on the electrical activity of afferent neurons and on the ionic currents of hair cells from semicircular canals. Experiments were done on larval axolotls (Ambystoma tigrinum). The multiunit spike activity of afferent neurons was recorded in the isolated inner ear under both resting conditions and mechanical stimulation. Ionic currents were recorded using voltage clamp of hair cells isolated from the semicircular canal. In the isolated inner-ear preparation, microperfusion of either non-specific opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (10 nM to 1 mM), mu receptor agonist [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (1 pM to 10 microM), or kappa receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (10 nM to 100 microM) elicited a dose-dependent long-lasting (&gt;5 min) increase of the electrical discharge of afferent neurons. The mu receptor agonist funaltrexamine (1 nM to 100 microM) and the kappa receptor agonist U-50488 (1 nM to 10 microM) diminished the basal spike discharge of vestibular afferents. The delta receptor agonist D-Pen(2)-D-Pen(5)-enkephalin (1 nM to 10 mM) and the antagonist naltrindole (1 nM to 10 mM) were without a significant effect. The only drug that displayed a significant action on hair-cell ionic currents was trans-(+/-)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-[1-pyrrolidinyl]-cyclohexyl) benzeneacetamide methanesulfonate (U-50488) that reduced the Ca(2+) current in a dose-dependent fashion. On its own, mu receptor agonist [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (0.01 and 10 microM) significantly potentiated the response of afferent neurons to the excitatory amino acid agonist (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (0.1 microM), while synaptic transmission was blocked by the use of high-Mg(2+), low-Ca(2+) solutions. Our data indicate that the activity of vestibular afferent neurons may be regulated in a complex fashion by opioid receptors: mu opioid receptors mediating an excitatory, postsynaptic modulatory input to afferent neurons, and kappa receptors mediating an inhibitory, presynaptic input to hair cells.
The inflammatory mediators bradykinin, prostaglandin E(2) and serotonin interact to excite and sensitize nociceptive neurons. All three mediators are coupled to signaling pathways that potentially induce rises in intracellular calcium concentration in other models. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate if the three mediators cause calcium rises in isolated rat sensory neurons that may explain their sensitizing action. Neurons exposed to serotonin, bradykinin, and prostaglandin E(2) exhibited reversible increases in intracellular calcium concentration, which were absent in calcium-free solution. The calcium increase induced by serotonin was preserved in the presence of extracellular cadmium suggesting calcium influx potentially through the serotonin receptor ion channel 5-HT(3). The bradykinin-induced calcium response was slower, showed pronounced tachyphylaxis and was absent in the presence of extracellular cadmium ions. Similar results were obtained for prostaglandin E(2) although the calcium rises were fast and not prone to tachyphylaxis. This suggests that prostaglandin E(2) as well as bradykinin via activation of G protein-coupled receptors seem to couple to calcium-permeant ion channels possibly the heat-transducing vanilloid receptor type 1 or related ion channels. The three mediators, however, did not cooperate to induce supra-additive calcium responses when applied simultaneously. In summary, our results suggest that the inflammatory mediators serotonin, prostaglandin E(2) and bradykinin induce calcium influx in sensory neurons. However, they do not utilize a calcium-dependent cooperative mechanism to facilitate proton-induced currents.
In the present study, whole-cell patch-clamp recording was used to study whether vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) had a regulatory effect on the potassium-channel currents. The outward delayed-rectifier potassium currents (I(K)) were recorded in acutely isolated hippocampal neurons from 14-day-old rat brains. A local application of VEGF at the concentrations from 50 ng/ml to 200 ng/ml dose-dependently inhibited I(K). Administration of VEGF (100 ng/ml) to the neurons only for seconds could significantly reduce I(K) in 26 of 39 recorded cells. The currents could recover to 82.8+/-3.7% of the control level at 60 s after removing VEGF in the buffer. In the I-V curve analysis, VEGF negatively shifted the I-V curve of I(K); the inhibition was gradually enhanced as the membrane potential increased from -40 mV to 50 mV in 13 cells. Thus, the results reveal that VEGF inhibits I(K) in acute, reversible and voltage-dependent manners. Double staining combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy was used to simultaneously detect the distribution of VEGF receptors (flt-1 and flk-1) in the hippocampal section and isolated neuron. Results showed that flt-1-positive staining, but not flk-1, could be observed on the membrane of the hippocampal neuron in both preparations, suggesting the presence of neuronal membrane VEGF flt-1 receptors in the hippocampus. To investigate if the inhibition by VEGF on I(K) is related to the presence of flt-1 receptors, we further did flt-1-receptor immunostaining for the recorded neurons, which was labeled with Lucifer Yellow during the recording. Among nine recorded cells, five showing the inhibition by VEGF had detectable signals for flt-1 receptors on their membrane, whereas the other four showing no inhibition had no flt-1 receptors either. The results suggest that VEGF can acutely inhibit I(K) in the hippocampal neurons probably related to the presence of membrane flt-1 receptors in the neurons.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the dominant circadian pacemaker in mammalian brain, sends axonal projections to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), a composite of magno- and parvocellular neurons. This neural network likely offers SCN output neurons a means to entrain diurnal rhythmicity in various autonomic and neuroendocrine functions. Earlier investigations using patch-clamp recordings in slice preparations have suggested differential innervation by SCN efferents to magnocellular versus parvocellular PVN cells. In magnocellular PVN, cells respond to focal electrical stimulation in SCN with a GABA(A) receptor-mediated postsynaptic inhibition whose magnitude can be modulated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. By contrast, SCN-evoked responses in parvocellular PVN neurons typically involve both GABA(A)- and glutamate-receptor-mediated components. In the present patch-clamp study, 69/85 periventricular parvocellular PVN cells displayed SCN-evoked inhibitory and/or excitatory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs; EPSCs). In the presence of selective receptor antagonists, we sought evidence for their modulation by GABA acting at pre- and/or postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Cells responded to bath-applied baclofen (5-10 microM) with a tetrodotoxin-resistant membrane hyperpolarization associated with a reduction in input resistance and/or outward current, due to increase in a potassium conductance, blockable with 2-hydroxysaclofen (300 microM). At 1 microM where baclofen had no significant postsynaptic effect, evidence of activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors included reduction in SCN-evoked IPSCs and EPSCs with no change in their kinetics, and paired-pulse depression that was sensitive to both baclofen and saclofen. Baclofen also induced significant reductions in frequency but not amplitudes of miniature IPSCs and EPSCs. These observations suggest that levels of synaptically released GABA from the terminals of SCN output neurons can influence the relative contribution of pre- versus postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors in modulating both excitatory and inhibitory SCN innervation to parvocellular PVN neurons.
We have expanded neuroepithelial cells dissociated from the embryonic rat telencephalon in serum-free defined medium containing basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in order to generate a model neuroepithelium to study the interaction of ethanol with both growth factor- and transmitter-stimulated proliferation. Ethanol blocked proliferation stimulated by bFGF and by carbachol, an agonist at muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, ethanol attenuated autonomous expansion of neuroepithelial cells occurring following withdrawal of bFGF. The latter effect was associated with an increase in the number of apoptotic cells identified by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling labeling. We studied the effects of ethanol on carbachol-stimulated signaling pathways critical to its proliferative effects. Ethanol significantly reduced carbachol-stimulated Ca(2+) signaling, as well as Erk1/Erk2, Akt and cyclic AMP-response element-binding phosphorylations in a dose-dependent manner. Comparison of the potency of ethanol in attenuating carbachol-stimulated proliferation and signal transduction showed that mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation was less sensitive to ethanol than the other parameters. The results indicate that ethanol's suppression of proliferation induced by carbachol in this model neuroepithelium likely involves multiple signaling pathways. These effects in vitro may help to explain the devastating effects of prenatal ethanol exposure in vivo, which contribute to the fetal alcohol syndrome.
Neonatal rats survive and avoid brain injury during periods of anoxia 25 times longer than adults. We hypothesized that oxygen activates and hypoxia suppresses NMDA receptor (NMDAR) responses in neonatal rat neurons, explaining the innate hypoxia tolerance of these cells. In CA1 neurons isolated from neonatal rat hippocampus (mean postnatal age [P] 5.8 days), hypoxia (PO(2) 10 mm Hg) reduced NMDA receptor-channel open-time percentage and NMDA-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i) (NMDA DeltaCa(2+)) by 38 and 68% (P&lt;0.01), respectively. In P20 neurons the reductions were not significant. In P3-10 CA1 neurons within intact hippocampal slices, hypoxia reduced NMDA DeltaCa(2+) by 52% (P=0.002) and decreased NMDA-induced death by 45% (P=0.004). Phalloidin, a microtubule stabilizer, prevented hypoxia-induced inhibition of NMDA DeltaCa(2+) in P3-10 neurons. To test whether NMDARs prevalent in neonates (NR1 plus NR2B or NR2D subunits) are inhibited by hypoxia compared with those in mature neurons (NR2A and NR2C), we expressed these receptors in Xenopus oocytes. Compared with responses in 21% O(2), hypoxia (PO(2) 17 mm Hg) reduced currents from neonatal type NR1/NR2D receptors by 25%, increased currents from NR1/NR2C by 18%, and had no effect on NR1/NR2A or NR1/NR2B. Modulation of NMDARs by hypoxia may play an important role in the hypoxia tolerance of the mammalian neonate. In addition, oxygen sensing by NMDARs could play a significant role in postnatal brain development.
The central fragment of cholecystokinin, CCK8, plays a critical role in stress-related changes in behavior and memory. Therefore, we investigated whether the endogenous cholecystokininergic system is involved in the impairment of attention and/or memory induced by stressful conditions. Plasma corticosterone concentrations increased three-fold and plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH); concentrations increased five-fold when rats were maintained in the open arm of an elevated plus maze for 5 min. The same stress conditions impaired spatial recognition in the two-trial memory task. In addition, this stress led to a significant decrease in the extracellular levels of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal subiculum/CA1 of the hippocampus and partially suppressed the increase obtained during the acquisition phase of memory. This suggests that the cholecystokininergic system in the hippocampus is involved in stress-induced impairment of spatial recognition memory.
Human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) possess certain properties similar to that of neural and glial cells. In the present work, the potential of HAEC as stem cells for spinal cord injury repair was tested. HAEC obtained from human placenta were labeled with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyllindocarbocyanine perchlorate (Dil) in the culture medium. These labeled cells were transplanted into the transection cavities in the spinal cord of bonnet monkeys. Results were analyzed after 15 and 60 days of post-transplantation. HAEC cells survived in the monkey spinal cord for up to the maximum period of observation in the present study, i.e. 60 days. HAEC graft was penetrated by the host axons. There was no glial scar at the transection lesion site. Some of the host spinal neurons and axons were labeled with Dil (used to label HAEC) whereas in lesion control group, there was no such host-neuron labeling. This may be either due to the prevention of death in the axotomized neuron's ensuing lesion or due to the neurotrophic effect exhibited by the transplanted HAEC. Further studies would be required to verify these speculations. Therefore from this pilot study it appears that HAEC survive in the transplanted environment, support the growth of host axons through them, prevent the formation of glial scar at the cut ends and may prevent death in axotomized cells or attract the growth of new collateral sprouting. The abovementioned properties, i.e. serving as a suitable milieu for the host axons to grow, preventing glial scar at the lesion site and rescuing axotomized neurons from death were previously reported in the case of neural transplantation studies. Thus it is speculated that HAEC may be having certain properties equal to the beneficial effects of neural tissue in repairing spinal cord injury. Apart from this speculation, there are two more reasons for why HAEC transplantation studies are warranted to understand the long-term effects of such transplantations. First, there was no evidence of immunological rejection probably due to the non-antigenic nature of the HAEC. Second, unlike neural tissue, procurement of HAEC does not involve many legal or ethical problems.
The metabolic events of neuronal energetics during functional activity are still partially unexplained. In particular, lactate (and not glucose) was recently proposed as the main substrate for neurons during activity. By means of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, lactate was reported to increase during the first minutes of prolonged stimulation, but the studies reported thus far suffered from low temporal resolution. In the present study we used a time-resolved proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy strategy in order to analyse the evolution of lactate during the early seconds following a brief visual stimulation (event-related design). A significant decrease in lactate concentration was observed 5 s after the stimulation, while a recovering of the baseline was observed at 12 s.
To investigate the degree of plasticity of hippocampal neural stem cells from adult mice (mHNSC), we have analyzed their differentiation in co-culture with quail neural crest cells. In mixed culture, mHNSC give rise to several non-neuronal neural crest derivatives, including melanocytes, chondrocytes and smooth muscle cells. The data suggest that neural crest cell-derived short-range cues that are recognized across species can instruct adult mHNSC to differentiate into neural crest phenotypes.
Plastic changes in motor cortex capillary structure and function were examined in three separate experiments in adult rats following prolonged exercise. The first two experiments employed T-two-star (T(2)*)-weighted and flow-alternating inversion recovery (FAIR) functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess chronic changes in blood volume and flow as a result of exercise. The third experiment used an antibody against the CD61 integrin expressed on developing capillaries to determine if motor cortex capillaries undergo structural modifications. In experiment 1, T(2)*-weighted images of forelimb regions of motor cortex were obtained following 30 days of either repetitive activity on a running wheel or relative inactivity. The proton signal intensity was markedly reduced in the motor cortex of exercised animals compared with that of controls. This reduction was not attributable to alterations of vascular iron levels. These results are therefore most consistent with increased capillary perfusion or blood volume of forelimb regions of motor cortex. FAIR images acquired during experiment 2 under normocapnic and hypercapnic conditions indicated that resting cerebral blood flow was not altered under normal conditions but was elevated in response to high levels of CO(2), suggesting that prolonged exercise increases the size of a capillary reserve. Finally, the immunohistological data indicated that exercise induces robust growth of capillaries (angiogenesis) within 30 days from the onset of the exercise regimen. Analysis of other regions failed to find any changes in perfusion or capillary structure suggesting that this motor activity-induced plasticity may be specific to motor cortex.These data indicate that capillary growth occurs in motor areas of the cerebral cortex as a robust adaptation to prolonged motor activity. In addition to capillary growth, the vascular system also experiences heightened flow under conditions of activation. These changes are chronic and observable even in the anesthetized animal and are measurable using noninvasive techniques.
Although extensive behavioral studies have demonstrated that hippocampal lesions impair navigation toward specific places, the role of hippocampal neuronal activity in the development of efficient navigation during place learning remains unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate how hippocampal neuronal activity changes as rats learn to navigate efficiently to acquire rewards in an open field. Rats were pre-trained in a random reward task where intracranial self-stimulation rewards were provided at random locations. Then, the rats were trained in a novel place task where they were rewarded at two specific locations as they repeatedly shuttled between them. Hippocampal neuronal activity was recorded during the course of learning of the place task. The rats learned reward sites within several sessions, and gradually developed efficient navigation strategies throughout the learning sessions. Some hippocampal neurons gradually changed spatial firing as the learning proceeded, and discharged robustly near the reward sites when efficient navigation was established. Over the learning sessions, the neuronal activity was highly correlated to formation of efficient shuttling trajectories between the reward sites. At the end of the experiment, spatial firing patterns of the hippocampal neurons were re-examined in the random reward task. The specific spatial firing patterns of the neurons were preserved if the rats navigated, as if they expected to find rewards at the previously valid locations. However, those specific spatial firing patterns were not observed in rats pursuing random trajectories. These results suggest that hippocampal neurons have a crucial role in formation of an efficient navigation.
5-Hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptor agonists evoke the head-twitch response in mice. The head-twitch response in olfactory bulbectomized mice elicited by the administration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (40 microgram/mouse, i.c.v.) was increased about threefold as compared with controls on the 14th day after the operation. The injection of ketanserin (1 mg/kg, i.p.), a 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptor antagonist, inhibited this enhancement of 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced head-twitch response after olfactory bulbectomized. On the 14th day, the number of head-twitch response induced by 5-hydroxytryptophan (40, 80 and 160 mg/kg, i.p.), a precursor of 5-hydroxytryptamine, did not differ between olfactory bulbectomized and control mice. Monoamine oxidase-B activity in the forebrain of olfactory bulbectomized mice was higher than that in controls while monoamine oxidase-A activities were unchanged. The 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake into synaptosomes in the forebrain homogenates of olfactory bulbectomized mice was lower than that in controls. These findings indicate that olfactory bulbectomized causes the enhancement of head-twitch response by a supersensitivity of 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptors in cerebral cortex derived from degeneration of neurons projecting from the olfactory bulb.
Thalamocortical projections from the auditory thalamic nuclei were examined systematically in the rat, including those from the dorsal division (MGD) of the medial geniculate body (MG), which were less clearly determined in previous studies. Injections of biocytin confined in each thalamic nucleus revealed characteristic features of projections in terms of cortical areas and layers of termination. In contrast to exclusively selective projections to cortical area Te1 from the ventral division (MGV) of the MG, diffuse and selective terminations were observed in the projections from the dorsal (MGD) and medial divisions (MGM) of the MG and the suprageniculate nucleus (SG). Diffuse termination was continuous in layer I or VI of the temporal cortex, while selective termination was in layers III and IV of discrete cortical areas. In addition to diffuse termination in the upper half of layer I of cortical areas Te1, Te2d and Te3v, the MGD and SG projections formed plexuses of axons selectively in lower layer III and layer IV of Te2d and Te3v. The SG projections targeted further the dorsal bank of the perirhinal cortex (PRh), while the MGD projections targeted in part the ventral fringe of Te1. The MGM projections terminated diffusely in layer VI of Te1 and Te3v, and selectively in lower layer III and layer IV of the rostral part of Te3v. Diffuse projections to layers I and VI from the SG and MGM extended in cortical regions over the dorsal fringe of Te1. Selective dense projections to middle cortical layers of Te2d and Te3v (especially its rostral part) indicate the existence of auditory areas, which could be involved in cross-modal interaction with visual and somatosensory system, respectively. Diffuse projections are supposed to bind information processings in these areas and the primary auditory area (Te1).
Electrophysiological studies in humans and animal models have revealed an intrinsic epileptogenicity of cortical dysplasias which are a frequent cause of drug-resistant epilepsy. An imbalance of inhibition and excitation has been causative related. Receptor-binding studies in rodents demonstrated reduced binding to GABA and increased binding to glutamate receptors within cortical dysplasias and increments of AMPA- and kainate-receptor binding in its surround. Immunohistochemically a differential downregulation of GABA(A) receptor subunits could be demonstrated in widespread areas within and around dysplasias. As receptor binding critically depends on receptor subunit composition the observed changes in binding properties might be related to this. Here, we immunohistochemically analyzed the regional expression of four NMDA receptor subunits and two major AMPA- and kainate-receptor complexes in adult rats after neonatal freeze lesions. These lesions are characterized by a three- to four-layered cortex and a microsulcus which mimic human polymicrogyria. Using antibodies against NR1, NR2A, NR2B, NR2D, GluR2,3, and GluR5,6,7 receptor subunits we demonstrated a pronounced disturbance of cortical immunostaining pattern in the cortical malformation. These changes reflected the structural disorganization of the microgyrus with some distortion of the apical dendrites of paramicrogyral pyramidal cells, a decrease and disorganization of cells at the bottom of the microsulcus, and an inflection of apical dendrites toward the microsulcus. The neuronal staining pattern of large pyramidal cells in the neighborhood of the dysplasia did not differ for any subunit investigated. No remote or widespread changes of glutamate-receptor subunit distribution could be detected. The lack of gross and/or widespread alterations of glutamate-receptor subunit distribution in the surround of focal cortical dysplasia suggests the presence of other or additional mechanisms underlying the increased excitatory neurotransmitter binding and excitability in cortical malformations.
Investigation of rhythmic discharges may provide insights into integrative mechanisms underlying nervous system control of effectors. We have previously shown that, in CNS-intact, anesthetized rats, cutaneous sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurones innervating thermoregulatory circulations exhibit a robust rhythmicity in the 0.4-1.2-Hz frequency range (T-rhythm). Here we examined whether the neural circuitry required to generate this rhythm remained intact in decerebrate (at collicular level), paralyzed and artificially ventilated preparations with cervical vagotomy, ligation of common carotid arteries and pneumothorax. Population sympathetic activity was recorded from the ventral collector nerve (VCN) of the tail in nine animals, while monitoring central respiratory drive. We found that rhythmic activity remained a robust feature and that activity behaved in a comparable manner to that previously described in the intact anesthetized preparation. Manifest as peaks in the autospectra, the dominant rhythm was either at the frequency of (f) lung inflation cycle (fLIC), central respiratory drive (fCRD) or in the 'free-run' T-rhythm frequency range. Through manipulation of fLIC we could alter the dominant rhythm of discharges. We show a significant relationship between fLIC and the likelihood of the dominant rhythm in VCN discharges being at fLIC or at a frequency that was neither fLIC nor fCRD. At fLIC of 1 Hz: in seven of nine animals the VCN dominant rhythm was 1 Hz, zero of nine displayed a dominant T-rhythm; at fLIC of 2 Hz: two of nine had a dominant VCN rhythm at 2 Hz and five of nine a T-rhythm. Furthermore, CRD was never observed to entrain to fLIC. These experiments demonstrate that the network underlying the generation of the T-rhythm is located below the collicular level of the neuraxis and that in this preparation LIC-related modulation of discharges may be mediated by spinal (sympathetic) afferents.
Olfactory stimuli play important roles in sexual behavior. Previous studies have demonstrated that both estrous odors and initially neutral odors paired with copulation influence the sexual behavior of male rats. The present study examines the pattern of neural activation as revealed by Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) following exposure to bedding scented with either a neutral odor (almond) paired previously with copulation, estrous odors or no odor. Following exposure to estrous odors Fos-IR increased in the accessory olfactory bulb, medial amygdala, medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, ventromedial hypothalamus, ventral tegmental area, and both the nucleus accumbens core and shell. Conversely, following exposure to the sexually conditioned odor Fos-IR increased in the piriform cortex, basolateral amygdala, nucleus accumbens core, and the anterior portion of the lateral hypothalamic area. In addition, following exposure to almond odor Fos-IR increased in the main olfactory bulb independent of its pairing with copulation. These patterns of Fos-IR following exposure to estrous or sexually conditioned odors were not influenced by either the addition or omission of the other type of odor. These findings demonstrate that estrous and sexually conditioned odors are processed by distinct neural pathways and converge in the nucleus accumbens core, suggesting that this structure has a unique role in processing sexual stimuli of both pheromonal and olfactory natures.
Previous studies have indicated that damage to the peripheral vestibular system results in dysfunction of hippocampal place cells and an impairment of spatial learning and memory. The aim of this study was to determine whether lesions of one vestibular labyrinth (unilateral vestibular deafferentation, UVD) result in changes in the expression of the NR1 and NR2A subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and the GluR2 subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor, in subregions of the rat hippocampus (CA1, CA2/3 and the dentate gyrus) at 10 h or 2 weeks following UVD. Compared with sham surgery controls and anaesthetic controls, the expression of the NR1 subunit was significantly reduced in the ipsilateral CA2/3 region at 2 weeks post-UVD. The expression of the NR2A subunit was also significantly reduced in the ipsilateral CA2/3 and, to a smaller extent, in the contralateral CA2/3 region, at 2 weeks post-UVD. The only other change in NR2A expression was an increase in the ipsilateral CA1 at 10 h post-UVD. No other changes in NR1, NR2A or GluR2 expression were observed in any hippocampal subregion, at any time point, or in cortical tissue at any time point. These results suggest that UVD may result in long-term changes in NMDA receptor subunit expression in the rat hippocampus.
Neurons in the avian cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM), are highly sensitive to manipulations of afferent input, and removal of afferent activity through cochlear ablation results in the death of approximately 20-40% of ipsilateral NM neurons. The intracellular cascades that determine whether an individual NM neuron will die or survive are not fully understood. One early event observed in NM following deafferentation is a rapid rise in intracellular calcium concentration. In most cellular systems, the activity of calcium-binding proteins is believed to accommodate calcium influx. The calcium-binding protein, neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), is an intracellular neuronal calcium sensor belonging to the EF-hand superfamily. NCS-1 has been implicated in calcium-dependent regulation of signaling cascades. To evaluate NCS-1 action in NM neurons, the localization of NCS-1 protein was examined. Double-label immunofluorescence experiments revealed that NCS-1 expression is evident in both the presynaptic nerve terminal and postsynaptic NM neuron. The postsynaptic expression of NCS-1 typically appears to be closely associated with the cell membrane. This close proximity of NCS-1 to the postsynaptic membrane could allow NCS-1 to function as a modulator of postsynaptic signaling events. Following deafferentation, NM neurons were more likely to show diffuse cytoplasmic NCS-1 labeling. This increase in the number of cells showing diffuse cytoplasmic labeling was observed 12 and 24 h following cochlea ablation, but was not observed 4 days following surgery. This activity-dependent regulation of NCS-1 subcellular localization suggests it may be associated with, or influenced by, processes important for the survival of NM neurons.
Recent post-mortem and brain imaging studies suggest that decreased neuronal and glial densities may account for cell loss in vulnerable brain regions such as the hippocampus and the frontal cortex in patients with bipolar disorder. Investigations into the mechanisms of action of mood stabilizers suggest that these drugs may regulate the expression of neuroprotective genes and protect against excitotoxicity. In this study, we characterized the ultrastructural appearance of rat hippocampal neurons pretreated with mood stabilizers and then exposed to the glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate. Using transmission electron microscopy we found that rat hippocampal neurons exposed to 0.5 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate for 10 min produced more cytoplasmic vacuolization than in control neurons. Chronic treatment with mood stabilizers, lithium, valproate or carbamazepine for 7 days at therapeutically relevant concentrations fully attenuated N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated cytoplasmic vacuolization. These results suggest that inhibition of neurotoxicity may be involved in the action of mood stabilizers.
Hyperthermia induced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is partially due to sympathetically-mediated cutaneous vasoconstriction that impairs normal heat dissipation. MDMA acts by releasing monoamines, including 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), but receptor mechanisms underlying MDMA-elicited hyperthermia and cutaneous vasoconstriction are not known. The specific 5-HT2A agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) is a potent hallucinogen that also causes marked hyperthermia, suggesting the possibility that DOI, via stimulation of 5-HT2A receptors, might also cause sympathetically mediated cutaneous vasoconstriction. We tested this hypothesis in conscious unrestrained rabbits and rats. Blood flow was assessed by chronically implanted Doppler ultrasonic flow probes. Body temperature was measured by i.p. telemetric probes. We compared effects of DOI on cutaneous blood flow (ear pinna in rabbits, tail in rats) with effects on mesenteric blood flow and arterial pressure.Hyperthermia induced by DOI (5-100 microgram/kg i.v. in rabbits and 100 microgram/kg s.c. in rats) was preceded and accompanied by markedly reduced blood flow to the cutaneous bed, with no change in flow to the mesenteric bed. In rabbits, DOI (5 microgram/kg i.v.) did not affect arterial pressure or heart rate. DOI (100 microgram/kg i.v.) caused a moderate rise in arterial pressure. In rabbits, the 5-HT2A receptor antagonists ketanserin (0.3 mg/kg i.v.) and AC90179 (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) reversed the ear pinna vasoconstriction induced by DOI (5 microgram/kg i.v.). In rats, ketanserin (3 mg/kg s.c.) reversed tail vasoconstriction and hyperthermia induced by DOI (100 microgram/kg s.c.). In rabbits, the cutaneous vasoconstricting effect of DOI (5 microgram/kg i.v.) was substantially abolished in the ipsilateral ear pinna after interruption of preganglionic sympathetic nerve activity by unilateral section of the cervical sympathetic trunk. Thus hyperthermia evoked by direct stimulation of 5-HT2A receptors is associated with marked sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction, selective for the cutaneous bed. Impairment of the ability to dissipate heat following drug-induced stimulation of 5-HT2A receptors is likely to contribute to hyperthermia induced by MDMA and by hallucinogenic drugs such as LSD.
The substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR), a major output station of basal ganglia, receives information from the cerebral cortex through three main pathways, i.e. a direct inhibitory trans-striatal pathway, an indirect excitatory trans-striatal pathway that involves the pallidum and the subthalamus and a direct excitatory trans-subthalamic pathway. In order to determine how cortical information flow originating from functionally distinct cortical areas and processed through the trans-striatal and trans-subthalamic pathways is integrated within the SNR, the responses induced by electrical stimulation of prefrontal, motor and auditory cortex in SNR cells were analyzed in anesthetized rats. Further confirming that direct striato-nigral pathways related to these functionally distinct cortical areas are organized in parallel channels, stimulation of the prefrontal, motor and auditory cortex induced an inhibitory response on distinct subpopulations of SNR cells. Within a given channel, the direct trans-striatal and the trans-subthalamic pathways converge on a large number of nigral cells. In addition, the present study reveals that nigral cells receiving an inhibitory input from a given cortical area through the direct trans-striatal pathway can also receive an excitatory input from a functionally distinct cortical area through the trans-subthalamic pathways. Such a convergence mainly occurred between the direct striato-nigral pathway issued from the auditory cortex and the trans-subthalamic pathways issued from the motor cortex. These data reveal the existence of a converging influence of trans-subthalamic and direct striato-nigral pathways not only within but also across channels. Within a given cortico-basal ganglia channel, the trans-subthalamic pathways likely contribute to the temporal shaping of the striato-nigral inhibition and thus of the disinhibition of the related nigral target nuclei in the thalamus and mesencephalon. Across channels, the specific interactions between trans-subthalamic and direct striato-nigral pathways could contribute to prevent inhibition of subpopulations of nigral cells implicated in competing functions.
We used a previously reported model of morphine sensitization that elicited a complex behavioral syndrome involving stereotyped and non stereotyped activity. To identify the mechanism of these long-lasting processes, we checked the density of mu opioid receptors, receptor-G-protein coupling and the cyclic AMP (cAMP) cascade. In morphine-sensitized animals mu opioid receptor autoradiography revealed a significant increase in the caudate putamen (30% versus controls), nucleus accumbens shell (16%), prefrontal and frontal cortex (26%), medial thalamus (43%), hypothalamus (200%) and central gray (89%). Concerning morphine's activation of G proteins in the brain, investigated in the guanylyl 5'-[gamma-(35)S]thio]triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding assay, a significant increase in net [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was seen in the caudate putamen (39%) and hypothalamus (27%). In the caudate putamen this was due to an increase in the amount of activated G proteins, and in the hypothalamus to a greater affinity of G proteins for guanosine triphosphate (GTP). The main second messenger system linked to the opioid receptor is the cAMP pathway. In the striatum basal cAMP levels were significantly elevated in sensitized animals (70% versus controls) and [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) significantly inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in control (30%) but not in sensitized rats. In the hypothalamus no significant changes were observed in basal cAMP levels and DAMGO inhibition. These cellular events induced by morphine pre-exposure could underlie the neuroadaptive processes involved in morphine sensitization.
Brain inflammatory processes underlie the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a protective effect in the disease. The aim of this work was to study in vivo whether attenuation of brain inflammatory response to excitotoxic insult by the selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, rofecoxib, may prevent neurodegeneration, as a contribution to a better understanding of the role inflammation plays in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. We investigated, by immunohistochemical methods, glia reaction, the activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) pathway with an antibody selective for the phosphorylated form of the enzyme and the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons and, by in vivo microdialysis, cortical extracellular levels of acetylcholine following the injection of quisqualic acid into the right nucleus basalis of adult rats. Seven days after injection, a marked reduction in the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons was found, along with an intense glia reaction, selective activation of p38MAPK at the injection site and a significant decrease in the extracellular levels of acetylcholine in the cortex ipsilateral to the injection site. The loss of cholinergic neurons persisted for at least up to 28 days. Rofecoxib (3 mg/kg/day, starting 1 h prior to injection of quisqualic acid) treatment for 7 days significantly attenuated glia activation and prevented the loss of choline acetyltransferase-positive cells and a decrease in cortical acetylcholine release. The prevention of cholinergic cell loss by rofecoxib occurred concomitantly with the inhibition of p38MAPK phosphorylation. Our findings suggest an important role of brain inflammatory reaction in cholinergic degeneration and demonstrate a neuroprotective effect of rofecoxib, presumably mediated through the inhibition of p38MAPK phosphorylation.
Cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons are widely used as a model system for studying neuronal apoptosis. Either low K(+) (5 mM) or low concentrations of glutamate (1-10 microM) induce apoptosis in cerebellar neurons in culture. However, the molecular mechanism(s) involved remain unclear. We show that long-term treatment with ammonia prevents glutamate-induced but not low K(+)-induced apoptosis in cerebellar neurons, as assessed by measuring DNA fragmentation and activation of caspase 3. Ammonia prevented glutamate-induced increase of intracellular calcium, depolarization of the inner mitochondrial membrane, release of cytochrome c to the cytosol, activation of caspase 3 and fragmentation of DNA. However, ammonia did not prevent low K(+)-induced activation of caspase 3 and fragmentation of DNA. These results indicate that the initial steps involved in the induction of apoptosis by low K(+) or by glutamate are different and that ammonia prevents glutamate-induced apoptosis by reducing glutamate-induced rise of intracellular Ca(2+), thus avoiding the activation of subsequent events of the apoptotic process.
Behavioral studies on gene-manipulated mice have started to elucidate the neurobiological functions of the alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor (AR) subtype. In this study, we applied quantitative receptor autoradiography to investigate the potential anatomical correlates of the observed functional effects of altered alpha(2C)-AR expression. Labeling of brain and spinal cord sections with the subtype non-selective alpha(2)-AR radioligand [(3)H]RX821002 and the alpha(2C)-AR-preferring ligand [(3)H]rauwolscine revealed distinct binding-site distribution patterns. In control mice, [(3)H]rauwolscine binding was most abundant in the olfactory tubercle, accumbens and caudate putamen nuclei, and in the CA1 field of the hippocampus. A mouse strain with overexpression of alpha(2C)-AR regulated by a gene-specific promoter showed approximately two- to four-fold increased levels of [(3)H]rauwolscine binding in these regions. In addition, dramatic increases in [(3)H]rauwolscine binding were seen in the nerve layer of the olfactory bulb, the molecular layer of the cerebellum, and the ventricular system of alpha(2C)-AR-overexpressing mice, representing &quot;ectopic&quot; alpha(2C)-AR expression. Competition-binding experiments with several alpha(2)-AR ligands confirmed the alpha(2C)-AR identity of these sites. Our results provide quantitative evidence of the predominance of the alpha(2A)-AR subtype in most regions of the mouse CNS, but also disclose the wide distribution of alpha(2C)-AR in the normal mouse brain, although at relatively low density, except in the ventral and dorsal striatum and the hippocampal CA1 area. alpha(2C)-AR are thus present in brain regions involved in the processing of sensory information and in the control of motor and emotion-related activities such as the accumbens and caudate putamen nuclei, the olfactory tubercle, the lateral septum, the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the frontal and somatosensory cortices. The current results may help in specifying an anatomical framework for the functional roles of the alpha(2A)- and alpha(2C)-AR subtypes in the mouse CNS.
Chronic psychosocial stress impairs early long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal CA1 region but not in the dentate gyrus of anesthetized rats. Analysis of putative signaling molecules involved in the expression of LTP was performed to determine the possible reason(s) for the apparent resistance of the LTP of the dentate gyrus to chronic psychosocial stress. Immunoblotting was used to determine possible changes in the basal levels of various fractions of calcium-dependent calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII), phosphorylated CaMKII (P-CaMKII), calmodulin, protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma) and calcineurin in the dentate gyrus of chronically stressed rats. Western blot analysis revealed that chronic stress significantly decreased the levels of the total CaMKII without affecting P-CaMKII levels. No significant change was detected in the levels of the upstream effectors, calmodulin and PKCgamma. However, chronic stress produced a significant decrease in calcineurin levels. The data suggest that the dentate gyrus of chronically stressed rats may have developed a compensatory mechanism whereby calcineurin levels are reduced to maintain normal P-CaMKII levels, which may be responsible for the normal early LTP of the dentate gyrus of chronically stressed rats. The results of this work will increase understanding of why certain brain regions are more resistant to deleterious effects of conditions that deteriorate learning and memory.
We investigated the molecular mechanisms of cell death in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat, following suction lesion of the visual cortex at birth or in the third postnatal week, using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) technique and immunohistochemistry for caspase-3, -7, -8, and cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Following lesion at birth, TUNEL-positive neurons were found in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus between 24 h and 3 days after lesion, with a peak on the second day. Shorter survival times (12-18 h) resulted in labeling of very few neurons in dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and of several neurons in the perilesional cortex. Activated caspase-3 was expressed from the first to the third days after lesion, whereas cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and activated caspase-8 were expressed on the second and third day. Activated caspase-7 was expressed mainly in pretectal nuclei. Caspase-3 activation coincided with the appearance of TUNEL-positive profiles, but decreased earlier than TUNEL. In the ipsi- and contralateral cerebral cortex, all parameters were unchanged. In animals lesioned in the third week, rare apoptotic thalamic neurons were detected as TUNEL- and activated caspase-3-positive profiles 2 days after cortical ablation, and were still present 1 week after lesion.Thus, early target ablation has dramatic effects on neonatal thalamic neurons, which die following activation of caspases 3 and 8. In contrast, cortical neurons are relatively unaffected by target deprivation. Compared with early lesions, late lesions induce a limited thalamic cell death, that persists over time.
The mammalian trkB locus undergoes alternative splicing to produce two different types of brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptors. The first type is the full-length receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkB(Tk+); the second type is a truncated receptor lacking the intracellular tyrosine kinase domain (TrkB(Tk-)). To investigate the function of both types of TrkB receptor in vivo, we have generated knockout mice lacking all isoforms of the TrkB receptor (trkB-/-) and compared sensory neuron survival in these mice to that in the previously described TrkB kinase domain knockout mice (trkB(k)-/-). We observed that the presence of truncated TrkB receptors in trkB(k)-/- mice results in more severe sensory neuron losses. Increased neuron losses associated with the presence of truncated TrkB were most severe in regions where neuron survival is most dependent on brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3. Our data suggest that truncated TrkB receptors negatively influence neuron survival by interfering with the function of catalytic TrkB receptors.
The present study examined the efficiency of fluorescent carbocyanine dye 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylinodocarbocyanine perchlorate and cholera toxin B subunit in tracing the crossed tectal projection to the nucleus rotundus of the thalamus (tectorotundal pathways) of paraformaldehyde-fixed and living chick embryos. The tracers were injected into the optic tectum under three experimental conditions (carbocyanine postfix, carbocyanine in vivo, and cholera toxin B subunit in vivo) and the anterograde transport of the nucleus rotundus was monitored and compared. In the carbocyanine postfix method, small crystals of carbocyanine dye were inserted into the tectum of paraformaldehyde-fixed embryos. A 6-month post-insertion period was required to label the crossed tectorotundal pathway. Results showed that tectal neurons did not begin to innervate the ipsilateral nucleus rotundus until embryonic day 9 and the contralateral nucleus rotundus until embryonic day 17. This slow progression of labeling through the crossed tectal projection resulted in significant contrast of the labeling between the ipsilateral and contralateral nuclei rotundus. In the carbocyanine in vivo method, a small volume of carbocyanine dye solution was injected into the tectum of living embryos. A 8- to 12-h survival period was sufficient enough to label the tectorotundal pathway. By embryonic day 8, the labeled axons terminated in the ipsilateral nucleus rotundus and the crossed tectorotundal projection was first detected by embryonic day 10. Similarly, in the cholera toxin B subunit in vivo method, a small volume of cholera toxin B subunit solution was injected into the tectum of living embryos. After a 6- to 10-h survival period, heavily labeled axons were found to innervate bilaterally the nucleus rotundus by embryonic day 8. This appeared to be the earliest schedule for detecting the crossed tectorotundal projection, compared with that of both the postfix and in vivo methods of carbocyanine dye. Based on the differences in the detectability of the crossed tectorotundal projection between the postfix and in vivo methods, the present data suggest that the former method is of limited purpose for labeling tectal collaterals during embryogenesis. Moreover, given the rapid transport rate and absence of photobleaching, which is often seen when using carbocyanine dye, the cholera toxin B subunit in vivo method appears to be the tracer of choice for investigating embryonic pathways.
To investigate the role in synaptic plasticity of Ca(2+) released from intracellular Ca(2+) stores, mice lacking the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor were developed and the physiological properties, long-term potentiation, and long-term depression of their hippocampal CA1 neurons were examined. There were no significant differences in basic synaptic functions, such as membrane properties and the input/output relationship, between homozygote mutant and wild-type mice. Enhanced paired-pulse facilitation at interpulse intervals of less than 60 ms and enhanced post-tetanic potentiation were observed in the mutant mice, suggesting that the presynaptic mechanism was altered by the absence of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor. Long-term potentiation in the field-excitatory postsynaptic potentials induced by tetanus (100 Hz, 1 s) and the excitatory postsynaptic currents induced by paired stimulation in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons under whole-cell clamp conditions were significantly greater in mutant mice than in wild-type mice. Homosynaptic long-term depression of CA1 synaptic responses induced by low-frequency stimulation (1 Hz, 500 pulses) was not significantly different, but heterosynaptic depression of the non-associated pathway induced by tetanus was blocked in the mutant mice. Both long-term potentiation and long-term depression in mutant mice were completely dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity. To rule out the possibility of an effect compensating for the lack of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor occurring during development, an anti-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor monoclonal antibody that blocks receptor function was diffused into the wild-type cell through a patch pipette, and the effect of acute block of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor on long-term potentiation was examined. Significant enhancement of long-term potentiation was observed compared with after control immunoglobulin G injection, suggesting that developmental redundancy was not responsible for the increase in long-term potentiation amplitude observed in the mutant mouse. The properties of channels that could be involved in long-term potentiation induction were examined using whole-cell recording. N-methyl-D-aspartate currents were significantly larger in mutant mice than in wild-type mice only between holding potentials of -60 and -80 mV. We conclude that inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate type 1 receptor activity is not essential for the induction of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal CA1 neurons, but appears to negatively regulate long-term potentiation induction by mild modulation of channel activities.
5'-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside (AICA riboside) has been previously shown to be toxic to two neuronal cell models [Neuroreport 11 (2000) 1827]. In this paper we demonstrate that AICA riboside promotes apoptosis in undifferentiated human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y), inducing a raise in caspase-3 activity. In order to exert its effect on viability, AICA riboside must enter the cells and be phosphorylated to the ribotide, since both a nucleoside transport inhibitor, and an inhibitor of adenosine kinase produce an enhancement of the viability of AICA riboside-treated cells. Short-term incubations (2 h) with AICA riboside result in five-fold increase in the activity of AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK). However, the activity of AMPK is not significantly affected at prolonged incubations (48 h), when the apoptotic effect of AICA riboside is evident. The results demonstrate that when the cell line is induced to differentiate both toward a cholinergic phenotype (with retinoic acid) or a noradrenergic phenotype (with phorbol esters), the toxic effect is significantly reduced, and in the case of the noradrenergic phenotype differentiation, the riboside is completely ineffective in promoting apoptosis. This reduction of effect correlates with an overexpression of Bcl-2 during differentiation. AICA riboside, derived from the hydrolysis of the ribotide, an intermediate of purine de novo synthesis, is absent in normal healthy cells; however it may accumulate in those individuals in which an inborn error of purine metabolism causes an increase in the rate of de novo synthesis and/or an overexpression of cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase, that appears to be the enzyme responsible for AICA ribotide hydrolysis. In fact, 5'-nucleotidase activity has been shown to increase in patients affected by Lesch-Nyhan syndrome in which both acceleration of de novo synthesis and accumulation of AICA ribotide has been described, and also in other neurological disorders of unknown etiology. Our results raise the intriguing clue that the neurotoxic effect of AICA riboside on the developing brain might contribute to the neurological manifestations of syndromes related to purine dismetabolisms.
Human dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were obtained during various procedures and processed for single and double in situ hybridisation using oligonucleotide probes complementary to three peptide mRNAs. Some postmortem ganglia were also analysed. In donor (unlesioned) DRGs 12.5% of the neuron profiles (NPs) were galanin mRNA-positive (mRNA(+)), 47.5% calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) mRNA(+) and 32.7% substance P mRNA(+). The corresponding percentages for cervical/thoracic DRGs from patients suffering from severe brachial plexus injury were 32.8%, 57.4% and 34.5%, respectively. In these DRGs a high proportion of the galanin mRNA(+) NPs contained CGRP mRNA and substance P mRNA. In DRGs from a patient with migraine-like pain a comparatively small proportion expressed galanin, whereas in DRGs from a herpes zoster patient galanin mRNA(+) NPs were comparatively more frequent. The results from human postmortem DRGs revealed only weak peptide mRNA signals. The present results demonstrate that galanin is expressed in DRGs not only in a number of animal species including monkey as previously shown, but also in a considerable proportion of human DRG neurons, often together with CGRP and substance P, and mostly in small neurons. Thus, galanin may play a role in processing of sensory information, especially pain, in human DRGs and dorsal horn. However, to what extent a similarly dramatic upregulation of galanin expression can be seen after peripheral nerve lesion in man, as has been reported for rat, mouse and monkey, remains to be analysed.
It has been shown that gonadal steroids have the capacity to induce synaptic plasticity in certain areas of the nervous system. Previously we have demonstrated that due to the effect of estradiol there is a transient decrease in the number of GABAergic axo-somatic synapses in the arcuate nucleus. By using systemic application of the tracer Fluorogold we retrogradely labeled a subpopulation of arcuate neurons that project to the median eminence. We than applied the disector method for synapse quantification and found that these &quot;hypophysiotropic neurons&quot; receive less axo-somatic inputs. We found that 17beta-estradiol induced a decrease in the numerical density of axo-somatic contacts of these retrogradely-labeled neoroendocrine cells. Our data support the hypothesis that the hormonally driven morphological synaptic plasticity is neuron specific within the arcuate nucleus and plays a decisive role in the regulation of anterior pituitary.
We have previously reported that clock mutant mice on Jcl:ICR background show about 2-h delayed circadian profiles in body temperature, spontaneous activity and sleep-wake rhythm, and that they appear to be useful as a model of evening-type of individual. Hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release which is positively correlated with attention, learning and memory shows a circadian variation. In this study, changes in hippocampal ACh release in transitional phase from light (rest) to dark (active) period in clock mutant mice were monitored using an in vivo microdialysis method. Compared with wild mice, the increase in hippocampal ACh in the first 2 h of the active period in the mutant mice was suppressed in parallel with peak frequency in electroencephalogram theta rhythm. The molecular basis of the circadian system appears to have a strong effect on hippocampal cholinergic function, and is probably associating with individual temporal differences in voluntary behavior, cognition, learning and/or memory performance.
The present paper looks for kinematic similarities between whole-body and arm movements executed in the sagittal plane. Eight subjects performed sit-to-stand (STS) and back-to-sit (BTS) movements at their preferred speed in the sagittal plane. Kinematics analysis focused on shoulder motion revealed that STS was composed of a straight, forward displacement followed by a curved, upward displacement while BTS was characterized by a curved, downward and straight, backward displacement. Curvature of the upward displacement was significantly greater than the downward one. Analysis of shoulder-velocity profiles showed that movement duration was significantly longer for BTS compared with STS and that the shape of the velocity profiles changed when subjects performed an STS compared with a BTS movement. Velocity profiles of the upward and downward displacements also differed; the relative acceleration duration (acceleration duration divided by movement duration during the vertical motion) was smaller for the upward compared with the downward displacement. The present results are in accordance with previous findings concerning the execution of vertical arm movements and suggest that the CNS uses similar motor plans for the performance of arm and whole-body movements in the sagittal plane.
The somatosensory neocortex processes extrinsic information from the thalamus and intrinsic information from local circuits. We compared the effects of acetylcholine (Ach) on neocortical field potential responses evoked by stimulation of the whiskers and by local electrical stimulation in the upper layers of the neocortex vibrissae representation (&quot;barrel cortex&quot;) of adult rats anesthetized with urethane. In the barrel cortex, the cholinergic system was manipulated using microdialysis by exogenous application of Ach, by increasing the endogenous levels of Ach with physostigmine and by applying specific cholinergic agonists. The results revealed that Ach selectively enhances the sensory response relative to the intracortical response. Thus, pathways in the barrel cortex are differentially regulated by cholinergic inputs.
Dopaminergic activity during Pavlovian or instrumental learning in key target regions of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system was investigated immunohistochemically using antibodies raised against glutaraldehyde-conjugated dopamine. Experiment 1 examined dopamine immunoreactivity during acquisition of a Pavlovian conditioned-approach response. Observations were taken at three stages of learning: initial, intermediate and asymptotic; each with a conditioned stimulus+ (CS+) group for whom visual or auditory stimuli immediately preceded an unconditioned stimulus (sucrose), and a conditioned stimulus- (CS-) group for whom stimuli and the unconditioned stimulus were unpaired. Animals learned to approach the alcove during CS+ presentations, whilst approach behaviour of the CS- group remained low. In general, target regions exhibiting a dopaminergic reaction responded maximally during the intermediate stage of acquisition, and were less responsive initially, and not responsive at all at asymptote. Specifically, the pattern of dopaminergic response was: shell more than core of the nucleus accumbens; prefrontal cortex, central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala also significantly responsive. Mediodorsal and laterodorsal striatal regions were reactive only very early in training. Experiment 2 examined dopaminergic reaction following acquisition of a novel conditioned instrumental response. The conditioned response+ (CR+) group responded at a much higher rate on the lever for which unconditioned stimulus-associated stimuli were presented, than on the control lever. The conditioned response- (CR-) group responded at a low rate on both levers. In contrast with experiment 1, the most responsive regions were the core of the nucleus accumbens, medial prefrontal cortex and basolateral area of the amygdala. Thus, the acquisition, but not expression of Pavlovian associations activated dopamine within several key target regions of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system, and preferentially within the shell rather than core of the nucleus accumbens. By contrast, acquisition of a novel instrumental response preferentially activated the core of the nucleus accumbens, and basolateral area of the amygdala. These data carry significant implications for the potential role of these regions in learning and memory.
The dopaminergic response to d-amphetamine with or without prior repeated experience with the drug was investigated immunohistochemically in key target regions of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system using antibodies raised against glutaraldehyde-conjugated dopamine. This methodology permitted the unambiguous determination of dopaminergic activity within specific subregions of structures implicated in the behavioural effects of psychomotor stimulants drugs, and in the expression of behavioural sensitisation. Experiment 1 examined dopamine immunoreactivity in central or basolateral amygdala, shell or core of the nucleus accumbens, medial and lateral caudate-putamen and medial prefrontal cortex following the administration of various doses of d-amphetamine to drug-nave rats. Whilst dose-related increases in dopaminergic activity were detected in all regions examined, a regional heterogeneity was clearly evident. For example, d-amphetamine enhanced dopaminergic activity preferentially within the shell subregion of the nucleus accumbens both with respect to the core subregion and to other striatal and non-striatal areas. Experiment 2 examined changes in dopaminergic activity following the administration of a low dose of d-amphetamine to d-amphetamine-sensitised rats and saline-pretreated control animals. Regional heterogeneity both between and within terminal areas was again detected. Thus, there was evidence of a preferential increase in dopaminergic activity within the shell of the nucleus accumbens of sensitised rats. Moreover, sensitisation to d-amphetamine increased the dopaminergic response to acute administration of d-amphetamine within all striatal and non-striatal areas examined. Comparison of this effect across subterritories of the areas under investigation revealed that in sensitised rats, acute administration of d-amphetamine elevated dopaminergic activity within the shell of the nucleus accumbens to a greater extent than within the core. These data therefore indicate that systemic administration of d-amphetamine is associated with regionally heterogeneous changes in dopaminergic activity within terminal regions of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system in both sensitised and unsensitised rats. Moreover, the present methodology permitted resolution of these changes at an anatomical level beyond that of conventional approaches.
Our previous work has demonstrated that postsynaptic density protein-95, a molecular scaffolding protein that binds and clusters N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors at neuronal synapses, plays an important role in the development of peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. The current study further investigated the possible involvement of postsynaptic density protein-95 in the maintenance of neuropathic pain. Mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia were induced within 3 days and maintained for 15 days or longer after unilateral injury to the fifth lumbar spinal nerve. The rats injected intrathecally with postsynaptic density protein-95 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide every 24 h for 4 days from day 7 to day 10 post-surgery exhibited not only a marked decrease in spinal cord postsynaptic density protein-95 protein expression but also a significant reduction in mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia on day 11 post-surgery. The rats injected with sense oligodeoxynucleotide did not display these changes. However, in the rats without nerve injury, postsynaptic density protein-95 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide given intrathecally every 24 h for 4 days did not affect responses to mechanical and thermal stimulation. In addition, postsynaptic density protein-95 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide did not change locomotor activity of experimental animals. Our results indicate that the deficiency of postsynaptic density protein-95 protein in the spinal cord significantly attenuates nerve injury-induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia during both the development and maintenance of chronic neuropathic pain. These results suggest that postsynaptic density protein-95 might be involved in the central mechanisms of chronic neuropathic pain and provide a novel target for development of new pain therapies.
Epidemiological studies have suggested that the chronic use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduces the relative risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The possible neuroprotection by NSAIDs in AD is generally attributed to anti-inflammatory activity. An additional mode of drug action may involve anti-aggregation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides by commonly used NSAIDs. We utilized in vitro competition assays, autoradiography, and fluorescence microscopy with AD brain specimens to demonstrate concentration-dependent decreases in the binding of the in vivo molecular imaging probe, 2-(1-[6-[(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl]ethylidene)malononitrile ([(18)F]FDDNP), against (S)-naproxen and (R)- and (S)-ibuprofen (but not diclofenac) to Abeta fibrils and ex vivo Abeta senile plaques. Conversely, in vitro amyloid dyes Congo Red and Thioflavine T were demonstrated in the same experiments not to bind to the FDDNP binding site. FDDNP and the NSAIDs that share the same binding site also exhibit anti-aggregation effects on Abeta peptides, suggesting that the shared binding site on Abeta fibrils and plaques may be a site of anti-aggregation drug action. Our results indicate for the first time the binding of select NSAIDs to plaques, specifically to the binding site of the molecular imaging probe [(18)F]FDDNP. Our understanding of the molecular requirements of FDDNP binding may help in the optimization of the Abeta anti-aggregation potency of experimental drugs. [(18)F]FDDNP has been used to image plaques in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET), and investigations into the influence of Abeta anti-aggregation on the risk-reduction effects of NSAIDs on AD could utilize [(18)F]FDDNP and PET in determining the occupancy rate of NSAIDs and experimental drugs in plaques in the living brain of AD patients.
Pain and allodynia following spinal cord injury are poorly understood and difficult to treat. Since there is evidence that supraspinal mechanisms are important in such pain, we have studied the role of the thalamus in an experimental model of spinal injury. Extracellular recordings were obtained from neurones of the thalamic nucleus ventralis postero-lateralis (VPL) in normal rats and those which had sustained a contusive spinal cord injury to the thoraco-lumbar junction 7 days previously. Behavioural testing with von Frey hairs established that 11 spinally injured rats showed exaggerated vocal responses to normally innocuous mechanical stimulation (allodynia) whereas eight were non-allodynic. Thalamic VPL neurones in spinally injured rats (both allodynic and non-allodynic) exhibited a dysrhythmia in that a significantly higher proportion fired spontaneously in an oscillatory mode when compared with neurones in uninjured rats. Thus this dysrhythmia was linked to spinal injury, not to allodynia. The evoked responses of VPL thalamic neurones to brushing the skin, however, were significantly elevated in allodynic rats when compared with those in uninjured rats and neuronal afterdischarges to these stimuli (which were absent in uninjured rats) were more common in allodynic than in non-allodynic rats. We have previously reported that a proportion of spinal neurones in allodynic spinally injured rats show increased evoked responses and afterdischarges following brushing the skin and hence the enhanced thalamic responses may reflect a greater spinal input. In view of the increasing evidence that thalamo-cortical rhythmical firing is linked to sensorimotor and cognitive brain functions, we propose that pain following brushing the skin results from an exaggerated spinal input being processed by a dysrhythmic thalamus. Thus both spinal and thalamic mechanisms may be important in the genesis of pain and allodynia following spinal cord injury.
Long-term memory formation requires both gene expression and protein synthesis. Phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is thought to be important in processes underlying long-term memory. To clarify the role of CREB in olfactory aversive learning in young rats, we carried out behavioral pharmacology and Western blot analyses. On postnatal day 11, oligodeoxynucleotides were infused directly into the bilateral olfactory bulbs through cannulae implanted prior to training in a classical conditioning paradigm with citral odor and foot shock. On the following day the odor preference test was performed. After training, saline-infused animals spent significantly shorter time over the citral odor zone. Infusion of CREB antisense oligodeoxynucleotides 6 h before or during training, however, prevented olfactory aversive learning without affecting memory retention 1 h after training. CREB scrambled oligodeoxynucleotides infusions had no effect on olfactory learning. When infused 6 h after training, none of oligodeoxynucleotides had an effect on time spent over the odor zone. Using Western blotting, we analyzed CREB in nuclear extracts obtained from the young rats after training. Marked increases in phosphorylated CREB were sustained from 10 to 360 min after the odor-shock pairing in animals which were subjected to both, in comparison with levels 30 min in animals which were subjected to odor only or no stimulation. Total CREB levels showed no differences among groups. Infusion of CREB antisense oligodeoxynucleotides significantly reduced the expression of phosphorylated and total CREBs in the olfactory bulb. These results show that the synthesis and phosphorylation of CREB are required for the acquisition of olfactory aversive learning in young rats, and that this requirement for the CREB signaling pathway has a critical time window.
Previous studies have shown that the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)2/3 agonist LY354740 attenuated glutamate release in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) induced by the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine. In the present study we examined the effects of the more potent mGluR2/3 selective agonist LY379268 on ketamine-evoked glutamate and dopamine (DA) release in mPFC of male rats. Subjects were implanted with a unilateral microdialysis probe in the mPFC and were tested 12-24 h after implantation. Ketamine (18 mg/kg, s.c.) evoked a significant release of glutamate and DA, although the glutamate response was slower in onset compared with DA. Pretreatment with either systemic (3 mg/kg s.c.) or local (1 microM, in the probe) LY379268 blocked ketamine-evoked glutamate, but not DA, release. When applied directly to the mPFC via the dialysis probe, ketamine (1 mM in the probe) had no effect on glutamate release but did significantly enhance the release of DA. Application of NMDA (500 microM in the probe), on the other hand, decreased DA while increasing glutamate release. The effect of NMDA on evoking glutamate release was blocked by systemic but not local administration of LY379268. These findings indicate that systemic ketamine increases both glutamate and DA release in mPFC and that the effect on glutamate can be blocked by stimulating mPFC group II mGluR receptors. Local ketamine, on the other hand, does not increase glutamate but does increase DA release. This suggests that ketamine acts outside of the mPFC to enhance glutamate, but within the mPFC to enhance DA release. The origin of the ketamine effect on mPFC glutamate is currently not known.
The mode of action of the antipsychotic drugs clozapine, haloperidol and iloperidone was investigated in layer V of prefrontal cortex slices using extracellular field potential, intracellular sharp-electrode as well as whole-cell voltage clamp recording techniques. Intracellular investigations on a broad range of concentrations revealed that the typical neuroleptic haloperidol at higher concentrations significantly depressed the excitatory postsynaptic component induced by electrical stimulation of layer II. This was not seen with the atypical neuroleptics clozapine and iloperidone. None of the three compounds had any effect on the resting membrane potential, spike amplitude or input resistance at relevant concentrations. Synaptic plasticity was assessed by means of extracellular field potential recordings. Clozapine significantly facilitated the potentiation of synaptic transmission, whereas haloperidol and iloperidone showed no effects. In line with its facilitating effect on synaptic plasticity, it could be demonstrated by whole-cell voltage clamp recordings that clozapine increased N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents in the majority of prefrontal cortical neurones. These investigations were made with neuroleptic drugs applied to the bath in the micromolar concentration range in order to approach clinical brain concentrations that are reached after administration of therapeutic doses. The drug concentrations reached in the slices after the experiments were assessed by means of high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled with mass-spectrometric detection. Surprisingly, drug accumulation in the in vitro preparation was of similar degree as reported in vivo. In conclusion, the typical neuroleptic haloperidol significantly depressed excitatory synaptic transmission in layer V neurones of the prefrontal cortex. In contrast, the two atypical neuroleptics iloperidone and clozapine revealed no depressing effects. This feature of the atypical neuroleptics might be beneficial since a hypofunctionality of this brain area is thought to be linked with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Additionally, clozapine facilitated long-term potentiation, which might be linked with the clinically observed beneficial effects on certain cognitive parameters. The clozapine-induced increase of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated currents suggests that clozapine facilitates the induction of long-term potentiation. Furthermore, the present study points to the importance of considering the significant accumulation of neuroleptic drugs in in vitro studies.
We have previously shown that the release of central neurotransmitters can be modulated by the activation of Group I and Group II subtypes of G-protein-linked metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. To date, however, very little is known about the regulation of serotonergic neurotransmission by these receptor subtypes. In the present study, we have utilized in vivo intracerebral microdialysis to elucidate the roles of Group I and Group II mGlu receptors in the regulation of neuronal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release in the frontal cortex of conscious, freely moving rats. Dialysate 5-HT was of neuronal origin with basal release showing strong calcium dependency and tetrodotoxin sensitivity and marked elevation following K(+)-induced depolarization. The broad-spectrum mGlu receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid [(1S,3R)-ACPD; 1-3 mM] did not significantly modify basal cerebrocortical 5-HT release. Similarly, the Group I mGlu receptor-specific agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine [(RS)-3,5-DHPG; 1-3 mM] showed no marked effect on cortical dialysate 5-HT levels. To eliminate the possibility that these findings were the result of receptor desensitization, the effects of lower concentrations of (RS)-DHPG (100-300 microM) and shorter ligand exposure time (15 min) were also evaluated. Dialysate 5-HT levels remained unmodified by these manipulations. In comparison, the Group II mGlu receptor agonist, (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (L-CCG-1; 500 microM), evoked a marked facilitation of release (approximately 150% of basal) which was fully reversed by the Group I/II antagonist, (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine [(S)-MCPG; 3 mM]. The modulatory action of L-CCG-1 showed a bell-shaped concentration-response relationship. (S)-MCPG (3 mM) and the potent and selective mGlu(5) receptor antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP; 100 microM), when given alone, did not significantly modify 5-HT levels.The current data provide strong evidence to suggest that while the release of neuronal 5-HT in the rat frontal cortex is not subject to regulation by facilitatory Group I mGlu receptors, it may be positively modulated by activation of Group II mGlu receptors. Taken together with data from other studies, the present investigation lends emphasis to the notion that neuromodulation by mGlu receptors is a region-specific phenomenon and also proposes that the heterogeneous distribution of these receptors is neurone-specific in its complexity. The failure of (S)-MCPG alone to modify cortical 5-HT release suggests that Group II mGlu receptors do not tonically modulate serotonergic neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex but this does not preclude an important functional role for these receptors during pathological conditions when endogenous neurotransmitter levels become excessively elevated. The strategic development of new subtype-specific mGlu receptor ligands may provide novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of a range of neurological and psychiatric disorders.
The present studies were conducted to test the hypothesis that systemically inactive doses of cannabinoids suppress inflammation-evoked neuronal activity in vivo via a peripheral mechanism. We examined peripheral cannabinoid modulation of spinal Fos protein expression, a marker of neuronal activity, in a rat model of inflammation. Rats received unilateral intraplantar injections of carrageenan (3%). In behavioral studies, carrageenan induced allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia in response to stimulation with von Frey monofilaments. The cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 (30 microg intraplantarly), administered concurrently with carrageenan, attenuated carrageenan-evoked allodynia and hyperalgesia relative to control conditions. In immunocytochemical studies, WIN55,212-2 suppressed the development of carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression in the lumbar dorsal horn of the spinal cord relative to vehicle treatment. The same dose administered systemically or to the noninflamed contralateral paw failed to alter either carrageenan-evoked allodynia and hyperalgesia or carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression, consistent with a peripheral site of action. The suppressive effects of WIN55,212-2 (30 microg intraplantarly) on carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression and pain behavior were blocked by local administration of either the CB(2) antagonist SR144528 (30 microg intraplantarly) or the CB(1) antagonist SR141716A (100 microg intraplantarly). WIN55,212-3, the enantiomer of the active compound, also failed to suppress carrageenan-evoked Fos protein expression. These data provide direct evidence that a peripheral cannabinoid mechanism suppresses the development of inflammation-evoked neuronal activity at the level of the spinal dorsal horn and implicate a role for CB(2) and CB(1) in peripheral cannabinoid modulation of inflammatory nociception.
Kilon (kindred of IgLON) and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule belong to the IgLON subgroup of immunoglobulin superfamily together with the limbic system-associated membrane protein and neurotrimin. In the present study, we have analyzed biochemical and ultrastructural characterization of Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule such as regional and developmental expression patterns, light and electron microscopic localization, and intermolecular interactions. Western blotting revealed a widespread distribution pattern of Kilon with high expression levels in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, diencephalon, hippocampus, and cerebellum and low expression levels in the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. In contrast, opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule showed a regionally restricted expression pattern with high levels only in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Expression of Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule was increased gradually during postnatal development and maintained until adulthood. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the localization of opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule and Kilon coincided well with that of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2, a synaptic marker protein, in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of adult brain. In the cerebellum, Kilon-immunoreactive puncta were observed to colocalize well with that of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2, while opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was observed only at part of synaptic glomeruli in the granular layer and rare in the molecular layer. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was observed mainly at postsynaptic sites of dendritic and somatic synapses in adult cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Only trace levels of Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule were detected in the soluble fraction of a cortical homogenate, although a substantial amount of F3 was present in the soluble fraction. A binding analysis using a cross-linker and the immunoprecipitation technique demonstrated that Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule interacted heterophilically and homophilically. These findings show that Kilon and opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule are clearly distinguishable from each other in regional expression and localization, and binding patterns. These differences possibly represent diverse functions of each IgLON molecule.
Bisphenol-A (BPA), one of the most common environmental endocrine disrupters, has been extensively evaluated for toxicity in a variety of tests in rodents, including developmental and reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenicity. However, little is known about its action on the CNS. In this report, we show that prenatal and neonatal exposure to BPA in mice leads to the enhancement of the dopamine D1 receptor-dependent rewarding effect induced by a psychostimulant methamphetamine. Furthermore, this treatment with BPA markedly enhanced hyperlocomotion and its sensitization induced by methamphetamine, which reflects extensive abuse associated with sociological and psychiatric problems. We also demonstrated that chronic exposure to BPA produced an up-regulation of dopamine D1 receptor function to activate G-protein in the mouse limbic forebrain, which is thought to be a critical site for the expression of rewarding effects by abuse drugs. Additionally, chronic BPA exposure produced a significant increase in levels of the dopamine D1 receptor mRNA in the whole brain. In contrast, no change in protein levels of methamphetamine-targeted proteins, dopamine transporter or the type 2 vesicle monoamine transporter in the brain was observed by prenatal and neonatal exposure to BPA. The present data provide the first evidence that prenatal and neonatal exposure to BPA can potentiate the central dopamine D1 receptor-dependent neurotransmission, resulting in supersensitivity of methamphetamine-induced pharmacological actions related to psychological dependence on psychostimulants.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), the most prominent cellular model for learning and memory formation, consists of phases: early-LTP (&lt;4 h) and late-LTP (&gt;4 h), with the latter dependent upon protein translation and transcription. To explore the molecular processes that might be specifically regulated during late-LTP, we have modified standard electrophysiological and molecular biological methods, which allowed the cloning of activated genes and their products from single hippocampal slices in vitro 8 h after LTP induction. From one such screen we identified a specific type IV phosphodiesterase gene, PDE4B3, the first cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase to be associated with LTP. Previous studies documented an integral role for the cAMP-PKA system in late-LTP and recently, inhibition of cAMP degradation facilitates LTP and ameliorates mnemonic deficits. We now report that PDE4B3 is modulated during LTP phases. Its activation is NMDA-receptor dependent and its transcription is transiently up-regulated 2 h after tetanization. Protein expression peaks 6 h after LTP induction and is rapidly down-regulated at 8 h, whereas cAMP levels decrease during LTP phases. Immunohistochemical studies identified that the majority of type IV phosphodiesterase protein staining is localized to the cell bodies and dendrites of neurones in hippocampal CA1.
The interaction between a neuron and its target cell(s) is essential for the development of synapses. To elucidate the role of target cells in synaptogenesis, the activity of postsynaptic calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) was manipulated in a mosaic manner and its specific effect was examined at the developing Drosophila neuromuscular junction. We found that postsynaptic expression of constitutively active CaMKII augmented the amplitude of excitatory synaptic currents (ESCs) and the frequency of miniature ESCs. It also promoted morphological maturation of presynaptic as well as postsynaptic specializations, which presumably underlie the enhancement of synaptic activities. Expression of an inhibitory peptide of CaMKII in the postsynaptic cell partially affected the synaptic maturation. These results suggest two significant functions of postsynaptic CaMKII in synaptogenesis-retrograde modulation of presynaptic properties and coordinated regulation of pre- and postsynaptic maturation.
OL-protocadherin (OL-pc) is a cell adhesion molecule that belongs to the cadherin superfamily. A previous study showed that expression of OL-pc mRNA was specific to certain brain nuclei including those of the olfactory and limbic systems, thus suggesting its involvement in neural circuit formation. Here, we examined the distribution of OL-pc protein in the postnatal mouse brain by immunohistochemistry to confirm the possibility of such a role. The results showed that the protein could be mapped to many brain compartments including brain nuclei and higher subdivisions as previously observed for the expression pattern of the mRNA. Sharp boundaries of the distribution were often seen in areas such as the interpedunclar nucleus, cerebellar cortex, and inferior olive. In addition, the protein was detected in some fibers that could not be examined by the previous study using in situ hybridization. For example, prominent staining was noted in the stria medularis, stria terminalis, fasciculus retroflexus, optic tract, and inferior thalamic radiation, structures that seem to connect OL-pc-positive brain regions. These OL-pc-positive brain nuclei and fiber tracts coincide with some local circuits of functional systems such as the olfactory system, nigrostriatal projection, olivo-cerebellar projection, and visual system. These results support the possibility that OL-pc is involved in the formation of specific neural compartments and circuits in the developing brain.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized neuropathologically by several features including extensive neuronal death in the cerebral cortex. In fact, while neuropathological changes restricted to the hippocampal formation are a consistent reflection of age-related memory impairment, overt dementia is present only in cases with neocortical involvement. Several quantitative studies have reported a substantial loss of neurons from these regions and a parallel increase in the number of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). However, accurate quantitative data on the dynamics of NFT formation are lacking. In the present study, we performed a stereologic analysis of the proportions of intracellular and extracellular (ghost) NFT, and unaffected neurons in the deep part of layer III (layer IIIc) and the superficial part of layer V (layer Va) of Brodmann's prefrontal cortex area 9. Elderly cognitively unimpaired cases were compared with cases with different degrees of cognitive dysfunction. The data revealed differential rates of formation of intracellular and extracellular NFT between the two layers, and confirmed the presence of a severe disease-associated, but not age-related, neuronal loss. It was also shown that a susbtantial number of pyramidal cells may persist either unaffected or in a transitional stage of NFT formation in both neocortical layers. These results suggest that a considerable number of neurons containing an intracellular NFT exists in the neocortex until late in the course of AD. Whereas it is not possible to assess whether such transitional neurons are fully functional, these affected neurons might respond positively to therapeutic strategies aimed at protecting the cells that are prone to neurofibrillary degeneration in AD.
The inhibitor of apoptosis protein family members inhibit cell death resulting from a variety of apoptotic stimuli. However, the endogenous expression of neuronal inhibitor of apoptosis proteins following axonal injury has not been thoroughly examined. Neonatal facial motoneurons are highly susceptible to axotomy-induced apoptosis, whereas adult facial motoneurons survive axotomy. We hypothesized that the endogenous expression of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins may be involved in the differential susceptibility of adult and neonatal facial motoneurons to axonal injury. In this study, we examined the expression of two endogenous inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein and x-linked inhibitory apoptosis protein, in adult and neonatal rat facial motoneurons following axotomy. Analyses using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization indicated that neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein mRNA was increased in neonatal facial nuclei 24 h post axotomy. In the adult, neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein mRNA expression increased at 1, 3, 7 and 14 days post axotomy, while little change in the expression of X-linked inhibitory apoptosis protein mRNA was detected at any age or time point time point analyzed. Interestingly, immunohistochemistry using antibodies for neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein and X-linked inhibitory apoptosis protein, revealed the level of these proteins was higher in the neonatal motoneurons when compared with the adult. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry and western blot for neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein revealed, in contrast to the observed increase in neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein mRNA, a decline in the expression of neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein following axotomy in the adult, whereas no change in neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein was detected in neonatal facial motoneurons. X-linked inhibitory apoptosis protein, as analyzed by immunohistochemistry and western blot, remained unchanged by axotomy in neonatal motoneurons and adult motoneurons. These results indicate differential expression and/or turnover of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins in neonatal versus adult facial motoneurons, and suggest the level of inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression alone is not an indicator of cell fate following axotomy.
Although pathogenesis of neuronal ischemia is incompletely understood, evidence indicates apoptotic neuronal death after ischemia. Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic and neuroprotective protein, interacts with calcineurin in non-neuronal tissues. Activation of calcineurin, which is abundant in the brain, may play a role in apoptosis. Using co-immunoprecipitation experiments in biopsy-derived, fresh human cortical and hippocampal slices, we examined possible interactions between calcineurin and Bcl-2. Calcineuin-Bcl-2 interactions increased after exposure in vitro to excitotoxic agents and conditions of hypoxia/aglycia. This interaction may shuttle calcineurin to substrates such as the inositol-1,4,5-tris-phosphate receptor because under these experimental conditions interactions between calcineurin and inositol-1,4,5-tris-phosphate receptor also increased. A specific calcineurin inhibitor, FK-520, attenuated insult-induced increases in calcineurin-Bcl-2 interactions and augmented caspase-3 like activity. These data suggest that Bcl-2 modulates neuroprotective effects of calcineurin and that calcineurin inhibitors increase ischemic neuronal damage.
Calcineurin, a calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, regulates transcription and possibly apoptosis. Previous studies demonstrated that in baby hamster kidney-21 cells after co-transfection calcineurin interacts with Bcl-2, thereby altering transcription and apoptosis. Using co-immunoprecipitation and subcellular fractionation techniques, we observed that calcineurin occurred as a complex with Bcl-2 in various regions of rat and mouse brain. The calcineurin-Bcl-2 complex was identified in mitochondrial, nuclear, microsomal and cytosol fractions. In vitro induction of hypoxia and aglycia or N-methyl-D-aspartate treatment markedly altered both extent of complex formation and its subcellular localization. These observations suggest that Bcl-2 either sequesters calcineurin, that calcineurin dephosphorylates Bcl-2, or that Bcl-2 shuttles calcineurin to specific substrates. Calcineurin also co-immunoprecipitated with the inositol-tris-phosphate receptor. This interaction increased after in vitro hypoxia/aglycia. In Bcl-2 (-/-) mice, interactions between calcineurin- and inositol-tris-phosphate receptor occurred less frequently than in wild-type mice under both control and hypoxic conditions. Experiments involving cell-free systems, as well as brain slices treated with thapsigargin or with N-methyl-D-aspartate suggested that calcium and calmodulin activation of calcineurin leads to interactions between calcineurin and Bcl-2. These data indicate that during times of cellular stress and damage, Bcl-2 targets activated calcineurin to specific compartments and substrates.
Brain ischemia induces a marked response of resident microglia and hematopoietic cells including monocytes/macrophages. The present study was designed to assess the distribution of microglia/macrophages in cerebral ischemia using bone marrow chimera mice known to express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). At 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), many round-shaped EGFP-positive cells migrated to the ischemic core and peri-infarct area. At 48-72 h after MCAO, irregular round- or oval-shaped EGFP/ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba 1)-positive cells increased in the transition zone, while many amoeboid-shaped or large-cell-body EGFP/Iba 1-positive cells were increased in number in the innermost area of ischemia. At 7 days after MCAO, many process-bearing ramified shaped EGFP/Iba 1-positive cells were detected in the transition to the peri-infarct area, while phagocytic cells were distributed in the transition to the core area of the infarction. The distribution of these morphologically variable EGFP/Iba 1-positive cells was similar up to 14 days from MCAO. The present study directly showed the migration and distribution of bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages and the relationship between resident microglia and infiltrated hematogenous element in ischemic mouse brain. It is important to study the distribution of intrinsic and extrinsic microglia/macrophage in ischemic brain, since such findings may allow the design of appropriate gene-delivery system using exogenous microglia/macrophages to the ischemic brain area.
Despite the very small amounts of cytochrome P450 enzymes expressed in different areas and cell populations of the brain as compared with the liver, there is significant evidence for their specific involvement in brain development, function, and plasticity. Nevertheless, the current discussion about occurrence and importance of cerebral cytochrome P450 isoforms is determined by controversial interpretations of their function in general and with respect to single isoforms. Continuing a series of publications about brain P450 isoforms, we now present evidence for the expression of cytochrome P450 3A11 and 3A13 in mouse brain. Immunocytochemical and non-radioactive in situ hybridization studies revealed identical distribution of their proteins and mRNAs throughout the brain especially in neuronal populations, and to some extent in astrocytes. The cerebral expression of these P450 isoforms was confirmed by Western blot and RNAse protection assay analysis. The well-known testosterone-metabolizing capacity and the inducibility of cytochrome P450 3a isoforms by xenobiotics as well as their presence in steroid hormone-sensitive areas and neurons (e.g. hippocampus) clarify the significance of these isoforms for impairment of steroid hormone actions by P450-inducing environmental substances. Therefore, investigation of inducible cerebral P450 isoforms which are able to metabolize xenobiotics as well as steroid hormones might help us to understand neuroendocrine regulation of brain's plasticity.
In mammals, the cloned low-threshold heat receptor, vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR1), is involved in the genesis of thermal hyperalgesia after inflammation. However, there is evidence that VR1 is not involved in the thermal hyperalgesia that occurs after nerve injury. In search for other heat receptors which might be involved in this phenomenon, we previously demonstrated that chick dorsal root ganglion neurons, which are insensitive to capsaicin, respond to low-threshold heat. Here, we investigated whether expression of the low-threshold noxious heat receptor in chicks is regulated by nerve growth factor (NGF), as VR1 is in mammals. Heat (44 degrees C) responsiveness of isolated dorsal root ganglion neurons of chicks was investigated (i) under culture conditions for up to 4 days with and without NGF and (ii) after a tight ligation of the sciatic nerve for up to 6 days, using cobalt-uptake method. In every case, a significant upregulation in the proportion of heat-responsive neurons was observed. On the molecular level, there was an increase of chick VR1 mRNA level in dorsal root ganglion cells cultured for 3 days in medium lacking NGF. In rat dorsal root ganglion neurons cultured for 1-4 days without NGF, patch-clamp experiments revealed that after 1 day almost all neurons responding to heat also responded to capsaicin, whereas after 3-4 days, more than one-half of the heat-responsive neurons did not respond to capsaicin. These data suggest the existence of low-threshold heat receptors in chick dorsal root ganglion neurons, the expression of which is regulated independently of NGF.
Neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, are members of the structurally related neurotrophin family that play important roles in pain modulation. Although there are also indications for the involvement of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), it is unclear whether and how GDNF is involved in inflammatory pain. In the present study, we studied the expression pattern of GDNF in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord, using confocal microscopy. We demonstrate that GDNF is well associated with nonpeptidergic pain pathway and that GDNF could possibly be anterogradely transported from DRG neurons to superficial spinal cord dorsal horn. We also studied the dynamic changes of GDNF expression in rats during chronic inflammation using injection of complete Freund's adjuvant as a model of chronic pain. We found that GDNF was down-regulated in both dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords 2 weeks after arthritis induction. To assess the impact of this down-regulation on pain transmission, we used a function-blocking antibody against GDNF delivered intrathecally in the same chronic-pain animal models. Injection of this antibody to GDNF produced no immediate effect, but decreased the delayed, bilateral hyperalgesia induced from a unilateral injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. The effect of this antibody coincided with the down-regulation of GDNF immunoreactivity in response to inflammation, suggesting that GDNF supports biochemical changes that contribute to hyperalgesia.
The importance of spike bursts in thalamo-cortical processing of sensory information has received an increasing amount of interest over the past several years. Previously it has been reported that short high-frequency spike trains (3-8 action potentials occurring at 67-167 Hz), or spike bursts, are increased in both human and non-human primate thalamus following deafferentation. Here we examine the effects of lesion of the ventral spinal quadrant alone versus combined lesion of the ventral and dorsal spinal quadrants on the evoked and spontaneous spike trains in thalamic neurons. A total of 1175 neurons were sampled from 13 animals, three intact, six with ventral quadrant lesions (three with prolonged survival and three with short-term survival after spinal lesion) and four with combined ventral and dorsal quadrant lesions. Detailed analysis was conducted on 256 of these neurons, which revealed that thalamic neurons of animals with ventral quadrant lesions had elevated burst and non-burst spike rates while neurons from animals with combined ventral-dorsal lesions showed two types of change. Neurons in the forelimb areas showed increased bursts without a change in non-burst activity, while neurons in lateral VPL without receptive fields showed very low non-burst activity, but high burst spike rates. The magnitude of the effects produced by ventral-lateral spinal lesions was more pronounced in the short-term survival animals than in the long-term survival animals. These results show that the effects of deafferentation on the physiological properties of thalamic neurons are dependent on the afferent tract or tracts that are lesioned and the time after lesion.
The mammalian circadian system is entrained to the environmental light/dark cycle by shifting the phase of the master clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Accompanying the light-induced phase-shift, a variety of immediate-early genes appears in suprachiasmatic nucleus clock cells, and here, we report the expression of a new immediate-early gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated gene) in mice. Arc messenger RNAs were strongly induced at 30-120 min after the light exposure at subjective night (CT12-CT20) in neurons of the retinorecipient area of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, although their spontaneous expression was absent in usual light-dark cycles and in constant dark conditions. At protein level, ARC appeared not only in the nucleus but also in the perikarya and their processes of the suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. These findings indicate that Arc is an activity-regulated cytoskeletal gene possibly involved in the light-induced phase-shift of the circadian rhythm.
Emerging evidence supports the role of the cerebellum in motor learning and previous studies have also shown that olivary projections to the cerebellum are involved in motor learning. Since the pontine nuclei make up the other main relay centre in the cerebro-cerebellar pathway, the purpose of the present study was to verify the involvement of the ponto-cerebellar pathway in motor and spatial learning, by comparing these functions in intact animals and in rats with selective injury of the olivary or pontine neurons. Two groups of rats were used: the first was treated with 3-acetylpyridine to destroy the inferior olivary complex, the second received electrolytic lesions of the middle cerebellar peduncle to interrupt the ponto-cerebellar pathway. Control and lesioned rats were then submitted to three tasks: unrotated rod, rota-rod at 20 r.p.m., and Morris water maze. In the first task both 3-acetylpyridine-treated rats and rats with lesions of the middle cerebellar peduncle showed static equilibrium deficiencies. Through training, however, they reached the maximal score attained by the controls. The rats submitted to the rota-rod at 20 r.p.m. obtained scores significantly inferior to the controls. The Morris water maze results indicated that the lesion of inferior olivary complex and middle cerebellar peduncle both alter learning of the spatial task. These findings show that both the ponto- and olivo-cerebellar pathways are involved in learning complex motor sequences and spatial tasks. Since both projections converge onto Purkinje cells, our results suggest an integration of these two pathways in the cerebellar control of learning mechanism.
Chronic dysregulation of dopamine homeostasis has been shown to induce behavioural impairment in dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice arising from the dysfunction of the mesolimbic and hypothalamo-infundibular system. Here, we assessed whether there are also any motor consequences of a chronic and constitutive hyperdopaminergia in the nigrostriatal system in dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice. For this, we analysed motor performances using tests assessing balance, coordinated motor skills (rotarod, pole test), stride lengths and locomotor activity. Dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice were markedly hyperactive in the open field with central compartment avoidance, as previously shown. However, sensorimotor integration was also found to be altered in dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice which displayed a reduced fore- and hind-limb mean stride length, impaired motor coordination on the pole test and reduced rearings in the open field. Moreover, dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice showed a slower task acquisition on the rotarod. Six-week-old dopamine transporter knockout wild type mice having the same femur size as adult dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice ruled out a possible size-effect bias. Whilst there was no significant difference in the striatal volume, we found a slight but significant reduction in neuronal density in the striatum but not in the nucleus accumbens of dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice. There was a reduced binding in the striatum and nucleus accumbens of dopamine(1) receptors ([(3)H]SCH 23390) and dopamine(2) receptors ([(3)H]YM-09151-2). There was no significant difference in the number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra between dopamine transporter knockout mutant mice and dopamine transporter knockout wild type mice. These results suggest an impaired functioning of the nigrostriatal system in dopamine transporter knockout mutant hyperdopaminergic mice, as illustrated by motor and sensorimotor integration deficits, despite their apparent hyperactivity. These dysfunctions may arise from combined striatal cell loss and/or functional changes of dopaminergic neurotransmission.
The subdivisions of human inferior colliculus are currently based on Golgi and Nissl-stained preparations. We have investigated the distribution of calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity in the human inferior colliculus and found complementary or mutually exclusive localisations of parvalbumin versus calbindin D-28k and calretinin staining. The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus but not the surrounding regions contained parvalbumin-positive neuronal somata and fibres. Calbindin-positive neurons and fibres were concentrated in the dorsal aspect of the central nucleus and in structures surrounding it: the dorsal cortex, the lateral lemniscus, the ventrolateral nucleus, and the intercollicular region. In the dorsal cortex, labelling of calbindin and calretinin revealed four distinct layers.Thus, calcium-binding protein reactivity reveals in the human inferior colliculus distinct neuronal populations that are anatomically segregated. The different calcium-binding protein-defined subdivisions may belong to parallel auditory pathways that were previously demonstrated in non-human primates, and they may constitute a first indication of parallel processing in human subcortical auditory structures.
Hemisection of the rat spinal cord at thoracic level 13 provides a model of spinal cord injury that is characterized by chronic pain attributable to hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons. Presuming that this hyperexcitability can be explained in part by interruption of descending inhibitory modulation by serotonin, we hypothesized that intrathecal transplantation of RN46A-B14 serotonergic precursor cells, which secrete serotonin and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, would reduce this hyperexcitability by normalizing the responses of low-threshold mechanoreceptive, nociceptive-specific, and multireceptive dorsal horn neurons. Three groups (n=45 total) of 30-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent thoracic level 13 spinal hemisection, after which four weeks were allowed for development of allodynia and hyperalgesia. The three groups of animals received transplants of no cells, 10(6) RN46A-V1 (vector-only) or 10(6) RN46A-B14 cells at lumbar segments 2-3. Electrophysiological experiments were done two weeks later. Low-threshold mechanoreceptive, nociceptive-specific, and multireceptive cells (n=394 total) were isolated at depths of 1-300 and 301-1000 micro in the lumbar enlargement. Responses to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli were characterized, and analyses of population responses were performed. Compared with normal animals, dorsal horn neurons of all types in hemisected animals showed increased responsiveness to peripheral stimuli. This was true for neurons on both sides of the spinal cord. After hemisection, the proportion of neurons classified as multireceptive cells increased, and interspike intervals of spontaneous discharges became less uniform after hemisection. Transplantation of RN46A-B14 cells restored evoked responses to near-control levels, normalized background activity, and returned the proportion of multireceptive cells to the control level. Restoration of normal activity was reversed with methysergide.These electrophysiological results corroborate anatomical and behavioral studies showing the effectiveness of serotonergic neural precursors in correcting phenomena associated with chronic central pain following spinal cord injury, and provide mechanistic insights regarding mode of action.
Our previous studies on olfactory bulbar responses in salmonid fishes suggest that pheromone signals might be processed by a mechanism distinct from that of other odorants. Using in vivo single-unit and electroencephalographic recordings, we investigated response characteristics of olfactory neurons in lake whitefish, Coregonus clupeaformis, a species characterized by high electrophysiological and behavioral sensitivities to the reproductive pheromone candidates F-prostaglandins. We found a neuron population responsive to F-prostaglandins in the ventromedial brain tissue strip connecting the olfactory bulb to the telencephalon. Of the 64 neurons examined in this area, 33% showed excitatory and 11% inhibitory responses to F-prostaglandins, while 52% were non-responsive to all the stimuli tested. Both phasic and tonic F-prostaglandin neuron response patterns were observed during the 10-s stimulus period; some responses were delayed from the onset of stimulation, and some persisted for a long time following stimulus cessation. This neuron population did not induce synchronized oscillatory waves upon stimulation with F-prostaglandins, despite massive discharges. We demonstrate for the first time that the olfactory bulb-telencephalon area of the brain is a distinct neural structure through which putative reproductive pheromone signals are integrated. Amino acid and F-prostaglandin neuron population discharges have different temporal characteristics, suggesting different processing mechanisms exist for odorant and pheromone signals. The observed sustained neuron discharges may play a role in amplifying pheromone signals required for triggering stereotyped neuroendocrine and/or behavior changes.
Although it is well documented that stress can increase the activity of central dopamine and norepinephrine neurons, little is known about the role of other neurotransmitters in modulating this response. Previous studies have implicated corticotropin-releasing hormone in modulating stress-evoked changes in the activity of locus coeruleus neurons. The present study examines whether corticotropin-releasing hormone contributes to stress-evoked increases in extracellular norepinephrine and dopamine in rat medial prefrontal cortex, as monitored by in vivo microdialysis. As noted previously, 30 min of tail-shock increased extracellular levels of norepinephrine and dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex of nave rats, and this was enhanced in rats previously exposed to chronic cold ( approximately 5 degrees C for 2-3 weeks). Previous intraventricular administration of a corticotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (D-Phe-corticotropin-releasing hormone; 3 and 9 microg) did not alter the tail-shock evoked in increase in extracellular levels of norepinephrine and dopamine in either nave or chronically cold-exposed rats. Intraventricular administration of 3 microg of D-Phe-corticotropin-releasing hormone attenuated the increase in extracellular norepinephrine induced by co-administration of 3 microg of corticotropin-releasing hormone, confirming the efficacy of this compound. Results of the present study suggest that endogenous corticotropin-releasing hormone does not play a role in modulating the release of norepinephrine and dopamine occurring in response to acute tail-shock or the expression of a potentiated response to tail-shock in rats exposed chronically to cold.
Expression of the neuronal alpha(3) isoform of the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase) was studied in the rat peripheral nervous system using histological and immunohistochemical techniques. Non-uniform expression of the alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was observed in L5 ventral and dorsal roots, dorsal root ganglion, sciatic nerve and its branches into skeletal muscle. The alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was not detected in nerve fibers in skin, saphenous and sural nerves. In dorsal root ganglion 12+/-2% of neurons were immunopositive for alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and all these neurons were large primary afferents that were not labeled by Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4 (marker of small primary sensory neurons). In dorsal and ventral roots 27+/-3% and 40+/-3%, respectively, of myelinated axons displayed immunoreactivity for alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. In contrast to the dorsal roots, strong immunoreactivity in ventral roots was observed only in myelinated axons of small caliber, presumably gamma-efferents. In the mixed sciatic nerve alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was detected in 26+/-5% of myelinated axons (both small and large caliber). In extensor hallicus proprius and lumbricales hind limb muscles alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was detected in some intramuscular axons and axonal terminals on intrafusal muscle fibers in the spindle equatorial and polar regions (regions of afferent and efferent innervation of the muscle stretch receptor, respectively). No alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was found in association with innervation of extrafusal muscle fibers or in tendon-muscle fusion regions. These data demonstrate non-uniform expression of the alpha(3) isoform of the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in rat peripheral nervous system and suggest that alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase is specifically expressed in afferent and efferent axons innervating skeletal muscle stretch receptors.
The view that methamphetamine is neurotoxic to dopaminergic and serotonergic axon terminals has been based largely on biochemical and histological studies. In the present study, methamphetamine-induced structural damage to axons was quantified using a sensitive sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay developed for the detection of the cleaved form of the cytoskeletal protein tau. The administration of a monoamine-depleting regimen of methamphetamine (4 x 10 mg/kg, i.p. every 2 hours for a total of four injections) produced a time-dependent increase in the concentration of cleaved tau in the striatum. Maximal concentrations of cleaved tau were detected 3 days following methamphetamine administration. Cleaved tau concentrations also were significantly elevated in the dorsal hippocampus and, to a lesser extent, in the prefrontal cortex of methamphetamine-treated rats. Maintenance of rats in a cold (4 degrees C) environment not only prevented the methamphetamine-induced depletion of striatal dopamine and serotonin but also prevented the methamphetamine-induced increase in striatal cleaved tau concentrations. The novel findings from this study are supportive of the view that methamphetamine produces acute structural damage to neurons that may lead to the long-term neurotoxic effects of repeated, high-dose administration of the drug and that cleaved tau reliably quantifies the time-dependent neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine.
The messenger RNA for endothelial differentiation gene 8 receptors is known to be expressed almost exclusively in the rat CNS, but the nature of the expressing cells has not been defined. Using an antibody specific for endothelial differentiation gene 8, we investigated the immunohistochemical localization of endothelial differentiation gene 8 receptors in the rat CNS. Immunopositive staining was detected in a subset of glial cells distributed throughout the brain and spinal cord, including both gray and white matter, but not in the dorsal root ganglion. The distribution and morphological similarity in comparative immunostaining for endothelial differentiation gene 8 and various glial markers suggested that endothelial differentiation gene 8 is preferentially expressed in NG2-positive oligodendrocyte progenitor cells in adult rat brains. Counts of endothelial differentiation gene 8-positive cells and NG2-positive cells in the forebrain revealed that a subset of NG2-positive cells was endothelial differentiation gene 8-positive, and that the ratio of endothelial differentiation gene 8-positive cells to NG2-positive cells varied from region to region. In 17-day-old embryonic brains, the endothelial differentiation gene 8 distribution was similar to that of an oligodendrocytic marker, 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase. These data suggest that endothelial differentiation gene 8 receptors are preferentially expressed in oligodendrocyte lineage cells including oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and immature/maturating oligodendrocytes in rat CNS, and that they might have important functions in oligodendrocytic maturation and myelination.
Peripheral inflammation causes upregulation of cyclooxygenase in the spinal cord and subsequent increase in prostaglandin biosynthesis. However, prostaglandin synthases, which are downstream of cyclooxygenase control the type of prostaglandin that is formed predominantly. Since there is little known about the regulation of prostaglandin synthases, the present study was conducted in order to determine the effect of endotoxin treatment on the expression of messenger RNA encoding interleukin 1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and prostaglandin synthases mediating the formation of prostaglandin E(2) (membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase) and prostaglandin D(2) (lipocalin prostaglandin D synthase) in spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia and skin of rats. Endotoxin (2 mg/kg i.p.) induced the expression of interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase messenger RNA in spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia, and skin as determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In contrast, basal expression of lipocalin prostaglandin D synthase messenger RNA in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia was not significantly altered by endotoxin. Dexamethasone (1 mg/kg s.c. at -18 h and -1 h) attenuated the effect endotoxin on the expression of interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase messenger RNA in all tissues investigated, but did not significantly influence expression of lipocalin prostaglandin D synthase mRNA in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. In situ hybridisation histochemistry showed endotoxin-induced expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase messenger RNA throughout gray and white matter of spinal cord sections. In dorsal root ganglia, expression of membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase seemed primarily located to non-neuronal cells, while cyclooxygenase-2 messenger RNA was not detectable. The results show that the immune response elicited by endotoxin induced cyclooxygenase-2 and membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase, but not lipocalin prostaglandin D synthase messenger RNA in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of rats. The distribution of cyclooxygenase-2 and membrane bound prostaglandin E synthase messenger RNA expressing cells suggests major involvement of non-neuronal cells in spinal prostaglandin biosynthesis. Determination of the regulation of enzymes downstream of cyclooxygenase at the messenger RNA level may represent a valuable tool to investigate effects of analgesic/anti-inflammatory drugs on the regulation of spinal prostaglandin biosynthesis.
The presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptors on enteric neurons is known from pharmacological data that date back more than 40 years. However, an adequate account of which neurons bear these receptors has not been made because suitable antisera have not been available. We have found that the majority of antisera that have been raised against sequences from the 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptor also recognize pre-prosomatostatin. We report that this source of false labeling can be eliminated by pre-incubating the antisera with a peptide designed for this purpose. We have used the pre-absorbed antiserum to localize 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptors in the rat colon. Immunoreactive nerve cell bodies occurred in the myenteric and submucosal ganglia. The majority had smooth cell bodies and long, smooth processes, that is, Dogiel type II morphology. The initial segments of the long processes of the Dogiel type II neurons were strongly immunoreactive. About 12% of immunoreactive myenteric nerve cells were of the same or smaller size, and had multiple short filamentous processes. Some of the immunoreactive Dogiel type II neurons were also immunoreactive for calretinin in both plexuses, and the majority were immunoreactive for calbindin in submucosal ganglia. Specific immunoreactivity occurred in non-varicose, but not in varicose, fibers in the myenteric and submucosal ganglia, and in fiber bundles that traversed the longitudinal and circular muscle layers. Immunoreactive varicose fibers were observed only in the mucosa. It is concluded that 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptors occur on intrinsic sensory neurons in the rat colon, and on extrinsic sensory nerve fibers that innervate the colon.
Gamma-Hydroxybutyrate is derived from GABA in brain and plays specific functional roles in the CNS. It is thought to exert a tonic inhibitory control on dopamine and GABA release in certain brain areas, through specific gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptors. Apart from modifying certain calcium currents, the specific transduction mechanism induced by stimulation of gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptors remains largely unknown. We investigated the possible contribution of K(+) channels to the hyperpolarization phenomena generally induced by gamma-hydroxybutyrate in brain, by monitoring (86)Rb(+) movements in a neuronal cell line (NCB-20 cells), which expresses gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptors. Physiological concentrations of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (5-25 microM) induce a slow efflux of (86)Rb(+), which peaks at 5-15 min and returns to baseline levels 20 min later after constant stimulation. This effect can be reproduced by the gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptor agonist NCS-356 and blocked by the gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptor antagonist 6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5-[H]-benzocycloheptene-5-ol-4-ylidene. The GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55845 has no effect on gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced (86)Rb(+) efflux. The pharmacology of this gamma-hydroxybutyrate-dependent efflux of (86)Rb(+) is in favor of the involvement of tetraethylammonium and charybdotoxin insensitive, apamin sensitive Ca(2+) activated K(+) channels, identifying them as small conductance calcium activated channels. We demonstrated a gamma-hydroxybutyrate dose-dependent entry of calcium ions into NCB-20 neuroblastoma cells at resting potential. Electrophysiological data showed that this Ca(2+) entry corresponded mainly to a left-hand shift of the current/voltage relation of the T-type calcium channel. This process must at least partially trigger small conductance calcium activated channel activation leading to gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced hyperpolarization.
Presynaptic inhibition is one of the major control mechanisms in the CNS. Our laboratory recently reported that presynaptic GABA(B) and adenosine A(1) receptors mediate a preferential inhibition on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded in rat midbrain dopamine neurons. Here we extended these findings to metabotropic glutamate and muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Intracellular voltage clamp recordings were made from dopamine neurons in rat ventral tegmental area in slice preparations. (+/-)-1-Aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (agonist for groups I and II metabotropic glutamate receptors) and L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4; agonist for group III metabotropic glutamate receptors) were significantly more potent for inhibiting N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents, as compared with inhibition of excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors. Such preferential inhibition of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component was also observed for muscarine (agonist for muscarinic cholinergic receptors). Inhibitory effects of (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, L-AP4, and muscarine were blocked reversibly by their respective antagonists [(RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine, and 1,1-dimethyl-4-diphenylacetoxypiperidinium iodide]. In addition, all three agonists increased the ratio of excitatory postsynaptic currents in paired-pulse studies and did not reduce currents induced by exogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid. Interestingly, the glutamate release stimulator 4-aminopyridine (30 microM) and the glutamate uptake inhibitor L-anti-endo-3,4-methanopyrrolidine dicarboxylate (300 microM) preferentially increased the amplitude of N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory postsynaptic currents.Thus, agonists for metabotropic glutamate and muscarinic cholinergic receptors act presynaptically to cause a preferential reduction in the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory synaptic transmissions. Together with the evidence for GABA(B) and adenosine A(1) receptor-mediated preferential inhibition of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component, the present results suggest that limiting glutamate spillover onto postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may be a general rule for presynaptic modulation in midbrain dopamine neurons.
Galanin is widely distributed in the nervous system and is consistently upregulated in both dorsal root ganglion and spinal neurones by peripheral nerve injury. This study investigates the peripheral effects of galanin on nociceptive neurones using in vitro and in vivo electrophysiological techniques in naive and neuropathic rats. Using an in vitro skin-nerve preparation recording from single nociceptive fibres, galanin (1 microM) significantly inhibited firing induced by noxious heat in 65% of fibres examined. In the remaining 35% of fibres, galanin (1 microM) induced a facilitation of the responses to noxious heat. To examine the effect of peripheral galanin in vivo, extracellular recordings from convergent dorsal horn neurones were made in anaesthetised naive sham-operated and spinal nerve-ligated (SNL) rats. Injection of galanin (0.1-10 microg) into hindpaw receptive fields inhibited responses to innocuous mechanical, noxious mechanical and noxious heat stimuli in a proportion of neurones in each animal group and facilitated the remaining neurones. However, a higher proportion of neurones (80-90%) was inhibited by peripheral galanin administration in SNL rats compared with naive (45-55%) and sham (70-80%) rats. These results show that galanin can have both excitatory and inhibitory effects on peripheral sensory neurones, perhaps reflecting differential receptor activation, and that the proportion of these receptors may change following peripheral neuropathy.
Although GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in adult brain, it exerts depolarizing actions in developing neurons that include activation of voltage-gated calcium channels. The depolarizing actions of GABA serve an obvious trophic function, but the specific physiological significance of excitatory versus inhibitory GABA action has been largely ignored. We previously demonstrated that estradiol enhances the magnitude and duration of calcium influx through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels following GABA(A) receptor activation in neonatal hypothalamic neurons. This has led us to propose that GABA action represents a major divergence point in steroid-mediated sexual differentiation of rat brain. Presently, we examined sex differences in phosphorylation of the calcium-regulated transcription factor, cyclic AMP response element binding protein, following activation of the GABA(A) receptor with muscimol, in vivo. Muscimol given 30 min before killing significantly increased the number of neurons exhibiting phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein in newborn male hypothalamus and CA1 hippocampus but decreased phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein in most brain regions in females. Muscimol-induced increases in phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein in hypothalamus and hippocampus of newborn males were attenuated by pretreatment with the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel blocker, nimodipine, suggesting that calcium influx is involved in phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein in neonate brain. Muscimol treatment had no effect on hypothalamic or hippocampal phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein levels in juvenile males and females. These results are consistent with a divergence in male and female rat brain in the calcium-mediated cellular response to muscimol that is restricted to the early neonatal period, a time critical for estradiol-mediated sexual differentiation.
Previously, we established a culture system of the accessory olfactory bulb in order to investigate the functional role of each accessory olfactory bulb neurons in pheromonal signal processing. In the present study, we developed a co-culture system of cultured accessory olfactory bulb neurons with partially dissociated cells of the vomeronasal organ. The dissociated cells of the vomeronasal organ form spherical structures surrounding a central cavity in culture, referred to as the vomeronasal pockets. The projection and activity of olfactory receptor neurons affect the differentiation and maturation of main olfactory bulb neurons. It was also reported induction of tyrosine hydroxylase expression in main olfactory bulb neurons when they were co-cultured with explants of the olfactory epithelium. Thus, we investigated the effects of co-culture with vomeronasal pockets on the differentiation and/or maturation of cultured accessory olfactory bulb neurons in relation to tyrosine hydroxylase expression. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons developmentally increased over time in the accessory olfactory bulb culture. This increase was significantly enhanced by coculture with vomeronasal pockets. Interestingly, a significant change in tyrosine hydroxylase expression was not observed when main olfactory bulb neurons were co-cultured with vomeronasal pockets. Moreover, significant changes in tyrosine hydroxylase expression were not observed when accessory olfactory bulb neurons were co-cultured with olfactory epithelium explants, as was previously observed in co-culture of main olfactory bulb neurons and olfactory epithelium explants. These results suggest that the differentiation and/or maturation of accessory olfactory bulb neurons is modified by vomeronasal organ neurons via specific interactions between the sensory organ and its target.
The cerebellar cortex comprises a rather limited variety of interneurons, prominently among them inhibitory basket and stellate cells and Golgi neurons. To identify mechanisms subserving the positioning, morphogenesis, and neurochemical maturation of these inhibitory interneurons, we analyzed their development in primary microexplant cultures of the early postnatal cerebellar cortex. These provide a well-defined, patterned lattice within which the development of individual cells is readily accessible to experimental manipulation and observation. Pax-2-positive precursors of inhibitory interneurons were found to effectively segregate from granule cell perikarya. They emigrate from the core explant and avoid the vicinity of granule cells, which also emigrate and aggregate into small clusters around the explant proper. This contrasts with the behavior of Purkinje neurons, which remain within the explant proper. During migration, a subset of Pax-2-positive cells gradually acquires a GABAergic phenotype, and subsequently also expresses the type 2 metabotropic receptor for glutamate, or parvalbumin, markers for Golgi neurons and basket or stellate cells, respectively. The latter eventually orient their dendrites such that they take a preferentially perpendicular orientation relative to granule cell axons. Both the neurochemical maturation of basket/stellate cells and the specific orientation of their dendrites are independent of their continuous contact with radially oriented glia or Purkinje cell dendrites projecting from the core explant. Numbers of parvalbumin-positive basket/stellate cells and the prevalence of glutamate-positive neurites, which form a dense network preferentially within cell clusters containing granule cell perikarya and their dendrites, are subject to regulation by chronic depolarization. In contrast, brain-derived neurotrophic factor results in a drastic decrease of numbers of basket/stellate cells. These findings document that granule cell axons (parallel fibers) are the major determinant of basket/stellate cell dendritic orientation. They also show that the neurochemical maturation of cerebellar interneurons is sensitive to regulation by activity and neurotrophic factors.
An elevated hydrostatic pressure in the endolymphatic space of the inner ear is discussed as pathophysiological factor in hydrops-related diseases of the inner ear. An increase in pressure by fractions of 1 cm H(2)O is sufficient to induce vertigo-like symptoms in animal models. To establish a link between hydrostatic pressure and the function of vestibular hair cells, we studied potassium currents in isolated vestibular type II hair cells from guinea-pig utricles when the hydrostatic pressure was increased by raising the height of the bath from 0.2-0.5, 0.7 or 1.0 cm. Elevated pressure enhanced K(+) currents significantly; a rise in pressure from 0.2-0.5 cm H(2)O increased the total K(+) current at +40 mV by 22+/-14% (+/-S.D.). The pressure-sensitive current I(K,p) was non-inactivating during depolarizing pulses. It was maintained when the pressure was kept elevated for several minutes and receded promptly after return to a pressure of 0.2 cm H(2)O. Voltage-gated Ca(2+) currents, in contrast, were not altered by hydrostatic pressure. A pharmacological characterization of I(K,p) revealed that tetraetylammonium (100 mM) abolished all outward currents including I(K,p). I(K,p) was partly and reversibly inhibited by 4-aminopyridine. Dihydrostreptomycin, a blocker of the transduction channel, left I(K,p) unaffected. Charybdotoxin (100 nM), a blocker of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels, completely yet reversibly abolished I(K,p). We conclude that small elevations in hydrostatic pressure evoke a charybdotoxin-sensitive, probably Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) current in vestibular hair cells. This is likely to alter their frequency response and may be a relevant mechanism how hydrostatic pressure disturbs transduction.
Adrenomedullin is a multifunctional amidated peptide that has been found in most nuclei of the CNS, where it plays a neuromodulatory role. An adrenomedullin binding protein has recently been found in plasma and characterized as complement factor H. This regulator of the complement system inhibits the progression of the complement cascade and modulates the function of adrenomedullin. Our study shows the ample distribution of factor H immunoreactivity in neurons of telencephalon, diencephalon, mesencephalon, pons, medulla, and cerebellum in the rat CNS, using immunohistochemical techniques for both light and electron microscopy. Factor H immunoreactivity was found in the cytoplasm, but nuclear staining was also a common finding. Some blood vessels and glial cells were also immunoreactive for factor H. Colocalization studies by double immunofluorescence followed by confocal microscopy revealed frequent coexistence of factor H and adrenomedullin immunoreactivities, thus providing morphological evidence for the potential interaction of these molecules in the CNS. The presence of factor H immunoreactivity in glial cells was confirmed by colocalization with glial fibrillary acidic protein. In summary, factor H is highly expressed in the CNS where it could play important roles in regulating adrenomedullin actions and contributing to an intracerebral complement system.
Hepoxilins are 12-lipoxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid found in the CNS. They can modulate neuronal signaling but their functions are not known. We examined the effects of hepoxilin A(3) on neurite outgrowth post-axotomy in an in vitro model of spinal cord transection using superior cervical ganglion neurons. In the absence of nerve growth factor, hepoxilin A(3) did not support neuronal survival, or regeneration post-axotomy but did significantly enhance neurite regeneration in the presence of nerve growth factor. As early as 1 h post-injury hepoxilin A(3)-treated cultures (+nerve growth factor) had significantly more neurites than controls (nerve growth factor alone). Average hourly rates of outgrowth in hepoxilin A(3)-treated cultures were significantly higher than in controls for at least 12 h post-injury, suggesting that the effect of hepoxilin A(3) is maintained in vitro for several hours post-injury. In uninjured neurons hepoxilin A(3) caused a rapid but transient increase in intracellular calcium in the somata; by 2 min post-addition, calcium levels decreased to a new stable plateau significantly higher than pre treatment levels. In injured neurons, hepoxilin A(3) addition immediately post-transection caused a rapid transient increase in intracellular calcium in cell bodies; however, peak calcium levels were significantly lower than in uninjured neurons and the new baseline lower than in uninjured cells. In uninjured cells hepoxilin A(3) addition in zero calcium produced the same pattern, a transient elevation and subsequent decline to a new stable baseline significantly above rest but in injured cells levels fell rapidly to pretreatment values. Taken overall, these findings demonstrate a novel role for hepoxilins as a potentiator of neurite regeneration. They also provide the first evidence that this lipoxygenase metabolite can alter intracellular calcium in neurons by causing release of calcium from intracellular stores and modulating calcium influx mechanisms.
Dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta undergo apoptosis after transection of the medial forebrain bundle. We have assessed the temporal and sequential activities of microglia in these events by examining the complement-3 (OX-42), major histocompatibility complex class II antigen presentation (OX-6) and phagocytic activity (ED1), and correlating these indicators with dopaminergic neuronal loss. Microglia in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata evinced activation morphology at 12 h postaxotomy. Phagocytic microglia apposed dying dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta starting at 3 days postlesion; their number increased through 14 days and slowly decreased. Nuclear chromatin condensation and significant loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic neurons occurred around 7 days postlesion. In contrast to microglial expression of interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase at the axotomy site, nigral microglia were interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase-negative. Consistently, RNase protection assays showed that interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase transcripts in nigra were equivocal. The present data support the idea that phagocytosis of axotomized neurons by activated microglia is not limited to dead neurons but includes dying neurons probably without cytotoxic effects of inflammatory substances, such as interleukin-1beta or nitric oxide.
The medial preoptic area plays an important role in the regulation of male sexual behavior in rats, and this area receives orexinergic inputs. The role of orexinergic inputs in the medial preoptic area in sexual behavior has not been studied, though they have been shown to play a role in some other physiological functions. In this study, the changes in male sexual behavior in rats were studied after local injection of orexin A (Hypocretin-1) at the medial preoptic area. The results of the study showed that orexin A application at the medial preoptic area increased sexual arousal as well as the copulatory performance. Sexual arousal is one of the physiological stimuli, which influences wakefulness. It is possible that the earlier reports showing increased wakefulness, on application of orexin A at the medial preoptic area/basal forebrain, has a contribution from sexual arousal.
According to Gray [(1982) The neuropsychology of anxiety: an enquiry into the function of the septo-hippocampal system. Oxford: Oxford University Press; (1991) Neural systems, emotion and personality. In: Neurobiology of learning, emotion, and affect (Madden J, ed), pp 273-306. New York: Raven Press; Gray JA, McNaughton N (2000) The neuropsychology of anxiety. Oxford: Oxford University Press], the septum and the hippocampus act in concert to control anxiety. In the present study we examined a possible interaction between septal GABAergic and hippocampal cholinergic systems in the shock-probe burying test, an animal model of anxiety. In experiment 1, we found that a 10-ng infusion of muscimol in the medial septum produced a significant suppression of burying behavior, whereas lower doses (2.5 and 5.0 ng) did not. In experiment 2, we found a significant suppression of burying behavior after a 20-microg infusion of physostigmine into the dorsal hippocampus, but not after lower-dose infusions (5 and 10 microg). In experiment 3, we infused combined sub-effective doses of physostigmine and muscimol in the hippocampus and medial septum respectively. The combination of sub-effective doses of physostigmine (5 microg) and muscimol (2.5 ng) significantly reduced burying of the shock probe. The results indicate that the hippocampal cholinergic and septal GABAergic systems act synergistically in the modulation of anxiety.
The physiological characteristics of neurons that project to the hippocampus and dentate gyrus via the medial perforant pathway (projection neurons) are well known, but the characteristics of neurons that project to these areas via the lateral perforant pathway (projection neurons) are less well known. We have used retrograde tracing and whole-cell recording in brain slices to compare the membrane and firing properties of medial perforant pathway and lateral perforant pathway projection neurons in layer II of the medial and lateral entorhinal cortex. The properties of medial perforant pathway projection neurons were identical to those reported previously for spiny stellate neurons in the medial entorhinal cortex. In contrast, lateral perforant pathway projection neurons were characterized by a higher input resistance, a lack of time-dependent inward (anomalous) rectification, and a lack of prominent depolarizing spike afterpotentials. Voltage-clamp recordings suggest that the absence of anomalous rectification in lateral perforant pathway projection neurons is due to smaller hyperpolarization activated cation currents in these cells, and the lack of depolarizing afterpotential may be due to smaller low-threshold calcium currents. Persistent sodium current was also smaller in lateral perforant pathway projection neurons, but the difference in persistent sodium current between medial perforant pathway and lateral perforant projection neurons was much less pronounced than the difference in low voltage activated currents. These results underscore the functional differences between the medial entorhinal cortex and lateral entorhinal cortex, and may help to explain the differing abilities of these cortical areas to participate in certain types of network activity.
Recent evidence has demonstrated a critical role for the basolateral amygdala complex in the reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior produced by drug-paired cues. In the current study, we utilized a model of the acquisition and expression of cocaine-stimulus associative pairing in order to study the role of cholinergic input to the basolateral amygdala in mediating conditioned-cued reinstatement. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were first trained daily to self-administer i.v. cocaine on a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement. The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, scopolamine, was directly infused into the basolateral amygdala prior to: a) classically conditioned pairing of a tone+light stimulus with cocaine infusions (acquisition), or b) testing of conditioned-cued reinstatement following a period of withdrawal from cocaine and extinction of cocaine-paired lever responding. Infusion of scopolamine just prior to the classical conditioning trial produced a dose-dependent disruption of cocaine-seeking behavior maintained by cocaine-paired cues during the reinstatement test. In contrast, infusion of scopolamine prior to the reinstatement test had no effect on conditioned-cued reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. These results indicate a crucial role for cholinergic innervation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the basolateral amygdala during the formation, but not the expression, of stimulus-reward associations that mediate cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior.
The turnover rates of dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, aspartate, glutamate and GABA were measured in 27 brain regions of rats self-administering cocaine and in yoked cocaine- and yoked vehicle-infused controls using radioactive pulse-labeling procedures to identify brain neuronal systems underlying self-administration. Changes in the activity of heretofore unrecognized dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, glutamate and GABA innervations of the forebrain specific to cocaine self-administration were found. This included innervations of the nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum, lateral hypothalamus and the anterior and posterior cingulate, entorhinal-subicular and visual cortices. Turnover rates also were calculated using metabolite/neurotransmitter ratios which were inconsistent with the pulse-label technologies indicating that ratio procedures are not accurate measures of neurotransmitter utilization. Results with the pulse-label technique provide evidence of the involvement of neuronal systems in cocaine self-administration not previously known, some of which may have a broader role in brain reinforcement processes for natural reinforcers (i.e. food, water, etc.) since drugs of abuse are thought to produce reinforcing effects by modulating activity in these endogenous systems.
The effects of i.c.v. administration of endothelin-1, at a low dose that does not produce abnormal behaviors such as barrel-rolling, on the emotional state of rats exposed to a novel environment were examined. Changes in the emotional state of rats with a novel environment were evaluated in terms of changes in exploratory activity in the hole-board apparatus, i.e., locomotor activity as well as the number and duration of rearing and head-dipping behaviors. Rats treated with i.c.v. saline showed marked exploratory behaviors immediately after exposure to the hole-board apparatus, but these exploratory behaviors decreased rapidly with time. On the other hand, the habituation of rats to a novel environment was prolonged by the i.c.v. administration of endothelin-1 (0.3 and 1 pmol). Furthermore, we also found that i.c.v. administration of endothelin-1 (1 pmol) significantly increased the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) turnover in some brain regions, i.e., the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and midbrain, and the inhibition of brain 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis by treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (200 mg/kg/day, s.c.) for 2 days suppressed the behavioral effects of endothelin-1 (1 pmol, i.c.v.). In addition, i.c.v. administration of endothelin-1 (1 pmol) did not affect the spontaneous motor activity of rats. The present study demonstrated that i.c.v. administration of low doses of endothelin-1 impairs the habituation of rats to a novel environment in conjunction with brain 5-hydroxytryptaminergic activation. These results suggest that the central endothelin system may play a significant role in mediating emotionality.
Patch-clamp recordings of single ion channel activity demonstrated that donepezil, but not galantamine, could be blocked by the nicotinic cholinergic antagonist mecamylamine, suggesting that galantamine acted at a separate (allosteric) site. The aim of this experiment was to demonstrate at a whole organism, behavioral level that galantamine, but not donepezil, could reverse mecamylamine-induced learning impairment. Forty-four young female rabbits received 15 sessions in the 750-ms delay eyeblink classical conditioning procedure, after one of five drug treatments: 0.5 mg/kg mecamylamine, 3.0 mg/kg donepezil, 0.5 mg/kg mecamylamine plus 3.0 mg/kg galantamine, 0.5 mg/kg mecamylamine plus 3.0 mg/kg donepezil, or sterile saline vehicle. An additional 24 young female rabbits were tested in the explicitly unpaired condition after treatment with the same mecamylamine plus galantamine or donepezil combinations or with vehicle. In a previous study we demonstrated that 3.0 mg/kg galantamine facilitated learning in young rabbits. Donepezil (3.0 mg/kg) did not facilitate learning in this experiment. However, both galantamine and donepezil reversed the deleterious effects of mecamylamine on learning. Significant differences in plasma and brain acetylcholinesterase levels were detected among the drug treatment groups. Fifteen daily injections did not produce statistically significant changes in nicotinic receptor binding in any of the five treatment groups. One possible interpretation of these results is that donepezil affected nicotinic acetylcholine receptors by raising the synaptic level of acetylcholine and hence, the probability of receptor activation, whereas galantamine bound to distinct allosteric sites not blocked by mecamylamine.
Previous studies from this laboratory have shown that many neurons in the basal ganglia have multisecond (&lt;0.5 Hz) periodicities in firing rate in awake rats. The frequency and regularity of these oscillations are significantly increased by systemically injected dopamine (DA) agonists. Because oscillatory activity should have greater functional impact if shared by many neurons, the level of correlation of multisecond oscillations was assessed by recording pairs of neurons in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata in the same hemisphere, or pairs of globus pallidus neurons in opposite hemispheres in awake, immobilized rats. Cross-correlation (90-180 s lags) and spectral analysis were used to characterize correlated oscillations. Thirty-eight percent of pairs recorded in baseline (n=50) demonstrated correlated multisecond oscillations. Phase relationships were near 0 or 180 degrees. DA agonist injection significantly increased the incidence of correlation (intra- and interhemispheric) to 94% (n=17). After DA agonist injection, phase relationships of globus pallidus/substantia nigra neuron pairs were exclusively concentrated near 180 degrees, and phases of interhemispheric pairs of globus pallidus neurons were concentrated near 0 degrees. After subthalamic nucleus lesion (n=8), the incidence of correlated multisecond oscillations (or of multisecond oscillations per se) was not changed, although the consistent phase relationship between the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata was disrupted. Subthalamic lesion also blocked apomorphine-induced decreases in oscillatory period and increases in oscillation amplitude, and significantly attenuated apomorphine-induced changes in mean firing rate. The data demonstrate that multisecond oscillations in the basal ganglia can be correlated between nuclei, and that DA receptor activation increases the level of correlation and organizes internuclear phase relationships at these multisecond time scales. While the subthalamic nucleus is not necessary for generating or transmitting these slow oscillations, it is involved in DA agonist-induced modulation of mean firing rate, oscillatory period, and internuclear phase relationship. These data further support a role for DA in modulating coherent oscillatory activity in the basal ganglia, and for the subthalamic nucleus in shaping the effects of DA receptor stimulation on basal ganglia output.
Perinatal ischemic-anoxic and prolonged anoxic insults lead to impaired dopaminergic signaling and are hypothesized to contribute, at least in part, to the pathogenesis of disorders of minimal brain dysfunction such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. We hypothesized that subtle intermittent hypoxic insults, occurring during a period of critical brain development, are also pathogenic to dopaminergic signaling, thereby contributing to behavioral and executive dysfunction. Between postnatal days 7 and 11, rat pups were exposed to either 20-s bursts of isocapnic hypoxic gas, compressed air, or were left undisturbed with the dam. On postnatal days 23 pups were instrumented with electroencephalographic/electromyographic electrodes and sleep-wake architecture was characterized. Locomotor activity was assessed between postnatal days 35 and 38, learning, and working memory evaluated between postnatal days 53 and 64. Rats were killed on postnatal day 80 and tyrosine hydroxylase, vesicular monoamine transporter, dopamine transporter, and dopamine D1 receptors were quantified in the prefrontal cortex, primary sensorimotor cortex, and precommissural striatum by Western blot analyses. Post-hypoxic pups spent less time awake and more time in rapid-eye-movement sleep during the lights-on phase of the circadian cycle, were hyperlocomotive, and expressed impaired working memory. Striatal expression of vesicular monoamine transporter and D1 receptor proteins were increased in post-hypoxic rats, consistent with depressed dopaminergic signaling. These observations lead to the intriguing hypothesis that intermittent hypoxia occurring during a period of critical brain development evokes behavioral and neurochemical alterations that are long lasting, and consistent with disorders of minimal brain dysfunction.
The choroid plexus produces cerebrospinal fluid, providing a specialized environment for the CNS. We previously demonstrated that choroid plexus ependymal cells can enhance nerve regeneration in vivo and promote neurite outgrowth in vitro. To understand the molecular mechanisms of choroid plexus functions, we isolated genes predominantly expressed in the mouse choroid plexus using suppression subtractive hybridization. Out of the 49 complementary DNA (cDNA) fragments isolated in two types of screening, 43 matched known sequences in the database and six were novel. In one type of screening where choroid plexus cDNAs were subtracted with cerebral cortex cDNAs, transthyretin and phosphodiesterase I alpha were predominant. This is consistent with previous reports and supports the authenticity of our approach. In the other type of screening, cDNAs derived from the choroid plexus of neonatal (postnatal day 5) mice were subtracted with cDNAs from the choroid plexus of adult mice. RNA blot and/or in situ hybridization confirmed abundant expression, in the mouse choroid plexus, of the mRNA encoding gelsolin, phospholipid transfer protein, ATP-binding cassette transporter A8 (ABCA8), androgen-inducible aldehyde reductase, and Na(+)/sulfate cotransporter SUT-1. Also, one novel gene (FS88) was found to be expressed in the choroid plexus from neonatal mice. Our data suggest that the choroid plexus cells produce molecules involved in processes such as prevention of fibrillization of amyloid beta-protein (transthyretin and gelsolin), lipid metabolism (phospholipid transfer protein and ABCA8), and detoxification (androgen-inducible aldehyde reductase).
The neurotoxic organochlorine pesticides gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane, alpha-endosulfan and dieldrin induce in mammals a hyperexcitability syndrome accompanied by convulsions. They reduce the GABA-induced Cl(-) flux. The strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor also regulates Cl(-)-flux inhibitory responses. We studied the effects of these compounds on Cl(-) channels associated with glycine receptors in cultured cerebellar granule cells in comparison to the GABA(A) receptor. Both GABA (EC(50): 5 microM) and glycine (EC(50): 68 microM) increased (36)Cl(-) influx. This increase was antagonized by bicuculline and strychnine, respectively. Lindane inhibited with similar potency both GABA(A) (IC(50): 6.1 microM) and glycine (5.0 microM) receptors. alpha-Endosulfan and dieldrin inhibited the GABA(A) receptor (IC(50) values: 0.4 microM and 0.2 microM, respectively) more potently than the glycine receptor (IC(50) values: 3.5 microM and 3 microM, respectively). Picrotoxinin also inhibited the glycine receptor, although with low potency (IC(50)&gt;100 microM). A 3D pharmacophore model, consisting of five hydrophobic regions and one hydrogen bond acceptor site in a specific three-dimensional arrangement, was developed for these compounds by computational modelling. We propose that the hydrogen bond acceptor moiety and the hydrophobic region were responsible for the affinity of these compounds at the GABA(A) receptor whereas only the hydrophobic region of the molecules was responsible for their interaction with the glycine receptors. In summary, these compounds could produce neuronal hyperexcitability by blocking glycine receptors besides the GABA(A) receptor. We propose that two zones of the polychlorocycloalkane pesticide molecules (a lipophilic zone and a polar zone) differentially contribute to their binding to GABA(A) and glycine receptors.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is characterized by a defect in dystrophin, which often causes mental retardation in addition to progressive muscular weakness. As dystrophin is localized in synaptic regions of the CNS, cognitive abnormalities associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy are attributable to synaptic dysfunction. We report that dystrophin-deficient mdx mice were more resistant to kainic acid-induced seizures but not to GABA antagonist-induced seizures compared with the control mice. The kainic-acid receptor density in the brain was significantly lower in the mdx than in the control, although the density of muscarinic cholinergic receptors, another important neurotransmitter receptor for cognitive function, was normal. Moreover, mdx had significantly lower Timm staining intensity in the mossy fibers, which originate from the dentate granule cells and terminate on the pyramidal cells in the CA3 of the hippocampus. These results suggest that an instability of neurotransmitter receptors, such as kainate-type glutamate receptors, on synaptic membranes due to the disruption of dystrophin complex induces inefficient neurotransmission in Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients.
Beta-arrestins are a family of regulatory and scaffold proteins functioning in signal transduction of G protein-coupled receptors including opioid receptors. Upon agonist stimulation, beta-arrestins bind to opioid receptors phosphorylated by G protein-coupled receptor kinases and promote receptor internalization and desensitization. Studies indicated that beta-arrestins are required in the development of morphine tolerance in mice. In the current study, we investigated the potential regulatory effects of morphine administration on beta-arrestin 1 and beta-arrestin 2 mRNA levels in different brain regions in rat using in situ hybridization method. Our results showed that the acute morphine administration (10 mg/kg) resulted in approximately 30% reduction in both beta-arrestin 1 and beta-arrestin 2 mRNA levels in hippocampus while the chronic morphine treatment (10 mg/kg, b.i.d., for 9 days) caused no significant change in level of either beta-arrestin mRNA. In locus coeruleus, both acute and chronic morphine treatments resulted in significant decreases (over 50%) in beta-arrestin 1 mRNA level but failed to induce any change in the level of beta-arrestin 2 gene expression. The acute morphine administration had no significant effect on beta-arrestin 1 or beta-arrestin 2 mRNA level in periaqueductal gray and cerebral cortex. However, after chronic morphine treatment, beta-arrestin 2 mRNA level decreased by 40% in periaqueductal gray and increased by 25% in cerebral cortex, in strong contrast to the unchanged beta-arrestin 1 mRNA level in these two brain regions. Furthermore, spontaneous or naloxone-precipitated withdrawal of morphine that did not affect the level of beta-arrestin 1 mRNA resulted in an aberrant increase (100% over control) in beta-arrestin 2 mRNA level in hippocampus. Our results thus demonstrated for the first time that opiate administration regulates level of beta-arrestin mRNAs in brain and the expression of beta-arrestin 1 and beta-arrestin 2 subtypes is differentially regulated in locus coeruleus, periaqueductal gray, and cerebral cortex by morphine. These data suggest that beta-arrestin 1 and beta-arrestin 2 may play different roles in the development of opioid tolerance and dependence.
Syntrophin is an adaptor protein that binds signaling molecules to the dystrophin-associated protein complex, which connects extracellular matrix to intracellular cytoskeleton for construction and maintenance of the postsynaptic structures in the neuromuscular junction and the CNS. Among these signaling molecules, a family of microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinases has a unique structural feature with a serine/threonine kinase domain and a postsynaptic density protein-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 domain. In the present study, we identified syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124, a novel splice variant of the syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase which is a member of the microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinases family. Comparing to the original clone (syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-170), syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124 is truncated just downstream of the postsynaptic density protein-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 domain. Using a monoclonal antibody specifically recognizing syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124, strong expression of the protein was observed in neurons of the subventricular zone and granule cells of the olfactory bulb, Islands of Calleja, hippocampal dentate gyrus and cerebellum. syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124 is selectively localized in the nuclei of neurons and distinct from syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-170, which is interacting with syntrophin on the cell surface. Considering the tissue and subcellular distributions of syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124, it is suggested that syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124 may have functions in transcriptional regulation for the features commonly shared by these neurons. On the other hand, syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124 was also localized in glia-like cell bodies in the corpus callosum and fiber bundles in the spinal trigeminal and solitary tracts, suggesting syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase-124 may have other functions in these types of cells.
Neurotrophins are suggested to play a role in activity-dependent plasticity of visual cortex during the critical period of postnatal development. Thus, the concentration of neurotrophins in the cortex is expected to change with development and/or with alteration in neuronal activities. To test this, we measured protein levels of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 in visual cortex of young (postnatal day 38-46, at the peak of the critical period) and adult ferrets with two-site enzyme-immunoassay systems. Measurements were carried out also in somatosensory cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum as control. With development the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not significantly change, while those of the other neurotrophins changed in the visual cortex. A blockade of visual inputs for 24 h by an injection of tetrodotoxin into both eyes significantly decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein level in the visual cortex, but not in the other regions in both young and adult ferrets. On the other hand, no significant decrease was seen in the protein level of the other neurotrophins in the visual cortex of young and adult ferrets. A monocular injection of tetrodotoxin in young ferrets resulted in the reduction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor by approximately half that by binocular injection. The degree of the decrease in the contralateral cortex to the injected eye was significantly larger than that in the ipsilateral cortex, reflecting that the contralateral eye is dominantly represented in the cortex in ferrets. Blockade of cortical neuronal activities by a GABA(A) receptor agonist led to a remarkable reduction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein in the visual cortex. These results suggest that the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein in visual cortex is regulated by activities of cortical neurons.
We investigated the effect on neurochemical phenotype of changing the targets innervated by sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In neonatal rats, the adrenal gland was transplanted into the neck, to replace the postganglionic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. Transplanted adrenal glands survived, and contained noradrenergic and adrenergic chromaffin cells, and adrenal ganglion cells. Retrograde tracing from the transplants showed that they were innervated by preganglionic neurons that would normally have supplied postganglionic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. The neurochemical phenotypes of preganglionic axons innervating transplanted chromaffin cells were compared with those innervating the normal adrenal medulla or superior cervical ganglion neurons. As in the normal adrenal gland, preganglionic nerve fibres apposing transplanted chromaffin cells were cholinergic. The peptide and calcium-binding protein content of preganglionic fibres was similar in normal and transplanted adrenal glands. In both cases, cholinergic fibres immunoreactive for enkephalin targeted adrenergic chromaffin cells, whilst cholinergic fibres with co-localised calretinin-immunoreactivity innervated noradrenergic chromaffin cells and adrenal ganglion cells. In contrast to the innervation of normal adrenal glands, these axons lacked immunoreactivity to nitric oxide synthase. In a set of control experiments, the superior cervical ganglion was subjected to preganglionic denervation in rat pups the same age as those that received adrenal transplants, and the ganglion was allowed to be re-innervated over the same time course as the adrenal transplants were studied. When the superior cervical ganglion was re-innervated by preganglionic nerve fibres, we observed that all aspects of chemical coding were restored, including cholinergic markers, nitric oxide synthase, enkephalin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and calcium binding proteins in predicted combinations, although the density of nerve fibres was always lower in re-innervated ganglia. These data show that the neurochemical phenotypes expressed by preganglionic neurons re-innervating adrenal chromaffin cells are selective and similar to those seen in the normal adrenal gland. Two explanations are advanced: either that contact of preganglionic axons with novel target cells has induced a switch in their neurochemical phenotypes, or that there has been target-selective reinnervation by pre-existing fibres of appropriate phenotype. Regardless of which of these alternatives is correct, the restoration of normal preganglionic codes to the superior cervical ganglion following denervation supports the idea that the target tissue influences the neurochemistry of innervating preganglionic neurons.
Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques and Western blotting were used to investigate the postnatal development of the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) in the rat somatic sensory cortex. VGAT immunoreactivity was low at birth, it increased gradually through the first and second weeks of life and achieved the adult pattern during the third week. At postnatal day (P)0-P5, VGAT immunoreactivity was associated exclusively to fibers and puncta. Electron microscopic studies performed at P5 showed that all identified synaptic contacts formed by VGAT-positive axonal swellings were of the symmetric type and that a substantial proportion of the boutons appeared not to have formed synapses. From P10 onward, labeled puncta were both scattered in the neuropil and in apposition to unstained cellular profiles; VGAT was also expressed in few GABAergic cell bodies. Western blottings at the same postnatal ages revealed a 55-kDa band whose intensity was weak at P0 (17% of adult), it increased constantly until P15 (P2: 35%; P5: 44%; P10: 68%; P15: 97%), and then leveled off. Overall, the present results show that during neocortical development the expression of VGAT slightly precedes the complete maturation of inhibitory synaptogenesis and suggest that it may contribute to the formation of neocortical GABAergic circuitry.
Low voltage-activated calcium channels (LVAs; &quot;T-type&quot;) modulate normal neuronal electrophysiological properties such as neuronal pacemaker activity and rebound burst firing, and may be important anti-epileptic targets. Proteomic analyses of available alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 and alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 sequences suggest numerous potential isoforms, with specific alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 or alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 domains postulated to be conserved among isoforms of each T-type channel subtype. This information was used to generate affinity-purified anti-peptide antibodies against sequences unique to alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 or alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3, and these antibodies were used to compare and contrast alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 and alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 protein expression by western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Each antibody reacted with appropriately sized recombinant protein in HEK-293 cells. Regional and developmental differences in alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 and alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 protein expression were observed when the antibodies were used to probe regional brain dissections prepared from perinatal mice and adult rodents and humans. Mouse forebrain alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1 (approximately 240 kDa) was smaller than cerebellar (approximately 260 kDa) alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1, and expression of both proteins increased during perinatal development. In contrast, mouse midbrain and diencephalic tissues evidenced an alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 immunoreactive doublet (approximately 230 kDa and approximately 190 kDa), whereas other brain regions only expressed the small alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 isoform. A unique large alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 isoform (approximately 260 kDa) was expressed at birth and eventually decreased, concomitant with the appearance and gradual increase of the small alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 isoform. Immunohistochemistry supported the conclusion that LVAs are expressed in a regional manner, as cerebellum strongly expressed alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1, and olfactory bulb and midbrain contained robust alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3 immunoreactivity. Finally, strong alpha 1I/Ca(V)3.3, but not alpha 1G/Ca(V)3.1, immunoreactivity was observed in brain and spinal cord by embryonic day 14 in situ. Taken together, these data provide an anatomical and biochemical basis for interpreting LVA heterogeneity and offer evidence of developmental regulation of LVA isoform expression.
To characterize the low-frequency depression (LFD) of synaptic transmission in the visual cortex, we recorded field potentials and minimal excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) from layer II/III following intracortical stimulation at various frequencies in cortical slices of rats. Field potentials were stable at 0.017 Hz, but showed an amplitude depression at 0.033-0.1 Hz at stimulus intensity of 1.5 times the threshold for induction of the postsynaptic component and at 0.1-0.2 Hz at intensity of 1.2 times the threshold. The LFD was input-specific and its magnitude correlated with the stimulus frequency. An interruption of stimulation for 15 min yielded a nearly complete recovery from LFD. Minimal EPSPs tested at 0.1-1.7 Hz often showed LFD with similar features. However, some inputs were stable or even facilitated during repeated stimulation. At 0.1 and 0.2 Hz, &gt;50% of inputs were stable, whereas 10% and 25% were depressed, respectively. At 0.5 and 1.7 Hz, LFD was observed in &gt;60% and 80% of inputs, respectively. The magnitude of LFD strongly varied across inputs. In 3 of the 41 inputs analyzed, LFD was so strong that these inputs became virtually silent. Occurrence of responses to the second pulse in the paired-pulse paradigm when the first response was absent and recovery of depressed EPSPs following stimulus interruption or shift to a lower frequency suggest that these synapses were presynaptically silent due to a lowered probability of transmitter release. Altogether, the results indicate that testing intervals of &lt;10 or even &lt; or =30 s cannot be regarded as completely neutral. At the single-cell level, frequency-dependent changes were strongly heterogeneous across different inputs. LFD and its spontaneous recovery may underlie the previously described &quot;post-rest&quot; potentiation, and should be taken into account when considering information processing in cortical networks.
Amyloid deposits and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) are the two hallmarks that characterize Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to find the molecular partners of these degenerating processes, we have developed antibodies against insoluble AD brain lesions. One clone, named AD46, detects only NFT. Biochemical and histochemistry analyses demonstrate that the labeled protein accumulating in the cytosol of Alzheimer degenerating neurons is the alpha-chain of the ATP synthase. The cytosolic accumulation of the alpha-chain of ATP synthase is observed even at early stages of neurofibrillary degenerating process. It is specifically observed in degenerating neurons, either alone or tightly associated with aggregates of tau proteins, suggesting that it is a new molecular event related to neurodegeneration. Overall, our results strongly suggest the implication of the alpha-chain of ATP synthase in neurofibrillary degeneration of AD that is illustrated by the cytosolic accumulation of this mitochondrial protein, which belongs to the mitochondrial respiratory system. This regulatory subunit of the respiratory complex V of mitochondria is thus a potential target for therapeutic and diagnostic strategies.
A dysfunction of noradrenergic mechanisms originating in the locus coeruleus has been hypothesised to be the critical factor underlying the evolution of central neurodegenerative diseases [Colpaert FC (1994) Noradrenergic mechanism Parkinson's disease: a theory. In: Noradrenergic mechanisms in Parkinson's disease (Briley M, Marien M, eds) pp 225-254. Boca Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press Inc.]. alpha(2)-Adrenoceptor antagonists, presumably in part by facilitating central noradrenergic transmission, afford neuroprotection in vivo in models of cerebral ischaemia, excitotoxicity and devascularization-induced neurodegeneration. The present study utilised the rat olfactory bulb as a model system for examining the effects of the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist dexefaroxan upon determinants of neurogenesis (proliferation, survival and death) in the adult brain in vivo. Cell proliferation (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine labelling) and cell death associated with DNA fragmentation (terminal dideoxynucleotidyl transferase-catalysed 2'-deoxyuridine-5'-triphosphate nick end-labelling assay) were quantified following a 7-day treatment with either vehicle or dexefaroxan (0.63 mg/kg i.p., three times daily), followed by a 3-day washout period. The number of terminal dideoxynucleotidyl transferase-catalysed 2'-deoxyuridine-5'-triphosphate nick end-labelling-positive nuclei in the olfactory bulb was lower in dexefaroxan-treated rats, this difference being greatest and significant in the subependymal layer (-52%). In contrast, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-immunoreactive nuclei were more numerous (+68%) in the bulbs of dexefaroxan-treated rats whilst no differences were detected in the proliferating region of the subventricular zone. Terminal dideoxynucleotidyl transferase-catalysed 2'-deoxyuridine-5'-triphosphate nick end-labelling combination with glial fibrillary acidic protein or neuronal-specific antigen immunohistochemistry revealed that terminal dideoxynucleotidyl transferase-catalysed 2'-deoxyuridine-5'-triphosphate nick end-labelling-positive nuclei were associated primarily with a neuronal cell phenotype. These findings suggest that dexefaroxan increases neuron survival in the olfactory bulb of the adult rat in vivo, putatively as a result of reducing the apoptotic fate of telencephalic stem cell progenies.
We investigated whether the expression in the vestibular and facial nuclei of the voltage-dependent Na alpha I and Na alpha III channels and of the Ca(2+)-activated K(+)-channel subunits, small-conductance (SK) 1, SK2 and SK3, is affected by unilateral inner-ear lesion including both labyrinthectomy and transsection of the facial nerve. Specific sodium (Na alpha I, Na alpha III) and potassium (SK1, SK2, SK3) radioactive oligonucleotides were used to probe sections of rat vestibular and facial nuclei by in situ hybridization methods. The signal was detected with films or by emulsion photography. Animals were killed at various times following the lesion: 1 day, 3 days, 8 days or 30 days. In normal adult animals, mRNAs for Na alpha I, and SK1, SK2, and SK3 channels were found in several brainstem regions including the lateral, medial, superior and inferior vestibular nuclei and the facial nuclei. In contrast, there was little Na alpha III subunit mRNA anywhere in the brainstem. Following unilateral inner ear lesion in rats, the medial vestibular nuclei were probed with Na alpha I, Na alpha III, SK1, SK2 and SK3 oligonucleotide probes: autoradiography indicated no difference between the two sides, at any of the times studied. Na alpha I and SK2 mRNAs were less abundant and Na alpha III, SK1 and SK3 mRNAs were more abundant in the axotomized facial nuclei motoneurons than in controls. Removal of vestibular input did not affect the abundance of the mRNAs for the sodium- or calcium-dependent potassium channels in the deafferented vestibular nuclei. There is thus no evidence that modulation of these conductances contributes to the recovery of a normal resting discharge of the deafferented vestibular neurons and consequently to the functional recovery of the postural and oculomotor deficits observed at the acute stage. However, facial axotomy induced a long-term modulation of both Na and SK conductances mRNAs in the facial motoneurons ipsilateral to the lesion. Presumably, retrograde injury factors resulting from axotomy were able to alter durably the membrane properties and thus the excitability of the facial motoneurons.
The effects of Zn(2+) were evaluated on high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) currents expressed by pyramidal neurons acutely dissociated from rat piriform cortex. Whole-cell, patch-clamp experiments were carried out using Ba(2+) (5 mM) as the charge carrier. Zn(2+) blocked total high-voltage-activated Ba(2+) currents with an IC(50) of approximately 21 microM. In addition, after application of non-saturating Zn(2+) concentrations, residual currents activated with substantially slower kinetics than control Ba(2+) currents. Both of the above-mentioned effects of Zn(2+) were also observed in high-voltage-activated currents recorded in the presence of nearly-physiological concentrations of extracellular Ca(2+) (1 and 2 mM) rather than Ba(2+). Under the latter conditions, 30 microM Zn(2+) inhibited high-voltage-activated currents somewhat less than observed in extracellular Ba(2+) (approximately 47% and approximately 41%, respectively, vs. approximately 59%), but slowed Ca(2+)-current activation to very similar degrees. All of the pharmacological components in which Ba(2+) currents could be dissected (L-, N-, P/Q-, and R-type) were inhibited by Zn(2+), the percentage of current blocked by 30 microM Zn(2+) ranging from 34 to 57%. Moreover, the activation kinetics of all pharmacological Ba(2+) current components were slowed by Zn(2+). Hence, the lower activation speed observed in residual Ba(2+) currents after Zn(2+) block is due to a true slowing of macroscopic Ca(2+)-current activation kinetics and not to the preferential inhibition of a fast-activating current component. The inhibitory effect of Zn(2+) on Ba(2+) current amplitude was voltage-independent over the whole voltage range explored (-60 to +30 mV), hence the Zn(2+)-dependent decrease of Ba(2+) current activation speed is not the consequence of a voltage- and time-dependent relief from block. Zn(2+) also caused a slight, but significant, reduction of Ba(2+) current deactivation speed upon repolarization, which is further evidence against a depolarization-dependent unblocking mechanism. Finally, the slowing effect of Zn(2+) on Ca(2+)-channel activation kinetics was found to result in a significant, extra reduction of Ba(2+) current amplitude when action-potential-like waveforms, rather than step pulses, were used as depolarizing stimuli. We conclude that Zn(2+) exerts a dual action on multiple types of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, causing a blocking effect and altering the speed at which channels are delivered to conducting states, with mechanism(s) that could be distinct.
Corticotropin releasing factor is a neuropeptide associated with the integration of physiological and behavioural responses to stress. More recently, corticotropin releasing factor has been implicated in the actions of abused drugs, including ethanol. Moreover, previous studies have demonstrated that the non-selective corticotropin releasing factor receptor antagonist, alpha-helical corticotropin releasing factor(9-41), can diminish some of the behavioural effects associated with ethanol withdrawal, whilst the selective corticotropin releasing factor(1) receptor antagonist CP-154,526 has been beneficial in decreasing stress-induced relapse into alcohol-seeking behaviour. However, as yet the ability of selective corticotropin releasing factor compounds to modulate volitional ethanol consumption has not been investigated. For these reasons the present study aims to examine the effects of antalarmin, a selective, centrally acting corticotropin releasing factor(1) receptor antagonist, on both the initiation and maintenance of ethanol consumption in isolation-reared Fawn-Hooded rats. Here we demonstrate that whilst both antalarmin and diazepam can decrease the acquisition of an ethanol-preferring phenotype by Fawn-Hooded rats, only antalarmin can alter established, volitional ethanol consumption. This ability of antalarmin to reduce established ethanol consumption is apparently unrelated to changes in ingestive behaviour, or a generalised anxiolytic action. For these reasons, such drugs may provide a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of alcoholism; however, this requires further investigation.
The spatio-temporal integration of cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials was investigated in a multi-compartment model of a thalamocortical neurone. Consistent with experimental data, cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials contained a metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated component and were generated by synapses located on distal dendrites. Within this framework, three synaptic distributions (each with equal maximal synaptic conductances) were compared: symmetric, with synapses distributed equally between all dendritic trees, single-dendrite, where synapses were allocated on all distal segments of one dendrite, and single-segment, which comprised one synapse on a single dendritic compartment. We addressed three main issues: (1) the propagation of cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials to the soma, (2) the interaction of cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials with proximally generated retinal excitatory postsynaptic potentials, and (3) the effectiveness of cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials in entraining and perturbing the delta oscillation. The somatic and dendritic amplitudes of the cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials depended on the distribution of the synapses, being largest and smallest, respectively, for the symmetric distribution, and smallest and largest, respectively, for the single-segment distribution. When a retinal excitatory postsynaptic potential followed a subthreshold cortical excitatory postsynaptic potential with a short (2-200 ms) delay, its ability to evoke action potentials was increased, with single-segment cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials having the longest-lasting facilitatory effect. When a retinal excitatory postsynaptic potential arrived with a longer delay (210-400 ms), the effect of the cortical excitatory postsynaptic potential was to decrease the number of retinally evoked action potentials. These facilitatory and depressant effects of the cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials were dependent on the presence of their metabotropic glutamate receptor, and were enhanced by increasing the strength of this glutamate receptor component. Axial resistivity and distal dendritic A-type current had little qualitative effect on these modulatory actions of the cortical excitatory postsynaptic potential. Cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials were more effective than retinal excitatory postsynaptic potentials in perturbing the phase of the delta oscillation, indicating that they are ideally suited to entraining this form of rhythmic activity. Again, this effect was closely dependent on the presence of metabotropic glutamate receptor but was largely independent of synapse distribution. These results indicate that the distribution of activated synapses and the presence of metabotropic glutamate receptor are crucial factors in determining the effect of cortical feedback excitation on thalamocortical neurons. Moreover, the distinct postsynaptic receptor composition of cortical inputs renders them ideally suited to synchronising low-frequency oscillatory activity in thalamocortical neurons.
The neuropeptide galanin may have a role in modulation of nociception, particularly after peripheral nerve injury. The effect of galanin is mediated by at least three subtypes of receptors. In the present study, we assessed the nociceptive sensitivity in mice lacking the galanin receptor 1 gene (Galr1) and the development of neuropathic pain-like behaviours after photochemically induced partial sciatic nerve ischaemic injury. Under basal condition, Galr1 knock-out (Galr1(-/-)) mice had shortened response latency on the hot plate, but not tail flick and paw radiant heat, tests. The mechanical sensitivity was not different between Galr1(-/-) and wild type (Galr1(+/+)) mice, whereas the cold response was moderately enhanced in Galr1(-/-) mice. Both Galr1(-/-) mice and Galr1(+/+) controls developed mechanical and heat hypersensitivity after partial sciatic nerve injury. The duration of such pain-like behaviours was significantly increased in Galr1(-/-). The Galr1(-/-) mice and Galr1(+/+) mice did not differ in their recovery from deficits in toe-spread after sciatic nerve crush. The results provide some evidence for an inhibitory function for the neuropeptide galanin acting on galanin receptor 1 (GALR1) in nociception and neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury in mice.
Recent studies have revealed marked variation in pyramidal cell structure in the visual cortex of macaque and marmoset monkeys. In particular, there is a systematic increase in the size of, and number of spines in, the arbours of pyramidal cells with progression through occipitotemporal (OT) visual areas. In the present study we extend the basis for comparison by investigating pyramidal cell structure in OT visual areas of the nocturnal owl monkey. As in the diurnal macaque and marmoset monkeys, pyramidal cells became progressively larger and more spinous with anterior progression through OT visual areas. These data suggest that: 1. the trend for more complex pyramidal cells with anterior progression through OT visual areas is a fundamental organizational principle in primate cortex; 2. areal specialization of the pyramidal cell phenotype provides an anatomical substrate for the reconstruction of the visual scene in OT areas; 3. evolutionary specialization of different aspects of visual processing may determine the extent of interareal variation in the pyramidal cell phenotype in different species; and 4. pyramidal cell structure is not necessarily related to brain size.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) prominently expresses polysialic acid (PSA), a carbohydrate polymer that is attached to neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and promotes changes in cell interactions. Previous studies have shown that expression of PSA is important for circadian rhythm stability under constant darkness, and for photic entrainment of the SCN circadian clock. In the present study, immunoblot analyses of the Syrian hamster SCN revealed marked diurnal fluctuations in PSA under a 24-h light/dark cycle. PSA levels were reduced by &gt;90% during the mid-to-late dark phase, and were elevated to maximal daytime levels approximately 1 h after lights-on. A similar pattern of PSA fluctuation persisted under constant darkness. Exposure of animals under a 24-h light/dark cycle to a 30-min light pulse during the late dark phase dramatically increased SCN contents of PSA within 60 min, and these values returned to basal levels 1-2 h later. There was no effect of light-on expression of PSA in the hippocampus. Parallel studies revealed changes in the NCAM-180 isoform that carries PSA in the brain, suggesting that regulation of PSA may include protein as well as carbohydrate-associated mechanisms. Immunohistological analysis revealed light-induced enhancement of PSA in the SCN subregion containing calbindin D(28K) cells. PSA staining was also closely associated with the majority of SCN cells expressing light-inducible Fos protein. This rhythmic, light-inducible expression of PSA within the SCN suggests that dynamic cell interactions are important for the photic regulation of circadian clock phase.
Endocannabinoids seem to play a role in the modulation of alertness. Therefore, we measured cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) protein by Western blot and messenger RNA (mRNA) by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in the pons of rats across the 24-h period. We performed evaluations every 4 h beginning at 09:00 h. Rats were under a controlled light/dark cycle 12:12 (lights on at 08:00 h). Our data suggest that the expression of CB1R gene depends on diurnal variations, with maximum expression at 13:00 h for protein and 21:00 h for mRNA, and minimum expression at 01:00 and 09:00 h, respectively. We also analyzed CB1R protein and mRNA levels in the pons of rats deprived of total sleep for 24 h and in rats with a 24-h period of sleep deprivation plus a 2-h period of sleep rebound. Unlike sleep deprivation, sleep rebound significantly increased CB1R protein while decreasing mRNA. Despite the fact that we used gentle manipulation to deprive the animals of sleep, there may be a potential influence of stress on this effect, too. However, these facts suggest that CB1R gene expression is modulated by the light/dark cycle and by sleep.
The neonatal mouse en bloc spinal cord-brainstem preparation used in combination with advances in mouse genomics provides a novel strategy for studying the spinal control of locomotion. How well the mouse en bloc preparation is oxygenated however, is unknown. This is an important consideration given that (a) other superfused mammalian en bloc preparations have anoxic cores and (b) hypoxia can have profound effects on neuronal activity. Here we measure the level of tissue oxygenation in the mouse preparation and determine how neuronal activity within the spinal cord is influenced by poor superfusion and/or low oxygen. To measure tissue oxygenation, oxygen depth profiles were obtained (P0-1 and P2-3; Swiss Webster mice). At P0-1, spinal cords were oxygenated throughout under resting conditions. When fictive locomotor activity was evoked (5-HT 10 microM, dopamine 50 microM, NMA 5 microM), there was a substantial reduction in tissue PO(2) starting within 5 min of drug application. Following washout, the PO(2) slowly returned to control levels over a period of 30 min. The experiments described above were repeated using P2-3 preparations. In this older age group, the spinal cord preparations had a hypoxic/anoxic core that was exacerbated during metabolically demanding tasks such as drug-evoked rhythmic activity. To examine how an anoxic core affects neuronal activity within the spinal cord we either altered the flow-rate or manipulated superfusate PO(2). When the flow-rate was reduced a transient disruption in the rhythmicity of drug-induced locomotion occurred during the first 15 min (P0-1 preparations). However, the motor output adapted and stabilized. During prolonged superfusion with hypoxic artificial cerebrospinal fluid on the other hand, both the motor bursts in spinal nerves and the activity of most neurons near the center of the tissue were abolished.Overall, this study suggests that while oxygenation of P0-P1 preparations is adequate for studies of locomotor function, oxygenation of older preparations is more problematic. Our data also show that neonatal spinal neurons require oxygen to maintain activity; and the spinal locomotor rhythm generator continues to function providing the peripheral tissue of the cord is oxygenated. Together, these results are consistent with the results of a previous study which suggest that the locomotor pattern generator is located close to the surface of the spinal cord.
Stratum lucidum (SL) interneurons likely mediate feedforward inhibition between the dentate gyrus mossy fibers and CA3 pyramidal cells, while stratum oriens (SO) interneurons likely provide both feedforward and feedback inhibition within the CA3 commissural/associational network. Using dual whole-cell patch-clamp recordings between interneurons and CA3 pyramidal cells, we have examined SL and SO interneurons and their synapses within organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Biocytin staining revealed different morphologies between these interneuron groups, both being very similar to those found previously in acute slices. The kinetics of IPSCs were similar between the two groups, but the reliability of synaptic transmission of SL interneuron (SL-INT) IPSCs was significantly lower than the virtually 100% reliability (non-existent failure rates) of SO-INT IPSCs. The SL-INT IPSCs also had a lower quantal content than the SO-INT IPSCs. In addition, SL-INTs were less likely than SO-INTs to innervate or to be innervated by nearby CA3 pyramidal cells. Paired-pulse stimulation at 100 ms interstimulus intervals produced similar paired-pulse depression in both interneuron synapses, despite the significantly higher failure rate of IPSCs produced by the SL-INTs compared with SO-INTs. CV analysis supported the hypothesis that paired-pulse depression was presynaptic. During repetitive, high frequency stimulation (&gt;10 Hz for 500 ms) the two different synapses exhibited distinctly different forms of short-term plasticity: all SL interneurons displayed significant short-term facilitation (mean 113% facilitation, n=4), while, by contrast, SO interneuron synapses displayed either short-term depression (mean 42% depression, n=5 of 8) or no net facilitation or depression (n=3 of 8). These results indicate that the synaptic properties of interneurons can be quite different for interneurons in different hippocampal circuits.
The opioid receptor-like 1 receptor is a novel member of the opioid receptor family and its endogenous peptide ligand has been termed nociceptin and orphanin FQ. Activation of the opioid receptor-like 1 receptor by nociceptin/orphanin FQ in vivo produces hyperalgesia when this peptide is given supraspinally but analgesia at the spinal level. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ also reverses stress-induced analgesia, suggesting that the peptide has anti-opioid properties. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ knockout mice show alterations in pain sensitivity and stress responses and display increased morphine dependence, suggesting an interaction of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ system with classical opioid receptor function. To determine if the behavioural phenotype of nociceptin/orphanin FQ knockout mice reflects changes in either opioid receptor-like 1 or classical opioid receptor expression, we have carried out quantitative autoradiography of the opioid receptor-like 1, mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors in the brains of these animals. Receptor density was measured on coronal sections from wild-type, heterozygous and homozygous mice using [(3)H]nociceptin, [(3)H][D-Ala(2)-N-methyl-Phe(4)-Gly(5) ol] enkephalin, [(3)H]deltorphin-I, or [(3)H](-)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrodinyl)-1-oxospiro[4,5]dec-8-yl]-4-benzofuranacetamide to label opioid receptor-like 1, mu-, delta- and kappa-receptors, respectively. A region-specific up-regulation of the opioid receptor-like 1 receptor (up to 135%) was seen in brains from homozygous mice. Mu-Receptors also showed significant differences between genotypes whilst changes in delta- and kappa- receptors were minor. In conclusion the region-specific up-regulation of the opioid receptor-like 1 receptor indicates a tonic role for nociceptin/orphanin FQ in some brain structures and may suggest the peptide regulates the receptor expression in these regions. The changes in the opioid receptor-like 1 receptor may relate to the anxiogenic phenotype of these animals but the observed change in mu-receptors does not correlate with altered morphine responses.
Single- and double-label immunohistochemistry were used to determine the extent to which the tyrosine kinase B and C receptors, are expressed in enkephalin-immunopositive or enkephalin-immunonegative neuronal profiles in the rat neostriatum and nucleus accumbens. Results indicate that tyrosine kinase B and C receptors are co-localized in both enkephalin-positive and enkephalin-negative neurons in both of these nuclei, which suggests that these receptors influence both the striatal-pallidal (enkephalin) and striatal-ventral mesencephalic (substance P/dynorphin) pathways. We also examined the influence of acute or repeated injections of cocaine on the number of tyrosine kinase B and C receptors immunoreactive neuronal profiles in the rat neostriatum and nucleus accumbens. Following an acute injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.), there were significant decreases in the number of tyrosine kinase B and C receptors immunoreactive profiles in specific regions of the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens relative to saline-pretreated rats. One or 14 days following the last of seven daily injections of 15 mg/kg cocaine or saline there were no differences in the numbers of tyrosine kinase B or C receptors immunoreactive neuronal profiles between these treatment groups.Collectively, the present results indicate that tyrosine kinase B and C receptors in the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens are co-localized in enkephalin-positive and enkephalin-negative neuronal profiles, which suggests that the striatal medium spiny neurons expressing tyrosine kinase B and C receptors include those that project to the pallidum or the ventral mesencephalon. The current results also show that an acute injection of cocaine results in a decrease in the number of tyrosine kinase B and C receptors immunoreactive neuronal profiles in specific regions of the nucleus accumbens and neostriatum, indicating that cocaine-induced increases in extracellular dopamine in the striatal complex result in compensatory decreases in the expression of tyrosine kinase B and C receptors.
It has been observed that motor neuron death is induced in adult rats by ventral root avulsion which involves pulling out the spinal cord root. Since motor neurons are reported to be selectively vulnerable to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor-mediated injury in vitro, we investigated changes in the expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-receptor subunits in rat spinal motor neurons after ventral root avulsion. The L4-L5 ventral roots of adult Sprague-Dawley rats were avulsed by an extravertebral extraction procedure. After an appropriate survival time, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-receptor subunits were detected immunohistochemically in the L4-L5 segments. Ventral root avulsion resulted in a 60% loss of motor neurons by 14 days after surgery. GluR2 labeling in motor neurons was markedly decreased after avulsion, but before the onset of motor neuron death, while the GluR1 and GluR4 labeling of motor neurons remained unchanged. Intrathecal administration of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-receptor antagonists rescued a significant number of injured motor neurons from cell death. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor antagonists did not prevent motor neuron death. Since the presence of GluR2 subunit renders heteromeric alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors Ca(2+)-impermeable, the downregulation of GluR2 may result in increased formation of GluR2-lacking, Ca(2+)-permeable alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors in motor neurons and could contribute to motor neuron death after ventral root avulsion.
Cutaneous vasoconstrictor responses elicited by salient stimuli in conscious rabbits may be a sensitive physiological index of emotional arousal/anxiety. Ear-pinna blood flow was measured by preimplanted laser Doppler probes, and animals were exposed to situations involving different types of potentially salient stimuli before and after i.v. administration of CP-154526 (15 mg/kg) or diazepam (4 mg/kg). At rest, ear-pinna blood flow was stable (coefficient of varition=11+/-2) and remained at high level 93+/-13% of test time. Exposure to novel environment elicited flow fluctuations (coefficient of variation=79+/-8) and reduced amount of time spent at high level to 25+/-6%. Defined unconditioned stimuli caused rapid falls in ear-pinna flow, with nociceptive stimulation producing more vigorous and consistent effects (flow response index 0.66+/-0.02) compared with non-nociceptive (flow response index 0.49+/-0.04). CP-154526 slightly raised mean arterial pressure (from 81+/-2 to 93+/-3 mmHg), increased heart rate (from 198+/-1 to 220+/-4 beats/min) and produced a mild vasoconstriction in the ear-pinna bed (flow fell from 46+/-10 to 25+/-6 cm/s). CP-154526 substantially reduced cutaneous vasoconstrictor responses elicited by the exposure to novel environment and by defined non-nociceptive stimuli, with flow-response index fall from 0.53+/-0.10 to 0.17+/-0.09 and from 0.47+/-0.04 to 0.24+/-0.04, respectively, without affecting responses to nociceptive stimuli. Diazepam reduced only vasoconstrictor responses elicited by the exposure to novel environment, with flow-response index fall from 0.40+/-0.12 to 0.27+/-0.07. Sensitivity of rapid changes in rabbit ear-pinna blood flow to anxiolytic drugs supports the idea that increased cutaneous vascular tone reflects enhanced arousal in rabbits.
Adenosine is an inhibitory neuromodulator in the CNS. For extracellular adenosine to play a physiological role in the brain, it must be present at effective concentrations. Acetylcholine and noradrenaline are known to play an important role in modulating the activity of cortical neurons, and they might have a role also in the release of adenosine in the cerebral cortex in vivo. We examined whether activation of cholinergic and adrenergic receptors affects extracellular adenosine levels in the cerebral cortex of unanesthetized rats using in vivo microdialysis. All drugs were administered locally within the cortex by reverse dialysis. Both acetylcholine and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine increased extracellular adenosine levels, and the effect of neostigmine was blocked by the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine. Both nicotine and the nicotinic receptor agonist epibatidine increased the concentration of extracellular adenosine. Activation of muscarinic receptors using the nonselective agonist oxotremorine and a selective M1 receptor agonist also increased extracellular adenosine levels. Noradrenaline and the noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor desipramine increased extracellular adenosine levels. The alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor agonist phenylephrine and the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol increased extracellular adenosine levels, whereas the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist clonidine did not have an effect. These findings indicate that activation of specific cholinergic and adrenergic receptors can increase extracellular levels of adenosine in the cortex, and suggest that cholinergic and adrenergic receptor-mediated regulation of adenosine levels may represent a mechanism for controlling the excitability of cortical neurons.
To learn more about molecular alterations in the brain that occur as a consequence of either the chronic excess or absence of peptide neurotransmitters, we examined the impact of genetically manipulating the neuropeptide galanin on the expression of one of its cognate receptors, galanin receptor 1. First, we examined the distribution of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA in the mouse forebrain, and found it to be abundantly expressed in many brain regions, including in numerous hypothalamic and other forebrain regions associated with neuroendocrine function. The distribution of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA in the mouse was similar to previous reports in the rat, with additional expression noted in the caudate putamen and in several midbrain regions. Next, using quantitative in situ hybridization, we measured cellular levels of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA in the brains of mice that either overexpress galanin (galanin transgenic) or lack a functional galanin gene (galanin knockout). We report that relative to wild-type controls, the expression of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA was increased in discrete areas of the brain in galanin-transgenic mice, but that depletion of galanin/noradrenergic innervation to the hypothalamus with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine did not alter levels of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA. We also report that levels of galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA were not different between galanin-knockout and wild-type mice. These results suggest that compensatory adjustments in the expression of cognate receptors represent one mechanism by which the developing nervous system attempts to maintain homeostasis in response to overexpression of a peptidergic transmitter. However, the lack of significant changes in galanin receptor 1 messenger RNA in galanin-knockout mice suggests that developmentally programmed levels of receptor expression are maintained even in the complete absence of ligand.
Using the model of facial nerve avulsion, we have compared the effects of injury, age and diet on motoneuronal survival. One to four weeks after nerve avulsion, 50-75% motoneuron loss was quantified in ad libitum-fed rats aged 7 days (neonate), 6 months (adult) and 24 months (aging) at the time of injury. Evidence of apoptosis was found for neonatal rats at 3 days post-injury, but not for neonates examined 7 days or adult or aging rats examined 1 month after injury. Non-operated, ad libitum-fed rats showed no significant loss of facial motoneurons by 24 months. Surprisingly, non-operated rats whose food intake was restricted to 15 g standard rat chow per day from the age of 6 months lost 50% of their motoneurons by 24 months. Facial nerve avulsion of 24-month-old rats raised on this restricted diet did not result in any additional loss of motoneurons one month after injury. These results challenge the common view that aging results in neuronal loss and that dietary restriction is universally beneficial.
Perinatal asphyxia can cause neuronal loss and depletion of neurotransmitters within the striatum. The striatum plays an important role in motor control, sensorimotor integration and learning. In the present study we investigated whether perinatal asphyxia leads to motor deficits related to striatal damage, and in particular to the loss of GABAergic neurons. Perinatal asphyxia was induced in time-pregnant Wistar rats on the day of delivery by placing the uterus horns, containing the pups, in a 37 degrees C water bath for 20 min. Three motor performance tasks (open field, grip test and walking pattern) were performed at 3 and 6 weeks of age. Antibodies against calbindin and parvalbumin were used to stain GABAergic striatal projection neurons and interneurons, respectively. The motor tests revealed subtle effects of perinatal asphyxia, i.e. small decrease in motor activity. Analysis of the walking pattern revealed an increase in stride width at 6 weeks of age after perinatal asphyxia. Furthermore, a substantial loss of calbindin-immunoreactive (-22%) and parvalbumin-immunoreactive (-43%) cells was found in the striatum following perinatal asphyxia at two months of age. GABA(A) receptor autoradiography revealed no changes in GABA binding activity within the striatum, globus pallidus or substantia nigra. We conclude that perinatal asphyxia resulted in a loss of GABAergic projection neurons and interneurons in the striatum without alteration of GABA(A) receptor affinity. Despite a considerable loss of striatal neurons, only minor deficits in motor performance were found after perinatal asphyxia.
The vestibular neuronal groups that project to the cerebellum were mapped in midterm chick embryos (10-11 days in &quot;ovo&quot;) through &quot;in vitro &quot; retrograde tracing experiments. Massive unilateral deposits of biotin-dextranamine were placed at the basis of the cerebellum to label the cerebellar peduncles. Separate rostral and caudal vestibulo-cerebellar groups were identified, with predominance of contralateral neurons. We tentatively identified the rhombomeric location of both groups, as well as their topography within the conventional cytoarchitectonically-defined vestibular nuclei, by comparison with previously established segmental fate maps. The rostral group extended from rhombomeres 1-4 (r1-r4) and was restricted mainly to the superior vestibular nucleus. The caudal group stretched from r6 to pseudorhombomere &quot;r8&quot; and was related to the descending and medial vestibular nuclei. The less abundant ipsilateral vestibulocerebellar neurons had a similar topography. The crossing axons of the rostral vestibulocerebellar neurons formed a distinct rostral vestibulocerebellar decussation, restricted to the floorplate of rhombomere 2. The axons of the caudal vestibulocerebellar population mostly decussated associated to the deep cochlear commissure. The present results extend the &quot;segmental hodological mosaic&quot; of defined projection-neuron groups identified within the avian vestibular nuclear complex: The vestibulocerebellar projecting neurons as a type appear iterated from r1 to r4 and from r6 to pseudorhombomere &quot;r8,&quot; albeit showing in their arrangement peculiarities related to single segmental domains, particularly rostrally. In contrast, the vestibulospinal groups are located more restrictedly in r4-r6, while the vestibulo-ocular projecting neurons extend from r1 to &quot;r7.&quot; Only r4 and r6 contain elements of all three hodological types. The organization of the three vestibular projection populations studied to date seems comparable in chicken and frogs and may be a conserved feature in vertebrates.
Organotypic slice co-culture of the ventromedial portion of the mesencephalon and striatum was used to evaluate the neurotoxicity of 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline, an endogenous brain amine related to Parkinson's disease. 1-Benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline is specifically increased in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Parkinson's disease and induces parkinsonian features in the monkey and mouse. Here, it decreased the dopamine content of the cultured mesencephalon in both dose- (10-100 microM) and time- (24 h to 7 days) dependent manners. This result suggests that the neurotoxicity of 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline is correlated with the overall exposure (concentration multiplied by exposure time). Culture with 100 microM 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline for 24 h irreversibly reduced the dopamine content. Furthermore, culture with 100 microM 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline for 10 days caused morphological changes, including cell body shrinkage and distortion of dendritic morphology, in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the mesencephalon and reduced the number of cells by half. The increase in lactate dehydrogenase activity in the media produced by 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline was significant in culture of the mesencephalon alone or its co-culture with striatum, but not in cultures of other brain regions. We suggest that 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline is toxic to tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the ventral mesencephalon and that it is correlated with the integral of the concentration by time of exposure. Thus a low concentration of 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline may first induce a decrease in the dopamine content then shrinkage of the cell body, followed by the slow death of dopaminergic neurons over a long period. This is the first report that indicates 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline exerts neurotoxicity at the cellular level, and reveals in part the character of its neurotoxicity.
The number of neurons in the brain is controlled by production of new neurons and neuronal death. Neural progenitor proliferation in the developing and adult brain plays a prominent role in the production of new neurons. Here, we examined the effects of lithium, a mood-stabilizing drug, on neuronal proliferation in rat primary neuronal cultures. The incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) into replicating DNA was used to label proliferating cells. BrdU incorporation was detected by immunocytochemistry in cerebellar granule cells prepared from postnatal rats and cerebral cortical cultures prepared from embryonic rats. Quantification of BrdU incorporation into cultures was performed by counting BrdU-positive cells and BrdU-coupled enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Both methods revealed that lithium increased BrdU incorporation in cerebellar granule cells and cerebral cortical cultures. Most BrdU-positive cells colocalized with nestin, a neuroblast cell marker, in cerebral cortical cultures. Blockade of DNA replication by cytosine arabinoside almost completely abolished BrdU incorporation, suggesting that lithium-induced BrdU incorporation was mainly due to enhanced DNA replication. Glutamate, glucocorticoids and haloperidol were found to markedly reduce neural progenitor proliferation in cerebellar granule cells. The presence of lithium prevented the loss of proliferation induced by these agents. Lithium-induced neural progenitor proliferation in vitro suggests that similar effects might occur in vivo and this action could also be related to its clinical efficacy. Cultured brain neurons may provide a valuable model for studying the molecular mechanisms underlying lithium-induced up-regulation of neural proliferation.
Patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection may develop a dementing illness. Using both in vitro and in vivo models, we investigated the susceptibility of the hippocampal formation to the Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus. We also determined the pattern of hippocampal injury in patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis. Following exposure of hippocampal slices to Tat, marked susceptibility of CA3 region with relative insensitivity of the CA1/2 region was observed. Injection of Tat into different regions of the rat hippocampus produced similar neuronal loss in both CA3 region and the dentate gyrus. In animals administered Tat, lesions were dose-dependent and immunohistochemical staining showed marked gliosis and loss of microtubule associated protein-2 in the affected areas at 3 days post-injection. Interestingly, synaptophysin staining was relatively preserved. In hippocampal tissue from patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis, loss of microtubule-associated protein-2 staining was reduced in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The results of our experiments demonstrate a unique pattern of hippocampal injury in organotypic culture and rats exposed to Tat. Our observations that patients with human immunodeficiency virus reveal a similar pattern of damage suggests that Tat protein may be pathophysiological relevant in human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis.
The functional changes of astrocytes are deeply involved in neurodegenerating processes of various CNS diseases. ATP is released during various neuronal damages such as brain ischemia and may control astrocyte functions. We examined the effect of ATP on the production of nitric oxide in the cultured astrocytes from rat embryo. The astrocytes were stimulated by lipopolysaccharide instead of pathological activation in vivo. Nitric oxide production was evaluated by the fluorometric assay of nitrite accumulated in the medium. The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase was analyzed by Western blotting. Nitric oxide production induced by 1 ng/ml lipopolysaccharide was enhanced by ATP with maximal enhancement of three- to four-fold; a half-effective concentration was about 0.3 mM. In the absence of ATP, half-effective concentration of lipopolysaccharide on nitric oxide production was about 3 ng/ml; however, half-effective concentration shifted to 0.3 ng/ml in the presence of 1.5-mM ATP. Several other P2 receptor agonists (uridine triphosphate, ADP, adenosine monophosphate, 2'- and 3'-O - (4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP, and 2-methylthioATP) showed a similar enhancing effect, and an antagonist, ATP-2',3'-dialdehyde, showed an inhibiting effect. Western blotting analysis revealed that the extent of lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of nitric oxide synthase increased several-fold by the addition of ATP; half-effective concentration was about 0.5 mM. These results suggest that the extracellular ATP plays an important role as a transmitter and regulates astrocyte functions via a certain P2 receptor and that such a change in astrocyte function is involved in either protection or aggravation in neurodegenerative processes.
We have reported in our previous work that, in the absence of HCO(3)(-), Na(+)/H(+) exchanger is responsible for an anoxia-induced alkalinization in hippocampal CA1 neurons. HCO(3)(-)-dependent mechanisms have been reported to play a key role in pH(i) regulation in nerve cells, but how their function is affected by O(2) deprivation has not been well studied. In this work, pH(i) measurements (obtained from dissociated neurons loaded with carboxy-seminaphthorhodafluor-1 and using confocal microscopy) and whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques were used to investigate the role of HCO(3)(-)-dependent membrane exchangers on CA1 neurons during O(2) deprivation. Anoxia (5 min) induced a small acidification in neurons in the presence of HCO(3)(-) and this acidification was changed to a significant alkalinization when neurons were bathed with Hepes buffer or when 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid was applied in a HCO(3)(-) solution, indicating that HCO(3)(-)-dependent mechanisms were involved. A marked anoxia-induced acidification (0.33+/-0.11 pH unit) was seen when the Na(+)/H(+) exchange was blocked with 3-(methylsulfonyl-4-piperidino-benzoyl)-guanidine methanesulfonate in the presence of HCO(3)(-), but the same anoxia did not cause a significant pH(i) change in a Na(+) free, HCO(3)(-) solution, suggesting that the anoxia-induced acidification in the presence of 3-(methylsulfonyl-4-piperidino-benzoyl)-guanidine methanesulfonate is dependent on both Na(+) and HCO(3)(-). Furthermore, anoxia did not cause a significant pH(i) change when both 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and 3-(methylsulfonyl-4-piperidino-benzoyl)-guanidine methanesulfonate were present. Current clamp recordings showed a significant membrane depolarization following anoxia in HCO(3)(-) solution but not in Hepes buffer. Our data suggest that, in hippocampal neurons: a) pH(i) regulation during O(2) deprivation is affected not only by metabolism but also by membrane exchangers, and b) besides the activation of Na(+)/H(+) exchange, anoxia activates a 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid-sensitive, Na(+)-dependent acid loader (possibly electrogenic).
Programmed cell death, or apoptosis, has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease. Mutations in the presenilin (PS) genes, PS1 and PS2, are a major cause of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Previous studies have suggested that the PS play a role in apoptosis. However, the mechanisms whereby presenilins affect apoptosis and the relationship of FAD-associated presenilin mutants to the apoptotic effect have not been elucidated. In the present study, in an attempt to further explore the effect of PS2 on apoptosis we examined whether overexpression of wild-type or mutant PS2 can directly induce apoptosis or increase cell susceptibility to apoptosis in various cell lines, such as N2a, CHO, and HEK 293T. Wild-type or mutant PS2 was transiently transfected into these cell lines and the viability of the transfected cells was evaluated by their morphology, DNA fragmentation and condensation, appearance of sub-G(1/0) cells, and caspase activation. We also examined the susceptibility of the PS2-transfected cells to apoptosis induced by the apoptotic inducers staurosporine and H(2)O(2). Our results showed that overexpression of either wild type or mutant PS2 in these cell lines did not directly induce apoptosis or increase the susceptibility to apoptosis induced by staurosporine or H(2)O(2). Taken together, these results suggest that overexpression of PS2 does not cause pro-apoptotic effects, at least not in the cellular systems and conditions employed in this study, and therefore it seems unlikely that apoptosis plays a prominent role in the neuropathological effects of PS2 in Alzheimer's disease.
The formation of chemical synapses in the mammalian brain involves complex pre- and postsynaptic differentiation processes. Presynaptically, the progressive accumulation of synaptic vesicles is a hallmark of synapse maturation in the neocortex [J Neurocytol 12 (1983b) 697]. In this study, we analyzed the functional consequences of presynaptic vesicle-pool maturation at central glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. Using (N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl)pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43) staining of recycling synaptic vesicles, we demonstrate a pronounced developmental increase in presynaptic vesicle accumulation during differentiation of neocortical neurons in culture. Using electrophysiological methods to study functional synaptic maturation, we found an improved recovery from hypertonic solution-induced depletion. As supported by the FM1-43 staining results, this change is most likely caused by a developmental increase in the number of reserve-pool vesicles. In addition, assuming a rapid reuse of freshly recycled vesicles, a developmental maturation of the endocytosis process may also contribute. The observed presynaptic maturation process occurred selectively at glutamatergic synapses, while GABAergic synapses did not show similar developmental alterations. Furthermore, we used high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses to reveal the physiological consequences of reserve-pool maturation. As expected, recovery from HFS-induced depletion was incomplete at immature glutamatergic synapses and strongly improved during synapse maturation. Again, GABAergic synapses did not show similar developmental changes. Taken together, our study characterizes the functional consequences of a pronounced accumulation of reserve-pool vesicles occurring selectively at glutamatergic synapses.
The chemical organization of excitatory axon terminals in the rat cerebellar cortex was examined by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry of vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGluT1 and VGluT2). Chemical depletion of the inferior olivary complex neurons by 3-acetylpyridine treatment almost completely removed VGluT2 immunoreactivity from the molecular layer, leaving VGluT1 immunoreactivity apparently intact. On the other hand, neuronal deprivation of the cerebellar cortex by kainic acid injection induced a large loss of VGluT1 immunoreactivity in the molecular layer. In the cerebellar granular layer, both VGluT1 and VGluT2 immunoreactivities were found in mossy fiber terminals, and the two immunoreactivities were mostly colocalized in single-axon terminals. Signals for mRNA encoding VGluT2 were found in the inferior olivary complex, and those for VGluT1 and VGluT2 mRNAs were observed in most brainstem precerebellar nuclei sending mossy fibers, such as the pontine, pontine tegmental reticular, lateral reticular and external cuneate nuclei. These results indicate that climbing and parallel fibers selectively use VGluT2 and VGluT1, respectively, whereas mossy fibers apply both VGluT1 and VGluT2 together to accumulate glutamate into synaptic vesicles. Since climbing-fiber and parallel-fiber terminals are known to make depressing and facilitating synapses, respectively, VGluT1 and VGluT2 might have distinct properties associated with those synaptic characteristics. Thus, it would be the next interesting issue to determine whether mossy-fiber terminals co-expressing VGluT1 and VGluT2 show synaptic facilitation or depression.
The adenosine agonist cyclohexaladenosine injected into the medial pontine reticular formation of the rat induces a long-lasting increase in rapid eye movement sleep. To investigate the adenosine receptor-subtype(s) mediating this effect, the dose-response relationships for increasing rapid eye movement sleep by two highly selective adenosine receptor agonists were compared. Rats were surgically prepared for chronic sleep recording and bilateral guide cannulae were aimed at medial sites in the caudal, oral pontine reticular formation. Injections were made unilaterally in 60 nl volumes within 1 h after lights-on. The adenosine agonists used were A1-selective cyclohexaladenosine (10(-6)-10(-4) M) and A2a-selective CGS 21680 (10(-7)-10(-3) M). Each animal also received a series of three, paired-consecutive injections of the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (4x10(-3) M) followed by the lowest effective dose of each agonist or saline as control. The A2a receptor agonist, CGS 21680, was one order of magnitude more potent than the A1 receptor agonist, cyclohexaladenosine, in inducing rapid eye movement sleep increases. Preinjection of atropine at a dose that did not itself affect rapid eye movement sleep resulted in antagonism of CGS 21680, but not cyclohexaladenosine-induced rapid eye movement sleep. The differential sensitivity of these ligands to antagonism by atropine supports the conclusion that both A1 and A2a adenosine receptor subtypes in the reticular formation subserve agonist-induced rapid eye movement sleep and that they do so by independent mechanisms. The A2a mechanism requires the cholinergic system and may act through the increased release of acetylcholine. The A1 mechanism operates at a different locus possibly through an inhibition of GABA neurotransmission.
We have previously shown that conditioned fear to context increases Fos expression in the caudal ventrolateral region of the periaqueductal gray in the rat. To understand the reason for this activation and its role in the expression of the contextual fear response, the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray was temporarily blocked with bilateral microinjections (0.4 microl) of the GABA agonist muscimol (0.2 mM) or the glutamate antagonist kynurenic acid (0.1 M). Cardiovascular changes and activity were recorded by radio-telemetry and the microinjections were made immediately before testing the conditioned response in the aversive context. Muscimol and kynurenic acid had the same effects: when compared to saline controls, freezing immobility and ultrasonic vocalizations were reduced and replaced by marked locomotor activity, and the increase in heart rate was enhanced; however, the increase in arterial blood pressure remained the same. Interesting changes were also observed when animals were returned to the safe context of their home box after fear (recovery). Basically, the recovery response was either prevented or delayed: instead of returning to resting immobility, the rats remained agitated in their home box with a moderately elevated activity, heart rate and blood pressure. However, the effect of ventrolateral periaqueductal gray blockade on heart rate, arterial pressure and activity did not appear to be specific to the fear response or its recovery because they were also observed in animals returned to the safe context of their home box immediately after injection. The later response was also a recovery response from the milder stress of handling and the injection procedure.We discuss the results by arguing that the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is involved in the immobility component of both the fear response and poststress recovery responses. To explain our interpretation we consider the findings in relation to the classic descending defence-arousal system and the hyporeactive-hypotensive immobility pattern that has been attributed to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. We propose that there is a dual activation of the defence-arousal system and of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray during fear, with the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray acting as a brake on the defence-arousal system. The role of this brake is to impose immobility and hold off active defence responses such as fight and flight. The result of this combination of arousal and immobility is a hyperreactive freezing immobility associated with ultrasonic vocalizations, and a pressor response accompanied with a slow rise in heart rate. Basically, the animal is tense and ready for action but temporarily immobilised. The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray also acts to impose immobility during recovery; however, this is without coactivation of the defence-arousal system. The result is a return to resting immobility, associated with a return to baseline blood pressure and heart rate. This is an active process that insures a faster and complete return to rest. We conclude that the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is an immobility center involved not only in the fear response but also in poststress recovery responses.
The neurophysiological basis of the face inversion effect was studied with magneto- and electro-encephalography in 10 normal subjects. Spatiotemporal analyses using dipole modeling was performed on combined evoked magneto and electro-encephalography data to hemifield presentation of upright and inverted faces and objects. Inferior temporal cortex, i.e. fusiform gyrus, and lateral temporal cortex near the superior temporal sulcus were activated simultaneously, but independently, at 140-200 ms post-stimulus to upright and inverted unfamiliar faces. Right hemisphere inferior temporal cortex and lateral temporal cortex were active in all subjects, and in the left hemisphere in half the subjects. Latencies to inverted relative to upright faces were longer in the right hemisphere, and shorter in the left hemisphere. For right hemifield stimulation ipsilateral activation delay was around 18-19 ms for both upright and inverted faces and was calculated from all 10 subjects. For left hemifield stimulation, and the data from 7 of 10 subjects, it was 22 and 29 ms to upright and inverted faces, respectively. In sum, the methods used in this study did not identify clear differences in anatomical location of activated regions to upright and inverted faces. We believe, however, that the differences in processing upright versus inverted faces are attributable to temporal processing differences rather than to processing of information by different brain regions.
Intrathecal pertussis toxin injection has been used as a neuropathic pain model. In the present study, its effects on cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry and nociceptive behavioral expression were examined in rats. Cerebrospinal fluid dialysate samples were collected and pertussis toxin was injected using an intrathecally implanted dialysis loop catheter; samples were collected and hyperalgesia behavior was noted every 2 days for 8 days after pertussis toxin injection. Pertussis toxin injection induced thermal hyperalgesia which peaked between day 2 and 4; no cold allodynia was observed. Pertussis toxin at all doses tested (0.5, 1, or 2 microg) also induced a significant increase in cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of aspartate and glutamate between days 2 and 8, while level of the inhibitory amino acid glycine were significantly decreased by the two higher doses of pertussis toxin. Intrathecal administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosponovaleric acid (10 microg) or glycine (200 microg), inhibited pertussis toxin-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Pertussis toxin injection had no effect on serine, glutamine, and taurine concentrations. These results show that intrathecal pertussis toxin injection induces thermal hyperalgesia and it is associated with an increasing of excitatory and a decreasing of inhibitory amino acids release in the spinal cord.
Changes in sleep-wake states and nitric oxide release were examined in aged rats versus young-adult ones. Sleep-wake recordings and nitric oxide measurements were taken from animals chronically equipped with polygraphic and voltametric electrodes. Animals were examined in baseline conditions and in response to a 24-hour paradoxical sleep deprivation. In aged rats, basal amount of paradoxical sleep is decreased during the light phase versus young-adult animals. After paradoxical sleep deprivation, a paradoxical sleep rebound occurs with an amount and intensity that are less marked in aged animals than in young-adult rats. The amplitude of the circadian distribution for wakefulness, slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep amounts is reduced with age. Finally, delta-slow-wave sleep and theta-paradoxical sleep power spectra are attenuated either in baseline conditions or after paradoxical sleep deprivation in aged animals. It is also reported that cortical nitric oxide release exhibits a circadian rhythm with higher amplitude in aged rats than in young-adult ones. However, after paradoxical sleep deprivation, a limited overproduction of nitric oxide is obtained compared with young-adult ones. These results, evidencing the dynamics of the nitric oxide changes occurring in relation to the sleep-wake cycle, point out the homeostatic paradoxical sleep regulation as an age-dependent process in which the nitric oxide molecule is possibly involved.
Estrogen replacement therapy is thought to attenuate the incidence of Alzheimer's disease in women and enhance cognitive functions. In rodents, estrogen protects cerebral cortical neurons from ischemic injury and cultured neurons from a variety of perturbations. Because few nuclear estrogen receptors have been detected in the dorsal hippocampus, the present studies used a global ischemia model to evaluate the neuroprotective actions of estrogen in this region. Ovariectomized gerbils were treated with placebo, 0.5 mg or 1 mg pellets of estradiol for 13 days. On day 7, the common carotid arteries were occluded for 5 min and on day 13 the animals were killed. Analysis of neurogranin mRNA, a marker of hippocampal neurons, with in situ hybridization revealed a dramatic and selective loss of CA1 neurons in the placebo-treated ovariectomized gerbils, whereas both 0.5 mg and 1 mg pellets of 17beta-estradiol prevented cell loss. Subsequent studies showed that a variety of estrogens, including diethylstilbestrol, estrone and 17alpha-estradiol as well as vitamin E, also protected CA1 neurons from ischemic injury in ovariectomized gerbils, whereas treatment with the estrogen antagonist tamoxifen was ineffective. The results of in vivo binding studies with 17alpha-iodovinyl-11beta-methoxyestradiol revealed a concentration of nuclear estrogen binding sites in the CA1 region of the ovariectomized gerbil brain, whereas binding in other hippocampal regions was limited. Moreover, the binding studies revealed that the regional pattern of binding was not altered after ischemic injury, with the exception of the hippocampus, where the binding sites were attenuated in ovariectomized animals with time after ischemic injury. Together, these data demonstrate that a variety of steroidal and non-steroidal estrogens are potent neuroprotective agents in an animal model of global ischemia, agents that protect neurons critical for learning and memory and susceptible to neurodegenerative diseases.
The pattern of peripheral nerve inputs into the dorsal column nuclei, cuneate and gracile, was investigated in the prosimian Galago garnetti. The major findings were, that there is a greater segregation of the inputs from the fingers/hand within the cuneate compared with input form the toes/foot within the gracile. In both nuclei, cell clusters can be identified as cytochrome oxidase dense blotches, reactive also for the activity-dependent enzyme nitric oxide synthase. In the cuneate, cell clusters were apparent as six main cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase-reactive ovals arranged in a medial to lateral sequence. In contrast in the gracile, a higher degree of parcellation was noted and several cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches were distributed along the rostrocaudal axis of the nucleus. This different architecture parallels differences in the organization of the inputs from the hand and from the foot. In the cuneate, cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled terminals from the glabrous and hairy skin of digits d1 to d5 segregated in each of the five most lateral cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches. Afferents from the thenar, palmar pads and hypothenar overlapped with those from digit 1, digit 2 to digit 4 and digit 5, respectively. Inputs from wrist arm and shoulder were segregated in the most medial blotch. In the gracile, multiple foci of cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled terminals were observed upon injections of single sites in the toes or plantar pads. Although in multiple foci, inputs from different toes segregated from one another as well. Terminals from the plantar pads appeared to converge on the same cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches targeted by inputs from the toes. In both the cuneate and the gracile, cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches also presented intense immunoreactivity for GABA, calbindin, parvalbumin, and brain derived neurotrophic factor. Finally, in the cuneate the cell cluster region presented similarities in prosimian galagos and four species of New World monkeys, whereas it appeared more differentiated and complex in the Old Word macaque monkeys. In conclusion, the different pattern of segregation of the inputs from the hand and from the foot can be related to the different metabolic organization of the cuneate and of the gracile, respectively.
Previous work indicated that glutamate could be involved in the regulation of catecholamine secretion in bovine chromaffin cells. Thus, the question arises on the source of this putative regulatory glutamate. In this work we have examined the possibility that glutamate could be released from chromaffin cells. Data from this study indicate that chromaffin cells are able to release glutamate when they are stimulated by different depolarising agents such as 60 mM KCl, 1 mM 4-aminopyridine or 50 microM veratridine. The amount of glutamate released by these compounds was 0.32 nmol/10(6) cells (9.24% of cellular glutamate content), 0.275 (7.86%) and 0.158 (4.52%) for KCl, 4-AP and veratridine stimulation, respectively. All these catecholamine-secretagogues induced glutamate secretion by two mechanisms: 1) a Ca(2+)-dependent, probably exocytotic, mechanism and 2) a Ca(2+)-independent mechanism mediated by reversion of the electrogenic glutamate transporter. Analysis of Ca(2+)-dependent and independent releases for different compounds carried out by several experimental approaches, indicate that Ca(2+)-dependent release was the predominant mechanism for release induced by 4-aminopyridine (84% of total release) and high KCl (63%) whilst Ca(2+)-independent release was predominant for veratridine (67%). The Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate release evoked by depolarisation of chromaffin cells with high KCl and 4-AP could be split into both a fast and a slow kinetic component, which might correspond to the release of docked and mobilised chromaffin granules, respectively. On the other hand, depolarisation of cells with veratridine result in glutamate release with only the fast kinetic component. In the case of 60 mM KCl-evoked glutamate release, the fast component exhibited a decay time of &lt;1 s and accounted for 0.63 nmol glu/6x10(6) cells (70% of total exocytotic release), whereas the slow component, which exhibited a decay time of 231 s, accounted for the release of 0.27 nmol glu/6x10(6) cells (30% of total exocytotic release). By contrast in the case of 4-aminopyridine the fast component of exocytosis only represents a 19% of total secretion and the slow a 81% with a decay time of 94 s. These data are very similar to those found in neurones and support the possible intracellular origin of glutamate having a role in the regulation of catecholamine secretion from chromaffin cells. In support of this, we have found that glutamate secretion could be evoked by stimulation of the nicotinic cholinergic receptors.
Dynorphin A (1-17) is an endogenous opioid peptide that is antinociceptive at physiological concentrations, but in excess can elicit a number of pathological effects. Both kappa-opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists modulate dynorphin toxicity, suggesting that dynorphin is acting directly or indirectly through these receptor types. We found in spinal cord neurons that the neurotoxic effects of dynorphin A and several dynorphin-derived peptide fragments are largely mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Despite these findings, aspects of dynorphin A toxicity could not be accounted for by opioid or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mechanisms. To address this issue, neurons enriched in kappa-opioid, N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors were isolated from embryonic day-15 mouse striata and the effects of extracellularly administered dynorphin A (1-17) and (13-17) on neuronal survival were examined in vitro. Unlike spinal cord neurons, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors mature later than alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptors in striatal neurons, thus providing a strategy to elucidate non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated mechanisms of toxicity. Time-lapse photography was used to repeatedly follow the same neurons before and during experimental treatments. Dynorphin A (1-17 or 13-17; 10 microM) caused significant neuronal losses after 48 to 72 hours versus untreated controls. Dynorphin A or A (13-17) toxicity was unaffected by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (10 microM) or by dizocilpine (10 microM). In contrast, the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline- 2,3-dione (10 microM) significantly attenuated only dynorphin A (1-17)-induced neuronal losses and not that induced by dynorphin A (13-17). Dynorphin A (1-17) toxicity was accompanied by a proportional loss of R2 and R3 subunits of the AMPA receptor complex, but not non-N-methyl-D-aspartateR1, expressing neurons and was mimicked by the ampakine 1-(1,4-benzodioxan-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine. Although it is unclear whether dynorphin A activates alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptors directly or indirectly via glutamate release, our culture conditions do not support glutamate retention or accumulation. Our findings suggest that dynorphin A (1-17) can exert toxic effects on striatal neurons via an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptor mechanism.
In the hippocampus, chelatable zinc is accumulated in vesicles of glutamatergic presynaptic terminals, abounding specially in the mossy fibers, from where it is released with activity and can exert a powerful inhibitory action upon N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Zinc is therefore in a strategic situation to control overexcitation at the zinc-rich excitatory synapses, and consequently zinc removal during high activity might result in excitotoxic neuronal damage. We analyzed the effect of zinc chelation with sodium dietyldithiocarbamate under overexcitation conditions induced by non-lesioning doses of kainic acid in the mouse hippocampus, to get insight into the role of zinc under overexcitation. Swiss male mice were injected with kainic acid (15 mg/kg, i.p.) 15 min prior to sodium dietyldithiocarbamate (150 mg/kg, i.p.), and left to survive for 6 h, 1 day, 4 days, or 7 days after the treatment. Cell damage was analyzed with the hematoxylin-eosin and acid fuchsin stainings. Neither control animals treated only with kainic acid nor those treated only with sodium dietyldithiocarbamate suffered seizures or neuronal damage. By contrast, the kainic acid+sodium dietyldithiocarbamate-treated animals showed convulsive behavior and cell death involving the hilus, CA3, and CA1 regions. Pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK801 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) completely prevented neuronal damage. Experiments combining different doses of sodium dietyldithiocarbamate and kainic acid with different administration schedules demonstrated that the overlap of zinc chelation and overexcitation is necessary to trigger the observed effects. Moreover, the treatment with a high dose of sodium dietyldithiocarbamate (1000 mg/kg), which produced a complete bleaching of the Timm staining for approximately 12 h, highly increased the sensitivity of animals to kainic acid. Altogether, our results indicate that the actions of sodium dietyldithiocarbamate are based on a reduction of zinc levels, which under overexcitation conditions induce seizures and neuronal damage. These findings fully support a protective role for synaptically released zinc during high neuronal activity, most probably mediated by its inhibitory actions on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and argue against a direct action of synaptic zinc on the observed neuronal damage.
The combination of high performance liquid chromatography, bioassay and immunocytochemistry was applied to study the regulation of the salivary duct muscle of the snail, Helix pomatia. The major function of the duct appears to be to propel the saliva toward the buccal cavity during feeding. It has been established that serotonin and dopamine applied exogenously mimic the effect on the duct exerted by the stimulation of the salivary nerve. Immunohistochemistry revealed the presence of serotonin, but not dopaminergic nerve elements in the nerve and along the duct surface. However, both serotonin (14.9-15.5 pmol/mg) and dopamine (0.38-0.58 pmol/mg), as well as the synthesizing enzymes (tyrozine hydroxylase 0.28 pmol/mg tissue/h and DOPA 0.32 nmol synthesized DA/mg tissue/h) could regularly be assayed in the salivary duct by high performance liquid chromatography. When released following the stimulation of the salivary nerve, both monoamines were shown to interact with distinct membrane receptors. Dopamine elicited a sustained increase of the muscle tone in concentration-dependent manner (K(d)=1.5 microM). Mammalian D(1) receptor antagonist flupenthixol and fluphenazine attenuated, whereas the D(1) receptor agonist SKF-38393 mimicked the effect elicited by exogenous dopamine. Serotonin had a double effect on the salivary duct: a relaxing and a contracting one with different K(d) values 76 nM and 2.4 microM, respectively. 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist ritanserin and ketanserin attenuated the serotonin-induced relaxation. In contrast 5-HT(3) antagonist metoclopramide and MDL2222 decreased and 5-HT(3) receptor agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide mimicked the serotonin-induced contraction, suggesting that serotonin exerted its action on two different receptor subtypes. The release of radiolabeled serotonin and dopamine upon nerve stimulation was found to be Ca-dependent. Furthermore, the increase in serotonin concentration induced a decrease of the potency of dopamine to elicit sustained contraction. These results provide evidence for the transmitter role of serotonin and dopamine in salivary duct. It is concluded that receptors reveal a pharmacological profile related to vertebrate D(1), 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(3) receptor subtypes. Moreover, it was found that the process of conveying the saliva is modulated by an interaction of dopamine and serotonin.
The autoradiographic distribution of tachykinin NK(2) binding sites was determined in the adult rat brain using [(125)I]neurokinin A in the presence of either senktide (NK(3) agonist) and [Pro(9)]substance P (NK(1) agonist) or senktide and SR 140333 (NK(1) antagonist). Indeed, this radioligand labels two subtypes of NK(1) binding sites (which present a high affinity not only for SP but also for neurokinin A, neuropeptide K and neuropeptide gamma) as well as NK(3) binding sites. The distribution of NK(2) binding sites was also compared with those of NK(1) and NK(3) binding sites, these sites being labeled with [(125)I]Bolton and Hunter substance P and [(125)I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin, respectively. In agreement with our results obtained with membranes from various brain structures, NK(2)-sensitive [(125)I]neurokinin A labeling was mainly observed in few structures including the dorsal and ventral hippocampus, the septum, the thalamus and the prefrontal cortex. The density of NK(2) binding sites was weak when compared with those of NK(1) and NK(3) binding sites. Marked differences were observed in the distributions of NK(1), NK(2) and NK(3) binding sites. These results are discussed taking into consideration differences or similarities between the distributions of NK(2)-sensitive [(125)I]neurokinin A binding sites and of their endogenous ligands (neurokinin A, neuropeptide K and neuropeptide gamma) but also local NK(2) agonist responses blocked by NK(2) antagonists. Insights on the roles of endogenous tachykinins in several brain functions are also discussed on the basis of the respective distributions of different neurokinin binding sites.
We have investigated the modulation by ceramide of the nicotinic activation of the prevertebral sympathetic neurons. Our study was performed in vitro in rabbit isolated coeliac ganglion, using intracellular recording techniques. We have used C(2) ceramide, a permeant analog of ceramide. The effects of C(2) ceramide were first assessed when nicotinic activation was elicited without modulatory mechanisms (fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials triggered by stimulation of the thoracic splanchnic nerves with a single pulse). In all the neurons tested, C(2) ceramide triggered an increase in the amplitude of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials demonstrating a direct facilitatory effect on the nicotinic activation. We then investigated the effects of C(2) ceramide on modulatory mechanisms of this activation. These mechanisms occur when a train of pulses of supramaximum intensity is applied on the splanchnic nerves. During the train, a gradual depression of fast nicotinic activation occurred: the pulses failed to systematically elicit action potentials. We have previously demonstrated that this regulatory phenomenon is partly modulated by nitric oxide which exerts a dual effect: facilitation or inhibition of the nicotinic activation. In all the neurons tested, C(2) ceramide decreased the number of action potentials fired during a train of pulses, demonstrating an indirect inhibitory effect on the nicotinic activation. The use of 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (nitric oxide scavenger) suppressed the inhibitory effect of C(2) ceramide, demonstrating that this effect is mediated through the nitric oxide pathway. C(2) dihydro-ceramide, an inactive analog of ceramide, was without effect on the nicotinic activation of the ganglionic neurons. These results demonstrate that ceramide exerts a complex modulation of the nicotinic activation of the prevertebral neurons: direct facilitation and indirect inhibition involving the nitric oxide pathway. In fact, C(2) ceramide plays a key gating role in the dual effect of the nitric oxide pathway by activating the inhibitory effect. The existence of this gating mechanism involving ceramide and nitric oxide opens new perspectives in terms of our understanding of the modulation of synaptic transmission within the prevertebral ganglia. Our study demonstrates that sphingolipids are involved in complex modulations of the synaptic activation within the prevertebral ganglia, and thus contribute to their integrative properties.
The persistent maintenance of long-term potentiation requires both messenger RNA and protein synthesis. While there is mounting evidence for an active role of protein synthesis in hippocampal long-term potentiation, the nature of mechanisms underlying its regulation has not yet been established. We used a previously described chemical long-term potentiation protocol [J Neurosci 19 (1999) 2500] to address the hypothesis that signaling mechanisms, involved in long-lasting long-term potentiation, directly regulate protein synthesis. Chemical long-term potentiation is an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent form of plasticity, which relies on both synaptic activity, in the form of spontaneous bursting induced by high concentrations of K(+) and Ca(2+), and cyclic AMP/adenylyl cyclase signaling. We found that chemical long-term potentiation in CA1 of the mouse hippocampus lasts for at least 3 hours and requires both messenger RNA and protein synthesis. However, surprisingly de novo total protein synthesis was paradoxically decreased at 1 hour after long-term potentiation induction. Consistent with the decrease in total protein synthesis in potentiated CA1, phosphorylation of eukaryotic elongation factor 2 was increased and is likely responsible for inhibition of translation at the elongation step. Increased phosphorylation of eukaryotic elongation factor 2 was dependent on coincident cyclic AMP/adenylyl cyclase activation and synaptic activity and required N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. Despite the inhibition in total protein synthesis, the level of the immediate early gene protein Arc (activity regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein) increased at 1 hour after chemical long-term potentiation induction. Taken together, the results suggest that regulation at the elongation step of protein synthesis contributes to persistent forms of long-term potentiation.
Some retinal ganglion cells in adult cats survive axotomy for two months and regenerate their axons when a peripheral nerve is transplanted to the transected optic nerve. However, regenerated retinal ganglion cells were fewer than 4% of the total retinal ganglion cell population in the intact retina. The present study examined the effects of intravitreal injections of neurotrophic factors (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 4), first on the survival of axotomized cat retinal ganglion cells within 2 weeks, and then on axonal regeneration of the retinal ganglion cells for 2 months after peripheral nerve transplantation. We tested first enhancement of the survival by one of the factors, and then one or two of them supplemented with forskolin, which increases intracellular cAMP. Single injections of 0.5 microg or 1 microg brain-derived neurotrophic factor, 1 microg ciliary neurotrophic factor, or 1 microg glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor significantly increased total numbers of surviving retinal ganglion cells; 1.6-1.8 times those in control retinas. Identification of retinal ganglion cell types with Lucifer Yellow injections revealed that the increase of surviving beta cells was most conspicuous: 2.5-fold (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) to 3.6-fold (ciliary neurotrophic factor). A combined injection of 1 microg brain-derived neurotrophic factor, 1 microg ciliary neurotrophic factor, and 0.1 mg forskolin resulted in a 4.7-fold increase of surviving beta cells, i.e. 50% survival on day 14. On the axonal regeneration by peripheral nerve transplantation, a combined injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor, and forskolin resulted in a 3.4-fold increase of beta cells with regenerated axons. The increase of regenerated beta cells was mainly due to the enhancing effect of neurotrophic factors on their survival, and possibly to a change of retinal ganglion cell properties by cAMP to facilitate their axonal regeneration.
We previously demonstrated that early isolation has profound effects on the morphology of the dentate granule cells and field CA3 pyramidal neurons. Aim of the present study was to analyze the effects of early environment on the morphology of field CA1 pyramidal neurons, the third element of the hippocampal trisynaptic circuit. The dendritic trees and the soma of field CA1 pyramidal neurons were quantified in Golgi-stained brains of guinea-pigs of both sexes raised in either a social or an isolated environment. Based on the different pattern of the apical dendritic tree two major classes of CA1 pyramidal neurons were recognized (monotufted neurons and bitufted neurons). In males isolation induced in both neuron types a decrease in the number of low order apical branches but in the apical tree of the monotufted neurons isolation induced an increase in the number of intermediate order branches and dendritic length. In isolated females the apical tree of the monotufted neurons showed a very scarce atrophy. In contrast, the apical tree of the bitufted neurons from isolated females showed a decrease in the number of low and intermediate order branches and dendritic length. In isolated males the basal tree of the bitufted neurons had a large decrease in the total number of branches and dendritic length. In contrast, in isolated females the basal tree of both neuron types showed an increase in the number of low order branches. In males but not in females isolation caused a reduction in the soma dimensions of both neuron types. No isolation-induced changes were observed in dendritic spine density in either the apical or basal dendrites. The results demonstrate remarkable structural changes in CA1 pyramidal neurons following early isolation and a different reactivity to environment of the two CA1 pyramidal neuron types, their apical and basal trees and the two sexes. The neuroanatomical changes caused by isolation in field CA1 and in the two other elements of the trisynaptic circuit are likely to be associated with changes in the physiology of the hippocampal formation and in cognitive processes such as learning and memory in which the hippocampal formation plays a pivotal role.
Umbilical cord occlusion causes fetal hypoxemia which can result in brain injury including damage to cerebral white matter. Excessive glutamate release may be involved in the damage process. This study examined the relation between extracellular glutamate levels in the cerebral white matter of the ovine fetus during and after intermittent umbilical cord occlusion and the degree of resultant fetal brain injury. Fetal sheep underwent surgery for chronic catheterisation and implantation of an intra-cerebral microdialysis probe at 130 days of gestation (term approximately 147 days). Four days after surgery (day 1), seven fetuses were subjected to 5x2 min umbilical cord occlusions, and on the following day (day 2) they were subjected to either 4 or 5x4 min umbilical cord occlusions; seven fetuses served as controls. Microdialysis samples were collected before, during and after the umbilical cord occlusions to determine extracellular glutamate levels in the cerebral white matter. Fetal blood gas status was measured and the fetal electrocorticogram was recorded continuously. During the periods of umbilical cord occlusions on both days 1 and 2, fetal arterial oxygen saturation, arterial partial pressure of oxygen and arterial pH decreased (P&lt;0.05) while arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide increased (P&lt;0.05). All fetuses showed episodes of isoelectric electrocortical activity during umbilical cord occlusions on both days 1 and 2. In fetuses with patent microdialysis probes there were marked increases of glutamate efflux in the cerebral white matter following umbilical cord occlusion. Fetal brains were removed at autopsy on day 5 and subjected to histological assessment. Brain damage was observed in all fetuses exposed to cord occlusion, particularly in the periventricular white matter, with the most extensive damage occurring in the fetuses with the greatest increases in glutamate levels. We conclude that, in the unanesthetised fetus in utero, glutamatergic processes are associated with umbilical cord occlusion-induced brain damage in the cerebral white matter.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A is the most frequent hereditary neuropathy affecting the peripheral nervous system. A partial duplication of chromosome 17 (17p11.2) involving the PMP22 gene is responsible for dysmyelination-demyelination processes leading to motor and sensory impairments. Murine models of this disease are now widely used to investigate the mechanisms occurring at the behavioural and physiological levels. In this study, adult transgenic mice (6 months old) having integrated 7 copies of the human PMP22 gene were used to compare the motor performance, evaluated by using a complex locomotor test (the rotarod test), with both the number of functional motoneurons innervating the soleus muscle and the level of myelination in the sciatic nerve. Two levels of motor deficits were detected and led us to divide the population into two subgroups. In both impaired groups, the level of motor deficit was strongly correlated with the number of functional motoneurons evaluated by retrograde labeling from the muscle, but not with the number of myelinated fibers or the thickness of the myelin sheath (g-ratio). It therefore appears that the number of motor units may be a key element in motor impairments observed in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A disease. These findings may have implications for therapeutic procedures, which should focus on the survival of the motoneuronal pool and/or the maintenance of functional neuro-muscular connexions to reduce motor impairments in humans.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a lethal neurodegenerative disorder involving motoneuron loss in the cortex, brainstem and spinal cord, resulting in progressive paralysis. Aberrant neurotrophin signalling via the low affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 has been suggested to be involved in the motoneuron death by the activation of apoptotic pathways. In order to investigate the involvement of neurotrophin receptor p75 in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis related motoneuron degeneration process, we have studied the expression of this receptor in the spinal cord of transgenic mice carrying a mutated human Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase gene. Mutations in the superoxide dismutase gene are one of the genetic causes for familiar amyotrophic lateras sclerosis and human superoxide dismutase-1 transgenic mice develop symptoms and pathology similar to those in human amyotrophic lateras sclerosis. Our study shows that in these mice, spinal motoneurons, which normally do not contain the neurotrophin receptor p75 receptor, express this receptor during the progress of the disease. Expression of the neurotrophin receptor p75 receptor coincides with the expression of activating transcription factor 3, a member of the activating transcription factor/cyclic AMP family of stress transcription factors. Only a minority of these spinal motoneurons actually showed co-expression of neurotrophin receptor p75 with caspase-3 activity, suggesting that expression of the neurotrophin receptor p75 receptor is not directly related to the execution phase of the apoptosis process.
The membrane properties and receptor-mediated responses of rat dorsal raphe nucleus neurons were measured using intracellular recording techniques in a slice preparation. After each experiment, the recorded neuron was filled with neurobiotin and immunohistochemically identified as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-immunopositive or 5-HT-immunonegative. The cellular characteristics of all recorded neurons conformed to previously determined classic properties of serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus neurons: slow, rhythmic activity in spontaneously active cells, broad action potential and large afterhyperpolarization potential. Two electrophysiological characteristics were identified that distinguished 5-HT from non-5-HT-containing cells in this study. In 5-HT-immunopositive cells, the initial phase of the afterhyperpolarization potential was gradual (tau=7.3+/-1.9) and in 5-HT-immunonegative cells it was abrupt (tau=1.8+/-0.6). In addition, 5-HT-immunopositive cells had a shorter membrane time constant (tau=21.4+/-4.4) than 5-HT-immunonegative cells (tau=33.5+/-4.2). Interestingly, almost all recorded neurons were hyperpolarized in response to stimulation of the inhibitory 5-HT(1A) receptor. These results suggested that 5-HT(1A) receptors are present on non-5-HT as well as 5-HT neurons. This was confirmed by immunohistochemistry showing that although the majority of 5-HT-immunopositive cells in the dorsal raphe nucleus were double-labeled for 5-HT(1A) receptor-IR, a small but significant population of 5-HT-immunonegative cells expressed the 5-HT(1A) receptor. These results underscore the heterogeneous nature of the dorsal raphe nucleus and highlight two membrane properties that may better distinguish 5-HT from non-5-HT cells than those typically reported in the literature. In addition, these results present electrophysiological and anatomical evidence for the presence of 5-HT(1A) receptors on non-5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus.
In the rat, the level of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA in the typical slow soleus muscles is only about 20-30% of that in the fast extensor digitorum longus muscles. The expression of contractile proteins in muscles is influenced by thyroid hormones and hyperthyroidism makes the slow soleus muscle faster. The influence of thyroid hormones on the levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA level in the slow soleus and fast extensor digitorum longus muscle of the rat was studied in order to examine the effect of thyroid hormones on muscle acetylcholinesterase expression. Hyperthyroidism was induced in rats by daily thyroid hormone injection or thyroid hormone releasing tablet implantation. Hind-limb suspension was applied to produce muscle unloading. Muscle denervation or reinnervation was achieved by sciatic nerve transection or crush. Acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA levels were analyzed by Northern blots and evaluated densitometrically. Hyperthyroidism increased the levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA in the slow soleus muscles close to the levels in the fast extensor digitorum longus. The effect was the same in the unloaded soleus muscles. Acetylcholinesterase expression increased also in the absence of innervation (denervation), in the presence of changed nerve activation pattern (reinnervation), and under enhanced tonic neural activation of the soleus muscle (electrical stimulation). However, the changes were substantially smaller than those observed in the control soleus muscles. Enhancement of acetylcholinesterase expression in the soleus muscles by the thyroid hormones is, therefore, at last in part due to hormonal effect on the muscle itself. On the contrary, increased level of the thyroid hormones had no influence on acetylcholinesterase expression in the normal fast extensor digitorum longus muscles. However, some enhancing influence was apparent whenever the total number of nerve-induced muscle activations per day in the extensor digitorum longus muscle was increased. Thyroid hormones seem to be an independent extrinsic factor of acetylcholinesterase regulation in the slow soleus muscle.
Tight junctions create a rate-limiting barrier to the diffusion of solutes between vertebrate epithelial cells and endothelial cells. They are also controlled within individual cells by a variety of physiologically relevant signals. We investigated the effects of polyunsaturated fatty acids on the formation of tight junctions in brain capillary endothelial cells, monitoring the transepithelial electrical resistance, and analyzed the expression of occludin messenger RNA. Brain-capillary endothelial cells were grown to confluence on filters and exposed to eicosapentaenoic acids, gamma linolenic acid and linoleic acid. Transepithelial electrical resistance was determined with voltage-measuring electrodes. The messenger RNA expression of occludin was quantitated by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The basal resistance across monolayers of porcine brain capillary endothelial cells was 83+/-8.1 Omega cm(2). Cells cultured in eicosapentaenoic acids and gamma linolenic acid, but not linolenic acid, displayed a 2.7-fold increase in transepithelial electrical resistance at 10 microM in brain capillary endothelial cells. The expression level of occludin messenger RNA increased markedly immediately after the exposure to eicosapentaenoic acids or gamma linolenic acid. Following an 8 h exposure to exogenous eicosapentaenoic acids or gamma linolenic acid, occludin messenger RNA levels were significantly increased. In addition, the rise in transepithelial electrical resistance induced by eicosapentaenoic acids and gamma linolenic acid was markedly inhibited by the tyrosine kinase inhibitors genistein and PP2 and protein kinase C inhibitor, calphostin C. In contrast, the rise in transepithelial electrical resistance induced by eicosapentaenoic acids and gamma linolenic acid was not inhibited by the PI 3-kinase inhibitor, LY294002. We conclude that eicosapentaenoic acids and gamma linolenic acid increased the transepithelial electrical resistance and the expression of occludin messenger RNA in brain capillary endothelial cells. This gamma linolenic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid induced assembly of tight junction is likely to be regulated by protein kinase C and tyrosine kinase activity.
The two sides of the brain are differently involved in the modulation of immune responses as demonstrated by lesion and behavioral approaches. To study the interactions between cerebral cortex cytokines and brain lateralization, three groups of BALB/c mice were selected on the basis of their performance in the paw preference test (left-pawed, ambidextrous and right-pawed) and the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 were measured in the two cerebral cortices after an intraperitoneal saline or lipopolysaccharide. Generally, right cortices had higher interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 levels than left cortices for both saline and lipopolysaccharide-treated mice. A strong correlation between the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 in right and left cortices and behavioral lateralization was observed. For the saline-treated mice: in their left cortices, interleukin-1beta levels were higher for ambidextrous mice than for right-pawed mice (P&lt;0.05); in their right cortices, interleukin-6 levels were higher for ambidextrous mice than for right-/left-pawed mice, and right-pawed mice have higher levels of interleukin-6 than left-pawed mice (P&lt;0.01). In their left cortices, interleukin-6 levels are higher for left-pawed mice than for both ambidextrous and right-pawed mice (P&lt;0.01). In their left cortices, interleukin-6 levels are higher for left-pawed mice than for both ambidextrous and right-pawed mice (P&lt;0.01). The quadratic curve equations showed that the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 in the right/left cortices had a highly significant correlation with paw preference scores in both normal and lipopolysaccharide-treated mice. In conclusion, the present report demonstrated that the basal levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 were higher in the right cortex than left cortex in mice. There was a strong correlation between the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 and behavioral lateralization, and cytokine asymmetries had a strong correlation with the direction and the intensity of behavioral lateralization.
Ca(2+) currents resistant to organic Ca(2+) channel antagonists are present in different types of central neurons. Here, we describe the properties of such currents in CA1 neurons acutely dissociated from rat hippocampus. Blocker-resistant Ca(2+) currents were isolated by combined application of N-, P/Q- and L-type Ca(2+) current antagonists (omega-conotoxin GVIA 2 microM; omega-conotoxin MVIIC 3 microM; omega-agatoxin IVA 200 nM; nifedipine 10 microM) and constituted approximately 21% of the total Ba(2+) current. The blocker-resistant current showed properties similar to R-type currents in other cell types, i.e. voltages of half-maximal inactivation and activation of -76 and -17 mV, respectively, and strong inactivation during the test pulse. In addition, blocker-resistant Ca(2+) currents in CA1 neurons displayed a characteristically rapid deactivation. Application of mock action potentials revealed that charge transfer through blocker-resistant Ca(2+) channels is highly sensitive to action potential shape and changes in resting membrane voltage. Pharmacological experiments showed that these currents were highly sensitive to the divalent cation Ni(2+) (half-maximal block at 28 microM), but were relatively resistant to the spider toxin SNX-482 (8% and 52% block at 0.1 and 1 microM, respectively). In addition to the functional analysis, we examined the expression of pore-forming and accessory Ca(2+) channel subunits on the messenger RNA level in isolated CA1 neurons using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Of the pore-forming alpha subunits encoding high-threshold Ca(2+) channels, Ca(v)2.1, Ca(v)2.2 and Ca(v)2.3 messenger RNA levels were most prominent, corresponding to the high proportion of N-, P/Q- and R-type currents in these neurons. In summary, CA1 neurons display blocker-resistant Ca(2+) currents with distinctive biophysical and pharmacological properties similar to R-type currents in other neuron types, and express Ca(2+) channel messenger RNAs that give rise to R-type Ca(2+) currents in expression systems.
Choleratoxin B subunit-binding thick myelinated, A-fibre and unmyelinated, capsaicin-sensitive nociceptive C-fibre primary afferent fibres terminate in a strict topographic and somatotopic manner in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Injection of choleratoxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase conjugate into injured but not intact peripheral nerves produced transganglionic labelling of primary afferents not only in the deeper layers (Rexed's laminae III-IV), but also in the substantia gelatinosa (Rexed's laminae II) of the spinal dorsal horn. This was interpreted in terms of a sprouting response of the Abeta-myelinated afferents and suggested a contribution to the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain [Nature 355 (1992) 75; J Comp Neurol 360 (1995) 121]. By utilising the selective neurotoxic effect of capsaicin, we examined the role of C-fibre sensory ganglion neurons in the mechanism of this phenomenon. Elimination of these particular, capsaicin-sensitive C-fibre afferents by prior intrathecal or systemic capsaicin treatment inhibited transganglionic labelling by the choleratoxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase conjugate of the substantia gelatinosa evoked by chronic sciatic nerve section. More importantly, prior perineural capsaicin treatment of the transected nerve proximal to the anticipated site of injection of choleragenoid 12 hours later prevented the labelling of the substantia gelatinosa, but not that of the deeper layers. Electron microscopic examination of the dorsal roots revealed no significant difference in the proportion of labelled myelinated fibres relating to the intact (54.4+/-5.5%) and the transected (62.4+/-5.4%) sciatic nerves. In contrast, the proportion of labelled unmyelinated dorsal root axons relating to the transected, but not the intact nerves showed a significant, six-fold increase after sciatic nerve transection (intact: 4.9+/-1.3%; transected: 35+/-6.7%). These observations indicate that peripheral nerve lesion-induced transganglionic labelling of the substantia gelatinosa by choleratoxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase may be primarily accounted for by the uptake and transganglionic transport of choleragenoid by injured capsaicin-sensitive C-fibre afferents rather than a sprouting response of A-fibre afferents. The present findings suggest an essential role of capsaicin-sensitive primary sensory neurons in lesion-induced spinal neuroplastic changes and provide further support for C-fibre nociceptor neurons being promising targets for the development of new strategies in pain management.
The influence of early parental deprivation on the development of tyrosine hydroxylase- and 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive fiber innervation of subregions of the orbital prefrontal cortex (ventrolateral orbital, lateral orbital and agranular insular cortex) was quantitatively investigated in the precocious lagomorph Octodon degus. Forty-five-day-old degus from two groups were compared: 1) degus which were repeatedly separated from their parents during the first three postnatal weeks, and after weaning they were reared in social isolation; and 2) degus which were reared undisturbed in their families. Compared with the normal control animals the ventrolateral orbital prefrontal cortex and agranular insular cortex of the deprived animals displayed significantly increased density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers (up to 172% in the ventrolateral orbital prefrontal cortex and up to 143% in the agranular insular cortex). The lateral orbital prefrontal cortex showed increased 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive fiber densities (up to 118%). This altered balance between the serotonergic and dopaminergic cortical innervation in the orbital prefrontal cortex may reflect an anatomical and functional adaptation, which may be triggered by an altered activity of these transmitter systems during the phases of parental separation and social isolation.
We used kainic acid in rats as an animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy, and studied the synaptic transmission in hippocampal subfield CA1 of urethane-anesthetized rats in vivo. Dendritic currents were revealed by field potential mapping, using a single micropipette or a 16-channel silicon probe, followed by current source density analysis. We found that the population excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the basal dendrites and distal apical dendrites of CA1 were increased in kainate-treated as compared with control rats following paired-pulse, but not single-pulse, stimulation of CA3b or medial perforant path. In contrast, the trisynaptic midapical dendritic response in CA1 following medial perforant path stimulation was decreased in kainate-treated as compared with control rats. Increased coupling between excitatory postsynaptic potential and the population spike in CA1 was found after kainate seizures. Short-latency, presumably monosynaptic CA1 population spikes following medial perforant path stimulation was found in kainate-treated but not control rats. An enhancement of dendritic excitability was evidenced by population spikes that invaded into or originated from the distal apical dendrites of CA1 in kainate-treated but not control rats. Reverberation of hippocampo-entorhinal activity was evidenced by recurrent excitation of CA1 following CA3b stimulation in kainate-treated but not control rats. Blockade of inhibition by intraventricularly administered bicuculline induced excitatory potentials in CA1 that were stronger and more prolonged in kainate-treated than control rats. The bicuculline-induced excitation was mainly blocked by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. We conclude that kainate seizures induced disinhibition in CA1 that unveiled excitation at the basal and distal apical dendrites, resulting in enhancement of the direct entorhinal cortex to CA1 input and reverberations via the hippocampo-entorhinal loop. These changes in the output of the hippocampus from CA1 are likely detrimental to the behavioral functions of the hippocampus and they may contribute to increased seizure susceptibility after kainate seizures.
Exposure to pheromonal cues initiates male mating behavior. Pheromones are processed within a pathway that converges on the magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus. Lesions of this area eliminate male copulatory behavior, but do not affect anogenital investigation. Exposure to pheromones stimulates cells of the magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus in a sex-specific manner. In this study, we hypothesize that sex differences in cell number may underlie sex differences in pheromone-induced neural stimulation. The current study used unbiased stereological methods to identify sexual dimorphisms in the magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus. Sex differences were found in the number and density of neurons, but not in overall volume or neuron volume. Consequently, the total volume is not sexually differentiated because neurons are more densely packed within the male magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus. These results support the hypothesis that additional neurons in the magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus are critical for the expression of male copulatory behaviors in adulthood. Furthermore, they suggest that sexual differentiation of the magnocellular subdivision of the medial preoptic nucleus is an important process that forms the anatomical basis for sex-specific behavioral responses to pheromonal stimulation.
The molecular mechanisms of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus have been essentially studied in nocturnal species. Currently, it is not clear if the clockwork and the synchronizing mechanisms are similar between diurnal and nocturnal species. Here we investigated in a day-active rodent Arvicanthis ansorgei, some of the molecular mechanisms that participate in the generation of circadian rhythmicity and processing of photic signals. In situ hybridization was used to characterize circadian profiles of expression of Per1, Per2, Cry2 and Bmal1 in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of A. ansorgei housed in constant dim red light. All the clock genes studied showed a circadian expression. Per1 and Per2 mRNA increased during the subjective day and decreased during the subjective night. Also, Bmal1 exhibited a circadian expression, but in anti-phase to that of Per1. The expression of Cry2 displayed a circadian pattern, increasing during the late subjective day and decreasing during the late subjective night. We also obtained the phase responses to light for wheel-running rhythm and clock gene expression. At a behavioral level, light was able to induce phase shifts only during the subjective night, like in other diurnal and nocturnal species. At a molecular level, light pulse exposure during the night led to an up-regulation of Per1 and Per2 concomitant with a down-regulation of Cry2 in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of A. ansorgei. In contrast, Bmal1 expression was not affected by light pulses at the circadian times investigated. This study demonstrates that light exposure during the subjective night has opposite effects on the expression of the clock genes Per1 and Per2 compared with that of Cry2. These differential effects can participate in photic resetting of the circadian clock. Our data also indicate that the molecular mechanisms underlying circadian rhythmicity and photic synchronization share clear similarities between diurnal and nocturnal mammals.
Activation of opioid receptors in the CNS evokes a dramatic decrease in heart rate which is mediated by increases in inhibitory parasympathetic activity to the heart. Injection of opiates into the nucleus ambiguus, where premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons are located elicits an increase in parasympathetic cardiac activity and bradycardia. However, the mechanisms responsible for altering the activity of premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons is unknown. This study examined at the electron microscopic level whether premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons possess postsynaptic opioid receptors and whether mu-opioid receptor agonists alter voltage-gated calcium currents in these neurons. Premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons were identified in the rat using retrograde fluorescent tracers. One series of experiments utilized dual-labeling immunocytochemical methods combined with electron microscopic analysis to determine if premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons contain mu-opioid receptors. In a second series of experiments whole cell patch clamp methodologies were used to determine whether activation of postsynaptic opioid receptors altered voltage-gated calcium currents in premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons in brainstem slices. The perikarya and 78% of the dendrites of premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons contain mu-opioid receptors. Voltage-gated calcium currents in premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons were comprised nearly entirely of omega-agatoxin-sensitive P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium currents. Activation of mu-opioid receptors inhibited these voltage-gated calcium currents and this inhibition was blocked by pretreatment with pertusis toxin. The mu-opioid receptor agonist endomorphin-1, but not the mu-opioid receptor agonist endomorphin-2, inhibited the calcium currents. In summary, mu-opioid receptors are located postsynaptically on premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons. The mu-opioid receptor agonist endomorphin1 inhibited the omega-agatoxin-sensitive P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium currents in premotor cardiac vagal nucleus ambiguus neurons. This inhibition is mediated via a G-protein mediated pathway which was blocked by pretreatment with pertusis toxin. It is possible that the inhibition of calcium currents may act to indirectly facilitate the activity of premotor cardiac parasympathetic nucleus ambiguus neurons by disinhibition, such as by a reduction in inhibitory calcium activated potassium currents.
Recent clinical and experimental studies have suggested that the dorsal column pathway and specifically postsynaptic dorsal column neurons play an important role in the transmission of visceral pain. In our study we have mapped the distribution of postsynaptic dorsal column neurons in thoracic, lumbar and sacral spinal cord segments. The presence of immunoreactivity for neurokinin 1 receptors on these postsynaptic dorsal column neurons was examined under control conditions and after colon inflammation. The largest number of postsynaptic dorsal column neurons was found in the lumbar enlargement. They were mostly located in laminae III-IV, but depending on the spinal segment, about 7-15% of them were in the deep medial dorsal horn and in the central canal area. Under control conditions none of the 1438 postsynaptic dorsal column neurons examined expressed neurokinin 1 receptors. However, after induction of colon inflammation about 1.4% of the 2015 postsynaptic dorsal column neurons observed in the experimental group showed immunoreactivity for neurokinin 1 receptors. These neurons were preferentially found in the lower thoracic and lumbosacral spinal segments where they represented about 3-4% of the total population of postsynaptic dorsal column neurons examined. The de novo expression of neurokinin1 receptors on postsynaptic dorsal column neurons after colon inflammation suggests that substance P released from visceral primary afferents under inflammatory conditions could help produce central sensitization of these neurons.
Dominant and subordinate males respond differently to the stress of social interaction. After an hour of social interaction, subordinate male Anolis carolinensis have elevated serotonergic activity in hippocampus, but dominant males do not. In other species, and using other stressors, the activation of hippocampal serotonergic activity is much more rapid than one hour. To elucidate early stress responsiveness, adult male A. carolinensis were divided into four groups: isolated controls, and pairs of males sampled after 10, 20 or 40 minutes of aggressive interaction. Development of dominant-subordinate relationships was determined by behavior and by the celerity of eyespot darkening. Serotonergic activity in the hippocampus, nucleus accumbens and amygdala was elevated rapidly and equally in both dominant and subordinate males, as were plasma corticosterone concentrations. Serotonergic activity remained elevated through 40 minutes in hippocampus and nucleus accumbens. Only subordinate males had elevated corticosterone levels at 40 minutes. Social status does not impede socially induced stress responses. Rather, rapid regulation of serotonergic stress responses appears to be a mediating factor in determining both behavioral output and social status. Temporal expressions of monoaminergic and endocrine stress responses are distinctive between males of dominant and subordinate social status. Such temporal patterns of transmitter and glucocorticoid activity may reflect neurocircuitry adaptations that result in behavior modified to fit social status.
Exposure of CD-1 mice to a familiar environment lined with clean shavings (control odor) as well as a familiar environment lined with soiled rat shavings (predator odor) induced anxiety in the light/dark box. Mice exposed to the familiar environment or predator odor displayed decreased latency to enter the dark chamber of the light/dark box and spent less time in the light portion of the apparatus relative to home-caged mice. Mice exposed to the familiar environment lined with clean shavings or predator odor displayed elevated cholecystokinin mRNA levels from the ventral tegmental area, medial and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala relative to home-caged mice. Exposure of CD-1 mice to 2, 5 or 10 min of predator odor increased acoustic startle relative to mice merely exposed to the familiar environment lined with clean shavings at protracted intervals. Mice exposed to the familiar environment lined with clean shavings did not exhibit enhanced startle relative to home-caged mice. Exaggerated startle reactivity was in evidence immediately, 24, and 48 h following a 5-min exposure of mice to predator odor. In contrast, a 10-min exposure of mice to predator odor produced an oscillating pattern of enhanced startle evident during the immediate and 48-h post-stressor intervals only. However, when the startle stimulus was withheld 1 h following odor presentation, mice exhibited enhanced startle patterns reminiscent of the 5-min exposure. The 2-min exposure of mice to predator odor produced a delayed onset of enhanced startle observed at the 168-h test interval only. Potential anxiogenic influences of mesocorticolimbic cholecystokinin availability as well as the time course and underlying neuronal substrates of long-term behavioral disturbances as a result of psychogenic stressor manipulations are discussed.
Since metabolic neural activity is accompanied by heat release, measurement of local brain temperature offers a method for assessing alterations in neural activity. This approach, continuous monitoring of local brain (ventral tegmental area, ventral striatum, and hippocampus) and body (temporal muscle) temperature, was used to study intravenous cocaine self-administration in trained rats. The first self-administration of a session was preceded by a strong temperature increase that continued after the drug infusion. After peaking at the time of the second self-administration, temperature plateaued (+0.7 degrees C) with biphasic fluctuations (+/-0.10-0.15 degrees C) around each subsequent self-administration. Temperature gradually increased before and for 30-50 s after the lever-press, but then abruptly decreased to a minimum at 180-240 s, when it began to increase to reach another peak immediately after the next lever-press. Doubling the dose of injected cocaine significantly potentiated the post-cocaine temperature decrease and increased time to the next lever-press. In contrast to drug-reinforced lever-presses, temperatures phasically increased after non-reinforced lever-presses and at the end of a session when the lever was blocked and the rat was hyperactive, trying to reach the inaccessible lever. While temperature changes in each recording location were generally correlative, the initial temperature elevation was stronger in all brain structures than in muscle and ventral striatum was the structure that showed the most pronounced and consistent temperature fluctuations. These data suggest a generalized brain activation associated with cocaine-seeking and cocaine-taking behavior with its phasic fluctuations around individual drug self-injections. While the initial component of brain activation preceding the first lever-press for cocaine is internally determined and closely related to behavioral search, subsequent biphasic fluctuations in neural activity associated with repeated drug intakes appear to be drug-mediated. Cocaine-induced potentiation of monoamine transmission is a possible factor for gradual increases in neural activity that drive cocaine seeking, while a rapid, brain concentration-dependent action on Na(+) transport (local anesthetic action) is the most probable factor determining an abrupt, transient cessation of neural activation associated with cocaine reward.
Several kinds of stress such as psychological stress, restraint, and foot shock inhibit feeding behavior through corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). In contrast, a mild tail pinch increases food intake in rats. Although dopamine and opioid are thought to be involved in tail-pinch-induced food intake, it is unknown whether CRF participates in this phenomenon. Therefore, we attempted to clarify this issue using rats. A 30-s tail pinch increased food intake in 30 min after the tail pinch, and this increase was blocked by intraperitoneal injection of CRF receptor type 1 selective antagonist. CRF increased food intake in 30 min after intracerebroventricular injection at a dose of 2 or 10 ng, and this increase was also blocked by CRF receptor type 1 antagonist. Tail-pinch- or CRF-induced food intake was blocked by naloxone, pimozide, and spiperone. These results suggest that CRF, through CRF receptor type 1 as well as opioid and dopaminergic systems, are involved in the mechanism of tail-pinch-induced food intake. The results also suggest that brain CRF has dual effects on food intake, hyperphagia and anorexia, in a stress-dependent manner.
Transgenic mice carrying human APPswe and PS1-A264E transgenes (A/P mice) have elevated levels of the highly fibrillogenic amyloid Abeta(1-42) (Abeta) and develop amyloid plaques around the age of 9 months. Our aim was to find whether the gradual accumulation of Abeta in these mice can be detected with long-term recording of auditory-evoked potentials. The A/P double-mutant mice had impaired auditory gating and a tendency toward increased latency of the cortical N35 response, but these changes were not age-dependent between 7 and 11 months of age. In a control experiment that included also APP and PS1 single-mutant mice, the A/P double-mutant mice had weaker auditory gating than either APP or PS1 mice. In contrast, increased N35 latency was found in both A/P and APP mice compared with nontransgenic or PS1 mice. The Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels were robustly increased in A/P mice and Abeta40 moderately increased also in APP mice. Plaques were deposited only in A/P mice. We conclude that the impaired auditory gating is associated with the overproduction Abeta42 but does not reflect its amount. In contrast, increased N35 latency is related to the APP genotype independent of Abeta42 production.
We studied the differences between mice and rats in lesion-induced sprouting in the hippocampus. The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in adult, female mice and rats. Four weeks later the subsequent axonal sprouting in the dentate gyrus was analysed, by measuring the density of the synaptophysin immunohistochemical and acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in the termination area of the entorhinal cortex axons. The data demonstrate that both mice and rats display a significantly increased density of staining for synaptophysin and acetylcholinesterase in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, indicative of axonal sprouting. Both species also show an upregulation in the density of staining for acetylcholinesterase in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Further, rats, but not mice, show a significant upregulation of synaptophysin staining in stratum lacunosum moleculare of CA1 following the lesions. However, whereas rats show significant shrinkage of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, mice do not show any shrinkage of that layer following entorhinal cortex lesions. Taken together, these data indicate that whereas the process of reinnervation in the hippocampus is similar between the mouse and the rat, the hippocampal response to denervation shows clear differences between these two species.
The important effects of estrogen on the morphology of hippocampal neurons are well established. The mechanisms leading to such changes, nevertheless, have proved confusingly complex, since interactions between glia and neurons, as well as neuronal influences from other brain fields, are involved. This study addresses the possibility that estrogen-sensitive projections from the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca induce astroglial reactions. Estrogen- and cholesterol-filled (controls) cannulae were implanted into the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca of adult ovariectomized rats. Comparative semiquantitative immunohistochemical analysis on the density of the glial fibrillary acidic protein-containing processes and cells were performed on hippocampal slices of locally estrogen-treated and control animals. Rats that received estrogen-filled cannulae showed a lower density of glial processes in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subfields than animals of the control group. These effects could not be observed in the dentate gyrus. Cell counts revealed no significant difference in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells in any of the examined areas. Two major conclusions can be drawn from these results. First, the data show that estrogen, in fact, has an indirect influence on hippocampal cells through septo-hippocampal projections. Furthermore, estradiol can have an indirect negative effect on hippocampal astrocytes, causing a reduction in the density of their processes.
Valproate is often prescribed as a long-term therapeutic mood stabilizing agent for individuals with bipolar disorder. Although research suggests that this drug may produce a neuroprotective effect, its neuroprotective mechanism is not yet clear. The purpose of this study was to determine if valproate provides a neuroprotective effect against damage caused by oxidative stress in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells. We found that chronic treatment with valproate at therapeutically relevant concentrations for 7 days inhibited lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation induced by treatment with 0.25 mM oxidant FeCl(3) for 90 min, indicating that valproate inhibits oxidative damage to lipid and protein. Our results suggest that chronic treatment with valproate may protect neuronal cells from damage caused by oxidative stress and that neuroprotection from oxidative damages may be involved in the mechanism of action of valproate. Supporting this possibility are recent findings that chronic treatment with valproate increased the expression of endoplasmic reticulum stress protein GRP78 and antiapoptotic factor bcl-2 in rat cerebral cortex. Since GRP78 binds Ca(2+) and folds damaged protein, bcl-2 stabilizes mitochondrial transmembrane potential and inhibits cytochrome C release, and both GRP78 and bcl-2 have been shown to inhibit oxyradical accumulation, together these findings indicate that valproate may target one or more of these processes in order to produce neuroprotective effects.
To evaluate the role of protein kinase C in central muscarinic mechanisms regulating voiding, cystometry was performed in conscious rats. Oxotremorine methiodide, a muscarinic agonist was injected i.c.v. in a dose (0.1 microg/rat) shown previously to alter voiding function. Oxotremorine methiodide was also tested after i.c.v. injection of chelerythrine chloride (a protein kinase C inhibitor, 2 microg/rat) or 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7, a protein kinase inhibitor, 5 nmol/rat). In untreated rats, oxotremorine methiodide elicited a bimodal response consisting of an initial increase in bladder capacity, maximal voiding pressure, pressure threshold and post voiding intravesical pressure, but reduced voiding efficiency and bladder compliance. The second response consisted of a decrease in bladder capacity and bladder compliance, increases in maximal voiding pressure and post voiding intravesical pressure, but no change in pressure threshold or voiding efficiency. However, approximately 20 min after pre-treatment with chelerythrine chloride or H-7 in doses that did not alter voiding function, oxotremorine methiodide decreased bladder capacity, increased maximal voiding pressure, but did not change pressure threshold or voiding efficiency. These results indicate that inhibitory and facilitatory muscarinic mechanisms in the brain that control voiding function involve different second messenger systems. Inhibitory mechanisms which are blocked by chelerythrine chloride or H-7 must involve protein kinase C and normally be inactive because the protein kinase inhibitors alone did not alter voiding. On the other hand, facilitatory muscarinic mechanisms which previous studies showed were tonically active are not mediated by chelerythrine chloride or H-7 sensitive signaling pathways.
D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate, a high energy glycolytic intermediate, attenuates ischemic damage in a variety of tissues, including brain. To determine whether D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate serves as an alternate energy substrate in the CNS, rat hippocampal slices were treated with D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate during glucose deprivation. Unlike pyruvate, an endproduct of glycolysis, 10 mM D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate did not preserve synaptic transmission or morphological integrity of CA1 pyramidal neurons during glucose deprivation. Moreover, during glucose deprivation, 10-mM D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate failed to maintain adenosine triphosphate levels in slices. D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate, however, attenuated acute neuronal degeneration produced by 200 microM iodoacetate, an inhibitor of glycolysis downstream of D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Because (5S, 10R)-(+)-5-methyl-10, 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine, an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, exhibited similar protection against iodoacetate damage, we examined whether (5S, 10R)-(+)-5-methyl-10, 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine and D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate share a common neuroprotective mechanism. Indeed, D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate diminished N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses and partially attenuated neuronal degeneration induced by 100-microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. Taken together, these results indicate that D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate is unlikely to serve as an energy substrate in the hippocampus, and that neuroprotective effects of D-fructose-1,6-bisphosphate are mediated by mechanisms other than anaerobic energy supply.
In urethane-anaesthetised artificially ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats, bilateral microinjection of the divalent cation nickel chloride (Ni(2+); 50 mM, 50 nl) into the rostral ventrolateral medulla elicited a dramatic inhibition of splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (-44+/-6%) and a marked depressor response (-35+/-7 mmHg). Selective blockade of high-voltage activated Ca(2+) channels with omega-agatoxin IVA (P/Q-type), omega-conotoxin GVIA (N-type) and nifedipine (L-type) did not decrease arterial pressure or splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity when injected separately into the rostral ventrolateral medulla, or combined with kynurenate. Injection of caesium chloride or ZD 7288, a blocker of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current, into the rostral ventrolateral medulla had no effect on arterial pressure or splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity. Bilateral microinjection of nickel chloride into the caudal ventrolateral medulla/pre-Btzinger complex elicited small increases in splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (+17+/-13%) and arterial pressure (+12+/-4 mmHg). These were substantially smaller than those evoked by blockade of glutamatergic receptors or high-voltage activated Ca(2+) channels in this area. Injection of kynurenate or high-voltage activated Ca(2+) channel blocker, but not Ni(2+), in this area evoked respiratory termination. The results indicate the existence of a distinct mechanism maintaining the tonic activity of rostral ventrolateral medulla presympathetic neurons that is different from that maintaining the tonic activity in the caudal ventrolateral medulla/pre-Btzinger region. We conclude that ion channels that are sensitive to Ni(2+), but are insensitive to high-voltage activated (L, P/Q, N) Ca(2+) channel blockers, and are located postsynaptically on the presympathetic rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons are responsible for the tonic activity of the presympathetic neurons in rostral ventrolateral medulla. These channels could well be the low-voltage-activated (or T-type) Ca(2+) channels although other conductances cannot be conclusively excluded.
The thalamus receives a dense cholinergic projection from the pedunculopontine tegmentum. A number of physiological studies have demonstrated that this projection causes a dramatic change in thalamic activity during the transition from sleep to wakefulness. Previous anatomical investigations have found that muscarinic type 2 receptors are densely distributed on the dendritic terminals of GABAergic interneurons, as well as the somata and proximal dendrites of GABAergic cells in the thalamic reticular nucleus. Since these structures are the synaptic targets of cholinergic terminals in the thalamus, it appears likely that thalamic pedunculopontine tegmentum terminals can activate muscarinic type 2 receptors on GABAergic cells. To test whether activation of muscarinic type 2 receptors affects the release of GABA in the thalamus, we have begun pharmacological studies using slices prepared from the rat thalamus. We have found that the application of the nonspecific muscarinic agonist, methacholine, and the muscarinic type 2-selective agonist, oxotremorine.sesquifumarate, diminished both the baseline, and K(+) triggered release of [(3)H]GABA from thalamic slices. This effect was calcium dependent, and blocked by the nonselective muscarinic antagonist atropine, the muscarinic type 2-selective antagonist, methoctramine, but not the muscarinic type 1 antagonist, pirenzepine. Thus, it appears that one function of the pedunculopontine tegmentum projection is to decrease the release of GABA through activation of muscarinic type 2 receptors. This decrease in inhibition may play an important role in regulating thalamic activity during changes in states of arousal.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a 34-kD protein with multiple biological properties. Recent clinical and preclinical observations implicate a role for apoE in modifying the response of the brain to focal and global ischemia. One mechanism by which apoE might exert these effects is by reducing glutamate-induced excitotoxic neuronal injury associated with ischemic insults. We demonstrate that human recombinant apoE confers a mild neuroprotective effect in primary neuronal-glial cultures exposed to 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. Furthermore, a peptide derived from the receptor-binding region of apoE (residues 133-149) maintained a significant helical population as assessed by circular dichroism, and completely suppressed the neuronal cell death and calcium influx associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate exposure. Neuroprotection was greatest when the peptide was added concurrently with N-methyl-D-aspartate; however, a significant protection was observed when peptide was preincubated and washed off prior to N-methyl-D-aspartate exposure. These results suggest that one mechanism by which apoE may modify the CNS response to ischemia is by partially blocking glutamate excitotoxicity. Moreover, small peptide fragments derived from the receptor-binding region of apoE have enhanced bioactivity compared with the intact holoprotein, and may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of brain ischemia.
The cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) has major roles in mediating adaptive responses at glutamatergic synapses and in the neuroprotective effects of neurotrophins. CREB has been implicated as a potential mediator of antidepressant actions. In vitro, chronic lithium treatment has been shown to promote neuronal cell survival. In the present study, we have used cultures of cerebellar granule neurons to analyze the effects of acute and chronic lithium treatment on the response to toxic concentrations of glutamate. Such concentrations of glutamate decrease the phosphorylation of CREB at serine(133) in an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent manner. Chronic, but not acute, lithium treatment suppresses glutamate-induced decreases in phosphorylated CREB, and transfection studies indicate that chronic lithium, in the presence of a glutamate stimulus, markedly increases CRE-driven gene expression. Experiments with selected pharmacological reagents indicate that the glutamate-induced decreases in phosphorylated CREB are regulated primarily by protein phosphatase 1. Chronic lithium treatment not only decreases protein phosphatase 1 activity under these circumstances, but also augments glutamate-induced increases in MEK activity. PD 98059, a MEK inhibitor, prevents chronic lithium treatment from increasing phosphorylated CREB levels in glutamate-treated neurons. We conclude from these results that chronic lithium treatment is permissive for maintaining higher phosphorylated CREB levels in the presence of glutamate in part by decreasing protein phosphatase 1 activity and in part by increasing MEK activity. Higher levels of phosphorylated CREB and CRE-responsive genes such as bcl-2 may be responsible for lithium's reported effects on neuronal survival.
Previously, we discovered a novel type of depolarization wave in the embryonic chick brain by using a multiple-site optical recording technique with a fast voltage-sensitive dye. This depolarization wave traveled widely over almost all the region of the CNS. This profile has raised the possibility that the depolarization wave plays some global roles in development of the CNS, rather than contributing to a specific neuronal circuit formation. To obtain more information concerning this issue, in the present study, we examined whether the depolarization wave was triggered by various types of peripheral nerve inputs. Stimulation applied to the vagus, glossopharyngeal, cochlear and trigeminal nerves evoked widely spreading depolarization waves with similar spatiotemporal distribution patterns. The developmental sequence of wave expression was parallel to the development of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials in each sensory nucleus. The depolarization wave was accompanied by a Ca(2+)-wave, suggesting that not only electrical synchrony, but also large-scale Ca(2+)-transients may affect developmental processes in the embryonic brain. Furthermore, we found that the depolarization wave also occurred spontaneously. The waveform and distribution patterns of the spontaneous optical signals were similar to those of the cranial nerve-evoked depolarization wave. These results demonstrated that the depolarization wave in the embryonic chick brain is triggered by multiple sources of external and endogenous activity. This profile supports the idea that this depolarization wave may not serve as a simple regulator of specific neuronal circuit formation, but might play more global roles in CNS development.
In the adult rat, arcuate-neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein neurons have efferent projections throughout the hypothalamus and provide a potent orexigenic stimulus. At birth neuropeptide Y fibers are also present throughout the hypothalamus; however, the source of these fibers has been unknown. The present studies determined the postnatal ontogeny of arcuate-neuropeptide Y fibers into the paraventricular nucleus and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, as well as the ontogeny of neuropeptide Y1 receptor expression within these areas. Agouti-related protein messenger RNA and protein expression was present exclusively in cell bodies in the arcuate throughout postnatal development, starting at P2, and was colocalized in the vast majority of arcuate-neuropeptide Y neurons. This exclusive colocalization of agouti-related protein with arcuate-neuropeptide Y neurons makes it an excellent marker for these neurons and their projections. Even though single-label neuropeptide Y fibers were abundant in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus as early as P2, arcuate-neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein fibers did not significantly innervate these areas until P5-6 and P10-11, respectively. In contrast, a portion of the neuropeptide Y fibers within the paraventricular nucleus as early as P2 originated from the brainstem, as indicated by their colocalization with dopamine beta hydroxylase. It remains to be determined if local sources of neuropeptide Y-expressing cells within the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus also contribute to the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibers within these regions prior to the development of arcuate-neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein projections. In addition to the dramatic change in arcuate-neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein projections, there is also a striking change in Y1 protein expression in the hypothalamus during the first two postnatal weeks. Taken together these data suggest that the early postnatal period, during which there is a dynamic change in the hypothalamic neuropeptide Y system, may constitute a critical period in the development of this important feeding circuit.
Premature and full-term human infants are at considerable risk of excitotoxic-mediated brain damage due to hypoxia-ischemia, infection or other trauma. Glutamate receptor activation is a major source of excitoxicity in the adult and developing brain, and the hippocampus is particularly vulnerable to damage. The seven-day-old rat is a widely used model of pediatric brain damage, in large part due to the relative insensitivity of the brain to exogenous glutamate treatment prior to this age. We have reexamined the possible role of glutamate in pediatric brain damage in the newborn rat using kainic acid treatment and attending to the sex of the animal as well as the effects of pretreatment with the gonadal steroid estradiol. Consistent with previous studies, we found no evidence of damage 7 days posttreatment in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in males or females. There was also little to no damage in the CA2/3 or dentate gyrus of males. In females, however, kainic-acid treatment induced substantial damage in the dentate gyrus and moderate damage in CA2/3, as assessed by neuron number and regional volume. Pretreatment with estradiol was protective against kainic acid-induced damage in females but was permissive for damage in the dentate gyrus of males. Estradiol treatment in the absence of kainic acid treatment was also neuroprotective in females in that it increased neuron number and volume throughout the hippocampal formation, suggesting that the basis of the sex difference observed in hippocampal volume was hormonally mediated. There was no effect of exogenous estradiol given to males in the absence of kainic acid. We conclude that the newborn female rat brain, but not the male, is sensitive to glutamate-mediated toxicity and that gonadal steroids play a complex role in both naturally occurring sex differences in hippocampal volume and response to injury.
Adult brain subventricular zone progenitor cells undergo neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb. We tested the hypothesis that cultured adult subventricular zone progenitor cells migrate and differentiate into neurons when transplanted into the adult striatum. Cells in the adult rat subventricular zone were isolated and cultured for 8 days in medium containing basic fibroblast growth factor. These cells proliferated as assayed by bromodeoxyuridine immunostaining, and the majority of them were neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin (TuJ1) immunoreactive at 8 days of culture. These cultured cells were labeled in vitro with bromodeoxyuridine or with lipophilic dye-coated particles and were transplanted into the adult rat striatum. Twenty-eight days after transplantation, the cells migrated 0.5-1.5 mm from the midline of the graft to the surrounding host striatum. Migration of grafted cells in the host striatum was also detected on magnetic resonance imaging in living rats. Morphological analysis revealed that many of these migrated cells exhibited multibranched processes from the cell soma resembling host medium-size striatal projection neurons. Only a few astrocyte-like cells were detected. Double immunostaining showed that many bromodeoxyuridine immunoreactive cells were microtubule-associated protein 2 or immunoreactive with a mouse monoclonal antibody against neuronal nuclear protein, whereas only a few bromodeoxyuridine immunoreactive cells had glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Morphology of bromodeoxyuridine and microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactive cells was similar to those of host microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactive cells. These results suggest that transplanted cultured adult subventricular zone progenitor cells can migrate and differentiate in response to guidance cues within the adult striatum.
Laminins are important components of the extracellular matrix, and participate in neuronal development, survival and regeneration. The tissue plasminogen activator/plasmin extracellular protease cascade and downstream laminin degradation are implicated in excitotoxin-induced neuronal degeneration. To determine which specific laminin chains are involved, we investigated the expression of laminins in the hippocampus, and the cell types expressing them. Reverse transcription-PCR demonstrated that the messenger RNAs for all laminin chains could be detected in the hippocampus. To determine the localization of laminin chain expression, immunostaining was used. This method showed that alpha5, beta1 and gamma1 are most highly expressed in the neuronal cell layers. Immunoblotting confirmed the hippocampal expression of the chains alpha5, beta1 and gamma1, and RNA in situ hybridization showed a neuronal expression pattern of alpha5, beta1 and gamma1. At early time points following intrahippocampal injection of kainate, alpha5, beta1 and gamma1 chain immunoreactivities were lost. In addition, tissue plasminogen activator-deficient mice, which are resistant to kainate-induced neuronal death, show no significant change in laminins alpha5, beta1 and gamma1 after intrahippocampal kainate injection. Taken together, these results suggest that laminin-10 (alpha5-beta1-gamma1) comprises a major neuronal laminin in the mouse hippocampus, and is degraded before neuronal death during excitotoxic injury by the tissue plasminogen activator/plasmin protease cascade. By identifying a neuronal laminin (laminin-10) that participates in neuronal degeneration after excitotoxic injury, this study clarifies the molecular definition of the extracellular matrix in the hippocampus and further defines a pathway for mechanisms of neuronal death.
In addition to being the major site of cerebrospinal fluid formation, the choroid plexus epithelium emerges as an important source of polypeptides in the brain. Physiologically regulated release of some polypeptides synthesized by the choroid plexus has been shown. The molecular mechanisms underlying this polypeptide secretion have not been characterized, however. In the present study, synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa and vesicle-associated membrane protein, two membrane fusion proteins playing a critical role in exocytosis in neurons and endocrine cells, were found to be expressed in the choroid plexus epithelium. It was also shown that in choroidal epithelium, synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa and vesicle-associated membrane protein stably interact. Two members of the vesicle-associated membrane protein family, vesicle-associated membrane protein-1 and vesicle-associated membrane protein-2, were expressed in the rat choroid plexus at the messenger RNA and protein level. However, their newly discovered isoforms, vesicle-associated membrane protein-1b and vesicle-associated membrane protein-2b, produced by alternative RNA splicing, were not detected in choroidal tissue. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that vesicle-associated membrane protein is confined to the cytoplasm of choroidal epithelium, whereas synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa is associated with plasma membranes, albeit with a varied cellular distribution among species studied. Specifically, in the rat choroid plexus, synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa was localized to the basolateral membrane domain of choroidal epithelium and was expressed in small groups of cells. In comparison, in ovine and human choroidal tissues, apical staining for synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa was found in the majority of epithelial cells. These species-related differences in cellular synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa distribution suggested that the synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa homologue, synaptosome-associated protein of 23 kDa, is also expressed in the rat choroid plexus, which was confirmed by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Our findings suggest that synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa and vesicle-associated membrane protein are involved in secretion of polypeptides from the choroid plexus epithelium. The presence of synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa and its homologue as well as multiple isoforms of vesicle-associated membrane protein in choroidal epithelium may play a role in the apical versus basolateral targeting of secretory vesicles.
Types and projections of neurons that received cholinergic, purinergic and other fast excitatory synaptic inputs in myenteric ganglia of the guinea-pig distal colon were identified using combined electrophysiological recording, application of selective antagonists, marker dye filling via the recording microelectrode, and immunohistochemical characterisation. Fast synaptic inputs were recorded from all major subtypes of uniaxonal neurons including Dogiel type I neurons, filamentous interneurons, circular muscle motor neurons and longitudinal muscle motor neurons. Fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials were completely blocked by the nicotinic receptor antagonists hexamethonium or mecamylamine in 62% of neurons tested and were partially inhibited in the remaining neurons. The P2 purine receptor antagonist, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid, reduced the amplitudes of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in 20% of myenteric neurons. The 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptor antagonist granisetron reduced the amplitude of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in only one of 15 neurons tested. In five of five neurons tested, the combination of a nicotinic antagonist, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid, granisetron and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione did not completely block the fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Immunohistochemical studies of the neurons that had been identified electrophysiologically and morphologically imply that P2X(2) receptors may mediate fast transmission in some neurons, and that other P2X receptor subtypes may also be involved in fast synaptic transmission to myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig distal colon. Neurons with nicotinic and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid-sensitive fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials were present in both ascending and descending pathways in the distal colon. Thus, neither cholinergic nor mixed cholinergic/purinergic synaptic responses are confined to a particular class of neuron. The results indicate that acetylcholine and ATP are the major fast excitatory neurotransmitters in guinea-pig distal colon myenteric ganglia.
Corticosterone may nongenomically affect cell functions in addition to its well-characterized effects on gene expression. The purpose of this study is to examine if corticosterone has a rapid nongenomic effect on excitability of dorsal root ganglion neurons by using patch-clamp and single-cell Ca(2+) microfluometry techniques. The results show that corticosterone has a dose-dependent rapid inhibitory effect on the voltage-dependent calcium currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Moreover, corticosterone inhibits [Ca(2+)](i) elevation induced by 50 mM high K(+) within just 3 s. The inhibitory effects of corticosterone on the voltage-dependent calcium current and high K(+)-induced calcium influx diminish after adding protein kinase C inhibitor or pretreatment with pertussis toxin for 24 h. Our results demonstrate an nongenomic effect of corticosterone on the excitability of dorsal root ganglion neurons and the effect is mediated through a putative pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein-coupled receptor and activation of protein kinase C.
Apoptosis is an active form of cell death that is carried out by proteins that are designed to kill the cell during normal mammalian development and tissue homeostasis. Cell death by apoptosis comprises a sequence of events leading to the activation of caspases which execute the fragmentation of the cellular protein and DNA leading to disintegration of the cell. This physiological neuronal apoptosis allows the nervous system to eliminate excess neurons. In addition, apoptotic cell death occurs in a variety of neuronal degeneration such as Alzheimer's disease. Here we describe second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/Diablo as a new interacting protein of CGI-94 (comparative gene identification-94) which itself is probably involved in degenerative processes of Alzheimer's disease. Our findings that CGI-94 interacts with second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/Diablo, inhibits nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth and that its neuronal expression leads to cell death point to its pivotal role in the control of cellular survival. In conclusion, CGI-94 appears to be involved in processes of neuronal degeneration.
Besides corticotropin releasing factor, central stress regulatory pathways utilize various neurotransmitters/neuropeptides, such as urocortin and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript, which play an important role in modifying the efferent components of endocrine, immune and behavioral responses to stress. Urocortin's distribution in the rat's brain has been demonstrated, with the most abundant urocortin-ir perikarya present in Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript is widely expressed in the rat brain, with a dominant seat of cellular expression also in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Since immediate early gene expressions were seen in several midbrain regions, such as in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, following various acute stresses, the Edinger-Westphal nucleus has been postulated to exert a regulatory/modulatory control over stress responses. Based on these data we decided to investigate the possible colocalization of urocortin and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript-ir in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus using semithin double-label immunofluorescence technique. Furthermore, we also studied whether urocortinergic neurons colocalizing with cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript are recruited by lipopolysaccharide stress. Our experiments revealed that urocortin and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript immunoreactivities colocalize in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. In addition, our studies using the inducible immediate early gene c-fos as a marker of activated neurons demonstrated a significant stress-induced activation in perikarya colocalizing urocortin- and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript-ir in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. In view of these data it can be postulated that neurons colocalizing cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript and urocortin immunoreactivities respond to acute stress, and may play a role in modulating various physiological functions, such as feeding behaviors.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are abnormal involuntary movements that develop as a side-effect of long-term treatment with levodopa for Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms underlying such effects are unclear but may include abnormal stimulation of dopamine D(3) receptors. Elevations in dopamine D(3) receptor mRNA and binding are seen in the denervated striatum of hemiparkinsonian rats treated chronically with levodopa, and these changes correlate well with behavioural sensitization in this model. Further investigation of dopamine D(3) receptor involvement in levodopa-induced dyskinesias is hampered by the lack of appropriately selective ligands for this receptor. Here, in vivo administration of an antisense oligonucleotide designed to reduce striatal dopamine D(3) receptor expression provides a level of specificity not available through traditional pharmacological approaches. Following chronic treatment with levodopa, hemiparkinsonian rats received intrastriatal infusion of oligonucleotide antisense to dopamine D(3) receptor mRNA for 5 days. Antisense treatment effectively and selectively reduced striatal dopamine D(3) receptor binding and blocked behavioural sensitization to the effects of repeated levodopa. These findings confirm the importance of the D3 receptor in the expression of behavioural sensitization to levodopa in animals with dopaminergic denervation and contribute to our limited understanding of the functional significance of this receptor. In that sensitization to the effects of repeated levodopa in this setting may be analogous to medication-induced dyskinesias in humans, our findings furthermore suggest that drugs which block D(3) function may be helpful in the treatment of dyskinesias, without necessarily exacerbating Parkinsonism.
Interactions of the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala with the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system are implicated in the acquisition and performance of conditioned responses for food reward. This study investigated whether dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat is influenced by the amygdala and if so, to assess the significance of the interaction in free feeding of a palatable food. To this end, we examined the effects of reverse-dialysis of the sodium channel blocker lidocaine into either the central or basolateral on dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex as determined by microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. The present results revealed for the first time that inactivation of the central decreased basal levels of dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, administration of lidocaine into the central significantly attenuated feeding-evoked increases in dopamine efflux in both terminal regions. These neurochemical effects were accompanied by feeding-related behaviours akin to the Klver-Bucy syndrome. In contrast, inactivation of the basolateral affected neither food intake nor dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens, but triggered dramatic long-lasting oscillations in dopamine efflux in the medial prefrontal cortex, irrespective of whether food was presented or not. Overall, these findings indicate that the central and basolateral independently modulate dopamine transmission in both terminal regions of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. The central, in particular, and its influence on the dopamine system, may be involved in the regulation of food intake.
In vivo voltammetry was used to study the effects of basolateral amygdala dopamine depletion on stress-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex. Male Long-Evans rats received bilateral microinjections of 6-hydroxydopamine or vehicle into the basolateral amygdala. Changes in dopamine signal were monitored in the nucleus accumbens and in the right and left hemispheres of medial prefrontal cortex, in lesioned animals and shams. Animals were subjected to a physical stressor (tail pinch) and a species-typical threat (fox odour); each stressor was presented twice over four consecutive daily sessions. The results indicate that the nucleus accumbens dopamine responses to both stressors are significantly potentiated by dopamine-depleting lesions to basolateral amygdala. In contrast, while the dopamine stress response in the left medial prefrontal cortex did not differ between lesioned animals and shams, the right medial prefrontal cortical dopamine response to tail pinch, but not fox odour stress, was significantly attenuated in lesioned animals. Therefore, basolateral amygdala dopamine depletion had opposite effects on the nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortical dopamine responses to stress, although the effect on the latter is lateralized to the right hemisphere in a stressor-specific manner. These data indicate that stress-induced activation of meso-amygdaloid dopamine exerts an inhibitory influence on the nucleus accumbens dopamine response to stress. They also suggest the possibility that meso-amygdaloid dopamine influences the nucleus accumbens dopamine response to stress indirectly by modulating stress-induced dopamine release in medial prefrontal cortex. These findings add to a growing body of evidence of a preferential involvement of right medial prefrontal cortical dopamine in a wide range of physiological responses to stress.
Single exposure to the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 induces sensitization of the adrenocorticotropin hormone and corticosterone responses to stressors weeks later (hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal sensitization). Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal responses are controlled by corticotropin-releasing hormone and arginine-vasopressin secreted from parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and may involve autoexcitatory feedback mechanisms. Therefore, we studied the temporal relationship between resting levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone, corticotropin-releasing hormone-R1 and arginine-vasopressin receptor (V1a, V1b) mRNAs in the paraventricular nucleus and the development of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal sensitization to an emotional stressor (novelty). The adrenocorticotropin hormone precursor molecule proopiomelanocortin hnRNA in the pituitary gland served as an index for acute activation. Single administration of interleukin-1 induced sensitization of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal to novelty from 3 to 22 days later, but not after 42 days. Single administration of interleukin-1 induced biphasic increases in corticotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone-R1 mRNAs in the paraventricular nucleus: an early peak within 24 h, followed by a delayed (&gt;7 days) increase that peaked after 22 days. Hypothalamic V1a and V1b mRNA levels were unaffected. In contrast, in the pituitary gland, there was an early decrease in corticotropin-releasing hormone-R1 mRNA (from 10.5 to 3 h after interleukin-1) and V1b receptor mRNA (3 to 6 h), which returned to control levels from 24 h onwards. Thus, interleukin-1-induced long-lasting hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal sensitizations associated with prolonged activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone-R1 mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus, but not with changes in the expression of proopiomelanocortin hnRNA or V1b receptor or corticotropin-releasing hormone R1 mRNAs in the pituitary gland. We propose that transient exposure to immune events can induce long-lasting hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal sensitization, which at least in part involves long-term hypothalamic adaptations that enhance central corticotropin-releasing hormone signaling.
Glial cell line neurotrophic factor(GDNF) is a potent survival factor for several types of neurons. GDNF binds with high affinity to the GDNF-family receptor alpha-1 (GFRalpha-1) which is expressed in different brain areas. In the present study, by using anatomical techniques, we document the phenotypic diversity among GFRalpha-1 expressing neurons in the CNS. GFRalpha-1 expression was found in GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid)-containing neurons distributed in the cortex, reticular thalamic nucleus and septum. While high expression of GFRalpha-1 was often observed in cholinergic motoneurons in the spinal cord, very few septal cholinergic neurons were found to express GFRalpha-1. GFRalpha-1 transcripts were also detected in catecholaminergic neurons in the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, dorsal raphe nucleus and locus ceruleus. Within the raphe nucleus, GFRalpha-1 expression was prominent in many serotonergic neurons and in few neurons containing the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. As GFRalpha-1 is activated by GDNF and GDNF-related neurotrophic factors, the widespread distribution of GFRalpha-1 in neurons with different phenotypes indicates that the neuronal activity of these neurons is likely to be affected by GDNF and GDNF-related neurotrophic factors. This would result in the regulation of diverse neuronal pathways in the adult brain. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd on behalf of IBRO.
The genioglossus muscle is involved in the maintenance of an open airway for effective breathing. Inhibitory neurotransmitters may be responsible for the major suppression of hypoglossal motor output to genioglossus muscle that occurs in certain behaviours such as rapid-eye-movement sleep. There is evidence for GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition of hypoglossal motoneurons in vitro. However, comparable studies have not been performed in vivo and the interactions of such mechanisms with integrative reflex respiratory control have also not been determined. Urethane-anaesthetised, tracheotomized and vagotomized rats were studied whilst diaphragm and genioglossus muscle activities, blood pressure and the electroencephalogram were recorded. Microdialysis probes were implanted into the hypoglossal motor nucleus, with sites verified by histology. Genioglossus responses to microdialysis perfusion of muscimol (GABA(A) agonist: 0, 0.1, 1 and 10 microM in artificial cerebrospinal fluid) were recorded at inspired CO(2)s of 0, 5 and 7.5% in six rats. Responses to bicuculline (GABA(A) antagonist, 0, 1, 10, 100 and 1000 microM) were also studied in six rats with and without CO(2) stimulation. Genioglossus activity decreased with muscimol (P&lt;0.0001), with major suppression at 1 and 10 microM during air breathing (decreases=70.2% and 92.8%, P&lt;0.005). Genioglossus activity increased with CO(2) (P=0.003), but genioglossus activation with 5 and 7.5% CO(2) were almost abolished with 10-microM muscimol. Responses were specific to genioglossus muscle as there were no changes in diaphragm, respiratory rate or blood pressure with muscimol (P&gt;0.144). Antagonism of GABA(A) receptors increased genioglossus activity (P&lt;0.001). These results show that GABA(A) receptor stimulation at the hypoglossal motor nucleus suppresses both genioglossus muscle tone and activity in the presence of reflex stimulation produced by hypercapnia. Recruitment of such mechanisms may contribute to the major suppression of genioglossus activity observed with and without CO(2) stimulation in behaviours such as rapid-eye-movement sleep.
Zinc is found throughout the CNS in synaptic vesicles of glutamatergic neurons and has been suggested to have a modulatory role in the brain because of its interaction with voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels. We took advantage of zinc transporter 3 knockout mice, which lack vesicular zinc, to study the possible physiological role of this heavy metal in hippocampal mossy fiber neurotransmission. We examined postsynaptic responses evoked by mossy fiber activation, recorded in CA3 pyramidal cells in hippocampal slices prepared from zinc transporter 3 knockout and wild-type mice. Field-potential response threshold and amplitude, input-output curves, and paired-pulse evoked responses were the same in slices from zinc transporter 3 knockout and wild-type mice. Furthermore, neither amplitude nor duration of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate, non-N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABA(A), and GABA(B) receptor-mediated postsynaptic potentials differed between zinc transporter 3 knockout and wild-type mice. There was no difference in the magnitude of epileptiform discharges evoked by repetitive stimulation or kainic acid application. However, in slices from zinc transporter 3 knockout mice, there was greater attenuation of GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials during tetanic stimulation compared with slices from wild-type animals. We conclude that lack of vesicular zinc in mossy fibers does not significantly affect the mossy fiber-associated synaptic excitability of CA3 pyramidal cells; however, zinc may modulate GABAergic synaptic transmission under conditions of intensive activation.
Narcolepsy, a disabling neurological disorder characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness, sleep attacks, sleep fragmentation, cataplexy, sleep-onset rapid eye movement sleep periods and hypnagogic hallucinations was recently linked to a loss of neurons containing the neuropeptide hypocretin. There is considerable variability in the severity of symptoms between narcoleptic patients, which could be related to the extent of neuronal loss in the lateral hypothalamus. To investigate this possibility, we administered two concentrations (90 ng or 490 ng in a volume of 0.5 microl) of the neurotoxin hypocretin-2-saporin, unconjugated saporin or saline directly to the lateral hypothalamus and monitored sleep, the entrained and free-running rhythm of core body temperature and activity. Neurons stained for hypocretin or for the neuronal specific marker were counted in the perifornical area, dorsomedial and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. More neuronal nuclei (NeuN) cells were destroyed by the higher concentration of hypocretin-2-saporin (-55%) compared with the lower concentration (-34%) in the perifornical area, although both concentrations lesioned the hypocretin neurons almost equally well (high concentration=91%; low concentration=88%). The high concentration of hypocretin-2-saporin also lesioned neurons in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Narcoleptic-like sleep behavior was produced by both concentrations of the hypocretin-2-saporin. The high concentration produced a larger increase in non-rapid eye movement sleep amounts during the normally active night cycle than low concentration. Neither concentration of hypocretin-2-saporin disrupted the phase or period of the core temperature or activity rhythms. The low concentration of unconjugated saporin did not significantly lesion hypocretin or neurons and did not alter sleep. The high concentration of unconjugated saporin produced some loss of neuronal nuclei-immunoreactive (NeuN-ir) neurons and hypocretin immunoreactive neurons, but only a transient increase in non-rapid eye movement sleep. These results led us to conclude that the extent of hypocretin neuronal loss together with an accompanying loss of cells in the lateral hypothalamus may explain the differences in severity of symptoms seen in human narcolepsy.
Epidemiological and clinical studies provide growing evidence for marked sex differences in the incidence of certain neurological disorders that are largely attributed to the neuroprotective effects of estrogen. Thus there is a keen interest in the clinical potential of estrogen-related compounds to act as novel therapeutic agents in conditions of neuronal injury and neurodegeneration such as Parkinson's disease. Studies employing animal models of neurodegeneration in ovariectomised female rats treated with estrogen support this hypothesis, yet experimental evidence for sex differences in the CNS response to direct neurotoxic insult is limited and, as yet, few studies have addressed the role played by endogenously produced hormones in neuroprotection. Therefore, in this study we aimed to determine (1) whether the prevailing levels of sex steroid hormones in the intact rat provide a degree of protection against neuronal assault in females compared with males and (2) whether sex differences depend solely on male/female differences in circulating estrogen levels or whether androgens could also play a role. Using the selective, centrally administered neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, which induces a lesion in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway similar to that seen in Parkinson's disease, we have demonstrated a sexually dimorphic (male-dominant), dose-dependent susceptibility in rats. Furthermore, following gonadectomy, dopamine depletion resulting from a submaximal dose of 6-hydroxydopamine (1 microg) was reduced in male rats, whereas in females, ovariectomy enhanced dopamine depletion. Administration of the nonaromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone to gonadectomized animals had no significant effect on 6-hydroxydopamine toxicity in either males or females, whereas treatment of gonadectomized males and females with physiological levels of estrogen restored the extent of striatal dopamine loss to that seen in intact rats, viz, estrogen therapy reduced lesion size in females but increased it in males. Taken together, our findings strongly suggest that there are sex differences in the mechanisms whereby nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurones respond to injury. They also reveal that the reported clinically beneficial effects of estrogen in females may not be universally adopted for males. While the reasons for this gender-determined difference in response to the activational action of estrogen are unknown, we hypothesize that they may well be related to the early organizational events mediated by sex steroid hormones, which ultimately result in the sexual differentiation of the brain.
Genetic engineering of the mouse brain allows investigators to address novel hypotheses in vivo. Because of the paucity of information on the network patterns of the mouse hippocampus, we investigated the electrical patterns in the behaving animal using multisite silicon probes and wire tetrodes. Theta (6-9 Hz) and gamma (40-100 Hz) oscillations were present during exploration and rapid eye movement sleep. Gamma power and theta power were comodulated and gamma power varied as a function of the theta cycle. Pyramidal cells and putative interneurons were phase-locked to theta oscillations. During immobility, consummatory behaviors and slow-wave sleep, sharp waves were present in cornu ammonis region CA1 of the hippocampus stratum radiatum associated with 140-200-Hz &quot;ripples&quot; in the pyramidal cell layer and population burst of CA1 neurons. In the hilus, large-amplitude &quot;dentate spikes&quot; occurred in association with increased discharge of hilar neurons. The amplitude of field patterns was larger in the mouse than in the rat, likely reflecting the higher neuron density in a smaller brain. We suggest that the main hippocampal network patterns are mediated by similar pathways and mechanisms in mouse and rat.
Although sleep is thought to be restorative from prior wakeful activities, it is not clear what is being restored. To determine whether the synthesis of macromolecules is increased in the cerebral cortex during sleep, we subjected C57BL/6 mice to 6 hours of sleep deprivation and then screened the expression of 1176 genes of known function by using cDNA arrays. The expression of the heat shock proteins (HSP), endoplasmic reticulum protein (ERp72) and glucose-regulated protein (GRp78), was among the genes whose expression was significantly elevated in the cortex during sleep deprivation, whereas GRp78 and GRp94 mRNAs were elevated in the cortex during recovery sleep after sleep deprivation, as confirmed by conventional and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and/or Northern analyses. A systematic evaluation of the expression of six heat shock protein family members (ERP72, GRp78, GRp94, HSP27, HSP70-1, and HSP84) in seven brain regions revealed increased mRNA levels in cortex, basal forebrain, hypothalamus, cerebellum and medulla during sleep deprivation, whereas increased mRNA levels during recovery sleep were limited to the cortex and medulla. Immunohistochemical studies identified increased numbers of GRp78-, GRp94-, and ERp72-immunoreactive cells in the dorsal and lateral cortex during sleep deprivation but, during recovery sleep, elevated numbers of these cells were found only in the lateral cortex. In the medulla, increased numbers of GRp94-immunoreactive cells were observed in nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the rostroventrolateral medulla during recovery sleep. The widespread increase of heat shock protein family mRNAs in brain during sleep deprivation may be a neuroprotective response to prolonged wakefulness. In contrast, the relatively limited heat shock protein family mRNA expression during recovery sleep may be related to the role of heat shock proteins in protein biogenesis and thus to the restorative function of sleep.
The present study tested hypotheses derived from a neurobehavioral model of anxiety that posits an important role of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in the cortical processing of anxiety-associated stimuli and contexts. We hypothesized that visceral afferent activity induced by systemic administration of epinephrine would enhance the processing of auditory stimuli as evidenced by the cerebral auditory evoked response. We further predicted that selective lesions of the basal forebrain cortical cholinergic projection system would disrupt this processing, and would further block the effects of epinephrine. Results confirmed these hypotheses. Epinephrine was found to enhance the amplitude of the P70 component of the auditory evoked response in rats. Selective lesions of the basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic projection, by intrabasalis infusions of 192 IgG saporin, delayed and reduced the amplitude of the P70 component, and blocked the potentiating effects of epinephrine on the auditory evoked response. The present results are consistent with the view that visceral afferent input may modulate cortical processing of sensory signals via the basal forebrain cholinergic system. These considerations emphasize the potential importance of ascending, bottom-up modulation of processing by telencephalic circuits that may impact on a wide range of behavioral functions.
Our previous studies have shown that selective inhibition of nitric oxide in the brain reduces pressor responses to activation of cardiac sympathetic afferents, thus suggesting that nitric oxide is involved in central regulation of cardiac-cardiovascular sympathoexcitatory reflexes. Central neural regions in which nitric oxide-producing neurons are activated during these reflexes have not been well characterized. In the present study, we located nitric oxide-producing neurons in the brain stem activated by the input from cardiac sympathetic afferents by detecting colocalization of c-Fos immunoreactivity with nitric oxide synthesizing neurons. Expression of c-Fos has been used as a marker of activated neurons. Nitric oxide-producing neurons were identified by histochemical labeling of nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d). In anesthetized cats with bilateral barodenervation and cervical vagotomy, bradykinin (1-10 microg in 0.1 ml; n=6) was applied to the anterior surface of the left ventricle six times every 20 minutes. Repetitive application of bradykinin consistently increased blood pressure, while the vehicle for bradykinin (0.9% saline, n=5) produced no responses. A substantial fraction (6-27%) of NADPH-d positive neurons displayed Fos immunoreactivity in the nucleus of the solitary tract, caudal and rostral ventral lateral medulla, lateral tegmental field, locus coeruleus and parabrachial nucleus in the bradykinin-treated cats. However, either no or rare (1-4%) double-labeled cells were found in these regions in control animals. Thus, nitric oxide-producing neurons are activated in several regions in the brain stem during stimulation of cardiac sympathetic afferents by bradykinin. Our data suggest that nitric oxide functions as a neurotransmitter/modulator in these areas to regulate the cardiac sympathoexcitatory reflexes.
Recent anatomical and physiological studies have pointed to a functional innervation of the subthalamic nucleus by dopamine. This nucleus has a pivotal role in basal ganglia function and voluntary movement control and the possibility that dopamine, and dopaminergic medication used in Parkinson's disease, might directly influence its activity is of considerable interest. We have evaluated electrophysiologically the action and pharmacology of dopamine on single subthalamic neurones in rat brain slices. Dopamine increased firing rate to up to a mean of 60% in 98% of the 261 neurones tested when examined using extracellular single-unit recording. This excitation was unaffected by the GABA antagonist picrotoxin, and the glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, and persisted in a low Ca(2+)/raised Mg(2+) solution, indicative of a direct action, independent of synaptic transmission. Of the 33 cells examined using whole patch-clamp recording, only 13 showed measurable increases in firing rate and/or depolarisations in response to dopamine. Dopamine-responsive cells displayed significantly greater access resistance, suggesting that an unidentified cytoplamic constituent, removed by whole-cell dialysis, was required for the response. Using extracellular recording, the D2-like dopamine receptor agonists quinpirole and bromocryptine, but not the D1-like receptor agonist 1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol, also consistently caused an excitation. This was mimicked by the catecholamine releaser amphetamine in 60% of cells tested. However, the dopamine excitation was not significantly reduced either by the D1-like receptor antagonist 7-chloro8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine or the D2-like receptor antagonists (-)-sulpiride, eticlopride and (+)-butaclamol, and the quinpirole excitation was also unaffected by (-)-sulpiride. In contrast, (-)-sulpiride, eticlopride and (+)-butaclamol all abolished the D2-like receptor-mediated inhibition by dopamine of substantia nigra pars compacta neurones. The alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine was a weak antagonist of dopamine excitations, but not of those caused by quinpirole. Dopamine excitations also showed weak sensitivity to the 5-HT(2) antagonist ritanserin, but were unaffected by the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazocin and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol. The pharmacology of this dopamine excitation is inconsistent with an action on any known catecholamine receptor. However, the effect of amphetamine indicates that an unidentified monamine--possibly dopamine--can be released within the subthalamic nucleus to cause an excitation. The anomalies of its pharmacological characterisation do not strongly support a physiologically relevant direct action of dopamine in the rat subthalamic nucleus.
Gephyrin is an ubiquitously expressed protein that, in the central nervous system, generates a protein scaffold to anchor inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in the postsynaptic membrane. It was first identified as a protein component of the glycine receptor complex. Recent studies have demonstrated that gephyrin is colocalized with several subtypes of GABA(A) receptors and is part of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor clusters. Here, we describe a study of the regional and cellular distribution of gephyrin in the human brain, determined by immunohistochemical localisation at the light and confocal laser scanning microscopic levels. At the regional level, gephyrin immunoreactivity was observed in most of the major brain regions examined. The most intense staining was in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and caudate-putamen, in various brainstem nuclei with more moderate levels in the thalamus and cerebellum. At the cellular level gephyrin immunoreactivity was present on the plasma membranes of the soma and dendrites of pyramidal neurons throughout the various cortical regions examined. In the hippocampus, intense staining was observed on the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, and neurons of the CA1 and CA3 regions showed intense punctate gephyrin staining on their apical dendrites and cell bodies. Gephyrin immunoreactivity was also observed on neurons in the thalamus, globus pallidus and substantia nigra. In the putamen intense labelling of the striosomes was observed; most of the medium-sized neurons in the caudate-putamen were weakly labelled and many large neurons of the striatum were conspicuously stained. Many of the brainstem nuclei, notably the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, hypoglossal nucleus, trigeminal nucleus and inferior olive were all labelled with gephyrin. The spinal cord also showed high levels of gephyrin immunoreactivity. Our results demonstrate that the anchoring protein gephyrin is ubiquitously present in the human brain. We therefore suggest that gephyrin may have a central organizer role in assembling and stabilizing inhibitory postsynaptic membranes in human brain and is similar in function to those observed in the rodent brain. These findings contribute towards elucidating the role of gephyrin in the human brain.
Opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area, predominantly the mu-opioid receptors, have been suggested to modulate reinforcement sensitivity for both opioid and non-opioid drugs of abuse. The present study was conducted to study signal transduction proteins, which may mediate the functioning of mu-opioid receptors in the neurons of the ventral tegmental area. Therefore, brain slices of the ventral tegmental area were exposed in vitro to the specific mu-opioid agonist fentanyl and immunohistochemically stained for four different activated proteins using phospho-specific antibodies. Fentanyl dose-dependently activated extracellular signal-regulated protein in brain slices of the ventral tegmental area. This activation was reversible with naloxone. Furthermore, naloxone itself also activated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase. Under the present conditions fentanyl did not affect extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1 and 2, Stat and cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein activity. The direct activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase in ventral tegmental area slices by the mu-opioid agonist fentanyl may suggest a role of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase in reward processes.
Catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) is involved in the inactivation of catecholamines, including the neurotransmitter dopamine. A Val(108/158) Met functional polymorphism of the COMT gene has been shown to affect working memory-associated frontal lobe function in humans. In the present study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was employed to determine the mRNA expression profile of COMT in the human prefrontal cortex, striatum and midbrain and in the rat forebrain. In both species, COMT mRNA signals were observed in large pyramidal and smaller neurons in all cortical layers of the prefrontal cortex as well as in medium and large neurons in the striatum. Levels of COMT mRNA were obviously higher in neurons than in glia. The striatum, which receives a dense dopaminergic input, expressed lower levels of COMT mRNA as compared with the prefrontal cortex. Consistent with previous protein expression data, COMT mRNA was abundant in ependymal cells lining the cerebral ventricles. In the midbrain, COMT mRNA was detected in dopaminergic neurons in both species, albeit at low levels. In the rat forebrain, dense labeling was also detected in choroid plexus and hippocampal dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn neurons. Contrary to expectations that COMT would be expressed predominantly in non-neuronal cells, the present study shows that neurons are the main cell populations expressing COMT mRNA in the prefrontal cortex and striatum. Combined with previous data about protein localization, the present results suggest that the membrane-bound isoform of COMT having a high affinity for dopamine is expressed at neuronal dendritic processes in human cortex, consistent with functional evidence that it plays an important role in dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Recent studies using middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat have suggested a role of neuropeptide Y in ischemic pathophysiology. In this study, we investigated the effects of an i.c.v. injection of a neuropeptide Y-Y2 receptor agonist, neuropeptide Y 3-36, a Y1 receptor agonist, [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-neuropeptide Y, or a Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP3226, on infarct volume and hemodynamic parameters following middle cerebral artery occlusion. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion for 2 h. A single i.c.v. injection of neuropeptide Y 3-36 (15 microg/kg), [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-neuropeptide Y (30 microg/kg), or BIBP3226 (5, 15, or 45 microg/kg) was given at 30 min of ischemia. Blood pressure, heart rate, and regional cerebral perfusion were monitored during ischemia and reperfusion. The rats were decapitated after 70 h of reperfusion, and their brains were cut into 2-mm-thick coronal slices before reaction with a 2% solution of 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride to reveal the infarct. When compared with an infarct volume of 17.4+/-4.4% of the ipsilateral hemisphere following injection of neuropeptide Y 3-36, administration of the Y1 receptor analogs significantly modified the infarct volume (ordinary one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), P&lt;0.0001). [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-neuropeptide Y increased the infarct volume to 32.0+/-4.1% (Student-Newman-Keuls post-test, P&lt;0.01), whereas BIBP3226 at 15 microg/kg decreased the infarct volume to 6.5+/-1.0% (post-test P&lt;0.05). Although there was no major difference in the hemodynamic parameters among the groups, injection of [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-neuropeptide Y tended to further reduce cerebral perfusion during ischemia, while injection of BIBP3226 at 15 microg/kg appeared to have the opposite effect. In addition to glutamate, calcium ion and nitric oxide, activation of the neuropeptide Y-Y1 receptors may mediate cerebral damage during focal ischemia. Conversely, inhibiting the Y1 receptors may protect the brain against ischemic injury. Further studies are warranted to confirm the neuroprotective potential of neuropeptide Y-Y1 receptor inhibition.
Cortical serotonin(2A) receptors are hypothesized to be involved in the pathology and treatment of schizophrenia. Light microscopic studies in the rat prefrontal cortex have localized serotonin(2A) receptors to the dendritic shafts of pyramidal and local circuit neurons. Electrophysiological studies have predicted that these receptors are also located on glutamate terminals, whereas neurochemical studies have hypothesized that they are located on dopamine terminals in this area. The present study sought to determine the ultrastructural localization of immunoperoxidase labeling for serotonin(2A) receptors in the middle layers of the prelimbic portion of the rat prefrontal cortex. Serotonin(2A) receptor immunoreactivity was observed in 325 identifiable structures. Of these, 73% were postsynaptic profiles that were composed of either dendritic shafts (58%) or dendritic spine heads and necks (42%). Twenty-four percent of the labeled profiles were presynaptic axons and varicosities; most of these had morphological features that were characteristic of monoamine axons: thin diameter, lack of myelination, occasional content of dense-cored vesicles, and infrequent formation of synapses in single sections. The remainder of the labeled profiles (4%) were glial processes. These findings suggest that serotonin(2A) receptor-mediated effects within the rat prelimbic prefrontal cortex are primarily postsynaptic in nature, affecting both the spines of pyramidal cells and the dendrites of pyramidal and local circuit neurons in this area. The results further suggest that serotonin acts presynaptically via this receptor subtype, most likely at receptors on monoamine fibers, and only rarely directly on glutamate axons.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from the subthalamic nucleus in rat brain slice preparations to examine the effect of adenosine on inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission. Adenosine reversibly inhibited both GABA-mediated inhibitory and glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents. Adenosine at 100 microM reduced the amplitude of inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents by 42+/-5% and 34+/-6%, respectively. Reductions in the amplitude of both inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents were accompanied by increases in paired-pulse ratios. In addition, adenosine decreased the frequency of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents but had no effect on their amplitude. These results are consistent with a presynaptic site of action. The adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine completely reversed the adenosine-induced attenuation of inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents, but 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine alone had no effect on synaptic currents evoked at 0.1 Hz. However, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine inhibited a time-dependent depression of excitatory postsynaptic currents that was normally observed in response to a 5 Hz train of stimuli, suggesting that endogenous adenosine could be released during higher frequencies of stimulation. These results suggest that adenosine inhibits synaptic release of GABA and glutamate by stimulation of presynaptic A(1) receptors in the subthalamic nucleus.
The present study was designed to investigate whether a state of neuropathic pain induced by sciatic nerve ligation could alter the rewarding effect, antinociception, and G-protein activation induced by a prototype of mu-opioid receptor agonist morphine in the mouse. The sciatic nerve ligation caused a long-lasting and profound thermal hyperalgesia. Under this neuropathic pain-like state, an i.c.v. morphine-induced place preference was observed in sham-operated mice but not in sciatic nerve-ligated mice. However, no differences in the antinociceptive effect of i.c.v.-administered morphine were noted between the groups. The increases in the binding of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate induced by morphine in lower midbrain membranes including the ventral tegmental area, which contributes to the expression of the rewarding effect of opioid, were significantly attenuated in sciatic nerve-ligated mice. On the other hand, there were no differences in the stimulation of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding to pons/medulla membranes, which plays an important role in the antinociception of mu-opioid receptor agonists, between the groups. In addition, no changes in levels of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding by either the selective delta- or kappa-opioid receptor agonists were noted in membrane of the lower midbrain and limbic forebrain membranes obtained from sciatic nerve-ligated mice. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that sciatic nerve ligation did not alter the mRNA product of mu-opioid receptors in the lower midbrain, indicating that a decrease in some mu-opioid receptor functions may result from the uncoupling of mu-opioid receptors from G-proteins. We found a significant increase in protein levels of G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2, which causes receptor phosphorylation in membranes of the lower midbrain but not in the pons/medulla, obtained from mice with nerve injury, whereas there were no changes in the protein level of phosphorylated-protein kinase C in the lower midbrain. These results suggest that the uncoupling of mu-opioid receptors from G-proteins by G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 in the lower midbrain may, at least in part, contribute to the suppression of the rewarding effect of morphine under neuropathic pain.
GLT-1 is the predominant glutamate transporter in most brain regions and therefore plays a major role in terminating synaptic transmission and protecting neurons from glutamate neurotoxicity. In the present study we assessed (i) the regulation of GLT-1 expression in the spinal cord after peripheral nociceptive stimulation and (ii) the nociceptive behavior of rats following inhibition or transient knockdown of spinal GLT-1. Formalin injection into one hindpaw caused a rapid transient upregulation of GLT-1 protein expression in the spinal cord which did not occur when rats were pretreated with morphine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) suggesting that the nociceptive input specifically caused the increase of GLT-1 transcription. Inhibition of GLT-1 by the transportable inhibitor trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid resulted in a significant reduction of nociceptive behavior in the rat formalin assay. Similar results were obtained with a transient reduction of GLT-1 protein expression by antisense oligonucleotides. These data suggest that inhibition of GLT-1 activity or expression reduces excitatory synaptic efficacy and thereby nociception. Mechanisms that might explain this phenomenon may include activation of inhibitory metabotropic glutamate receptors, postsynaptic desensitization or disturbance of glutamate recycling.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 is a characteristic member of the methyl-CpG-binding protein family of transcription regulators. In conjunction with Sin3, MeCP2 recruits class I histone deacetylases to methyl-CpG regions to suppress transcription. Rett syndrome, a disorder characterized by mental retardation and autistic features, is associated in a majority of cases with mutations within the coding region of the MeCP2 gene. Considering that defective MeCP2 has mainly been related to Rett syndrome and other neurologic manifestations, we examined methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 cellular and subcellular compartmentalization in normal brain by immunochemical methods. Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 immunoreactivity is present mainly in neurons; while the few immunostained glia show label confined to nuclei, many neurons also show slight perikaryal staining. Using well-characterized tissue fractions, we found that methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 but not Sin3 is found in both nuclear and postsynaptic compartments. This novel extranuclear localization is not unique to methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, since it has been previously reported for other transcription regulators such as c-Fos. These findings support the concept that methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 may link synaptic activity and transcriptional regulation in neurons.
Although the morphology of the cerebral cortex is known to be sexually dimorphic in several species, to date this difference has not been investigated in mice. The present study is the first to report that the mouse cerebral cortex is thicker in males than in females. We further asked if this sex difference is the result of gonadal hormones, or alternatively is induced by a direct effect of genes encoded on the sex chromosomes. The traditional view of mammalian neural sexual differentiation is that androgens or their metabolites act during early development to masculinize the brain, whereas a feminine brain develops in the relative absence of sex steroids. We used mice in which the testis determination gene Sry was inherited independently from the rest of the Y chromosome to produce XX animals that possessed either ovaries or testes, and XY animals that possessed either testes or ovaries. Thus, the design allowed assessment of the role of sex chromosome genes, independent of gonadal hormones, in the ontogeny of sex differences in the mouse cerebral cortex. When a sex difference was present, mice possessing testes were invariably masculine in the morphology of the cerebral cortex, independent of the complement of their sex chromosomes (XX vs. XY), and mice with ovaries always displayed the feminine phenotype. These data suggest that sex differences in cortical thickness are under the control of gonadal steroids and not sex chromosomal complement. However, it is unclear whether it is the presence of testicular secretions or the absence of ovarian hormones that is responsible for the thicker male cerebral cortex.
We previously demonstrated that the peroxynitrite concentration increases after impact spinal cord injury. This study tests whether spinal cord injury-elevated peroxynitrite induces apoptotic cell death. Peroxynitrite was generated at the concentration and duration produced by spinal cord injury by administering S-morpholinosydnonimine through a microdialysis fiber into the gray matter of the rat spinal cord. Fragmented DNA was visualized by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling. Transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling-positive neurons were quantitated by counting the transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling and neuron-specific enolase double-stained neurons along the fiber track in the sections removed at 6, 12, 24 and 48 h post-peroxynitrite exposure. Peroxynitrite significantly increased transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling-positive neurons at all time points examined (P&lt; or =0.001) compared with artificial cerebrospinal fluid controls (Two-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey test), peaking at 24 h post-exposure. Electron microscopic observation of characteristic features of apoptosis confirmed peroxynitrite-induced neuronal apoptosis. Total transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling-positive cells were counted in areas near and 0.2 mm away from the fiber track. The counts both peaked at 24 h with no significant difference between the two areas. However, at 6 and 12 h post-exposure the counts were significantly higher near than away from the fiber track (P=0.03 and P=0.007 respectively, paired t test). Immunohistochemical staining indicates caspase-3 was activated by peroxynitrite; this activation peaked at 6 h post-exposure, suggesting that activation of caspase-3 might be an early event in the apoptotic cell death cascade. We conclude that 1) peroxynitrite generated in the cord at the level produced by spinal cord injury induces neuronal apoptosis, indicating a role for peroxynitrite in secondary spinal cord injury; 2) caspase activation might be involved in peroxynitrite-induced neuronal apoptosis; 3) therefore removal of peroxynitrite should reduce secondary cell death after spinal cord injury.
Optic nerve transection results in the apoptotic cell death of the majority of retinal ganglion cells by 14 days. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) enhances survival of retinal ganglion cells. In addition, the small heat shock protein Hsp27, with its anti-apoptotic effects, may be important for neuron survival following axotomy or trophic factor withdrawal. We recently reported the induction and expression of Hsp27 in a subset of retinal ganglion cells following axotomy. Here we have examined the effect of BDNF administration on the expression of Hsp27 in axotomized adult rodent retinal ganglion cells. Retinal ganglion cells were pre-labeled with Fluorogold prior to optic nerve transection and concomitant intraocular injection of BDNF or vehicle. Hsp27 immunofluorescence was examined in retinal sections from 4 to 28 days following injury. Consistent with previous survival studies, the number of Fluorogold-labeled retinal ganglion cells declined from 100% at 4 days to approximately 15% by 14 days following axotomy and vehicle injection. In contrast, with BDNF administration, retinal ganglion cell survival was maintained at 100% to 7 days following axotomy. We report that the number of Hsp27-positive injured retinal ganglion cells, as detected by immunohistochemical staining, was decreased by 50% in BDNF-treated retinas, when compared with vehicle-treated controls. This decreased expression of Hsp27 in response to BDNF treatment was seen both at early (4 days) and delayed (14 days) times. BDNF following optic nerve transection significantly reduced the expression of Hsp27 in retinal ganglion cells. These results indicate that BDNF may down-regulate alternate cell survival pathways, including the stress-induced expression of Hsp27, and may help to explain the failure of chronic neurotrophin treatment to maintain long-term retinal ganglion cell survival.
Nine mutations that cause generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus have been identified in the SCN1A gene encoding the alpha subunit of the Na(v)1.1 voltage-gated sodium channel. The functional properties of two of these mutations (T875M and R1648H) have previously been described. T875M was shown to enhance slow inactivation, while R1648H dramatically accelerated recovery from inactivation. In this report, we have cloned, expressed and characterized the functional effects of a third generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus mutation, W1204R (Am J Hum Genet 68 (2001) 866). The mutation was cloned into the orthologous rat channel, rNa(v)1.1, and at the same time a single base pair insertion at base 120 in the original rNa(v)1.1 clone was corrected. The level of expression of the corrected wild-type rNa(v)1.1 was approximately 1000-fold higher than that of the original clone and comparable to that achieved with other neuronal sodium channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The properties of the W1204R mutant in the corrected rNa(v)1.1 were determined in the absence and presence of the beta1 subunit in Xenopus oocytes. The W1204R mutation resulted in approximately 11 mV hyperpolarized shifts in the voltage-dependence of activation and steady-state inactivation when expressed as an alpha subunit alone. When the channels were coexpressed with the beta1 subunit, the hyperpolarized shifts were still present but smaller, approximately 5 mV in magnitude. All other properties that we examined were comparable for the mutant and wild-type channels. The negative shift in activation would increase channel excitability, whereas the negative shift in inactivation would decrease excitability. The negative shifts in both properties also shifted the window current, which is the voltage region in which sodium channels can continue to open because some percentage of channels are activated and not all of the channels are inactivated. The shift in window current for the W1204R mutation could result in hyperexcitability because the neuron's potential is more likely to reach the more negative range. These results demonstrate that a third SCN1A mutation that causes generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus 2 alters the properties of the sodium channel in a different manner than the previous two mutations that were studied. The diversity in functional effects for these three mutations indicates that a similar clinical phenotype can result from very different underlying sodium channel abnormalities.
In the rat, melanin-concentrating hormone-containing projections are detected in the median eminence and in the neural lobe of the pituitary. After vascular injections of the retrograde tracers fluorogold or fastblue, melanin-concentrating hormone neurons are retrogradely labeled in the rostromedial zona incerta and adjacent perifornical region. These neurons may be the source of the melanin-concentrating hormone projections toward the median eminence and posterior pituitary, and may release their secretory products into the bloodstream. After fastblue injections in the cerebral cortex and vascular fluorogold injections, some melaninconcentrating hormone neurons contain both tracers, indicating that they send collaterals in the cerebral cortex and in the median eminence/posterior pituitary. No such collaterals have been described for the classical neuroendocrine systems. The melanin-concentrating hormone system is thought to play a role in arousal in correlation with specific goal oriented behaviors such as feeding or reproduction. Some MCH neurons may be involved in such functions by modulating directly cortical activity as well as being neuroendocrine.
Some mammalian neurons undergo apoptosis after neurotrophin deprivation. We studied neuronally differentiated PC6-3 pheochromocytoma cells, which are highly dependent on nerve growth factor for survival. We found that transient transfection with green fluorescent protein or beta-galactosidase protected cells from apoptosis induced by nerve growth factor deprivation. Individual transfection reagent components did not produce increased viability of nerve growth factor-deprived cells. This apparent neuroprotective effect from transient transfection was specific to neurotrophin deprivation, as cells treated with H(2)O(2) or staurosporine were not protected. To determine the mechanism of neuroprotection after transfection, the transfection status of identified groups of cells was assessed both before and after nerve growth factor deprivation. The results were consistent with a model whereby cells that are transfected but not yet expressing the transfected protein are relatively protected from nerve growth factor deprivation. We suggest that apoptosis induced by neurotrophin deprivation may interact with processes of transient transfection and expression of foreign genes in neuronal cells. Not only should these interactions be considered in transient transfection studies of neurotrophin-deprived neurons, but also their elucidation could lead to novel methods for achieving neuroprotection.
Repeated exposure to cocaine produces an enduring increase in dendritic spine density in adult rat nucleus accumbens. It has been shown previously that chronic cocaine administration increases the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase-5 in this brain region and that this neuronal protein kinase regulates cocaine-induced locomotor activity. Moreover, cyclin-dependent kinase-5 has been implicated in neuronal function and synaptic plasticity. Therefore, we studied the involvement of this enzyme in cocaine's effect on dendritic spine density. Adult male rats, receiving intra-accumbens infusion of the cyclin-dependent kinase-5 inhibitor roscovitine or saline, were administered a 28-day cocaine treatment regimen. Animals were killed 24-48 h after the final cocaine injection and their brains removed and processed for Golgi-Cox impregnation. Our findings demonstrate that roscovitine attenuates cocaine-induced dendritic spine outgrowth in nucleus accumbens core and shell and such inhibition reduces spine density in nucleus accumbens shell of control animals. These data indicate that cyclin-dependent kinase-5 is involved in regulation of, as well as cocaine-induced changes in, dendritic spine density.
Activation of the extracellular signal-related kinase is important for long-term increases in synaptic strength in the Aplysia nervous system. However, there is little known about the mechanism for the activation of the kinase in this system. We examined the activation of Aplysia extracellular signal-related kinase using a phosphopeptide antibody specific to the sites required for activation of the kinase. We found that phorbol esters led to a prolonged activation of extracellular signal-related kinase in sensory cells of the Aplysia nervous system. Surprisingly, inhibitors of protein kinase C did not block this activation. Serotonin, the physiological transmitter involved in long-term synaptic facilitation, also led to prolonged activation of extracellular signal-related kinase, but inhibitors of protein kinase A or protein kinase C did not block this activation. We examined whether the protein synthesis-dependent increase in excitability stimulated by phorbol esters was dependent on phorbol ester activation of extracellular signal-related kinase, but increases in excitability were still seen in the presence of inhibitors of extracellular signal-related kinase activation. Our results suggest that prolonged phosphorylation of extracellular signal-related kinase in the Aplysia system is not mediated by either of the classic second messenger activated kinases in this system, protein kinase A or protein kinase C and that extracellular signal-related kinase is not important for phorbol ester induced long-term effects on excitability.
GTP cyclohydrolase I is the first and rate-limiting enzyme for the de novo biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin, which is the cofactor for tyrosine hydroxylase. Lipopolysaccharide can modulate tetrahydrobiopterin production by upregulating GTP cyclohydrolase I protein expression in the locus coeruleus in the mouse brain. The increased supply of tetrahydrobiopterin in the locus coeruleus leads to increased tyrosine hydroxylase activity without affecting the level of tyrosine hydroxylase protein expression, resulting in an increase in norepinephrine turnover at the site. This study was performed to address whether the increase in GTP cyclohydrolase I protein is dependent on the de novo synthesis of GCH in the locus coeruleus. After i.p. administration of lipopolysaccharide, the mRNA expression of GTP cyclohydrolase I was examined. The expression level increased within 2 h, and reached to maximum level at 4 h after the lipopolysaccharide administration. However, the mRNA expression level of 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase and sepiapterin reductase, both of which are involved successively after GTP cyclohydrolase I in tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis, were not affected by the lipopolysaccharide administration. These results suggest that GTP cyclohydrolase I upregulation alone is enough to modulate tetrahydrobiopterin production in the locus coeruleus. In addition, the mRNA level of tyrosine hydroxylase was also not affected by the lipopolysaccharide administration. Taken together, the data indicate that GTP cyclohydrolase I plays a crucial role in regulating norepinephrine biosynthesis by a pathway the activity of which is triggered by lipopolysaccharide i.p. administration.



Traumatic fat embolism syndrome occurs most often following fractures of long bones sustained in road traffic accidents and is a common cause of medical consultation from the orthopedic surgery department. The sub-clinical presentation is subtle and expresses itself by the presence of hypoxemia, while the full clinical syndrome compromises respiratory insufficiency, an altered consciousness and a characteristic petechial rash. Recognition is simple once the patient is viewed in the context of his or her clinical setting. Diagnosis is aided further by the presence of hematological and biochemical abnormalities including anemia, thrombocytopenia, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and fat macroglobulinemia. Imaging by chest radiograph, computed tomography or magnetic resonance of the brain is used to confirm the extent of the respective organ involvement and to exclude alternative pathologies. The release of free fatty acids into the circulation and their subsequent effects is the key pathological event. Treatment is based on supportive care and high-dose corticosteroid therapy. We report a patient with traumatic fat embolism syndrome who developed the syndrome`s classical symptoms and signs following fracture of the long bones of his left lower leg. Admission to an intensive care unit, mechanical ventilatory support with positive end-expiratory pressure and corticosteroid therapy lead to his improvement and allowed eventual open reduction and internal fixation and discharge of our patient. Modern therapy offers a relatively good prognosis for patients with traumatic fat embolism syndrome; the optimal dose and timing of corticosteroid therapy in prophylaxis and treatment however, remain the subject of intense debate.
We report a case of Goldenhar syndrome and hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HTT1), to our knowledge an association not previously described. This case further increases the diversity of observations and clinical descriptions of patients with this complex syndrome. We discuss pathogenetic aspects, and demonstrate further evidence of the effectiveness of 2-(2-nitro-4-trifluoromethyl benzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione in the treatment of HTT1.
Neural tumors composed of Pacinian corpuscles are rare and have only occasionally been reported in the literature. All such lesions, which have been reported to date, have been benign. One such lesion described here presented as a painful lesion on the right hand in a 17-year-old Omani female. There was history of trap door injury 7 years back involving the wrist, thumb and index finger. The patient gradually developed multiple bosselated nodules near the first web space with gradually increasing pain. This case is being reported for the first time in the Sultanate of Oman. We herein report this case due to its rarity.
The authors report an unusual location of a benign chondroma of the petro-sphenoidal synchondrosis extending into the cavernous sinus. Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance image features were characteristic of chondroid tumor. However, pathologic verification is mandatory in order to distinguish chondroma from chondroblastoma or chondroid chordoma.
Neurobrucellosis is chronic brucellosis affecting the nervous system. It may mimic many neurological diseases but it rarely presents as polyradiculopathy. Brucellar radiculopathy was diagnosed in 6 patients who presented with weakness of the lower extremities. Five patients had lumbar puncture, 4 had magnetic resonance imaging of lumbar spine and 4 had nerve conduction studies. Five patients had areflexia and weakness; one had areflexia with proprioceptive ataxia. All patients had positive Brucella serology; cerebrospinal fluid showed lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, normal-low glucose; brucella serology was positive in all specimens. Nerve conduction studies showed absent F-wave in 2 patients and polyradiculopathy with secondary motor axonopathy in 2 patients; motor conduction velocity was normal in all. Magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium injection showed enhancement of lumbar nerve root in 3 patients, and no enhancement in one. All patients improved after treatment with antibiotics and lumbar root enhancement disappeared. Symptoms of myelopathy were unmasked after radiculopathy had resolved in one patient. In endemic areas, brucella infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of radiculopathy. Radiculopathy is probably due to inflammation of the meninges and the intrathecal portion of the roots. The pathogenesis of myelopathy may involve demyelination as spasticity persists or worsens after radiculopathy improves.







Spasticity is common in patients with a variety of central nervous system disorders. It can lead to significant disability or cause complications that may result in severe morbidity. In such patients, treatment of spasticity is warranted. Several oral and parenteral medications are available for use in the treatment of spasticity. This article reviews the pharmacological properties and therapeutic effectiveness of these medications to provide a practical objective guide for physicians who may be involved in the management of spasticity.
There has been a renaissance in the surgical management of Parkinson`s disease. This has been due to long-term effects of levodopa and a better understanding of the basal ganglia and its circuitry. Ablative surgery and neurostimulation are the only realistic surgical options at present. Although surgical treatments, such as ablation and stimulation are effective, they are not useful for stopping the progression or restoring the system. Neural transplantation helps restore the system by using a number of techniques. Targets mostly used are in the thalamus, globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus. A number of factors must be considered including patient`s age, disability and his wishes. Globus pallidus stimulation might be preferable for patients who suffer from dyskinesia as a major source of disability. Pallidotomy might be appropriate in cases where frequent stimulator adjustments are impractical. Subthalamic nucleus stimulation is more suitable for patients with significant off periods and in younger patients in whom it may be desirable to maintain intact circuitry. Fetal neural transplantation, stem cell transplantation, xenotransplantation, adrenal medullary transplantation and transplantation of genetically engineered cells are at various stages of development and research. Ethical issues surrounding these process are likely to arouse strong emotions and have to be carefully considered.



Intracellular signaling pathways involved in neurite outgrowth have been extensively studied in a variety of cell systems. While most of these studies utilized continuous neuronal-like cell lines, fewer studies have been conducted in primary neuronal culture. One primary culture system that has recently been used to dissect the signaling pathways involved in axon guidance consists of spinal neurons derived from embryonic Xenopus laevis. In this study, we used Xenopus to study neurite outgrowth by treating neuronal cultures with pharmacological agents that activate or inhibit various protein kinases or that inhibit protein phosphatases. We found that agents which affected signaling via cAMP-dependent protein kinase, calmodulin, cyclin-dependent kinase 5, or protein phosphatases had effects on Xenopus neurite outgrowth that were similar to those reported in other primary neurons or in neuronal-like cell lines. However, agents which affected protein kinase C signaling had effects on Xenopus neurite outgrowth that were distinct from those reported in neuronal-like cell lines. Although continuous cell lines have several advantages for the dissection of signaling pathways involved in neurodevelopment, these observations underscore the importance of also using primary neurons to examine these pathways.
GTP-binding protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) bind to a vast diversity of extracellular ligands to regulate a wide variety of physiological responses. Upon binding of extracellular ligands, these seven-transmembrane-spanning receptor molecules couple to one or several subtypes of G protein which reside at the intracellular side of the plasma membrane to trigger intracellular signaling events. Amid the large structural diversity at the intracellular regions of GPCRs, there are only 18 different subtypes of G protein belonging to four subfamilies. The question of how GPCRs select and activate a single or multiple G protein subtype(s) has been the topic of intense investigations. This review will attempt to summarize the available data on the structural determinants in GPCRs that regulate the selectivity of G protein activation. The available data suggest that G protein can be activated by structurally diverse cationic alpha-helical structures with no obvious homology in primary sequence. The selectivity of receptor-G protein coupling is maintained by a combination of two functional domains at the intracellular region. One is the 'activation domain' which can activate multiple G protein subtypes, while the other is the 'selectivity domain' which restricts the coupling to the desired signaling pathway(s). A slight change in the conformation at these two functional domains can affect the fidelity of G protein selectivity. This hypothesis can account for the vast structural diversity of GPCRs which link a fascinating variety of extracellular inputs, yet couple to a limited number of intracellular signaling pathways.


Problems with immunosuppression and graft survival limit clinical applications of neurotransplantation protocols for neurodegenerative disease. Sertoli cells, testes-derived cells with immunosuppressive and trophic properties, may serve as an alternative cell source for transplantation. Sertoli cells were transplanted into the striatum of rats following two injections of 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) to determine whether they could ameliorate abnormalities in a model of early stage Huntington's disease. 3-NP-induced locomotor hyperactivity was significantly reduced in rats receiving Sertoli transplants compared to controls, with some behaviors returning to baseline. Sertoli cells survived in the striatum without systemic immunosuppression and some formed tubule-like structures. These results show that Sertoli transplants are able to ameliorate locomotor abnormalities in a 3-NP model of early HD. Thus, Sertoli cells should be further evaluated as a possible treatment strategy for the early stages of Huntington's disease.
Three experiments were performed to study the effects of neonatal administration of glutamate receptor antagonists, on either Day 11 (dizocilpine = MK-801, 3 x 0.5 mg/kg, s.c., injected at 0800, 1600 and 2400 h) or Day 10 (Ketamine, 1 x 50 mg/kg, s.c., or Ethanol-Low, 1 x 2.5 mg/kg, or, Ethanol-High, 2 x 2.5 mg/kg, s.c., with 2-h interval) to male mice pups, on spontaneous motor behavior, habituation to a novel situation and D-amphetamine-induced activity in the adult animals. Mice administered MK-801 showed initial hypoactivity followed by hyperactivity over the later (20-40 and 40-60 min) periods of testing. Mice administered Ketamine and Ethanol-High similarly displayed an initial hypoactivity followed by hyperactivity over the later time (20-60 min) of testing. Habituation to the novel activity test chambers was reduced drastically in the MK-801 mice compared with vehicle-treated mice. Similarly, mice administered Ketamine and Ethanol-High displayed too drastically reduced habituation behavior. The low dose of D-amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg) reduced the hyperactivity of neonatal MK-801-treated mice, particularly from 30-60 min onwards, and elevated the activity level of the vehicle-treated mice. Similarly, the low dose of D-amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg) reduced the hyperactivity of neonatally Ketamine-treated and Ethanol-High-treated mice, particularly from 30-60 min onwards, and elevated the activity level of the respective vehicle-treated mice. Fluoro-jade staining per mm(2) regional brain tissue of MK-801 mice pups expressed as percent of vehicle mice pups showed also that the extensiveness of staining was markedly greater in the parietal cortex, hippocampus, frontal cortex, and lesser so in the laterodorsal thalamus. Ketamine-treated mice showed cell degeneration mainly in the parietal cortex, whereas the Ethanol-High mice showed marked cell degeneration in both the parietal and laterodorsal cortex. The present findings that encompass a pattern of regional neuronal degeneration, disruptions of spontaneous motor activity, habituation deficits and reversal of hyperactivity by a low dose of D-amphetamine suggest a model of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder that underlines the intimate role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the developing brain.
Anti-inflammatory treatment with the proteasome inhibitor MLN519 has been previously reported to be neuroprotective against ischemic brain injury in rats. These effects have been related to inhibition of the transcription factor NF-kappaB, which is activated through ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of MLN519 to alter the expression of several inflammatory genes under the control of NF-kappaB. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by vehicle or MLN519 (1.0 g/kg, i.v.) treatment immediately after reperfusion of blood to the brain at 2h. Gene expression was evaluated 3-72 h post-MCAo. The most striking effects of intravenous treatment with MLN519 were associated with reductions in ICAM-1 expression at 3 h followed by reductions in E-selectin (12-72 h). Less dramatic reductions were observed in IL-1Beta (3-24 h) and TNF-Alpha (24 h) with no apparent effects on IL-6 and VCAM-1 mRNA levels. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the genes most dramatically affected by MLN519 had highest expression in endothelial cells and leukocytes (E-selectin, ICAM-1),indicating that these cell types may be the primary targets of intravenously delivered MLN519 treatment.
This study investigated the effects of veratridine-induced neuronal toxicity on sodium channel gene (NaCh) expression in primary forebrain cultures enriched in neurons, and its reversal by a novel sodium channel blocker, RS100642. Using quantitative RT-PCR, our findings demonstrated the expression ratio of NaCh genes in normal fetal rat forebrain neurons to be Na(v)1.2 &gt; Na(v)1.3 &gt; Na(v)1.8 &gt; Na(v)1.1 &gt; Na(v)1.7 (rBII &gt; rBIII &gt; PN3 &gt; rBI &gt; PN1). Veratridine treatment of neuronal cells produced neurotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner (0.25-20 micro M). Neuronal injury caused by a dose of veratridine producing 80% cell death (2.5 micro M) significantly, and exclusively down-regulated the Na(v)1.1 gene. However, treatment of neurons with RS100642 (200 micro M) reversed the down-regulation of the Na(v)1.1 gene expression caused by veratridine. Our findings document for the first time quantitative and relative changes in the expression of various NaCh genes in neurons following injury produced by selective activation of voltage-gated sodium channels, and suggest that the Na(v)1.1 sodium channel gene may play a key role in the neuronal injury/recovery process.
One consequence of trauma to the CNS is the production and liberation, from damaged tissue, of large amounts of oxygen-centered free radicals or reactive oxygen species (ROS). An excessive production of ROS can overwhelm the endogenous antioxidant defense system resulting in lipid peroxidation, DNA strand breaks, protein denaturation and cross-linking. The brain is particularly vulnerable to oxidative injury, because it contains high concentrations of readily oxidizable poly-unsaturated fatty acids, has a high rate of oxygen consumption per unit mass, and has only a relatively modest antioxidant defense system. We have conducted studies in vitro to determine the feasibility of reducing ROS-mediated damage in neurons by bolstering endogenous neuronal antioxidant defenses. Primary cultures of neurons derived from embryonic rat forebrain were pre-treated with the free radical scavenger dihydrolipoic acid (DHLA), the reduced form of Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), and then subjected to H(2)O(2)-mediated oxidative stress. Neuroprotection was determined using the colorimetric MTT reduction assay. As has been reported by others, pre-treatment of neurons with DHLA (4 h) provided dose-dependent neuroprotection against a subsequent exposure to H(2)O(2). The addition of spin trapping nitrones N-tert-butyl-Alpha-phenyl-nitrone (PBN) or its sulfonated analog N-tert-butyl-Alpha(2-sulfophenyl)-nitrone (SPBN) to the pre-treatment cocktail enhanced neuroprotection at every dihydrolipoate concentration. Greater therapeutic efficacy in antioxidant treatment might be realized by employing combinations of complementary antioxidants.
While the role of apoptosis in neuronal injury is continually being re-defined, approaches to intervene in the progression of apoptotic injury have been documented to provide neuroprotection against a variety of insults. The present studies were undertaken to systematically study the effects of certain neuroprotective agents against neuronal apoptosis mediated by staurosporine (ST). ST (0.01-5 micro M) produced a dose-related apoptotic injury (as characterized by cellular morphology, 'Comet' assay analysis [single cell gel electrophoresis] and caspase-3 activation) in primary cultures of forebrain neurons. ST significantly increased caspase-3 activity. The NMDA receptor subtype non-selective antagonist dizocilpine [(+) MK-801; 0.1-50 micro M] and a novel sodium channel blocker RS100642 (1.0-250 micro M) had no significant effects against ST-induced neurotoxicity. Conversely, NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonists CGX-1007 (0.01-50 micro M) and ifenprodil (0.01-50 micro M) provided dose-dependent neuroprotection against ST-induced neurotoxicity (as measured by neuronal viability and comet assay analysis). CGX-1007 had no significant effect on ST-induced caspase-3 activity; however, ifenprodil did block activation of caspase-3. These studies demonstrate that NR2B NMDA receptor antagonists are anti-apoptotic and may mediate their action via mechanism(s) that are dependent or independent of caspase-3 activation.
In this study we evaluated the expression of five sodium channel (NaCh) Alpha-subunit genes after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in the rat and the effects of treatment with the NaCh blocker and experimental neuroprotective agent RS100642 as compared to the prototype NaCh blocker mexiletine. The expression of Na(v) 1.1, Na(v) 1.2, Na(v) 1.3, Na(v) 1.7, Na(v) 1.8 and the housekeeping gene beta-actin were studied in vehicle or drug-treated rats at 6, 24 and 48 h post-MCAo using real-time quantitative RT-PCR. RS100642 (1 mg/kg), mexiletine (10 mg/kg), or vehicle (1 ml/kg) was injected (i.v.) at 30 min, 2, 4, and 6 h post-injury. Following MCAo only the Na(v) 1.1 and Na(v) 1.2 genes were significantly down-regulated in the ipsilateral hemisphere of the injured brains. RS100642 treatment significantly reversed the down-regulation of Na(v) 1.1 (but not Na(v) 1.2) at 24-48 h post-injury. Mexiletine treatment, on the other hand, had no significant effect on the down-regulation of either gene. These findings demonstrate that treatment with a neuroprotective dose of RS100642 significantly reverses the down-regulation of Na(v) 1.1 caused by ischemic brain injury and suggests that RS100642 selectively targets the Na(v) 1.1 Alpha-subunit of the NaCh. Furthermore, our findings strengthen the hypothesis that ischemic injury may produce selective depletion of voltage-gated NaChs, and suggest that the Na(v) 1.1 NaCh Alpha-subunit may play a key role in the neuronal injury/recovery process.
Accumulating data support axonal degeneration as the major determinant of irreversible neurological disability in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The extent of axonal injury correlates with the degree of inflammation in active MS lesions and occurs at early stages of disease, indicating that inflammatory demyelination is an important factor behind axon pathology at the relapsing-remitting stage of MS. Axonal loss from disease onset can remain clinically silent for many years, and permanent neurological disability develops when a threshold of axonal loss is reached and the CNS compensatory resources are exhausted. Lack of myelin-derived trophic support due to long term demyelination may cause continuous axonal degeneration in chronic inactive lesions at the secondary-progressive stage of MS. Axonal pathology is not limited to demyelinated lesions, but also extends into normal appearing white matter. The concept of MS as a neurodegenerative disorder has important clinical implications: First, proactive anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory treatment should prevent or delay chronic disability since inflammation influences axonal injury. Second, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying axonal degeneration in MS need to be clarified in order to develop novel neuroprotective therapeutics. Finally, surrogate markers of axonal pathology, such as N-acetyl aspartate, can be used to monitor axonal dysfunction, axonal loss and treatment efficiency in patients with MS.
Mercury is known to cause sensorineural hearing loss and impaired speech perception. However, there is still a lack of a quantitative description of mercury toxicity on central auditory structures. This is a preliminary study using the novel technique of microelectrode array (MEA) recordings to evaluate acute and chronic neurotoxic effects of mercury on auditory cortex networks (ACNs) in vitro. Morphological and electrophysiological effects of mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) were studied. Neurons dissociated from auditory cortices of 14-day-old mouse embryos were grown on photoetched MEAs containing 64 transparent indium-tin oxide (ITO) electrodes. For acute electrophysiological experiments, the spontaneous spiking and bursting activity from ACNs were compared before and after application of HgCl(2). For chronic electrophysiological experiments, auditory cortex cultures were treated with various concentrations of HgCl(2) from the day of seeding, and were tested 4 weeks later for the presence of spontaneous activity. Morphological analysis was conducted on 8-day-old ACNs treated with HgCl(2) for 3 days. Results of acute experiments indicated that &lt;75 mM of HgCl(2) had an excitatory effect of variable magnitude on the spontaneous activity of ACNs; however, concentrations above 100 microM completely and irreversibly inhibited spike and burst activity. Chronic exposure of ACNs to 10 microM HgCl(2) completely blocked the spontaneous activity. Morphological analysis indicated that 10 microM HgCl(2) caused neuronal cell death in 3 days. It is concluded that HgCl(2) has a more toxic effect on auditory networks when exposed chronically, and the levels of mercury showing toxic effects on ACNs are within the dose range shown to cause neurologic symptoms in humans.


The Depression Self-Rating Scale (DSRS) is a self-report inventory based on the DSM-IV criteria for major depression. This study aimed to investigate diagnostic concordance of a major depressive disorder (MDD) using the DSRS and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, axis I disorders (SCID-I). An additional aim was to investigate whether concordance could be improved by adding different cut-off scores for the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) or the self-report version of the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS-S). MDD was determined by means of the SCID-I interview and the DSRS in 83 psychiatric in- and outpatients. Depressive severity was assessed using the BDI and the MADRS-S. A DSRS-version including the A- and C-criteria for an MDD had a sensitivity and a specificity for an expert-rated diagnosis of 86% and 75%, respectively. By using cut-off scores for the BDI or the MADRS-S, specificity could be raised to 85% without loss of sensitivity. The DSRS appears to be a useful instrument in the diagnostic process involving MDD, particularly when used in combination with the BDI or the MADRS-S. The DSRS is thought to be of value in psychiatric outpatient departments, where treatment of patients is often delegated to paramedical staff or nurses. The scale might also be used as an independent diagnostic tool in epidemiological studies in order to achieve an estimate of the prevalence of MDD in different population settings.
The present study is a follow-up of two different groups of young adults with a history of dyslexia problems in childhood. Group A was drawn from a larger longitudinal study where students were diagnosed with dyslexia at age 10. Group B was recruited at a child psychiatric clinic and also had dyslexic problems. Measures of educational level, life satisfaction and psychosocial factors were applied. The assessment was carried out by means of tests, questionnaires and personal interviews. The results showed lower levels of educational attainment in group B as well as lower satisfaction with health, friends and education compared to group A and a normative group. Both dyslexic groups showed more psychiatric problems than those in the normative sample.
The present study investigated personality dimensions by means of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) in subjects with social phobia with or without a co-existing avoidant personality disorder. Thirty-one individuals with social phobia were recruited through advertisement and diagnosed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV I and II psychiatric disorders. Comorbid Axis I psychiatric disorders were diagnosed in 29% of the cases. Co-occurring personality disorders were present in 55.8% of the cases, and avoidant personality disorder in 48.4%. The social phobia subjects, as compared to healthy controls of the same age, scored significantly higher in the TCI dimension measuring Harm avoidance but significantly lower in Persistence, Self-directedness, Cooperativeness and Self-transcendence. Presence of avoidant personality disorders in the social phobia subjects was associated with significantly higher Harm avoidance, particularly on the subscale Shyness with strangers. In conclusion, individuals with social phobia were characterized by high comorbidity of avoidant personality disorder and deviations in TCI personality dimensions. Enhanced Harm avoidance was the most prominent personality trait. The observed deviations in TCI dimensions were primarily related to the social phobia itself and not to the presence of concurrent personality disorders.
The relationship between needs for care and support and subjective quality of life was investigated in a cross-sectional multi-center study including 418 individuals with schizophrenia from 10 centers in Nordic countries. Needs in 22 domains were investigated by interviews with key workers and their patients using the Camberwell Assessment of Need scale, and quality of life by the Lancashire Quality of Life Profile. The results showed that key workers rated slightly more needs than patients. To have more unmet needs, as rated by both key workers and patients, were correlated to a worse overall subjective quality of life, while met needs showed no such association. A regression analysis, controlling for clinical and social characteristics of the patients, showed more unmet needs to be associated with a worse quality of life, accounting for 6% out of a total of 41% explained variance in subjective quality of life. Regression analyses of the relationship of unmet needs in specific life domains and overall quality of life showed that unmet needs in five domains as perceived by patients accounted for 17% of the explained variance in overall quality of life. More than half of this variance was related to an unmet need in the domain of social relationships. It is concluded that unmet needs are of specific importance in needs assessment and that attention must be paid to separate met needs for care and services from unmet needs, since the latter seem more important to consider in order to improve outcome of interventions with regard to quality of life. Specific attention should in this context also be paid to unmet needs concerning social relationships and problems with accommodation.
The objective of this study was to examine associations between childhood and adolescent psychiatric disorders and adult personality disorders in a group of former child psychiatric inpatients. One hundred and fifty-eight former inpatients with a mean age of 30.5 +/- 7.1 years at investigation had their childhood and adolescent Axis I disorders, obtained from their medical records, coded into DSM-IV diagnoses. Personality disorders in adulthood were assessed by means of the DSM-IV and ICD-10 Personality Questionnaire (DIP-Q). The predictive effects of child and adolescent Axis I disorders on adult personality disorders were examined with logistic regression analyses. The odds of adult schizoid, avoidant, dependent,borderline and schizotypal personality disorders increased by almost 10, five, four, three and three times, respectively, given a prior major depressive disorder. Those effects were independent of age, sex and other Axis I disorders. In addition, the odds of adult narcissistic and antisocial personality disorders increased by more than six and five times, respectively, given a prior disruptive disorder, and the odds of adult borderline, schizotypal, avoidant and paranoid personality disorders increased between two and three times given a prior sub-stance-related disorder. The results illustrate an association between mental disorders in childhood and adolescence and adult personality disorders. Identification and successful treatment of childhood psychiatric disorders may help to reduce the risk for subsequent development of an adult personality disorder.
The main aim of the present study was to investigate whether or not temperament dimensions are stable over time. Twenty-six patients (21 women and five men) filled in the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) both at admission after a suicide attempt (index) and at follow-up 5 years later. KSP changes were significantly associated with low severity of psychiatric symptoms and no reported reattempts at follow up. There were significant changes of all five groups of KSP, most prominently in anxiety-related scales. At index, KSP scores did not differ between those who later would repeat a suicide attempt (repeaters) and not, but repeaters more often tended to have a personality disorder and their 24-h urinary cortisol tended to be lower. In this limited sample, repeaters seem to have a protracted high anxiety level as mirrored by high and stable KSP scores over time.
Until recently, all ocular photoreception was attributed to the rods and cones of the retina. However, studies on mice lacking rod and cone photoreceptors (rd/rd cl), has shown that these mice can still use their eyes to detect light to regulate their circadian rhythms, suppress pineal melatonin, modify locomotor activity and modulate pupil size. In addition, action spectra for some of these responses have characterized a novel opsin/vitamin A-based photopigment with a lambda(max) approximately 480 nm. Electrophysiological studies have shown that a subset of retinal ganglion cells are intrinsically photosensitive, and melanopsin has been proposed as the photopigment mediating these responses to light. In contrast to mammals, an inner retinal photopigment gene has been identified in teleost fish. Vertebrate ancient (VA) opsin forms a photopigment with a lambda(max) between 460-500 nm, and is expressed in a sub-set of retinal horizontal cells, and cells in the amacrine and ganglion cell layers. Electrophysiological analysis suggests that VA opsin horizontal cells are intrinsically photosensitive and encode irradiance information. In contrast to mammals, however, the function of these novel ocular photoreceptors remains unknown. We compare non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptors in mammals and fish, and examine the criteria used to place candidate photopigment molecules into a functional context.
Brothers has proposed that the amygdala is an important component of the neural network that underlies social cognition. And Bauman and Kemper observed signs of neuropathology in the amygdala of the post-mortem autistic brain. These findings, in addition to recent functional neuroimaging data, have led Baron-Cohen and colleagues to propose that dysfunction of the amygdala may be responsible, in part, for the impairment of social functioning that is a hallmark feature of autism. Recent data from studies in our laboratory on the effects of amygdala lesions in the macaque monkey are at variance with a fundamental role for the amygdala in social behaviour. If the amygdala is not essential for normal social behaviour, as seems to be the case in both non-human primates and selected patients with bilateral amygdala damage, then it is unlikely to be the substrate for the abnormal social behaviour of autism. However, damage to the amygdala does have an effect on a monkey's response to normally fear-inducing stimuli, such as snakes, and removes a natural reluctance to engage novel conspecifics in social interactions. These findings lead to the conclusion that an important role for the amygdala is in the detection of threats and mobilizing an appropriate behavioural response, part of which is fear. If the amygdala is pathological in subjects with autism, it may contribute to their abnormal fears and increased anxiety rather than their abnormal social behaviour.
There is no clear evidence from imaging studies for specific structural abnormalities in the brains of people with autism. The most robust observation is of greater total brain volume. There is evidence that this greater volume is not present at birth, but appears during the first few years. This brain enlargement might be a marker of abnormal connectivity due to lack of pruning. While abnormalities have often been reported in the cerebellum and the amygdala, these are difficult to interpret since both increases and decreases in the size of these structures have been observed. Another way of identifying the neural basis of autism is to investigate brain systems underlying cognitive functions compromised in this disorder such as face perception and 'theory of mind'. Autistic people fail to activate the 'fusiform face area' during face perception tasks and show weak activation of medial frontal cortex and superior temporal gyrus when performing theory of mind tasks. These problems stem from a lack of integration of sensory processing with cognitive evaluation. I speculate that this problem reflects a failure of top-down modulation of early sensory processing. The problem could result from abnormal connectivity and lack of pruning.
Childhood obesity reflects the confluence of three factors that minimize attention to internal physiologic satiety signals: the release of central opioids through ingestion of sweets and fats, which induces a preference for such foods; the phylogenetic quality of extending meals in response to environmental demands, as in work schedules, or through finding patches of agreeable food that are safe to consume (this is exacerbated in impoverished children, whose activity is limited); the determination of food preference through social interactions renders feeding systems open to external influences such as mass marketing and television advertising. Alternative feeding modes are presented based on studies of childhood food preferences and how children may be influenced to choose more balanced and healthier diets.
Occupational therapists need an acceptable terminology to describe a client's clinical performance. The language or terminology must be in harmony with common language in the health care system but also reflect occupational therapists' professional responsibility. The aim of this paper is to help clarify similarities and differences between concepts in occupational therapy and the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Two studies were completed in which items in the International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities and Handicaps (ICIDH-2) were compared with concepts from the Swedish version of the assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS) and the Assessment of Communication and Interaction Skills (ACIS-S). An expert panel of occupational therapists served as raters and 33 clients with learning disabilities and mental health problems were assessed. The result showed that 12 (60%) of the skills items from the ACIS-S were found to be equivalent to items in then ICIDH-2. In total, 41% (n = 23) of the items in the AMPS or ACIS-S have a correlation higher then 0.60 with the ICIDH-2. The classification can serve as a useful tool for occupational therapists and supports communication between professions, but is not sufficient as a professional language for occupational therapists. Further research is indicated to examine how the ICF can be applied in occupational therapy and its implications on clinical practice.
This study is a long-term follow-up in narrative form of three former psychiatric patients who had been discharged eight to nine years earlier from an outpatient occupational therapy programme. The purpose of the study was to gain an understanding about the participants' views about the period of therapy from a long-term perspective and of how the outcome of therapy could be understood within the context of the patients' life plots. In-depth retrospective interviews and two former interviews with each participant, conducted at the time of therapy, comprised the data. The interview transcripts were subjected to narrative analysis. The fit between the characteristics of the therapy programme and important life themes of the informants seemed crucial for the long-term outcome of therapy, suggesting that taking life histories is important for occupational therapists in clinical practice in order to design appropriate interventions. Four components of the therapy, the activities, the social interaction, the milieu, and the therapeutic relationship, appeared as vital in re-shaping the informants' life plots.
The aim of this study was to investigate experiences of hassles and uplifts among women. One hundred working mothers were interviewed using the Target Complaints instrument. Content analysis, resulting in both qualitative categories and quantitative variables, was used. Working mothers' hassles were mainly generated by their social, temporal and doing contexts and illustrate the importance of considering women's total patterns of everyday occupations and not focusing one-sidedly on the work situation when treating occupation-related ill-health. Women's uplifts were experienced through the social context and by doing such different occupations as going to the movies, cleaning the house, or attending a class. This indicates the appropriateness of using a client-centred approach in interventions with openness to the client's unique situation. Unexpected occupations were identified almost exclusively among the hassles. This is important knowledge for occupational therapists since women will continue to be dual workers and at potential risk of developing unbalanced and detrimental patterns of occupations, in turn causing ill health.
Peripheral neuroblastic tumors (PNT), are heterogeneous neoplasms that include neuroblastoma (NB), ganglioneuroblastoma (GNB) and ganglioneuroma (GN) and present great biological heterogeneity. There are few reports analyzing PCNA and Ki-67 expression in PNT; however, controversy exists concerning the specificity of PCNA as a real proliferative marker. The objective of our study was to determine which of these cellular proliferation markers is more specific on cellular cycle and could contribute with more information on the cell cycle. We found that PCNA was expressed in NB unfavourable cases, with MYCN amplification and high mitosis-karyorrhexis-index (MKI). Whereas, Ki-67 showed statistical significance regarding cases unfavourable with intermediate and high MKI, aneuploid and stages 3 and 4. Survival showed that patients with tumor not expressing Ki-67 (MIB1) lived longer than those without PCNA (88.93 vs 74.05%). We conclude that Ki-67 expression permits reliable detection of the cellular proliferation neuroblastoma fraction and provides useful prognostic information when associated with other biological factors.
Sigma receptors, namely sigma1 and sigma2, have been shown to be expressed in a variety of human cell lines playing a role in cell growth. In the human breast, they are absent in normal mammary tissue but expressed in tumors, particularly in the proliferating stage. The study presented here concerns nine newly synthesized ligands for sigma receptors. The compounds are of general structure consisting of: five (1alpha/1beta-arylalkyl)quinolizidines including two thioisosteres and four spiro-[3,4-dihydro-1,2,4-benzotriazino-3,4'-(1'-substituted) piperidines]. These compounds exhibited varying degrees of affinity for sigma receptors and were able to inhibit the growth of MCF-7 and MDA-MB 231 human breast cancer cell lines, in vitro. Good to moderate binding to at receptors occurred with all tested ligands. However, affinity for sigma2 appeared more evident with compounds FN/C-2 and FN/C-4 (spiro-[3,4-dihydro-1,2,4-benzotriazino-3,4'-(1'-substituted) piperidines] derivatives). In addition, higher cytotoxic activity of FN/C-2 and FN/C-4 with IC50 values below 100 microM in MCF-7 and lower than 40 microM in MDA-MB 231 was revealed. The data from the current study show that these novel sigma receptor ligands exhibit interesting cytotoxic activity and suggest their potential for development as antitumor agents.

Magnification can be provided to assist those with visual impairment to make the best use of remaining vision. Electronic transverse magnification of an object was first conceived for use in low vision in the late 1950s, but has developed slowly and is not extensively prescribed because of its relatively high cost and lack of portability. Electronic devices providing transverse magnification have been termed closed-circuit television (CCTVs) because of the direct cable link between the camera imaging system and monitor viewing system, but this description generally refers to surveillance devices and does not indicate the provision of features such as magnification and contrast enhancement. Therefore, the term Electronic Vision Enhancement Systems (EVES) is proposed to better distinguish and describe such devices. This paper reviews current knowledge on EVES for the visually impaired in terms of: classification; hardware and software (development of technology, magnification and field-of-view, contrast and image enhancement); user aspects (users and usage, reading speed and duration, and training); and potential future development of EVES.

A simple instrument is demonstrated for high-resolution simultaneous imaging of total hemoglobin concentration and oxygenation and blood flow in the brain by combining rapid multiwavelength imaging with laser speckle contrast imaging. The instrument was used to image changes in oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin and blood flow during cortical spreading depression and single whisker stimulation in rats through a thinned skull. The ability to image blood flow and hemoglobin concentration changes simultaneously with high resolution will permit detailed quantitative analysis of the spatiotemporal hemodynamics of functional brain activation, including imaging of oxygen metabolism. This is of significance to the neuroscience community and will lead to a better understanding of the interrelationship of neural, metabolic, and hemodynamic processes in normal and diseased brains.
Organogenesis throughout childhood affects almost every aspect of pediatric pharmacotherapy. The antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are particularly impacted since most elimination rates are diminished for the first 6 months of infancy, but quickly attain and supersede adult values. When children enter a hypermetabolic stage, large doses of AEDs may be necessary to maintain effective serum concentrations. Medication noncompliance is frequently confused as hypermetabolism, since both present with low serum drug concentrations. Amazingly, noncompliance among children with chronic illness approaches a similar incidence to that reported in the adult population. It is obviously important to include this in the differential diagnosis of the etiology of subtherapeutic serum AED concentrations. Maturational differences also affect gastrointestinal drug absorption. Intestinal transit time and absorptive surface area are both diminished in young children. Drug delivery systems suitable in adults may not deliver the total dosage in children. Differences in the composition of body compartments and protein binding can alter the volume of drug distribution and, consequently, serum concentrations. In addition to pathophysiologic changes, there is evidence to suggest differences between a mature and immature brain. These differences include quantitative and qualitative responses to neurotransmitters. Hence, it is understandable why seizure semiology is different in children compared with adults. This constellation of factors contributes to the challenges of caring for children with epilepsy.
Neuropathic pain models, such as the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model, are partial nerve injury models where there exist both intact and injured peripheral axons. Recent studies suggested that dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons with intact axons also show the alteration of excitability and gene expression and might have some role in the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain. The incidence of pain-related behavior after the CCI is unstable and variable. In the present study, we used activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) expression as a neuronal injury marker, and analyzed a relationship between the number of axotomized neurons and the incidence of pain-related behavior. We divided all rats into three groups according to the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive (IR) neurons, group 1 (&lt;12.5%), group 2 (12.5-25%), and group 3 (&gt;25%). We found that rats in groups 2 and 3 showed thermal hyperalgesia, whereas only the rats in group 2 developed tactile allodynia from the third day to the fourteenth day after surgery. Rats in group 1 did not show thermal hyperalgesia or tactile allodynia. The DRG neurons in group 2 contained ATF3-IR neurons mainly in medium- and large-sized neurons. In order to investigate brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and gamma-aminobutyric acid(A)-receptor (GABA(A)-R) regulation in both intact and injured primary afferent neurons after the CCI, we used a double-labeling method with immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, as well as double immunofluorescent staining. The CCI induced an increased number of BDNF-labeled neurons in the ipsilateral DRG and the increase in BDNF expression was observed mainly in small- and medium-sized neurons that were mainly ATF3-negative. On the other hand, the number of GABA(A)-Rgamma2 subunit mRNA-positive neurons decreased in the ipsilateral DRG and GABA(A)-R- and ATF3-labeled neurons rarely overlapped. These changes in molecular phenotype in intact and injured primary afferents may be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain produced by partial nerve injury.
Here we report on the action of the novel cyclo-depsipeptide anthelmintic, emodepside, on the body wall muscle of the parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum. Emodepside caused (i) muscle relaxation, (ii) inhibition of muscle contraction elicited by either acetylcholine (ACh), or the neuropeptide, AF2 (KHEYLRFamide) and (iii) a rapid relaxation of muscle tonically contracted by ACh. The inhibitory action of emodepside on the response to ACh was not observed in a denervated muscle strip, indicating that it may exert this action through the nerve cord, and not directly on the muscle. Electrophysiological recordings showed emodepside elicited a Ca(++)-dependent hyperpolarization of muscle cells. Furthermore, the response to emodepside was dependent on extracellular K+, similar to the action of the inhibitory neuropeptides PF1 and PF2 (SDPNFLRFamide and SADPNFLRFamide). Thus emodepside may act at the neuromuscular junction to stimulate release of an inhibitory neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, with a similar action to the PF1/PF2 neuropeptides.
Tolcapone is a mixed (peripheral and central) catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, whereas entacapone is a preferential peripheral COMT inhibitor. Both drugs are able to decrease the peripheral conversion of L-DOPA into 3-O-methyl-DOPA and thereby increase plasma and cerebral levels of L-DOPA, the precursor of dopamine (DA). Tolcapone may also impair the extraneuronal catabolism of DA by inhibiting COMT activity in the brain. To evaluate the role played by peripheral and central COMT inhibition, we compared the effects of tolcapone and entacapone on COMT activity in peripheral tissues, and on striatal extracellular levels of L-DOPA and DA in rats. Tolcapone and entacapone, at the dose of 15 mg/kg p.o., were almost equally effective in inhibiting COMT activity in duodenum and liver. Tolcapone decreased striatal extracellular levels of homovanillic acid (HVA), thus confirming its central COMT inhibitory effect, whereas entacapone did not alter HVA efflux. Following L-DOPA/benserazide administration (50/15 mg/kg p.o.), both COMT inhibitors significantly increased striatal levels of L-DOPA and DA compared with saline. The levels of L-DOPA were similar after treatment with either COMT inhibitors, whereas the increase in DA output was significantly greater in rats given tolcapone compared to those given entacapone. We conclude that the blockade of central DA catabolism by tolcapone contributes to the greater increase in striatal DA levels achieved with this drug.
Two consecutive cases of children with vertebrobasilar thrombosis (VBT) were treated with high-dose intra-arterial urokinase within 4 h of presenting to the emergency room, after full evaluation by CT scan, MRI and MR angiography. Complete resolution of neurologic symptoms was achieved in both cases. Based on our limited pediatric experience, previous treatment of VBT at our institution and a review of the relevant literature, the authors suggest that VBT be specifically ruled out at initial diagnosis, and if present, full consideration be given to immediate treatment with intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy. This may lead to a significant reduction in the morbidity and mortality associated with VBT in children. A large prospective multi-institution study is needed to further evaluate the efficacy of this approach to childhood stroke.
Surgical pathology of the pediatric cranial base is uncommon, but in affected children, traditional operative techniques and management philosophies predominate. While the creation of multidisciplinary skull base teams synergistically pools the talents of individual specialties, a better understanding of the developmental anatomy of the cranial base becomes essential in order for such teams to safely implement these approaches in children. The extant neurosurgical literature lacks a comprehensive review of this anatomy. This report discusses the developmental anatomy and embryology of the cranial base within the context of specific surgical approaches. Detailed development of the calvaria, midface skeleton and orbit is excluded.


Cell-penetrating peptides derived from hydrophilic regions of the homeoprotein Antennapedia (Antp) or the transcription-regulating factor Tat have been used to transport several peptide and oligonucleotide cargoes into the interior of cells. Such vector peptides penetrate cells, in part, because they contain multiple lysine and arginine residues. Using radiolabeled peptide cargoes covalently linked to Antp- or Tat-related vectors, or to D-Arg heptamers, we found that a significant amount of the label remained tightly bound to plastic and glass surfaces. Binding of the labeled conjugates was due entirely to the cationic vector moieties. Under certain conditions, such non-specific binding could be mistaken for cellular penetration.
Visual adaptation has been successfully used as a psychophysical tool for studying the functional organisation of visual awareness. It has been shown that orientation-selective adaptation to a grating pattern occurs in crowded conditions. In such conditions, simultaneous presentation of flanking distractors pushes the target stimulus out of conscious perception and severely impairs orientation discrimination in the periphery of the visual field. In the present study, orientation-selective adaptation to illusory lines induced by two line gratings abutting each other with a phase shift was examined in crowded and non-crowded conditions. To rule out the effects of lower level adaptations we used an animation paradigm in which the orientations of the two line gratings were altered repeatedly during adaptation phase without any change in the orientation of the resulting illusory line. Although performance of subjects in reporting the orientation of crowded illusory lines was at chance level, orientation-selective adaptation was preserved for crowded as well as non-crowded adapting targets. Two control experiments demonstrated that adaptation to endpoints of real lines at the location of abutting grating lines had minimal effect on the adaptation to illusory lines; and changes in the configuration of endpoints could not be responsible for better performance when adapting and test stimuli were different. We conclude that a crowding effect occurs after illusory lines have been processed in the visual stream. Since illusory lines seem to be represented at relatively early stages of visual processing (e.g. area V2), adaptation to crowded illusory stimuli suggests that neuronal activation in those early stages is not necessarily correlated with conscious perception.
The process of learning the structure of novel objects involves the selective use of information available in the distal stimulus. By allowing participants to explore the object within a limited field of view, we were able to examine more rigorously what regions of the object are actually selected in the learning process. Participants explored objects either by moving a circular aperture over a stationary novel object (the aperture-movement condition), or by moving the object behind a stationary aperture (the object-movement condition). Given the differences in how the spatial layout of object parts is revealed in the two study conditions, we expected that exploration would be more systematic in the aperture-movement condition than it would be in the object-movement condition, and would lead to better object recognition. We show evidence that in the aperture-movement condition exploration patterns were more related to the structure of the object and, as a consequence, the aperture-movement condition resulted in more accurate recognition in a later old--new discrimination test.

In the line-motion illusion, a briefly flashed line appears to propagate from the locus of attention, despite being physically presented on the screen all at once. It has been proposed that the illusion reflects low-level visual information processing that occurs faster at the locus of attention (Hikosaka et al 1993 Vision Research 33 1219-1240; Perception 22 517-526). Such an explanation implicitly embeds the assumption that speeding or slowing of neural signals will map directly onto perceptual timing. This 'online' hypothesis presupposes that signals which arrive first are perceived first. However, other evidence suggests that events in a window of time after the disappearance of a visual stimulus can influence the brain's interpretation of that stimulus (Eagleman and Sejnowski 2000 Science 287 2036-2038; 289 1107a; 290 1051a; 2002 Trends in Neuroscience 25 293). If the online hypothesis were true, we should expect that events occurring after the flashing of the line would not change the illusion. Consistent with our hypothesis that awareness is an a posteriori reconstruction, we demonstrate that the perceived direction of illusory line-motion can be reversed by manipulating stimuli after the line has disappeared.
Studies in change blindness re-enforce the suggestion that veridical, pictorial representations that survive multiple relocations of gaze are unlikely to be generated in the visual system. However, more abstract information may well be extracted and represented by the visual system. In this paper we study the types of information that are retained and the time courses over which these representations are constructed when participants view complex natural scenes. We find that such information is retained and that the resultant abstract representations encode a range of information. Different types of information are extracted and represented over different time courses. After several seconds of viewing natural scenes, our visual system is able to construct a complex information-rich representation.
Perceived positions of flashed stimuli can be altered by motion signals in the visual field-position capture (Whitney and Cavanagh, 2000 Nature Neuroscience 3 954-959). We examined whether position capture of flashed stimuli depends on the spatial relationship between moving and flashed stimuli, and whether the phenomenal permanence of a moving object behind an occluding surface (tunnel effect; Michotte 1950 Acta Psychologica 7 293-322) can produce position capture. Observers saw two objects (circles) moving vertically in opposite directions, one in each visual hemifield. Two horizontal bars were simultaneously flashed at horizontally collinear positions with the fixation point at various timings. When the movement of the object was fully visible, the flashed bar appeared shifted in the motion direction of the circle. But this position-capture effect occurred only when the bar was presented ahead of or on the moving circle. Even when the motion trajectory was covered by an opaque surface and the bar was flashed after complete occlusion of the circle, the position-capture effect was still observed, though the positional asymmetry was less clear. These results show that movements of both visible and 'hidden' objects can modulate the perception of positions of flashed stimuli and suggest that a high-level representation of 'objects in motion' plays an important role in the position-capture effect.
Investigations of the ways in which the eyes move came to prominence in the 19th century, but techniques for measuring them more precisely emerged in the 20th century. When scanning a scene or text the eyes engage in periods of relative stability (fixations) interspersed with ballistic rotations (saccades). The saccade-and-fixate strategy, associated with voluntary eye movements, was first uncovered in the context of involuntary eye movements following body rotation. This pattern of eye movements is now referred to as nystagmus, and involves periods of slow eye movements, during which objects are visible, and rapid returns, when they are not; it is based on a vestibular reflex which attempts to achieve image stabilisation. Post-rotational nystagmus was reported in the late 18th century (by Wells), with afterimages used as a means of retinal stabilisation to distinguish between movement of the eyes and of the environment. Nystagmus was linked to vestibular stimulation in the 19th century, and Mach, Breuer, and Crum Brown all described its fast and slow phases. Wells and Breuer proposed that there was no visual awareness during the ballistic phase (saccadic suppression). The saccade-and-fixate strategy highlighted by studies of nystagmus was shown to apply to tasks like reading by Dodge, who used more sophisticated photographic techniques to examine oculomotor kinematics. The relationship between eye movements and perception, following earlier intuitions by Wells and Breuer, was explored by Dodge, and has been of fundamental importance in the direction of vision research over the last century.
The principle of respect for autonomy has served as a pillar of American bioethics. Through its application in response to physician paternalism and as the basis for informed consent, it has attained preeminent status in the discipline. New challenges in health care warrant a re-examination of the origins of our autonomy. Developmental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and behavioral neurology all emphasize the intimate relationship between our cognitive and emotional development, and through this, our conscious and unconscious minds. Our intellectual, and particularly our moral development, are instilled in us by our moral mentors, and consequently by our community as a whole. Autonomy and community are therefore inextricably interlinked, and our emphasis on liberty, rights, and privacy without the inclusion of family, community, and social responsibility is biologically unsound. Appreciation of this reality should lead to a more balanced set of bioethical norms.
Because of the importance of maintaining current knowledge of technological advances involving genetics, neuroscience, and their impact on psychopharmacology, we have created a new column for advanced practice psychiatric nurses. This new column offers a question-and-answer forum that can help nurses maintain their knowledge of advances in prescribing and psychopharmacology, and implications for safe psychiatric care. Deborah Antai-Otong has a wealth of knowledge and expertise with prescriptive authority and as a psychotherapist. She currently manages the care of patients with various psychiatric disorders including mood disorders, schizophrenia, dual diagnosis, and anxiety disorders. She is the author of numerous refereed journal articles and book chapters that focus on psychopharmacology and is a guest lecturer at a local university on this topic. She is also the author of several books, including Psychiatric Nursing: Biological and Behavioral Concepts (Clifton Park, NY: Delmar &amp; Thompson Learning, 2003) and Psychiatric Emergencies (Eau Claire, WI: PESI, 2001).
Cholinesterase inhibitors constitute one of few treatment options available for Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia. The modest effects and relatively high acquisition costs of these drugs make the health economics of dementia an important subject of study. Simulation models can be used to bring together existing data and make predictions of the long-term cost effectiveness of treatment. Most models have been built around cognitive function as a key parameter based on the observed relationship between cognitive function and costs of care. Patients with more severe disease attain higher total costs of care. Also, these patients have a higher share of formal care costs than do patients with mild disease, who are usually looked after by informal caregivers. The valuation of unpaid care is controversial, and the choice of method may affect results considerably. Another important issue is the measurement of health-related QOL in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The few existing studies have used proxy respondents to elicit utility weights in different disease states; however, this methodology has not been validated. It is likely that the increased drug costs incurred by the use of cholinesterase inhibitors will be offset (at least partly) by savings in other healthcare costs. However, these results should be viewed as preliminary, since we are still awaiting data from long-term follow-up studies. Also, the value of treatment for patients and caregivers in terms of QOL improvements has yet to be established.
Administration of bacterial agents, such as muramyl dipeptide (MDP) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), induces a number of illness symptoms including decreased locomotor activity and weight loss. This study provides a detailed multivariate assessment of the effects of repeated exposures of various doses of MDP and LPS, alone and in combination, on various aspects of locomotion in male and female rats. Animals were given a single intraperitoneal injection of either MDP (0.8 or 1.6 mg/kg), LPS (100 or 200 microg/kg), a combination of MDP and LPS (0.8 mg/kg and 100 microg/kg, respectively), or vehicle on Days 1, 4, and 7. Two hours after each injection, locomotor activity was recorded for 30 min in an automated open-field. Both doses of LPS and the high dose of MDP produced significant decrements in locomotor activity in male and female rats, with tolerance becoming evident over repeated administrations, although LPS decreased activity more robustly than MDP. Sex differences were evident in the combined effects of MDP and LPS. Together, MDP and LPS reduced male activity levels in an additive manner but significantly potentiated both horizontal and vertical activity decrements in females. In addition, the rate of behavioral tolerance development to repeated bacterial injections was significantly higher in females than in males. These findings provide evidence for sex differences in the actions of MDP and LPS on various aspects of locomotor activity and in the development of behavioral tolerance to infection.
Serotonin-3 (5-HT(3)) receptor antagonists have been shown to attenuate drug-induced increases in mesolimbic dopamine (DA), locomotor activation, and drug self-administration. In the present study, we tested whether the selective 5-HT(3) antagonist Y-25130 would attenuate cocaine-induced lowering of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) reward thresholds. Rats (n=6) were surgically prepared with bipolar stimulation electrodes and trained to self-administer electrical stimulation delivered to the medial forebrain bundle-lateral hypothalamus (MFB-LH). A discrete-trial, rate-free threshold determination procedure was used to detect pharmacologically induced changes from baseline reward thresholds. Four doses of Y-25130 (0.0, 0.03, 0.3, and 3.0 mg/kg ip) were given alone and in combination with cocaine (4.0 mg/kg ip). Y-25130 did not significantly alter reward thresholds or response latencies when given alone as compared to baseline measures. While there were no significant effects at lower doses, the middle and highest doses of Y-25130 (0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg) did attenuate the threshold-lowering effect of cocaine. These findings suggest that the rewarding effects of cocaine are mediated through 5-HT(3) receptor activity.

Despite multiple advantages of the use of electric shock as an aversive stimulus, reasons exist for considering alternative aversive stimuli. In the present study, we examined and compared the acquisition of two-way shuttlebox avoidance with 275.8-kPa (40-psi) pulsed air and continuous 0.4-mA shock in two strains of mice commonly employed in targeted gene mutation research, C57BL/6J and 129X1/SvJ. Each trial consisted of a 5-s warning stimulus (WS, light) during which shuttling to the other side cancelled delivery of the aversive stimulus. Once initiated, the aversive stimulus remained active for 20 s or until an escape response occurred. For C57BL/6J mice, air and shock were equally and highly effective aversive stimuli. In contrast, air was less effective than shock for 129X1/SvJ mice. C57BL/6J mice outperformed 129X1/SvJ mice for both stimulus types. For 129X1/SvJ mice, longer escape latencies were observed initially for air, suggesting that shock is more effective. However, these differences in latency dissipated within the first seven sessions. Nevertheless, by the end of the 17-day study, asymptotic levels of avoidance proficiency were substantially lower for air than for shock in 129X1/SvJ mice. These results indicate that air is a suitable substitute for shock as an aversive stimulus in shuttlebox active avoidance; however, the relative efficacies of these aversive stimuli appear to depend upon the strain chosen for study.
In experimental and human diabetes mellitus, evidence for an impaired function of the vascular endothelium has been found and has been suggested to contribute to the development of vascular complications in this disease. The aim of the study was to evaluate possible regional hemodynamic in vivo differences between healthy and diabetic rats which would involve nitric oxide (NO). Central hemodynamics and regional blood flow (RBF) were studied using radioactive microspheres in early streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats and compared to findings in healthy control animals. This method provides a possibility to study the total blood flow and vascular resistance (VR) in several different organs simultaneously. L-NAME iv induced widespread vasoconstriction to a similar extent in both groups. In the masseter muscle of both groups, acetylcholine 2 microg/kg per min, induced a RBF increase, which was abolished by pretreatment with L-NAME, suggesting NO as a mediator of vasodilation. In the heart muscle of both groups, acetylcholine alone was without effect while the combined infusion of acetylcholine and L-arginine induced an L-NAME-sensitive increase in RBF. The vasodilation induced by high-dose acetylcholine (10 microg/kg per min) in the kidney was more pronounced in the STZ-diabetic rats. The results indicate no reduction in basal vasodilating NO-tone in the circulation of early diabetic rats. The sensitivity to vasodilating effects of acetylcholine at the level of small resistance arterioles vary between tissues but was not impaired in the diabetic rats. In the heart muscle the availability of L-arginine was found to limit the vasodilatory effect of acetylcholine in both healthy and diabetic rats. In conclusion, the results indicate a normal action of NO in the investigated tissues of the early STZ-diabetic rat.
In order to explore the presence of, and the potential role of, secretagogin in human pituitary adenomas, an analytical strategy that integrated comparative proteomics and comparative transcriptomics was used to detect the protein and the mRNA expression, respectively, of secretagogin in human non-functional pituitary adenomas compared to controls. Proteomics methods included two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, 2D gel image analysis, mass spectrometry [matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-peptide mass fingerprinting (MALDI-TOF PMF) and liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-quadrupole-ion trap tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-Q-IT MS/MS)], and database analysis. Transcriptomics methods included the GeneChip microarray, image processing, and data analysis. The proteomics and transcriptomics data demonstrated that secretagogin was significantly down-regulated at the protein and mRNA levels, respectively, in the human non-functional (NF) pituitary adenomas (NF-, LH+, FSH+, and FSH+ + LH+). For the secretagogin protein, the expression level was NF- &lt; FSH+ + LH+ &lt; FSH+ &lt; LH+ &lt; Control, with a range of down-regulation of 2.2-6.9 fold in non-functional pituitary adenomas compared to controls, with a significant difference (p &lt; 0.001). For secretagogin mRNA, the expression level was NF- &lt; LH+ &lt; FSH+ + LH+ &lt; FSH+ &lt; Control, with a range of down-regulation of 1.8-18.6 fold in non-functional pituitary adenomas compared to controls that was significant (p &lt; 0.05). The secretagogin protein expression correlated significantly with its mRNA expression. Those results suggest that secretagogin might play a role in human non-functional pituitary adenomas. This novel finding may provide clues to clarify the basic molecular mechanisms of pituitary adenoma formation, and to identify new tumor-related markers.
To gain insight into the functional diversity of the XTH (xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase) gene family, we analyzed the expression profiles of two azuki bean genes, VaXTH1 and VaXTH2, which share a striking resemblance in their amino acid sequences. The two XTH genes exhibit essentially similar tissue-specific expression profiles, in that both mRNAs are found predominantly in the phloem fibers of growing internodes. However, their expression profiles are not identical. Whereas VaXTH1 is expressed in xylem cells in the basal part of the internode, little or no expression of VaXTH2 is found in the xylem. Furthermore, they exhibit spatially divergent RNA distribution profiles along the internode, VaXTH1 being expressed nearer to the top of the internode than VaXTH2. This indicates their temporally divergent expression profiles during development of the phloem fiber. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) up-regulates both of the mRNA levels. However, this effect of IAA on the VaXTH1 gene is nullified in 0.25 M mannitol, which prevents cell expansion without affecting auxin action per se. In contrast, the IAA-induced up-regulation of the VaXTH2 gene is not affected by mannitol. Furthermore, fusicoccin, which promotes acidification and growth, up-regulates VaXTH1 expression, but not VaXTH2 expression. Thus, the two XTH genes are committed to different steps of the cell wall dynamics in the same cell type at different stages of phloem fiber development, and are regulated by IAA in different ways.
Reperfusion of ischemic tissues can be associated with structural and functional injury, which is referred to as ischemia-reperfusion injury. Superoxide dismutase is an endogenous free radical scavenger that converts toxic oxygen derived free radicals to hydrogen peroxide. With the development of gene cloning technology, the potential of manipulating cells to overexpress endogenous proteins has been realized. Transgenic mice capable of overexpressing superoxide dismutase, and knockout mice in which the gene responsible for its production has been deleted, were used as a model to examine the protective effects of superoxide dismutase against ischemia-reperfusion injury. Epigastric island flaps were elevated in wild-type (control), transgenic superoxide dismutase 1, and knockout superoxide dismutase 1 mice and subjected to ischemic intervals of 0, 3, 6, 9, or 12 hours. Five animals were studied at each time point in each study group. Flap viability was assessed on postoperative day 7. Baseline wild-type flap survival was 100 percent after 3 hours of ischemia and subsequent reperfusion; survival decreased to 21 percent after 9 hours of ischemia. Transgenic mice had significantly higher flap survival than wild-type animals after 6 hours of ischemia and subsequent reperfusion (97.0 versus 85.2 percent) and after 9 hours of ischemia (82 versus 21 percent, p &lt; 0.01). In knockout mice, there was complete flap necrosis after as little as 3 hours of ischemia. This study confirms the protective effects of superoxide dismutase against ischemia-reperfusion injury. In addition, its deficiency results in a dramatic susceptibility to ischemic injury.



A fundamental function of epithelia and endothelia is to separate different compartments within the organism and to regulate the exchange of substances between them. The tight junction (TJ) constitutes the barrier both to the passage of ions and molecules through the paracellular pathway and to the movement of proteins and lipids between the apical and the basolateral domains of the plasma membrane. In recent years more than 40 different proteins have been discovered to be located at the TJs of epithelia, endothelia and myelinated cells. This unprecedented expansion of information has changed our view of TJs from merely a paracellular barrier to a complex structure involved in signaling cascades that control cell growth and differentiation. Both cortical and transmembrane proteins integrate TJs. Among the former are scaffolding proteins containing PDZ domains, tumor suppressors, transcription factors and proteins involved in vesicle transport. To date two components of the TJ filaments have been identified: occludin and claudin. The latter is a protein family with more than 20 members. Both occludin and claudins are integral proteins capable of interacting adhesively with complementary molecules on adjacent cells and of co-polymerizing laterally. These advancements in the knowledge of the molecular structure of TJ support previous physiological models that exhibited TJ as dynamic structures that present distinct permeability and morphological characteristics in different tissues and in response to changing natural, pathological or experimental conditions.
A series of experiments documenting the reaching and grasping of two patients with optic ataxia is presented. We compare their immediate responses with their behavior when required to delay for a few seconds before responding. When the delayed response is 'pantomimed', i.e. made in the absence of the target object, their performance typically improves. This pattern was predicted from a two-visual-systems model in which the cortical dorsal stream mediates normal visually guided actions while the ventral stream deals with visual information that has to be held in memory. We further found that when a 'preview' task was used in which the patients could use memorized information to guide a response to a still-present target object, they did so in preference to using the visual information facing them.
Tracking of a moving target usually involves coordinated movements of the eye and the hand. To study the extent to which one behavior influences the other, eye and hand movements were recorded during three conditions (eye alone, hand alone, and eye and hand together) where subjects tracked a target that initially moved in a straight line and then made an abrupt and unpredictable change in direction. The response latencies of the eye and hand were influenced by the presence of the other tracking modality. More specifically, the latency for the hand was decreased during concomitant ocular tracking, whereas the latency for the eye was increased during combined hand-eye tracking. Moreover, the velocity profile of the smooth pursuit component of ocular tracking was different when the hand also tracked the target. Taken together, these observations support the hypothesis that at least part of the neural substrate underlying tracking is shared by the two modalities.
In this chapter it is proposed that object-based actions can be broadly classified into types. In the first, objects are 'acted on' without a specific purpose. In the second, objects are 'acted with'. In the latter case the grasp reflects the subsequent goal of the subject. Recent evidence from human functional imaging suggests different neural substrates for acting on an object (dorsal parietal cortex) and for acting with an object. Specifically, it is argued that conceptual knowledge of tool use and the pragmatics of action rely on an inferior parieto-medial frontal network in the left hemisphere.
We examine the activity of individual neurons in three different brain areas where firing rate, number of spikes (the integral of discharge rate), and the location of the active cell within a motor map are used as coding schemes. The correlations between single cell activity and the parameters of a movement range from extremely tight (motoneurons) to non-existent (superior colliculus). We argue that the relationship between the activity of single cell activity and global aspects of behavior are best described as coarse coding for all three types of neuron. We also present evidence, in some cases in a preliminary and suggestive form, that the distribution of spikes in time, rather than average firing rate, may be important for all three neuron types, including those using a place code. Finally, we describe difficulties encountered in obtaining an estimate of the motor command when more than one oculomotor system is active.




There has been enormous progress in uncovering the contributions of the subventricular zone (SVZ) to the developing brain. Here, we review the roles of four anatomically defined embryologic divisions of the SVZ of the mammalian brain: the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE), the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE), the caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE), and the fetal neocortical SVZ (SVZn), as well as the roles of the two major anatomically defined regions of the postnatal SVZ, the anterior SVZ (SVZa) and the dorsolateral SVZ (SVZdl). We describe the types of cells within each subdivision of the SVZ, the types of brain cells that they generate during embryonic, fetal, and perinatal development, and when known the mechanisms that regulate their differentiation. This review provides a critical analysis of the literature, from which current and future studies on the SVZ can be formulated and evaluated.
The prognosis for many patients with central nervous system (CNS) diseases has recently improved, especially due to enormous development of medical sciences. Nevertheless there are still pathologies very difficult to cure. It is caused mainly by the irreversibility of CNS lesions, that even after ceasing the primary pathological process--lead to deep functional deterioration. Hopefully this will change in the future thanks to the discovery of the stem cell population located in the CNS. These cells have to reproduce cytoarchitecture and CNS function. The range of possible use of the therapy based on neural stem cells (NSC) appears unlimited. The most advanced laboratory trials are focused on neurodegenerative diseases with very promising results The second field of clinical neuroscience that NSC can play a key role in are injuries of the CNS, with special emphasis on spinal cord injuries which are still an unresolved problem of neurotraumatology. Adding to the possible roles of NSC--they may act as transporters of transgenes in case of metabolic or neoplasmatic diseases. The interest of many groups of scientists in biological and clinical use of NSC appears to be justified. Authors present advancement and possible ways of development of therapeutic methods based on NSC.
THIS STUDY used qualitative research methods to investigate the problem of sexual coercion among female psychiatric patients in India. Consecutive female admissions (n = 146) to the inpatient unit of a psychiatric hospital in southern India were screened regarding coercive sexual experiences. Women who reported coercion (n = 50; 34%) participated in a semi-structured interview to learn more about their experiences. Among these women, 24 (48%) reported that the perpetrator was their spouse, 13 (26%) identified a friend or acquaintance, and 10 (20%) identified a relative such as an uncle or cousin. Most experiences occurred in the women's homes. Thirty of the 50 coerced women (60%) reported that they had not disclosed their experience to anyone, and that they had not sought help. Women revealed a sense of helplessness, fear, and secrecy related to their experiences. The problem of sexual coercion is seldom addressed in mental health care in India; the prevalence and severity of such experiences warrant immediate clinical attention and continued research.

Over the past two decades, there have been significant advances in the ability to study the neurochemistry of the living brain using neuroreceptor radiotracers with Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging modalities. The greater availability of radiotracers for neurotransmitter synthesis/metabolism, enzymes, transporters and receptors, as well as neuromodulators and second messengers has enabled the evaluation of hypotheses regarding neurotransmitter function and regulation that are generated from basic neuroscience studies in animals, and the investigation of the neurochemical substrates of psychiatric disorders and the mechanism of action of psychotropic medications. This review will focus on the status of radiotracer development, on the clinical and methodological considerations regarding neurochemical brain imaging study design and data interpretation. The applications of neurochemical brain imaging methods to the study of specific psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, anxiety disorders, depression and Alzheimer's Disease, will be reviewed and potential future directions of research in these areas identified. Finally, the studies of the neurochemical substrates of personality traits will be reviewed. Thus far, fundamental observations have been made with respect to 1). detecting abnormalities in the availability of neurotransmitter transporter and receptor sites in psychiatric patients; 2). evaluating the relationship of these neurochemical measures to symptomatology; and 3). assessing the magnitude of occupancy of the initial target sites of action of psychotropic medication relative to treatment response and drug concentrations. Further advances in instrumentation and radiotracer chemistry will enable investigators to conduct pre-clinical and clinical mechanistic studies focused on other neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. These data will provide important insights into the neurochemical substrates of treatment response variability in psychiatric disorders that will have important implications for the refinement of pharmacotherapy.
Valproate has been in clinical use for nearly 40 years for the treatment of a variety of neuropsychiatric illnesses, including bipolar disorder and epilepsy. Early reports linked its biochemical mechanism of action to alterations in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic function. The definitive mechanism(s) mediating the clinical efficacy of this relatively simple molecule remain obscure. Although valproate does not directly interact with postsynaptic GABA receptors, it does increase regional neuronal concentrations of GABA by both inhibiting its metabolism and increasing its synthesis. The relevance of these effects to the clinical efficacy of valproate is unclear. Results of preclinical research, largely in rodents, have implicated ion channels, monoamines, corticotropin-releasing factor, and intracellular signaling proteins in the mechanism of action of valproate. This relative dearth of data in the area of valproate neuropharmacology is also evident when discussing the mechanism( s) of action of other mood stabilizers and anticonvulsants. Modern tools of basic and clinical neuroscience (eg, genomics, proteomics, functional brain imaging) will rapidly provide valuable insights into the precise mechanism(s) of action of valproate.
The scientific and medical history of valproic acid is relatively long, compared with other frequently used psychopharmacologic agents. Valproic acid was used as an organic solvent in research laboratories for eight decades, until the fortuitous observation of action against pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions in rodents. Early clinical experience emphasized therapy of absence seizures in primary generalized epilepsies. During two decades of controlled trials in partial-onset and generalized-onset seizures and myoclonus, valproate was established as the prototypical broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug. Anecdotal observations in patients with both epilepsy and migraine headaches who were started on valproate led to prospective, randomized trials that established antimigraine efficacy. Early observations suggested antimanic actions; more than a decade later, controlled clinical trials established significant efficacy of valproate in mania. Antiproliferative effects of valproate were unexpectedly noted during mechanistic studies; two decades later a maintenance adjunctive or chemopreventive role in oncology is being defined. While pharmacokinetic studies appear definitive, completion of comprehensive pharmacodynamic investigations of valproate's biochemical actions and clinical utility is yet to be achieved.

The purpose of this research was to study the mechanisms underlying tempo perception, by looking at their electrophysiological brain correlates. The subjects' task consisted of comparing the tempos of two isochronous tone sequences made up of either three (condition 13) or six (condition 16) 600-ms intervals. Contingent negative variation (CNV), known to be linked to the judgment of a single interval, kept increasing in amplitude for three intervals during tempo encoding, thereby providing evidence of the occurrence of CNVs also for several intervals in succession. This CNV increase could reflect the use of interval-based processes in the building of the interval memory trace. During the comparison phase, a CNV decrease was observed in condition 16, suggesting that subjects did not build a new memory trace, but used beat-based processes to check whether the beats of the new tempo occurred at the times they anticipated.


Uniform electric fields applied to neural tissue can modulate neuronal excitability with a threshold value of about 1 mV mm(-1) in normal physiological conditions. However, electric fields could have a lower threshold in conditions where field sensitivity is enhanced, such as those simulating epilepsy. Uniform electrical fields were applied to hippocampal brain slices exposed to picrotoxin, high potassium or low calcium solutions. The results in the low calcium medium show that neuronal activity can be completely blocked in 10% of the 30 slices tested with a field amplitude of 1 mV mm(-1). These results suggest that the threshold for this effect is clearly smaller than 1 mV mm(-1). The hypothesis that the extracellular resistance could affect the sensitivity to the electrical fields was tested by measuring the effect of the osmolarity of the extracellular solution on the efficacy of the field. A 10% decrease in osmolarity resulted in a 56% decrease (n = 4) in the minimum field required for full suppression. A 14% in osmolarity produced an 81% increase in the minimum field required for full suppression. These results show that the extracellular volume can modulate the efficacy of the field and could lower the threshold field amplitudes to values lower than approximately 1 mmV mm(-1).
Electric fields applied to brain tissue will affect cellular properties. They will hyperpolarise the ends of cells closest to the positive part of the field, and depolarise ends closest to the negative. In the case of neurons this affects excitability. How these changes in transmembrane potential are distributed depends on the length constant of the neuron, and on its geometry; if the neuron is electrically compact, the change in transmembrane potential becomes an almost linear function of distance in the direction of the field. Neurons from the mammalian hippocampus, maintained in tissue slices in vitro, are significantly affected by fields of around 1-5 V m(-1).
Direct analysis of tissue by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) allows for the rapid profiling of biological molecules with minimal loss of sample or degradation and reduced likelihood of chemical modification. However, there are still considerable challenges to overcome due to the complexity of tissue and the low quantity of endogenous peptide in a single cell. These problems are exacerbated in the nematode Ascaris suum because of the small size of individual neurons and the paucity of peptide per cell. In an effort to address these difficulties, the recently developed matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF/TOF) technology was used in combination with an on-target derivatization in order to sequence novel neuropeptides directly from Ascaris nervous tissue. Direct MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis of Ascaris tissue provided the complete amino acid sequences for a previously characterized neuropeptide as well as for three novel peptides with homologues found in other nematodes. These results demonstrate a method for the rapid characterization of sub-femtomolar amounts of peptide directly from tissue using MALDI-TOF/TOF.
It is known that proliferation and survival of neural stem/progenitor cells in vitro not only depend on exogenous factors, but also on autocrine factors secreted into the conditioned medium. It is also well known that the identification of bioactive proteins secreted into the conditioned medium poses a substantial challenge. Recently, neural stem/progenitor cells were shown to secrete a survival factor, cystatin C, into the conditioned medium. Here, we demonstrate an approach to identify other low molecular weight proteins in conditioned medium from cultured adult rat hippocampal progenitor cells. A combination of preparative two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry was utilized in the analysis. We were able to identify a number of proteins, which include Rho-guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor 1, phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein (PEBP), also termed Raf-1 kinase interacting protein, polyubiquitin, immunophilin FK506 binding protein 12 (FKBP12) and cystatin C. The presence of PEBP and FKBP12 in conditioned medium was confirmed immunologically. All nestin-positive progenitor cells showed immunoreactivity for antibodies against PEBP and FKBP12. To our knowledge we are the first to use this preparative proteomic approach to search for stem cell factors in conditioned medium. The method could be used to identify novel bioactive proteins secreted by stem/progenitor cells in vitro. Identification of bioactive proteins in vitro is of potential importance for the understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of the cells in vivo.
The synthetic peptide [Dmt(1)]DALDA (Dmt-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH(2); Dmt = 2',6'-dimethyltyrosine; 'super-DALDA') is a mu opioid-receptor agonist. On-line liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry and the corresponding stable isotope-incorporated synthetic peptide internal standard were used to quantify [Dmt(1)]DALDA that had been extracted from ovine plasma samples. The [M+2H](2+) ion was used to construct the calibration curve, and the product ion was used for verification of the peptide. The detection sensitivity for the [Dmt(1)]DALDA [M+2H](2+) ion was 12.5 fmol and 50 fmol for the m/z 432.3 product ion. The concentration profile of [Dmt(1)]DALDA was determined from a set of ovine plasma samples. The molecular specificity of the peptide quantification was confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS).



Patients who have abdominal discomfort or pain plus disturbed defecation warrant a careful history taking and physical examination. The presence of positive symptom criteria for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) usually correctly identifies the underlying IBS diagnosis. The clinical evaluation may uncover findings that cause concern about underlying organic disease (&quot;alarm features&quot; or &quot;red flags&quot;). Traditional alarm features include bleeding, obvious anemia, weight loss, and older age at onset. Although the diagnostic utility of most of these red flags has not been tested, patients with these symptoms should be investigated promptly. In the primary care setting, most patients who have alarm symptoms will have a negative further evaluation, and the original IBS diagnosis will be confirmed. In the past, numerous tests (eg, complete blood cell count, flexible sigmoidoscopy) were considered routine for patients with suspected IBS in the primary care setting. However, available data do not support this approach; these patients do not have an increased likelihood of most organic diseases compared with control populations without IBS. Although celiac disease may occur more frequently in persons with IBS, the yield of serologic testing is likely to be low. Testing is generally not required in patients with positive symptom criteria for IBS and an absence of alarm features.
Neuroimaging technologies have improved neurology and neurosurgery by providing tools to look inside the brain and investigate its functions and diseases. As for any tool, the users should know the basics of each technique and be aware about their uses and limitations. Here we review these new techniques and illustrate their use with examples from studies at the University Hospital in Geneva. From all the techniques, MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imagery) has the highest spatial resolution. Taking advantage of the magnetic properties of the hydrogen nucleus, it is possible to reach a sub-millimeter resolution in 3D. When MRI images are digitized, they can be treated to perform re-slicing, segmentation and 3D reconstruction of cortical surfaces, as well as to measure anatomical structures (volumetry). Functional MRI (fMRI) is based on blood oxygenation changes when a task is performed or when epileptic activity occurred. Then it can be used to non-invasively show for example language, motor or epileptic network activation. Electromagnetic imaging techniques, based on EEG and MEG, have the power to localize in 3D the electrical activity of the brain with millisecond temporal resolution and then to follow the temporal activation of neuronal networks. These techniques use mathematical models and algorithms to compute 3D tomography from 2D recordings on the scalp. In the case of epilepsy, EEG allows epileptic foci identification among propagation sites when it is recorded with a sufficient number of electrodes (&gt; 100) and when realistic head models are used. The functional imaging techniques from nuclear medicine (PET and SPECT) have become very useful in neuroscience to explore cerebral changes associated with neuronal pathologies as well as cognitive and sensory tasks. Many efforts have been made to develop new cameras and models to increase the range of research and clinical applications. Co-registration of structural and functional images allows us to add functional information to a structural deficit, or conversely to better interpret functional images such as PET, SPECT and EEG in terms of specific anatomy. In the case of SPECT and fMRI, substraction between ictal and interictal exams points out areas involved in epileptic processes.
Unilateral spatial neglect is a common disorder following focal right hemisphere damage, characterised by a failure to perceive and orient towards stimuli located on the left side of space. These deficits are not attributable to primary sensory or motor loss, but involve a neuropsychological disturbance in the representation of space (corporeal and extracorporeal) and in the mechanisms of attention. A major theoretical interest stems from observations that stimuli that are not consciously detected by the patient may nonetheless be processed by intact brain areas, despite unawareness. Unilateral spatial neglect may lead to poor functional recovery and remains difficult to treat using current rehabilitation procedures.
Spinal cord abscess is an unusual cause of progressive paraplegia. We report the case of a 75-year-old man who presented Chlamydia pneumoniae bronchopulmonary infection with secondary spinal cord localization. Little clinical improvement was observed with antibiotic therapy, but the neuroradiological course was favorable.
Mice engineered to overexpress disease-causing mutant amyloid precursor proteins (APP) display plaque deposition, but lack the hyperphosphorylated tau and massive neuronal loss characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Global gene expression profiles of brain regions from AD patients show upregulation of proapoptotic and inflammatory genes and down-regulation of neurotrophic, MAPK, phosphatase, and synaptic genes, while a profile of mice overexpressing a mutant APP shows the opposite trends in apoptotic and neurotrophic genes. The proteolytic fragments of the amyloid precursor protein have distinct biological actions. Both the gamma-secretase cleaved COOH-terminal fragment (CTFgamma) and the alpha-secretase cleaved NH2-terminal of APP (sAPPalpha) can regulate gene expression. While Abeta and CTFgamma can lead to toxicity and cell death, sAPPalpha promotes neurite outgrowth, enhances memory, and protects against a variety of insults, including Abeta toxicity. In AD, Abeta levels increase while sAPPalpha levels decrease. These subtleties in the levels of APP cleavage products are not reproduced in mice overexpressing mutant APP. In fact, the gene expression changes driven by sAPPalpha, such as increases in transthyretin and insulin-like growth factor 2, may protect these mice from high levels of Abeta.
Evidence from pioneering animal research has suggested that the amygdala is involved in the processing of aversive stimuli, particularly fear-related information. Fear is central in the evolution of the mammalian brain: it is automatically and rapidly elicited by potentially dangerous and deadly events. The view that the amygdala shares the main characteristics of modular systems, e.g. domain specificity, automaticity, and cognitive impenetrability, has become popular in neuroscience. Because of its computational properties, it has been proposed to implement a rapid-response 'fear module'. In this article, we review recent patient and neuroimaging data of the human brain and argue that the fundamental criteria for the amygdala to be a modular system are not met. We propose a different computational view and suggest the notion of a specific involvement of the human amygdala in the appraisal of relevant events that include, but are not restricted to, fear-related stimuli. Considering the amygdala as a 'relevance detector' would integrate the 'fear module' hypothesis with the concept of an evolved neural system devoted to the processing of a broader category of biologically relevant stimuli. In primates, socially relevant events appear to have become, through evolution, the dominant elements of the amygdala's domain of specificity.
The role of the hippocampal somatostatin (somatotropin release-inhibiting factor, SRIF) system in the control of partial complex seizures is discussed in this review. The SRIF system plays a role in the inhibitory modulation of hippocampal circuitries under normal conditions: 1) SRIF neurons in the dentate gyrus are part of a negative feedback circuit modulating the firing rate of granule cells; 2) SRIF released in CA3 interacts both with presynaptic receptors located on associational/commissural terminals and with postsynaptic receptors located on pyramidal cell dendrites, reducing excitability of pyramidal neurons; 3) in CA1, SRIF exerts a feedback inhibition and reduces the excitatory drive on pyramidal neurons. Significant changes in the hippocampal SRIF system have been documented in experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), in particular in the kindling and in the kainate models. SRIF biosynthesis and release are increased in the kindled hippocampus, especially in the dentate gyrus. This hyper-function may be instrumental to control the latent hyperexcitability of the kindled brain, preventing excessive discharge of the principal neurons and the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. In contrast, the hippocampal SRIF system undergoes damage in the dentate gyrus following kainate-induced status epilepticus. Although surviving SRIF neurons appear to hyperfunction, the loss of hilar SRIF interneurons may compromise inhibitory mechanisms in the dentate gyrus, facilitating the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. In keeping with these data, pharmacological activation of SRIF1 (sst2) receptors, i.e. of the prominent receptor subtype on granule cells, exerts antiseizure effects. Taken together, the data presented suggest that the hippocampal SRIF system plays a role in the control of partial complex seizures and, therefore, that it may be proposed as a therapeutic target for TLE.
The hippocampus is one of the most researched structures of the brain. Studies of lesions in humans, primates and rodents have suggested to some that the primary role of the hippocampus is to act as a temporary memory buffer which is required for the consolidation of long-term memory. The famous case study of patient H.M., in particular, seemed to suggest that the hippocampus was of crucial importance for memory formation. However, recordings of single neurons in freely moving rodents did not support this notion. In such recordings, neurons were found that were active predominately when the animal passed through a particular area in space. Consequently, these neurons were termed 'place cells' and a theory was developed that suggested that the hippocampus acts as a 'cognitive map' that is required for spatial orientation. It was then found that H.M. had significant damage to his temporal lobes that included the amygdala, rhinal cortices, and other areas. Further case studies and selective hippocampal lesions in primates resulted in much milder amnestic symptoms, and lesions of defined cortical areas in the temporal lobes showed that a number of functions previously attributed to the hippocampus were in fact linked to these areas. Further analysis of neuronal activity in the hippocampus showed that not only is spatial information represented there, but also additional information, such as speed of movement, direction of movement, match or non-match detection, olfactorial identification, and others. In addition, it was found that selective lesions of the hippocampus in rodents impaired spatial navigation and memory formation only mildly. Only simultaneous lesions of several cortical areas in conjunction with the hippocamus could reproduce the impairments and symptoms that were previously thought to be observed after hippocampal lesions alone. In conclusion it is proposed that information processing and memory formation is shared by several brain areas that act as a functional system. This review presents evidence from many different studies that the hippocampus is part of this system and plays a supportive role in associating complex multimodal information and laying down new memory traces. In addition, the concept of allocating specific functions (such as the development of a cognitive map) exclusively to the hippocampus is rejected.
Memory retrieval is to bring the remembered information on-line or to reactivate the information. The critical determinant of memory retrieval mechanisms is whether the information has been maintained on-line or off-line, regardless of whether it is long-term memory or short-term, working memory. Similar reactivation processes occur during retrieval from long-term memory and from working memory when online maintenance has been interrupted. The reactivation is achieved by interactions between the posterior association areas, medial temporal lobe and prefrontal cortex. Posterior association areas maintain the representations of remembered information and are reactivated at retrieval. The medial temporal lobe is primarily involved in retrieval from off-line memory and triggers the reactivation by associating a whole set of features and episodes during encoding of the information. The prefrontal cortex is involved in retrieval from both on-line and off-line memory. It controls reactivation by setting up retrieval mode, starting retrieval attempt, and monitoring the contents of reactivated information. The prefrontal cortex also controls the selection of task-relevant information from information maintained on-line.
Besides a well-established role in neuronal communication in the adult central nervous system, neurotransmitters have diverse tasks in the embryonic brain, ranging from early developmental functions in morphogenesis /13/, to later functions in target selection and synapse formation /87/. For example, growth cones of developing neurons are known to release transmitters /26,36,88,110,115/ and respond to transmitters released from other neurons /35,44,59, 61,70/. Moreover, depletion of transmitters during embryonic development results in developmental deficits of the brain /21,48,84,109/, suggesting that transmitters have crucial roles as morphogens and/or neurotrophic factors. Although recently the idea of neurotransmitters being important for neural development has been challenged /99/, there is a vast amount of literature that seems to support the hypothesis that neurotransmitter release in the developing central nervous system is crucial for proper brain development. In this review we focus on the roles that neurotransmitters play in neurite outgrowth, target selection and synapse formation, with particular emphasis on the effects of the transmitters serotonin and dopamine.
While much is now known about the operation and organisation of the brain at the neuronal and microcircuit level, we are still some way from understanding it as a complete system from the lowest to the highest levels of description. One way to gain such an integrative understanding of neural systems is to construct them. We have built the largest neuromorphic system yet known, an interactive space called 'Ada' that is able to interact with many people simultaneously using a wide variety of sensory and behavioural modalities. 'She' received 553,700 visitors over 5 months during the Swiss Expo.02 in 2002. In this paper we present the broad motivations, design and technologies behind Ada, and discuss the construction and analysis of the system.
The phenomenological tradition stands opposed to contemporary cognitive science in this, that so far from being a mere thing in the physical world, a thing whose mind would contain some mental representation, the lived body is constituted in its sense of being for the subject by being used and actively appropriated by this self-same subject, as agent. Though not already generally acknowledged, there are important similarities between this conception and one, which emerges from the literature of brain cartography over the last twenty years, that of a functional morphogenetic neurodynamics, induced and modulated by experience in a relatively autonomous way, in relation both to the anatomic structures of the body, as well as the cytoarchitectonic frontiers of brain tissue. Taking advantage of the latter similarities, neuroscientific data can be employed to confirm the Husserlian theory of constitution against the attempts on the part of cognitive science to discredit it, and this whether we are talking about its later modification at the hands of Merleau-Ponty or the original version, which is that of a subjective (transcendental) auto-constitution of the lived body on the basis of the practico-kinaesthetic experience of &lt;I move my body&gt;.








Several methodological barriers impede discovery of early illness pathways in schizophrenia, including small samples, elongated study periods, and failure to integrate procedures and data across prodromal and first episode projects. A compounding factor is the tendency for single-site studies to focus narrowly on schizophrenia risk factors, rather than exploring vulnerability mechanisms that may cut across DSM-IV boundaries. To address these concerns, we discuss the merits of an integrated multisite approach to research that promotes large-scale investigation into the earliest phases of serious mental illness. The distinctive characteristics of this collaborative approach to early serious mental illness research could include (1) subject recruitment across several sites; (2) a broad diagnostic focus; (3) a core clinical and neuroscience assessment protocol; (4) longitudinal evaluation of subjects through a range of outcomes; and (5) an iterative approach to psychopathology research. This model represents a method for exploring prodromal phenotypes, for discovering causal risk mechanisms, and for investigating the biological and environmental interactions that define the early course of several disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar illness, and borderline personality disorder. This strategy could speed discovery of clinical tools most relevant to the earliest stages of serious mental illness; i.e., better methods of screening, diagnosing, and treating mental disorders before symptoms and impairments solidify into chronic disabilities.
Neuropsychological studies show impairment in intellectual functions in schizophrenia patients. It is still unclear, however, whether intelligence scores decline progressively during the illness as compared to healthy subjects' scores. Longitudinal studies conducted so far have been restricted to relatively short time spans. The aim of this study is to investigate whether changes in intelligence scores accelerate with age in schizophrenia patients. In a cross-sectional design, performance of four subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) was analyzed in 112 schizophrenia patients and compared to that of 70 healthy subjects, across an age span of 40 years (16-56 years). A linear regression analysis was performed. A main effect on the total ratio score of the four tests was demonstrated between the two groups. No main effect of age and no interaction effect of age with group for the total ratio score were found. The results confirm that there is global intellectual impairment in schizophrenia patients at the onset of illness but no age-accelerated decline and are consistent with the neurodevelopmental hypothesis of schizophrenia.
The National Institute of Mental Health initiated the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) program to evaluate the effectiveness of antipsychotic drugs in typical settings and populations so that the study results will be maximally useful in routine clinical situations. The CATIE schizophrenia trial blends features of efficacy studies and large, simple trials to create a pragmatic trial that will provide extensive information about antipsychotic drug effectiveness over at least 18 months. The protocol allows for subjects who receive a study drug that is not effective to receive subsequent treatments within the context of the study. Medication dosages are adjusted within a defined range according to clinical judgment. The primary outcome is all-cause treatment discontinuation because it represents an important clinical endpoint that reflects both clinician and patient judgments about efficacy and tolerability. Secondary outcomes include symptoms, side effects, neurocognitive functioning, and cost-effectiveness. Approximately 50 clinical sites across the United States are seeking to enroll a total of 1,500 persons with schizophrenia. Phase 1 is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial comparing treatment with the second generation antipsychotics olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, and ziprasidone to perphenazine, a midpotency first generation antipsychotic. If the initially assigned medication is not effective, subjects may choose one of the following phase 2 trials: (1) randomization to open-label clozapine or a double-blinded second generation drug that was available but not assigned in phase 1; or (2) double-blinded randomization to ziprasidone or another second generation drug that was available but not assigned in phase 1. If the phase 2 study drug is discontinued, subjects may enter phase 3, in which clinicians help subjects select an open-label treatment based on individuals' experiences in phases 1 and 2.


The subjects for neuropathology up to now, such as degenerative brain diseases, developmental impairments and dementia, should remain to be the one for general psychiatry in correlation with medical service and welfare. Thus, the roles of neuropsychiatry are thought to be more important as a subspeciality of general psychiatry.
Many theories of mental health agree on the important role played by cognition. They differ however in how and by what process cognition influences mental health. Research in cognitive neuroscience directs our attention to 4 major points as relevant to theories of mental health: (1) monism as a framework, (2) issue of neural plasticity, (3) connection between mental operation and action system (i.e., the control of cognitive and motor activity is shared by the same neural connection.), (4) the issue of the unconscious. On the other hand, research in cross-cultural psychology indicates that cognitive process is strongly influenced by cultural values and norms. Thus, a valid mental health theory should account for all these components. The paper discusses cross-cultural differences in information processing, particularly contrasting East Asian and Western cultural contexts, which may have implications for understanding of mental health and suggests the doctrine of Morita Therapy as a possible integrated theory. It also critiques some therapy techniques on the grounds of both cultural psychology and cognitive science.
In the last decade there has been an exponential increase in knowledge in the field of medicine in general and particularly in Neurosciences. In order for the continuation of progress, it is important for professionals in all fields to collaborate with each other. Interdisciplinary collaboration is an absolute must to be able to obtain new knowledge, quickly and efficiently. Another important aspect is for professionals to collaborate with industry--especially the pharmaceutical industry. The global pharmaceutical companies account for a large amount of resources including personnel, knowledge, and especially funds. Although interdisciplinary collaboration is essential, many times potential partners overlook the obvious need for their own personal ongoing politics. Such competition needs to be overcome and new fields with multiple perspectives from different specialties will lead the way through the new millennium.

After the disclosure of human genomic information in 2003, the new era of post-genomic research will be in full bloom in the field of neuroscience, brain science as well as in neuropsychiatry. In this paper, the authors discussed possible strategies for understanding neuronal plasticity and neuronal degeneration in the post-genomic research paradigm. Five presentations are discussed in the following orders; 1) pharmacogenomics and epigenetics, 2) neuronal stem cell differentiation and transplantation into brain tissue, 3) Elucidation of the mechanism of neuro-protection and neurogenesis, 4) mechanisms of protein processing, especially importance of regulated intramembranous proteolysis, and 5) simulation analysis of signal transduction pathways. All of these newly developing strategies will be of increasing importance in the research in neuropsychiatry.
The detection of painful stimuli occurs primarily at the peripheral terminals of specialized sensory neurons called nociceptors. These small--diameter neurons transmit this information to the central nervous system, ultimately eliciting a perception of pain or discomfort. The capsaicin (vanilloid) receptor, an excitatory ion channel expressed at nociceptors, plays an important role in transducing thermal and inflammatory pain. Mice lacking the VR1 gene have deficits in thermal- or inflammation-induced hyperalgesia, which confirms the involvement of this channel in pain sensation, especially the sensation of heat-evoked pain.


The second session of the Barrels II Workshop focused on the function of cortical circuitry in the rodent vibrissa-to-barrel system. The session began with talks by Asaf Keller (University of Maryland), Christopher Moore (MIT), and David Pinto (Brown University). These presentations were followed by shorter talks by Mark Andermann (MIT), Alison Barth (Carnegie-Mellon University), Dirk Feldmeyer (Max Planck Institute), Cathy Garabedian (UCSF), Garrett Stanley (Harvard University), and Simona Temereanca (University of Pittsburgh). Presentations covered several central themes, including the functional organization of cortical circuitry, thalamocortical response transformations, temporal response properties, and the role of vibrissa resonance in high frequency representations. For simplicity, this review is organized by these central themes and does not follow the order of presentations at the meeting.
Whisker plucking in developing and adult rats provides a convenient method of temporarily altering tactile input for the purposes of studying experience-dependent plasticity in the somatosensory cortex. Yet, a comprehensive examination of the effect of whisker plucking on the response properties of whisker follicle-innervating trigeminal ganglion (NVg) neurons is lacking. We used extracellular single unit recordings to examine responses of NVg neurons to controlled whisker stimuli in three groups of animals: (1) rats whose whiskers were plucked from birth for 21 days; (2) rats whose whiskers were plucked once at 21 days of age; and (3) control animals. After at least 3 weeks of whisker re-growth, NVg neurons in plucked rats displayed normal, single whisker receptive fields and could be characterized as slowly (SA) or rapidly adapting (RA). The proportion of SA and RA neurons was unaffected by whisker plucking. Both SA and RA NVg neurons in plucked rats displayed normal response latencies and angular tuning but abnormally large responses to whisker movement onsets and offsets. SA neurons were affected to a greater extent than RA neurons. The effect of whisker plucking was more pronounced in animals whose whiskers were plucked repeatedly during development than in rats whose whiskers were plucked once. Individual neurons in plucked animals displayed abnormal periods of prolonged rhythmic firing following deflection onsets and aberrant bursts of activity during the plateau phase of the stimulus. These results indicate that whisker plucking exerts a long-term effect on responses of trigeminal ganglion neurons to peripheral stimulation.
Absolute magnitude estimation (AME) was used to determine the effects of skin temperature on the subjective magnitude of vibration delivered to the thenar eminence of the right hand. Measurements were made at three frequencies chosen to selectively activate cutaneous mechanoreceptor channels, namely NP I and NP III (Meissner and Merkel cell-neurite receptors, respectively) at 15 Hz, Pacinian (250 Hz, 400 Hz) and NP III (Ruffini endings) at 400 Hz. Skin temperatures at 15, 20 and 40 degrees C were tested at 11 suprathreshold displacement levels. It was concluded that the subjective magnitude of vibration is influenced by temperature in the Pacinian channel, but in the NP I and NP III channels the temperature of the skin did not have an effect upon judgements of subjective magnitude. This is consistent with earlier work by Verrillo and Bolanowski (J Acoust Soc Am 80: 528-532, 1986) and Bolanowski et al. (J Acoust Soc Am 84: 1680-1694, 1988); both studies show only modest effects of temperature at threshold at frequencies below approximately 40 Hz.
When we reach out for an object with our hand, we transform visual information about the object's position into muscle contractions that will bring our digits to that position. If we reach out with a tool the transformation is different, because the muscle contractions must bring the critical part of the tool to the object, rather than the digits. The difference between the motion of the hand and that of the tool can be quite large, as when moving a computer mouse across a table to bring a cursor to a position on a screen. We examined the responses to unpredictable visual perturbations during such movements. People responded about as quickly to changes in the position of the target when pointing with the mouse as when doing so with their hand. They also responded about as quickly when the cursor was displaced as when the target was displaced. We show that this is not because the visually perceived separation between target and cursor is transformed into a desired displacement of the hand. Our conclusion is that our actions are controlled by the judged positions of the end-effector and the target, even when the former is quite detached from the muscles and joints that are involved in the action.
Fetal neural stem cells (NSCs) have received great attention not only for their roles in normal development but also for their potential use in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. To develop a robust method of assessing the state of stem cells, we have designed, tested, and validated a rodent NSC array. This array consists of 260 genes that include cell type-specific markers for embryonic stem (ES) cells and neural progenitor cells as well as growth factors, cell cycle-related genes, and extracellular matrix molecules known to regulate NSC biology. The 500-bp polymerase chain reaction products amplified and validated by using gene-specific primers were arrayed along with positive controls. Blanks were included for quality control, and some genes were arrayed in duplicate. No cross-hybridization was detected. The quality of the arrays and their sensitivity were also examined by using probes prepared by conventional reverse transcriptase or by using amplified probes prepared by linear polymerase replication (LPR). Both methods showed good reproducibility, and probes prepared by LPR labeling appeared to detect expression of a larger proportion of expressed genes. Expression detected by either method could be verified by RT-PCR with high reproducibility. Using these stem cell chips, we have profiled liver, ES, and neural cells. The cell types could be readily distinguished from each other. Nine markers specific to mouse ES cells and 17 markers found in neural cells were verified as robust markers of the stem cell state. Thus, this focused neural stem array provides a convenient and useful tool for detection and assessment of NSCs and progenitor cells and can reliably distinguish them from other cell populations.
Though intraoperative neurophysiology is essential to precisely define the definitive target, little is known regarding its predictive value in defining the most effective contact for chronic deep brain stimulation. In this retrospective study, we reviewed the correlation between intraoperative neurophysiology and contacts selected for chronic stimulation. Twenty consecutive patients implanted for subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation were reviewed. There was no significant correlation between the electrophysiologically defined STN and the most effective contact for chronic stimulation at 3 months or at 6 months. Furthermore, there was a discrepancy between the most effective contact for rigidity versus akinesia or tremor at 3 months. Interestingly, at 3 months, the same electrode contact was maximally efficient for rigidity, akinesia and tremor in only 13 of the 39 cases. This lack of correlation did not affect the global improvement.




We describe a comprehensive software-oriented approach to virtual reality-based neuroscientific systems in order to establish an easy to use framework for neuroscientific assessment and treatment. We have defined a process model and implemented the NeuroVRAC authoring tool for design and execution of experiments in virtual environments. Our system enables the modeling of virtual world objects and the definition of events, which are used to control the experimental process. We have included the virtual test person concept to enhance the sense of presence during the execution of virtual reality-based neuroscientific experiments.
The temporal relation between completed suicide and first-ever suicide attempt was investigated in 58 future suicides with a primary severe depression/melancholia. The median survival after a first attempted suicide was 6.7 years. Male patients with initial ratings of psychomotor retardation lived significantly longer after their initial attempt than those who were not retarded. They also had more depressive episodes compared to other male suicides and retarded controls. Thus a slow suicidal process in the men with a severe depression and psychomotor retardation is proposed. Severity, repetition, and method of suicide attempt did not decrease the survival time.

tDCS appears to be a promising tool in neuroplasticity research with some tentative perspectives in clinical neurophysiology. The next steps to be carried out encompass better histological safety data. In order to preclude the possibility of neuronal damage, extending tDCS duration should be limited until more direct safety criteria are available than those derived from Agnew and McCreery (1987) (cf. Nitsche et al, this volume). Safe stimulation protocols have to be developed which allow an extension of the duration of after-effects towards a somewhat permanent state, supposing a beneficial effect can be found in neurological diseases or in neurorehabilitation.
Previous reports from our laboratory have described brain-specific catecholamine-regulated proteins, which bind dopamine and related catecholamines. Evidence from the molecular cloning of a 40 kDa catecholamine-regulated protein (CRP40) revealed that CRP40 is dopamine-inducible and has properties similar to those of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) family. The present study investigates the effects of acute and chronic cocaine treatment on CRP40 expression in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, and medulla. Acute treatment with cocaine increased CRP40 expression in the nucleus accumbens and striatum, whereas chronic treatment with cocaine increased CRP40 expression in the nucleus accumbens only. Neither of these treatments affected CRP40 levels in the prefrontal cortex or medulla. In addition, pretreatment with the spin-trapping agent alpha-phenyl-tert-butylnitrone did not attenuate cocaine-induced expression of CRP40, suggesting that the observed increases in CRP40 levels were not caused by free radicals. On the other hand, pretreatment with anisomycin, a protein synthesis inhibitor, blocked the cocaine-induced expression of CRP40. Thus, protein synthesis may be involved in the observed CRP40 level increases. Furthermore, neither acute nor chronic cocaine treatment affected levels of inducible or constitutively expressed HSP70, which indicates a specificity of cocaine's effects on CRP40. Since cocaine has been shown to increase extracellular dopamine levels, these findings suggest that increased expression of CRP40 is associated with high extracellular levels of dopamine (or its metabolites). Elevated levels of CRP40 could play a protective role for dopamine neurons in response to increased oxidative stress that has been shown to be induced by cocaine and that can lead to apoptosis and neurodegeneration.

The effortless ease of everyday vision seems to contradict numerous findings on the limited capacity of visual attention. However, natural scenes appear to escape the stringent limitations of attention that apply to seemingly far simpler stimuli. This astonishing result will oblige us to rethink the nature of visual attention and its limited capacity.
A recent paper investigates retrograde transmission from dendrites of the oxytocin neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. Dendrites appear to have release properties different from those of axon terminals, and release appears to be enhanced if intracellular Ca2+ has been previously elevated, suggesting that cells can be 'primed'.



Single mammalian neurons can be isolated with adherent functional synaptic terminals using an enzyme-free, mechanical dissociation procedure. This allows investigations of the effects of presynaptic modulators of synaptic transmission with unprecedented ease and accuracy. Furthermore, single presynaptic terminals and boutons can be visualized using fluorescent markers and can also be focally stimulated with electrical pulses. In this article, the isolated-nerve-adherent-synaptic-bouton preparation and some examples of its general properties and uses are discussed.
An unlikely animal model is gaining popularity in neuropharmacological research: the 2-mm fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster). Drugs have been administered to adult flies in their food and, more recently, via gasses and injections. Pharmacological tools have introduced behavioral alterations in Drosophila reminiscent of human behavior, rescued flies from gene-alteration-triggered neuropathologies, and triggered gene silencing. Combined, these methods hold promise for significant neuropharmacological advancement.
Precise chromosomal alterations can be made in restricted tissues at chosen times in the living experimental animal. The engineering of such conditional systems has been successfully tackled in transgenic mice during the last decade. This review focuses on how several different genetic regulatory elements from lower organisms can be applied in combination to achieve this goal.
Invasion and persistence of the neuroadapted influenza virus A/WSN/33 in the mouse olfactory system was studied. WSN/33 instilled intranasally infected neurons in the olfactory epithelium and was transported in axons to the olfactory bulbs in wild type mice that survived the infection. In adult mice lacking the recombination activating gene 1 (RAG-1-/-), infected neurons occurred in the olfactory bulbs for 22-65 days after which the mice developed a rapidly progressive lethal infection affecting neurons in olfactory projection pathways, i.e. primary olfactory cortex, raphe in upper brainstem and hypothalamus. Adult mice without genes for interferon (IFN)-alpha/beta receptor, IFN-gamma receptor, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), IgH, the transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP1), and natural killer cell-depleted mice, all survived the infection. Viral RNA was found in the olfactory bulbs in more than 80 per cent of the surviving iNOS-/-, IFN-gamma receptor-/-, and TAP1-/- mice. Taken together, this study shows that influenza A virus can invade the brain through the olfactory pathways and that the cellular immune responses prevent establishment of persistent infections in the olfactory bulbs. Furthermore, innate responses in olfactory bulbs may for a period of time keep the infection under control.
The spectral mechanisms of the ferret (Mustela putorious furo) were studied with electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry. Variations in adaptation state and flicker rate were used to define corneally based spectral sensitivities for the three classes of receptor present in the retina of this mustelid-rods (lambdamax = 505 nm), S cones (430 nm), and L cones (558 nm). The retinal distributions of the two classes of cone were determined using opsin antibody labeling. Ferret retinas contain a total of about 1.3 million cones with L cones outnumbering S cones in a ratio of approximately 14:1. ERGs were also recorded using 18.75-Hz flickering stimuli that were designed to isolate signals from individual cone classes. The contrast/response functions for signals originating from both S and L cones were linear over low-to-moderate levels of contrast, but with greatly different slopes for the two cone types. The L:S contrast gain ratio derived from a comparison of these slopes, as well as inferences drawn from another experiment in which responses to various combinations of L- and S-cone activation were analyzed, suggest that contributions of these two cone types to the flicker ERG have a relative weighting of about 4:1 to 5:1 (L/S).
Normal people have a strikingly low ability to detect changes in a visual scene. This has been taken as evidence that the brain represents only a few objects at a time, namely those currently in the focus of attention. In the present study, subjects were asked to detect changes in the orientation of rectangular figures in a textured display across a 1600 ms gray interval. In the first experiment, change detection improved when the location of a possible change was cued during the interval. The cue remained effective during the entire interval, but after the interval, it was ineffective, suggesting that an initially large representation was overwritten by the post-change display. To control for an effect of light intensity during the interval on the decay of the representation, we compared performance with a gray or a white interval screen in a second experiment. We found no difference between these conditions. In the third experiment, attention was occasionally misdirected during the interval by first cueing the wrong figure, before cueing the correct figure. This did not compromise performance compared to a single cue, indicating that when an item is attentionally selected, the representation of yet unchosen items remains available. In the fourth experiment, the cue was shown to be effective when changes in figure size and orientation were randomly mixed. At the time the cue appeared, subjects could not know whether size or orientation would change, therefore these results suggest that the representation contains features in their 'bound' state. Together, these findings indicate that change blindness involves overwriting of a large capacity representation by the post-change display.

Swedish women are more ill than men are, often explained by women's heavier total workload. A balanced pattern of daily occupations is believed to promote health. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of aspects of the pattern of daily occupations and lifestyle factors to working mothers' health and well-being, and whether control influenced any relationships. One hundred working, cohabiting mothers took part in semi-structured interviews targeting health and well-being, control, lifestyle variables, and hassles and uplifts in the pattern of daily occupations. All variables were dichotomised according to a median cut and subjected to logistic regression analyses. Working more and having a university diploma were found to be risk factors for experiencing more hassles. Risk factors for fewer uplifts were having more than two children and fewer leisure occupations. Experiencing less control constituted a risk of low self-rated health and with an additional high level of hassles impacted on the experience of well-being.
Neurophysiological characteristic--an amplitude of P300 auditory evoked potentials (EP) wave registered in 12 and 5 EEG leads--was studied in 22 patients with endogenous psychoses. Using cluster analysis, it was shown that the differences between the EP amplitudes before and after treatment split into clusters thus indicating a fine structure of the data, reflecting an objective changes in the patient's state during the treatment. The results obtained correlated with an evaluation of patient' clinical state by the PANSS, namely with scores on general psychopathological and positive symptoms subscales.

The brain produces at least five compounds that possess sub-micromolar affinity for cannabinoid receptors: anandamide, 2-arachidonoylglycerol, noladin ether, virodhamine, and N-arachidonoyldopamine (NADA). One function of these and/or related compounds is to suppress pain sensitivity. Much evidence supports a role of endocannabinoids in pain modulation in general, and some evidence points to the role of particular endocannabinoids. Related endogenous fatty acid derivatives such as oleamide, palmitoylethanolamide, 2-lineoylglycerol, 2-palmitoylglycerol, and a family of arachidonoyl amino acids may interact with endocannabinoids in the modulation of pain sensitivity.
Effects of cannabinoid compounds on neurons are predominantly mediated by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor. Onset of signaling cascades in response to cannabimimetic drugs is triggered by the interaction of the cannabinoid receptor with G(i/o) proteins. Much work has been done to delineate the cannabinoid agonist-induced downstream signaling events; however, it remains to define the molecular basis of cannabinoid receptor-G protein interactions that stimulate these signaling pathways. In this review, we discuss several signal transduction pathways, focusing on studies that demonstrate the efficacy of CB(1) receptor agonists through G protein mediated pathways.
The enantiomeric separation of a series of 2-arylindoles, developed as 5HT(2A) receptor antagonists for the treatment of schizophrenia, was investigated. Evaluation of a number of chiral stationary phases (CSPs) suggested that Chiralcel OD-H and Chiralpak AD were the most versatile for these compounds, and were employed for more detailed studies. A degree of complementarity between the CSPs was observed, such that Chiralcel OD-H was more effective for piperidine-containing molecules and Chiralpak AD for piperazine- and morpholine-containing molecules. The presence of a basic secondary amine was detrimental chromatographically, but resolution was improved substantially by employing diethylamine (DEA) in the mobile phase. All separations were either enthalpy-controlled or showed no temperature dependence. Differential temperature effects between series highlighted the possibility of multiple binding modes on these CSPs. Based on this study, it is possible to make a more rational selection of chromatographic conditions for future novel analogues.
A new method was developed to extract diffusion parameters in brain tissue using a sinusoidal iontophoretic point source of tetramethylammonium operated at different frequencies. The resulting steady state oscillating extracellular concentration of this probe molecule was continuously monitored using an ion-selective microelectrode located about 100 microm from the source. Because the probe molecules must diffuse through the extracellular space (ECS), the oscillating concentration at the recording location will develop a phase lag and an amplitude attenuation relative to the sinusoidal source. These two components of the signal can be analyzed to determine the tortuosity factor lambda and the ECS volume fraction alpha. The method also measures the nonspecific clearance rate constant kappa. In brain slices this reflects washout of diffusing molecules. Values of alpha (0.18+/-0.05) and lambda (1.67+/-0.08) obtained from this frequency method in rat cortical slices were similar to those obtained by the real-time iontophoretic method employing a square pulse source. The relative merits of the frequency method compared to the pulse method are discussed.
Hemodynamic changes are extremely important in analyzing responses from a brain subjected to a stimulus or treatment. The Laser Doppler technique has emerged as an important tool in neuroscience research. This non-invasive method scans a low-power laser beam in a raster pattern over a tissue surface to generate the time course of images in unit of relative flux changes. Laser Doppler imager (LDI) records cerebral perfusion not only in the temporal but also in the spatial domain. The traditional analysis of LD images has been focused on the region-of-interest (ROI) approach, in which the analytical accuracy in an experiment that necessitates a relative repositioning between the LDI and the scanned tissue area will be weakened due to the operator's subjective decision in data collecting. This report describes a robust image registration method designed to obviate this problem, which is based on the adaptive correlation approach. The assumption in mapping corresponding pixels in two images is to correlate the regions in which these pixels are centered. Based on this assumption, correlation coefficients are calculated between two regions by a method in which one region is moved around over the other in all possible combinations. To avoid ambiguity in distinguishing maximum correlation coefficients, an adaptive algorithm is adopted. Correspondences are then used to estimate the transformation by linear regression. We used a pair of phantom LD images to test this algorithm. A reliability test was also performed on each of the 15 sequential LD images derived from an actual experiment by imposing rotation and translation. The result shows that the calculated transformation parameters (rotation: theta =7.7+/-0.5 degrees; translation: Delta x =2.8+/-0.3, Delta=4.7+/-0.4) are very close to the prior-set parameters (rotation: theta=8 degrees; translation: Delta x=3, Delta y=5). This result indicates that this approach is a valuable adjunct to LD perfusion monitoring. An original sequence of LD images that recorded cerebral perfusion through a cranial window before, during and after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) is presented, together with the registered image sequence. Cerebral perfusion data acquired in a pixel-based manner from different anatomic locations of the registered LD image sequence are also presented over the whole time-course of the experiment.
At the rodent neuromuscular junction, the synaptic expression of the CT carbohydrate antigens is defined by the binding of two monoclonal antibodies, CT1 and CT2. CT1 preferentially stains the presynaptic membrane, while CT2 preferentially stains the postsynaptic apparatus. Here we show that the differential subsynaptic distribution of these antigens is due to a preference of CT1 for structures containing N-acetyl neuraminic acid (NeuAc) and a preference of CT2 for structures containing N-glycolyl neuraminic acid (NeuGc). This was found to be the case both in binding to cultured myotubes, where NeuAc/NeuGc levels were manipulated by feeding acetylated N-acetyl mannosamine precursors, and in binding to purified GM2 ganglioside containing either NeuAc or NeuGc. At human neuromuscular junctions, where the enzymatic machinery to make NeuGc is absent [Proc. Natl. Acac. Sci. USA 95 (1998) 11751], CT1 and GM2(NeuAc) antibodies stained, while CT2 did not. Thus, the N-glycolyl modification of sialic acid helps to define the differential distribution of the CT antigens at the rodent neuromuscular junction, and this difference is lost in humans. In addition, sulfatase and 9-O-acetylesterase treatment of cells or tissues increased the amount of CT1 and CT2 antibody binding, with sulfatase differentially unmasking CT antigen expression on particular glycoproteins. Despite its uniquely synaptic localization in skeletal muscle, the CT antigens and the CT GalNAc transferase are ubiquitously expressed in other mouse tissues, including brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerve. One of the proteins that can be co-purified with a CT-reactive glycoprotein is alpha dystroglycan. These data better define the sub-synaptic structures of the CT carbohydrate antigens at the neuromuscular junction and demonstrate their ubiquitous presence in mouse tissues, including the brain.
Comparative proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins was employed for studies of the pathophysiological mechanisms in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry were used for clinical screening of disease-influenced CSF proteins in 15 FTD patients compared to 12 controls. Six proteins were significantly altered in FTD compared to controls, including granin-like neuroendocrine precursor (proSAAS), pigment-epithelium derived factor (PEDF), retinol-binding protein (RBP), apoE, haptoglobin, and albumin. The levels of ProSAAS, PEDF, and RBP have not been shown earlier to be involved in the FTD pathology. Recently, we have also used proteomic analysis for studies of disease-influenced CSF proteins in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The most clearly affected CSF proteins were the apolipoproteins in AD, compared to controls and FTD patients. ApoE seems to be influenced to a lesser degree in FTD compared to AD. Our data showed that several proteins involved in FTD pathology are not influenced in the CSF of AD patients, and vice versa, establishing differences in the pathophysiological mechanisms between FTD and AD, two of the most common neurodegenerative disorders.

Leptin inhibits appetite by activating several neuroendocrine systems, including the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal cortical (HPA) axis. In turn, chronically elevated glucocorticoids increase circulating leptin. HPA axis hyperactivity occurs in 30-50% of patients with major depression, but the few prior reports of leptin measurements in this illness have shown inconsistent results. We, therefore, measured plasma leptin in 12 female and 8 male unipolar major depressives and 12 female and 8 male individually matched normal controls administered low-dose physostigmine (PHYSO) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) to stimulate the HPA axis. The subjects underwent four test sessions 5-7 days apart: PHYSO (8 microg/kg IV); AVP (0-08 U/kg IM); PHYSO+AVP; and saline control. Serial blood samples were taken before and after pharmacologic challenge and analyzed for leptin, ACTH(1-39), cortisol and AVP. Estradiol and testosterone also were measured at each test session. PHYSO and AVP produced no side effects in approximately half the subjects and predominantly mild side effects in the other half, with no significant patient-control differences. Correlations between side effects (absent or present) after PHYSO or AVP and the corresponding leptin responses were non-significant in all groups. Baseline plasma leptin concentrations (mean+/-S.D.) were significantly higher in the female patients compared to the female controls (22.5+/-13.9 ng/ml vs. 12.3+/-9.7 ng/ml), whereas they were similar in the male patients and the male controls (3.9+/-1.4 ng/ml vs. 3.6+/-2.0 ng/ml). Leptin concentrations following PHYSO remained unchanged from baseline, indicating that the short-lived ACTH and cortisol increases produced by PHYSO did not affect leptin secretion. In contrast, AVP administration, while also increasing ACTH and cortisol, significantly suppressed leptin, more so in the women than in the men. Baseline leptin and the leptin decrease after AVP were moderately positively correlated with the Hamilton Depression Scale 'somatization' factor in the female patients (r=0.50) and more strongly correlated with the 'mood-depression' factor in the male patients (r=0.81). These findings indicate a sexual diergism (functional sex difference) in plasma leptin measures between major depressives and matched normal controls.
In this paper, we review recent work on aspects of corticothalamic interactions in the auditory and in the visual systems. There are gross similarities in the arrangements of these systems, but considerable contrasts in the processing computations and in the effects of corticothalamic feedback.
Although the visual response properties of neurons along the retinogeniculocortical pathway have been studied for decades, relatively few studies have examined how individual neurons along the pathway communicate with each other. Recent studies in the cat (Felis domestica) now show that the strength of these connections is very dynamic and spike timing plays an important part in determining whether action potentials will be transferred from pre- to postsynaptic cells. This review explores recent progress in our understanding of what role spike timing has in establishing different patterns of geniculate activity and how these patterns ultimately drive the cortex.
The corticothalamic system has an important role in synchronizing the activities of thalamic and cortical neurons. Numerically, its synapses dominate the inputs to relay cells and to the gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)ergic cells of the reticular nucleus (RTN). The capacity of relay neurons to operate in different voltage-dependent functional modes determines that the inputs from the cortex have the capacity directly to excite the relay cells, or indirectly to inhibit them via the RTN, serving to synchronize high- or low-frequency oscillatory activity respectively in the thalamocorticothalamic network. Differences in the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) subunit composition of receptors at synapses formed by branches of the same corticothalamic axon in the RTN and dorsal thalamus are an important element in the capacity of the cortex to synchronize low-frequency oscillations in the network. Interactions of focused corticothalamic axons arising from layer VI cortical cells and diffuse corticothalamic axons arising from layer V cortical cells, with the specifically projecting core relay cells and diffusely projecting matrix cells of the dorsal thalamus, form a substrate for synchronization of widespread populations of cortical and thalamic cells during high-frequency oscillations that underlie discrete conscious events.
Thalamic neurons generate high-frequency bursts of action potentials when a low-threshold (T-type) calcium current, located in soma and dendrites, becomes activated. Computational models were used to investigate the bursting properties of thalamic relay and reticular neurons. These two types of thalamic cells differ fundamentally in their ability to generate bursts following either excitatory or inhibitory events. Bursts generated with excitatory inputs in relay cells required a high degree of convergence from excitatory inputs, whereas moderate excitation drove burst discharges in reticular neurons from hyperpolarized levels. The opposite holds for inhibitory rebound bursts, which are more difficult to evoke in reticular neurons than in relay cells. The differences between the reticular neurons and thalamocortical neurons were due to different kinetics of the T-current, different electrotonic properties and different distribution patterns of the T-current in the two cell types. These properties enable the cortex to control the sensitivity of the thalamus to inputs and are also important for understanding states such as absence seizures.
Electrophysiological studies have suggested that activity of spinal GABAergic interneurons can be enhanced following intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP). This activity is proposed to be involved in the generation of dorsal root reflexes (DRRs) that contribute to neurogenic inflammation. We have recently reported that NMDA or non-NMDA antagonists by intrathecal pretreatment attenuate the increased Fos expression in spinal dorsal horn GABAergic neurons after intradermal injection of CAP in rats. Sympathetic efferents have been suggested to modulate inflammatory pain possibly by interactions with primary afferent terminals. In electrophysiological studies by our group, enhancement of the CAP-induced DRRs could be prevented by surgical sympathectomy and blocked by intraarterial pretreatment of the foot with alpha(1)- but not by alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists. In order to determine morphologically if surgical sympathectomy changes the expression of Fos in GABAergic neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord induced by CAP injection, further experiments were performed using immunofluorescence double-labeling staining at 30 min following CAP or vehicle injection into the glabrous skin of one hind paw of anesthetized rats both in sham-operated and sympathectomized animals. Our results showed that the proportion of Fos-positive GABAergic neuronal profiles was significantly increased following CAP injection (48.8+/-4.76%) compared to vehicle injection (23.8+/-5.1%) in laminae I-V on the ipsilateral side (P&lt;0.05). However, when sympathetic efferents were removed surgically 7-10 days prior to the experiment (n=6), only 32.07+/-9.03% of GABA-immunoreactive neuronal profiles were stained for Fos following CAP injection, a significant reduction in the CAP-evoked Fos-staining of GABAergic neurons after surgical sympathectomy. These findings support our previous electrophysiological studies that GABAergic neurons take part in nociceptive processing within the spinal dorsal horn and suggest that sympathetic efferents may affect nociceptive transduction in the periphery.
Cells respond to stress stimuli by mounting specific responses. During osmotic and oxidative stress, cation chloride cotransporters, e.g. Na-K-2Cl and K-Cl cotransporters, are activated to maintain fluid/ion homeostasis. Here we report the interaction of the stress-related serine-threonine kinases Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative stress response 1 (OSR1) with the cotransporters KCC3, NKCC1, and NKCC2 but not KCC1 and KCC4. The interaction was identified using yeast two-hybrid assays and confirmed via glutathione S-transferase pull-down experiments. Evidence for in vivo interaction was established by co-immunoprecipitation of SPAK from mouse brain with anti-NKCC1 antibody. The interacting region of both kinases comprises the last 100 amino acids of the protein. The SPAK/OSR1 binding motif on the cotransporters consists of nine residues, starting with an (R/K)FX(V/I) sequence followed by five additional residues that are essential for binding but for which no consensus was found. Immunohistochemical analysis of choroid plexus epithelium revealed co-expression of NKCC1 and SPAK on the apical membrane. In contrast, in choroid plexus epithelium from NKCC1 null mice, SPAK immunostaining was found in the cytoplasm. We conclude that several cation chloride co-transporters interact with SPAK and/or OSR1, and we hypothesize that this interaction might play a role during the initiation of the cellular stress response.
We have cloned and functionally characterized a third isoform of a vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT3) expressed on synaptic vesicles that identifies a distinct glutamatergic system in the brain that is partly and selectively promiscuous with cholinergic and serotoninergic transmission. Transport activity was specific for glutamate, was H(+)-dependent, was stimulated by Cl(-) ion, and was inhibited by Rose Bengal and trypan blue. Northern analysis revealed higher mRNA levels in early postnatal development than in adult brain. Restricted patterns of mRNA expression were observed in presumed interneurons in cortex and hippocampus, and projection systems were observed in the lateral and ventrolateral hypothalamic nuclei, limbic system, and brainstem. Double in situ hybridization histochemistry for vesicular acetylcholine transporter identified VGLUT3 neurons in the striatum as cholinergic interneurons, whereas VGLUT3 mRNA and protein were absent from all other cholinergic cell groups. In the brainstem VGLUT3 mRNA was concentrated in mesopontine raph nuclei. VGLUT3 immunoreactivity was present throughout the brain in a diffuse system of thick and thin beaded varicose fibers much less abundant than, and strictly separated from, VGLUT1 or VGLUT2 synapses. Co-existence of VGLUT3 in VMAT2-positive and tyrosine hydroxylase -negative varicosities only in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus and in subsets of tryptophan hydroxylase-positive cell bodies and processes in differentiating primary raph neurons in vitro indicates selective and target-specific expression of the glutamatergic/serotoninergic synaptic phenotype.
A new synthetic approach to tricyclic pyridones bearing a fused seven-membered ring is described. These compounds exhibit atropisomerism and exist in enantiomeric forms. Chiral HPLC separation of the enantiomers has allowed the rates of racemization to be measured and hence the free energy barrier for flipping the seven-membered ring to be deduced. Introduction of a further element of planar chirality leads to diastereomeric atropisomerism. The rate of interconversion of the diastereomers has been quantified by 2D EXSY NMR spectroscopy allowing a full description of the conformational dynamics of the system.
A large number of published studies support the notion that long term, low level (LTLL) exposure to organophosphorus (OP) esters may cause neurological and neurobehavioral effects. In order to differentiate these from other effects of OP such as the acute cholinergic episodes, intermediate syndrome and organophosphate induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN), the term Chronic Organophosphate Induced Neuropsychiatric Disorder (COPIND) will be used purely for the ease of reference. The question addressed in this particular review is whether LTLL exposure to OP may produce neurotoxicity. The profile and the degree of overlap of the various components of COPIND have been addressed elsewhere and description of the possible mechanisms for COPIND is outside the scope of this article. COPIND can be classified under two headings; those produced following one or more acute clinical cholinergic episodes, and those produced without such preceding attacks. With regards to the first group, there are a total of 11 studies, all of which support the existence of a positive link between exposure to OP and neurotoxicity; six of these studies comprise descriptions of large numbers of cases without controls while five additional studies employ controls. Appearance of neurotoxicity does not seem to be related to the number or the intensity of acute cholinergic attacks. With regards to the second group, three types of studies can be identified. Firstly, there are five studies using experimental animals, all of which showed a positive link between OP and neurotoxicity. Secondly, a total of seven case studies without controls, some involving large numbers of patients, concluded that there is a positive link between OP and neurotoxicity. Thirdly, 19 studies investigated such a link using cases and control groups. Of these, 15 studies (about 80%) showed a positive link and only four failed to identify any link between OP and neurotoxicity. Annotation of all the 19 studies according to ideal set of criteria showed that only a few of these comply with the rules of excellence and all of these few showed a positive link. Furthermore, the only study carried out blind without the identification of subjects or controls, showed a positive link between OP and neurotoxicity. This blind study estimated the overall incidence of a form of neurotoxicity in people exposed to OP to be about 40 times higher than in the general population. The type of neurological involvement was unique and different from OP induced syndromes previously described. The profile of the neurological involvement was similar to that in COPIND whether or not preceded by acute cholinergic episodes, thus providing further evidence that these two neuropathies probably share a similar mechanism. There is a characteristic pattern of involvement of 15 functional indices of the autonomic nervous system examined in our laboratory. There are, in addition, preferential anatomical sites of target organs affected, selective preservation of cholinergic function within the same neuropathy-positive site, and evidence of mal-function of cardiac chemoreceptors in patients exposed to OP. The peripheral nerve involvement in OP exposure is predominantly sensory in nature affecting both small and large fibre populations. Neurobehavioral involvement of mainly cognitive dysfunction and other features are also described in other studies. The weight of current evidence is therefore very much in favor of the motion that chronic low-level exposure to OP produces neurotoxicity. Criticisms levelled against this motion are unfounded and probably misconceived.

Mu-conotoxins are a family of peptides from the venoms of predatory cone snails. Previously characterized mu-conotoxins preferentially block skeletal muscle voltage-gated sodium channels. We report here the discovery (via cloning), synthesis, and electrophysiological characterization of a new peptide in this family, mu-conotoxin SmIIIA from Conus stercusmuscarum. Although mu-conotoxin SmIIIA shares several biochemical characteristics with other mu-conotoxins (the arrangement of cysteine residues and a conserved arginine believed to interact with residues near the channel pore), it has distinctive features such as the absence of hydroxyproline. In voltage-clamped dissociated neurons from frog sympathetic and dorsal root ganglia, the peptide inhibited the majority of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium currents irreversibly; in contrast, tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents were largely unaffected by the peptide. We believe that mu-conotoxin SmIIIA is the first specific antagonist of tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channels to be discovered. Thus, the peptide provides a new and potentially useful tool to investigate the functional roles of tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channels, including those that are found in sensory nerves that convey nociceptive information.
In order to assess the impact of bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation in PD on quality of life, the PD Quality of Life questionnaire was assessed in 60 consecutive patients with PD before surgery and 12 months after surgery. All aspects of quality of life, including motor (+48%), systemic (+34%), emotional (+29%), and social (+63%) dimensions, significantly improved with long-term STN stimulation.


Intravenous immune globulin (IVIg) is considered an effective and safe treatment for autoimmune neuropathies, especially in comparison to the alternative treatments such as corticosteroids, chemotherapy, and plasmapheresis. Patients are frequently given a standard induction dose of 2 g/kg, which may be followed by maintenance therapy as needed. Mild infusion-related reactions are frequent but these can often be controlled by slowing the infusion rate or by symptomatic medications. Serious adverse effects are rare and can include thromboembolic events, renal failure, anaphylaxis, or septic meningitis. Patients with IgA deficiency are at risk for anaphylaxis. Immobility, increased serum viscosity, and preexisting vascular disease can increase the risk for thromboembolic events. Preexisting renal insufficiency or the use of sucrose-containing IVIg preparations can increase the risk for renal failure, and patients with migraine are at risk for development of aseptic meningitis. Screening patients for risk factors that predispose to development of adverse events may reduce the incidence of complications.
The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus is involved in the control of energy intake and expenditure and may participate in the pathogenesis of eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN). Two systems are of particular interest in this respect, synthesizing alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and synthesizing neuropeptide Y, respectively. We report here that 42 of 57 (74%) AN andor BN patients studied had in their plasma Abs that bind to melanotropes andor corticotropes in the rat pituitary. Among these sera, 8 were found to bind selectively to alpha-MSH-positive neurons and their hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic projections as revealed with immunostaining on rat brain sections. Adsorption of these sera with alpha-MSH peptide abolished this immunostaining. In the pituitary, the immunostaining was blocked by adsorption with alpha-MSH or adrenocorticotropic hormone. Additionally, 3 ANBN sera bound to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)-positive terminals in the rat median eminence, but only 2 of them were adsorbed with LHRH. In the control subjects, 2 of 13 sera (16%) displayed similar to ANBN staining. These data provide evidence that a significant subpopulation of ANBN patients have autoantibodies that bind to alpha-MSH or adrenocorticotropic hormone, a finding pointing also to involvement of the stress axis. It remains to be established whether these Abs interfere with normal signal transduction in the brain melanocortin circuitryLHRH system andor in other central and peripheral sites relevant to food intake regulation, to what extent such effects are related to andor could be involved in the pathophysiology or clinical presentation of ANBN, and to what extent increased stress is an important factor for production of these autoantibodies.
Engineered calmodulins (CaMs), rendered Ca2+-insensitive by mutations, function as dominant negatives in heterologous systems, and have revealed mechanisms of ion channel modulation by Ca2+/CaM. The use of these CaMs in native mammalian cells now emerges as a strategy to unmask the biology of such Ca2+ feedback. Here, we developed recombinant adenoviruses bearing engineered CaMs to facilitate their expression in adult heart cells, where Ca2+ regulation may be essential for moment-to-moment control of the heartbeat. Engineered CaMs not only eliminated the Ca2+-dependent inactivation of native calcium channels, but exposed an unexpectedly large impact of removing such feedback: the unprecedented (4- to 5-fold) prolongation of action potentials. This striking result recasts the basic paradigm for action-potential control and illustrates the promise of virally delivered engineered CaM to investigate the biology of numerous other CaM-signaling pathways.
P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors are highly localized on peripheral and central processes of sensory afferent nerves, and activation of these channels contributes to the pronociceptive effects of ATP. A-317491 is a novel non-nucleotide antagonist of P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor activation. A-317491 potently blocked recombinant human and rat P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor-mediated calcium flux (Ki = 22-92 nM) and was highly selective (IC50 &gt;10 microM) over other P2 receptors and other neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and enzymes. A-317491 also blocked native P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Blockade of P2X3 containing channels was stereospecific because the R-enantiomer (A-317344) of A-317491 was significantly less active at P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. A-317491 dose-dependently (ED50 = 30 micromolkg s.c.) reduced complete Freund's adjuvant-induced thermal hyperalgesia in the rat. A-317491 was most potent (ED50 = 10-15 micromolkg s.c.) in attenuating both thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia after chronic nerve constriction injury. The R-enantiomer, A-317344, was inactive in these chronic pain models. Although active in chronic pain models, A-317491 was ineffective (ED50 &gt;100 micromolkg s.c.) in reducing nociception in animal models of acute pain, postoperative pain, and visceral pain. The present data indicate that a potent and selective antagonist of P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors effectively reduces both nerve injury and chronic inflammatory nociception, but P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor activation may not be a major mediator of acute, acute inflammatory, or visceral pain.
In vitro expanded neural stemprogenitor cells can undergo region-specific differentiation after transplantation to the developing or adult brain, and display morphologies and markers characteristic of mature neurons. Here we have used patch-clamp techniques to explore whether grafted stem cells also can develop physiological properties of mature neurons and become functionally integrated within host neural circuitry. The immortalized neural progenitor cell line, RN33B, prelabeled with GFP by using a lentiviral vector, was transplanted into the cortex or hippocampus of neonatal rats. We found that the grafted GFP-positive cells differentiated into cells with morphological features of cortical or hippocampal pyramidal neurons, and that many of them had established appropriate cortico-thalamic and contralateral hippocampal connections, respectively, as revealed by retrograde tracing. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from grafted cells with morphological characteristics of pyramidal neurons showed that they were able to generate action potentials, and received functional excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs from neighboring cells. These data provide evidence that grafted neural progenitors can differentiate into morphologically mature pyramidal projection neurons, establish appropriate long-distance axonal projections, exhibit normal electrophysiological properties, and become functionally integrated into host cortical circuitry.
Physiological responses to changes in the gravitational field and body position, as well as symptoms of patients with anxiety-related disorders, have indicated an interrelationship between vestibular function and stress responses. However, the relative significance of cochlear and vestibular information in autonomic regulation remains unresolved because of the difficulties in distinguishing the relative contributions of other proprioceptive and interoceptive inputs, including vagal and somatic information. To investigate the role of cochlear and vestibular function in central and physiological responses, we have examined the effects of increased gravity in wild-type mice and mice lacking the POU homeodomain transcription factor Brn-3.1 (Brn-3bPou4f3). The only known phenotype of the Brn-3.1(-/-) mouse is related to hearing and balance functions, owing to the failure of cochlear and vestibular hair cells to differentiate properly. Here, we show that normal physiological responses to increased gravity (2G exposure), such as a dramatic drop in body temperature and concomitant circadian adjustment, were completely absent in Brn-3.1(-/-) mice. In line with the lack of autonomic responses, the massive increase in neuronal activity after 2G exposure normally detected in wild-type mice was virtually abolished in Brn-3.1(-/-) mice. Our results suggest that cochlear and vestibular hair cells are the primary regulators of autonomic responses to altered gravity and provide genetic evidence that these cells are sufficient to alter neural activity in regions involved in autonomic and neuroendocrine control.
Visual texture discrimination has been shown to induce long-lasting behavioral improvement restricted to the trained eye and trained location in visual field [Karni, A. &amp; Sagi, D. (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88, 4966-4970]. We tested the hypothesis that such learning involves durable neural modifications at the earliest cortical stages of the visual system, where eye specificity, orientation, and location information are mapped with highest resolution. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we measured neural activity 24 h after a single session of intensive monocular training on visual texture discrimination, performed in one visual quadrant. Within-subject comparisons between trained and untrained eye for targets presented within the same quadrant revealed higher activity in a corresponding retinotopic area of visual cortex. Functional connectivity analysis showed that these learning-dependent changes were not associated with an increased engagement of other brain areas remote from early visual cortex. We suggest that these new data are consistent with recent proposals that the cellular mechanisms underlying this type of perceptual learning may involve changes in local connections within primary visual cortex. Our findings provide a direct demonstration of learning-dependent reorganization at early processing stages in the visual cortex of adult humans.
We characterized different cationic lipid-based gene delivery systems consisting of both liposomes and nonliposomal structures, in terms of their in vitro transfection activity, resistance to the presence of serum, protective effect against nuclease degradation and stability under different storage conditions. The effect of lipid/DNA charge ratio of the resulting complexes on these properties was also evaluated. Our results indicate that the highest levels of transfection activity were observed for complexes prepared from nonliposomal structures composed of FuGENE 6. However, their DNA protective effect was shown to be lower than that observed for cationic liposome formulations when prepared at the optimal (+/-) charge ratio. Our results suggest that lipoplexes are resistant to serum up to 30% when prepared at a 2:1 lipid/DNA charge ratio. However, when they were prepared at higher (+/-) charge ratios, they become sensitive to serum for even lower concentrations (10%). Replacement of dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE) by cholesterol enhanced the resistance of the complexes to the inhibitory effect of serum. This different biological activity in the presence of serum was attributed to different extents of binding of serum proteins to the complexes, as evaluated by the immunoblotting assay. Studies on the stability under storage show that lipoplexes maintain most of their biological activity when stored at -80 degrees C, following their fast freezing in liquid nitrogen.
Hodological, electrophysiological, and ablation studies indicate a role for the basal forebrain in telencephalic vocal control; however, to date the organization of the basal forebrain has not been extensively studied in any nonmammal or nonhuman vocal learning species. To this end the chemical anatomy of the avian basal forebrain was investigated in a vocal learning parrot, the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus). Immunological and histological stains, including choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase, tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP)-32, the calcium binding proteins calbindin D-28k and parvalbumin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, iron, substance P, methionine enkephalin, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphotase diaphorase, and arginine vasotocin were used in the present study. We conclude that the ventral paleostriatum (cf. Kitt and Brauth [1981] Neuroscience 6:1551-1566) and adjacent archistriatal regions can be subdivided into several distinct subareas that are chemically comparable to mammalian basal forebrain structures. The nucleus accumbens is histochemically separable into core and shell regions. The nucleus taeniae (TN) is theorized to be homologous to the medial amygdaloid nucleus. The archistriatum pars ventrolateralis (Avl; comparable to the pigeon archistriatum pars dorsalis) is theorized to be a possible homologue of the central amygdaloid nucleus. The TN and Avl are histochemically continuous with the medial aspects of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the ventromedial striatum, forming an avian analogue of the extended amygdala. The apparent counterpart in budgerigars of the mammalian nucleus basalis of Meynert consists of a field of cholinergic neurons spanning the basal forebrain. The budgerigar septal region is theorized to be homologous as a field to the mammalian septum. Our results are discussed with regard to both the evolution of the basal forebrain and its role in vocal learning processes.
Summary: We present a case of ophthalmic artery contribution to a posterior fossa vascular tumour by the superficial recurrent ophthalmic artery. This branch arises from the second portion of the ophthalmic artery and is rarely seen on angiography. We review the anatomy and embryology of this arterial variant. Furthermore, this case illustrates the capacity of the ophthalmic artery to supply posterior fossa neoplasms.

Serotonin (5-HT) immunoreactive (-ir) profiles within the isthmo-optic nucleus (ION) of the centrifugal visual system (CVS) were studied in the pigeon using light microscopic immunohistofluorescent and electron microscopic immunocytochemical pre-embedding techniques. The brainstem origin of the 5-HT input upon the ION was determined by combining 5-HT immunohistofluorescence (FITC) and retrograde transneuronal tracing after intraocular injection of Rhodamine beta-isothiocyanate. The light microscopic results showed that 5-HT endings were mainly localised within the neuropillar zones of the ventral ION. The 5-HT-ir cell bodies, belonging to a lateral extension of the dorsal raphe system, were observed within the same region as the centrifugal ectopic neurons (EN) underlying the ION and some displayed dendritic processes which penetrated the nucleus. Double-labeled neurons, representing 5-HT-ir afferents to the ION, were identified only within the n. linearis caudalis region of the ventral raphe. The electron microscopic results confirmed the presence of 5-HT-ir dendritic processes within the ventral part of the nucleus and showed that they were contacted by axon terminals belonging to intrinsic interneurons. The functional organisation of the ION and the possible contribution of serotonergic raphe afferents and efferents are discussed in relation to present hypotheses linking the avian CVS to mechanisms of visual attention.
Nitric oxide is presumed to play important roles in the induction of synaptic plasticity and learning. Previous publications, however, reported contradictory results. Block of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) has been shown to impair the induction of long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in some studies. Other studies observed a partial block of long-term potentiation depending on experimental conditions, while yet other studies did not find an effect of NOS inhibitors under any conditions tested. Some reasons for these differences had been identified, e.g. the temperature of the slice buffer, the age of the animals, and the specific stimulation protocols used. Still, even when taking these parameters into account, not all results can be explained. The present study compares three strains of rats and observes large differences in sensitivity to nitric oxide synthase (NOS) blockers on the induction of long-term potentiation. While Wistar rats showed an almost complete block of long-term potentiation when using the NOS inhibitors 7-nitro-indazole (30 mg/kg ip) or 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl) imidazole (TRIM; 150 nmol/5 microl icv), 117+/-5 S.E.M. of % of baseline slope values of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Sprague-Dawley and Long-Evans rats showed no or only weak effects of drugs on the induction of long-term potentiation (166+/-17 S.E.M. of % of baseline slopes in Sprague-Dawley rats, 173+/-24 S.E.M. of % of baseline values in Long-Evans rats). The results could explain at least some of the discrepancies of the efficacy of NOS inhibitors on synaptic plasticity that is found in the literature. Such large strain differences suggest that results from studies that use laboratory rats could have strain-dependent components and should be generalised cautiously.
We used NIH-3T3 fibroblasts expressing the different Trk receptors to examine whether GM1 ganglioside and its semisynthetic derivative LIGA20 activate various neurotrophin receptors. GM1 induced autophosphorylation of TrkC more potently than TrkA or TrkB receptors. In contrast, LIGA20 activated TrkB tyrosine phosphorylation only. Therefore, Scatchard analysis was performed to determine whether GM1 binds to TrkC. GM1 failed to displace neurotrophin-3 binding, suggesting that this ganglioside does not act as a ligand for Trk receptors. In addition, GM1 failed to induce autophosphorylation of a chimeric receptor consisting of the extracellular domain of the tumor necrosis factor receptor and the intracellular domain of TrkA, suggesting that GM1 does not affect the tyrosine kinase domain. We next determined whether GM1 induces the release of neurotrophins from fibroblast cells. GM1 induced a rapid and significant increase in the amount of neurotrophin-3, but not other neurotrophins. This effect was independent of the presence of Trk because K252a did not prevent GM1-mediated release of neurotrophin-3. Moreover, GM1-mediated TrkC autophosphorylation was blocked by TrkC-IgG (but not TrkB-IgG) receptor bodies, further suggesting that GM1 activates TrkC by inducing the release of neurotrophin-3. This hypothesis was also tested in cultured cerebellar granule cells. GM1 induced neurotrophin-3 (but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor or nerve growth factor) release. In contrast, LIGA20 increased the secretion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Our data show that gangliosides may activate different Trk receptors by differentially affecting the release of neurotrophins.
Mutations in presenilin 1 (PS1) and PS2 genes contribute to the pathogenesis of early onset familial Alzheimer's disease by increasing secretion of the pathologically relevant Abeta42 polypeptides. PS genes are also implicated in Notch signaling through proteolytic processing of the Notch receptor in Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, and mammals. Here we show that Drosophila PS (Psn) protein undergoes endoproteolytic cleavage and forms a stable high molecular weight (HMW) complex in Drosophila S2 or mouse neuro2a (N2a) cells in a similar manner to mammalian PS. The loss-of-function recessive point mutations located in the C-terminal region of Psn, that cause an early pupal-lethal phenotype resembling Notch mutant in vivo, disrupted the HMW complex formation, and abolished gamma-secretase activities in cultured cells. The overexpression of Psn in mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking PS1 and PS2 genes rescued the Notch processing. Moreover, disruption of the expression of Psn by double-stranded RNA-mediated interference completely abolished the gamma-secretase activity in S2 cells. Surprisingly, gamma-secretase activity dependent on wild-type Psn was associated with a drastic overproduction of Abeta1-42 from human betaAPP in N2a cells, but not in S2 cells. Our data suggest that the mechanism of gamma-secretase activities through formation of HMW PS complex, as well as its abolition by loss-of-function mutations located in the C terminus, are highly conserved features in Drosophila and mammals.
Chemokines were described originally in the context of providing migrational cues for leukocytes. They are now known to have broader activities, including those that favor tumor growth. We addressed whether and which chemokines may be important promoters of the growth of the incurable brain neoplasm, malignant gliomas. Analyses of 16 human glioma lines for the expression of chemokine receptors belonging to the CXCR and CCR series revealed low to negligible levels of all receptors, with the exception of CXCR4 that was expressed by 13 of 16 lines. All six resected human glioma specimens showed similarly high CXCR4 expression. The CXCR4 on glioma lines is a signaling receptor in that its agonist, stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1; CXCL12), produced rapid phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases. Furthermore, SDF-1 induced the phosphorylation of Akt (protein kinase B), a kinase associated with survival, and prevented the apoptosis of glioma cells when serum was withdrawn from the culture medium. SDF-1 also mediated glioma chemotaxis, in accordance with this better known role of chemokines. We conclude that glioma cells express a predominant chemokine receptor, CXCR4, and that this functions to regulate survival in part through activating pathways such as Akt.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express a background K(+) channel (I(AC)) that sets the resting potential and acts pivotally in ACTH-stimulated cortisol secretion. We have cloned a bTREK-1 (KCNK2) tandem-pore K(+) channel cDNA from AZF cells with properties that identify it as the native I(AC). The bTREK-1 cDNA is expressed robustly in AZF cells and includes transcripts of 4.9, 3.6, and 2.8 kb. In patch clamp recordings made from transiently transfected cells, bTREK-1 displayed distinctive properties of I(AC) in AZF cells. Specifically, bTREK-1 currents were outwardly rectifying with a large instantaneous and smaller time-dependent component. Similar to I(AC), bTREK-1 increased spontaneously in amplitude over many minutes of whole cell recording and was blocked potently by Ca(2+) antagonists including penfluridol and mibefradil and by 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP. Unitary TREK-1 and I(AC) currents were nearly identical in amplitude. The native I(AC) current, in turn, displayed properties that together are specific to TREK-1 K(+) channels. These include activation by intracellular acidification, enhancement by the neuroprotective agent riluzole, and outward rectification. bTREK-1 current differed from native K(+) current only in its lack of ATP dependence. In contrast to I(AC), the current density of bTREK-1 in human embryonic kidney-293 cells was not increased by raising pipette ATP from 0.1 to 5 mm. Further, the enhancement of I(AC) current in AZF cells by low pH and riluzole was facilitated by, and dependent on, ATP at millimolar concentrations in the pipette solution. Overall, these results establish the identity of I(AC) K(+) channels, demonstrate the expression of bTREK-1 in a specific endocrine cell, identify potent new TREK-1 antagonists, and assign a pivotal role for these tandem-pore channels in the physiology of cortisol secretion. The activation of I(AC) by ATP indicates that native bTREK-1 channels may function as sensors that couple the metabolic state of the cell to membrane potential, perhaps through an associated ATP-binding protein.
A yeast two-hybrid approach was used to discern possible new effectors for the betagamma subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins. Three of the clones isolated are structurally similar to Gbeta, each exhibiting the WD40 repeat motif. Two of these proteins, the receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1) and the dynein intermediate chain, co-immunoprecipitate with Gbetagamma using an anti-Gbeta antibody. The third protein, AAH20044, has no known function; however, sequence analysis indicates that it is a WD40 repeat protein. Further investigation with RACK1 shows that it not only interacts with Gbeta(1)gamma(1) but also unexpectedly with the transducin heterotrimer Galpha(t)beta(1)gamma(1). Galpha(t) alone does not interact, but it must contribute to the interaction because the apparent EC(50) value of RACK1 for Galpha(t)beta(1)gamma(1) is 3-fold greater than that for Gbeta(1)gamma(1) (0.1 versus 0.3 microm). RACK1 is a scaffold that interacts with several proteins, among which are activated betaIIPKC and dynamin-1 (1). betaIIPKC and dynamin-1 compete with Gbeta(1)gamma(1) and Galpha(t)beta(1)gamma(1) for interaction with RACK1. These findings have several implications: 1) that WD40 repeat proteins may interact with each other; 2) that Gbetagamma interacts differently with RACK1 than with its other known effectors; and/or 3) that the G protein-RACK1 complex may constitute a signaling scaffold important for intracellular responses.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are activated by numerous ligands typically through a protein kinase cascade minimally composed of the MAPK in series with a MAP2 kinase (MAP2K) and a MAP3K. This arrangement is thought to confer specificity and appropriate kinetic properties on the activation of MAPKs in response to physiological stimuli. Surprisingly, more than a dozen MAP3Ks have been identified that activate the c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) when overexpressed, but there is no clear understanding of which kinases actually mediate JNK activation by ligands. Here, we use double-stranded RNA-mediated interference of gene expression to reveal the explicit participation of discrete MAP3Ks in controlling JNK activity by multiple stimuli. Maximal activation of JNK by lipopolysaccharide requires the MAP3K TAK1. On the other hand, sorbitol requires expression of four MAP3Ks to cause maximal JNK activation. Thus, we demonstrate that specific stimuli use different mechanisms to recruit distinct MAP3Ks to regulate the JNK pathway.
A new experimental model of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in rats is described. A needle was stereotaxically placed in the prechiasmatic cistern and 300, 250 or 200 microl of blood was injected manually, keeping the intracranial pressure (ICP) at the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) level. An acceptable mortality was observed only after injection of 200 microl of blood. In this group, MABP and ICP increased immediately after SAH, but soon approached baseline levels. The subarachnoid blood was mainly distributed in the basal cisternal system and its estimated volume was about 95% of the amount injected. This new model resembles clinical SAH, is very reproducible, easy to use and seems to be a suitable model for studies of the pathophysiology of SAH.
Imitation is a characteristic but little-understood function of the human brain and of some higher animals. The direct matching hypothesis suggests that a specialised brain circuit is able to extract and directly copy the motor commands of another person's observed actions. Here we investigate how conscious people are of this kind of imitation. We first showed that imitation reactions are faster than simple visual reaction times, consistent with a direct matching circuit in the CNS. We next compared the perceived time of imitation reactions in 17 healthy subjects with other kinds of actions. We found a significant delay in subjects' awareness of their own imitation reactions. Thus, while imitation reactions are unusually fast, subjects are not aware of this. The brain's direct-matching circuit for imitation partly bypasses conscious awareness.
The olfactory system in both vertebrates and invertebrates can recognize and distinguish thousands of chemical signals. Olfactory receptors are responsible for the early molecular events in the detection of volatile compounds and the perception of smell. Recently, candidate olfactory receptor genes have been identified in several organisms, but their characterization is far from been completed due to the difficulty to functionally express them in heterologous systems. To circumvent such difficulty, we expressed a mammalian olfactory gene, rat I7, in the nematode. We generated transgenic worms expressing I7 in AWA or AWB chemosensory neurons and performed behavioural assays using different concentrations of the rat I7 receptor agonist octanal. Pure octanal was repellent for wild-type worms whereas a 1:10 dilution was attractant. Expression of I7 in AWB neurons counteracted the volatile attraction to diluted octanal observed in control wild-type worms. Furthermore, expression of I7 in AWA neurons counteracted the volatile avoidance to pure octanal observed in wild-type worms. These results indicate that it is possible to functionally express mammalian olfactory receptors in providing a research tool to efficiently search for specific olfactory receptor ligands and to extend our understanding of the molecular basis of olfaction.
Humans afflicted with mood disorders respond differently to antidepressant drug therapy. Different responses to psychoactive drugs are also observed in rats, and specific strains exhibit substantial differences in gene expression following synaptic activity. We examined the effects of fluoxetine on the induction of Fos-like proteins in Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley rat brains. Fluoxetine elicited a strong induction of Fos in the striatum of Long-Evans but not Sprague-Dawley rats following acute drug exposure. This effect was specific to fluoxetine as two highly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, HD-31 and HD-50, as well as treatment with fenfluramine failed to replicate the observed differences in Fos. These differences in Fos expression between rat strains may represent variability in post-receptor pathways that ultimately mediate the therapeutic actions of fluoxetine.
Sheep, like humans, show a bias in favour of the left visual field when discriminating familiar faces. This, in humans, is thought to be caused by a right hemisphere dominance for processing faces involving the temporal cortex. We have directly investigated inter-hemispheric differences in face-processing in sheep by recording the frequencies and response profiles of single cells in the temporal cortex which respond selectively to faces. While there was no evidence for increased frequencies of face-sensitive neurones within the right temporal cortex, or their relative selectivity for individual faces, there was a pronounced response latency difference between the two hemispheres. The cells in the left hemisphere responding selectively to particular faces did so up to 400 ms later than those in the right and with a greater degree of temporal variability between cells. No hemispheric latency differences were found, however, in other cells responding to general visual stimuli or to many faces. The data suggest that, while specialised face-sensitive neural circuits in the right hemisphere may play a key role in the rapid (&lt; 200 ms) identification and discrimination of facial identity, those on the left may be involved more with slower processes associated with integrating the emotional or mnemonic consequences of recognition.
We previously cloned a voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel alpha1 subunit LoCa(v)2 cDNA from the squid optic lobe. LoCa(v)2 is designated as a non-L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel based on its amino acid sequence. We performed functional expression experiments of LoCa(v)2 in oocytes and characterized the expressed currents electrophysiologically and pharmacologically. The LoCa(v)2 current was high voltage-activated and the peak current was maximal at +20 mV and lasted for long during activation. The LoCa(v)2 current was not inhibited by the drugs and toxins examined except for omega-agatoxin IVA and PLTX-II. Omega-agatoxin IVA, which is a P-type channel blocker, moderately inhibited the LoCa(v)2 current at higher concentration. PLTX-II, which blocks insect presynaptic Ca2+ channel, inhibited the LoCa(v)2 current at lower concentration. Immunohistochemical investigation showed that the LoCa(v)2 protein may exist at presynaptic terminals in the squid optic lobe. These results suggest that LoCa(v)2 is an omega-agatoxin IVA and PLTX-II-sensitive presynaptic Ca2+ channel in the squid nervous system.

Myelination is a developmentally regulated process whereby myelinating glial cells elaborate large quantities of a specialized plasma membrane that ensheaths axons. The myelin sheath contains an unusual lipid composition in that the glycolipid galactosylceramide (GalC) and its sulfated form sulfatide constitute a large proportion of the total lipid mass. These glycolipids have been implicated in a range of developmental processes such as cell differentiation and myelination initiation, but analyses of mice lacking UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT), the enzyme required for myelin galactolipid synthesis, have more recently demonstrated that the galactolipids more subtly regulate myelin formation. The CGT mutants display a delay in myelin maturation and axo-glial interactions develop abnormally. By interbreeding the CGT mutants with mice that lack myelin-associated glycoprotein, it has been shown that these specialized myelin lipids and proteins act in concert to promote axo-glial adhesion during myelinogenesis. The analysis of the CGT mutants is helping to clarify the roles myelin galactolipids play in regulating the development, and ultimately the function of the myelin sheath.
The wasp toxin philanthotoxin-433 (PhTX-433) is a nonselective and noncompetitive antagonist of ionotropic receptors, such as ionotropic glutamate receptors and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Polyamine toxins are extensively used for the characterization of subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors, in particular Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA and kainate receptors. We have previously shown that an analogue of PhTX-433 with one of the amino groups replaced by a methylene group, philanthotoxin-83 (PhTX-83) is a selective and potent antagonist of AMPA receptors. We now describe the solid-phase synthesis of analogues of PhTX-83 and the electrophysiological characterization of these analogues on cloned AMPA and kainate receptors. The polyamine portion of PhTX-83 was modified systematically by changing the position of the secondary amino group along the polyamine chain. In another series of analogues, the acyl moiety of PhTX-83 was replaced by acids of different size and lipophilicity. Using electrophysiological techniques, PhTX-56 was shown to be a highly potent (K(i) = 3.3 +/- 0.78 nM) and voltage-dependent antagonist of homomeric GluR1 receptors and was more than 1000-fold less potent when tested on heteromeric GluR1+GluR2, as well as homomeric GluR5(Q) receptors, thus being selective for Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors. Variation of the acyl group of PhTX-83 had only minor effect on antagonist potency at homomeric GluR1 receptors but led to a significant decrease in the voltage-dependence. In conclusion, PhTX-56 is a novel, very potent, and selective antagonist of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors and is a promising tool for structure/function studies of the ion channel of the AMPA receptor.
The structural dynamics of synapses probably has a crucial role in the development and plasticity of the nervous system. In the mammalian brain, the vast majority of excitatory axo-dendritic synapses occur on dendritic specializations called 'spines'. However, little is known about their long-term changes in the intact developing or adult animal. To address this question we developed a transcranial two-photon imaging technique to follow identified spines of layer-5 pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex of living transgenic mice expressing yellow fluorescent protein. Here we show that filopodia-like dendritic protrusions, extending and retracting over hours, are abundant in young animals but virtually absent from the adult. In young mice, within the 'critical period' for visual cortex development, approximately 73% of spines remain stable over a one-month interval; most changes are associated with spine elimination. In contrast, in adult mice, the overwhelming majority of spines (approximately 96%) remain stable over the same interval with a half-life greater than 13 months. These results indicate that spines, initially plastic during development, become remarkably stable in the adult, providing a potential structural basis for long-term information storage.
The medial temporal lobe (MTL) has been associated with declarative learning of flexible relational rules and the basal ganglia with implicit learning of stimulus-response mappings. It remains an open question of whether MTL or basal ganglia are involved when learning flexible relational contingencies without awareness. We studied learning of an explicit stimulus-response association with fMRI. Embedded in this explicit task was a hidden structure that was learnt implicitly. Implicit learning of the sequential regularities of the &quot;hidden rule&quot; activated the ventral perirhinal cortex, within the MTL, whereas learning the fixed stimulus-response associations activated the basal ganglia, indicating that the function of the MTL and the basal ganglia depends on the learned material and not necessarily on the participants' awareness.
Rats repeatedly ran through a sequence of spatial receptive fields of hippocampal CA1 place cells in a fixed temporal order. A novel combinatorial decoding method reveals that these neurons repeatedly fired in precisely this order in long sequences involving four or more cells during slow wave sleep (SWS) immediately following, but not preceding, the experience. The SWS sequences occurred intermittently in brief ( approximately 100 ms) bursts, each compressing the behavioral sequence in time by approximately 20-fold. This rapid encoding of sequential experience is consistent with evidence that the hippocampus is crucial for spatial learning in rodents and the formation of long-term memories of events in time in humans.
The growth and behavior of higher organisms depend on the accurate perception and integration of sensory stimuli by the nervous system. We show that defects in sensory perception in C. elegans result in abnormalities in the growth of the animal and in the expression of alternative behavioral states. Our analysis suggests that sensory neurons modulate neural or neuroendocrine functions, regulating both bodily growth and behavioral state. We identify genes likely to be required for these functions downstream of sensory inputs. Here, we characterize one of these genes as egl-4, which we show encodes a cGMP-dependent protein kinase. We demonstrate that this cGMP-dependent kinase functions in neurons of C. elegans to regulate multiple developmental and behavioral processes including the orchestrated growth of the animal and the expression of particular behavioral states.
Prolonged odor exposure causes a specific, reversible adaptation of olfactory responses. A genetic screen for negative regulators of olfaction uncovered mutations in the cGMP-dependent protein kinase EGL-4 that disrupt olfactory adaptation in C. elegans. G protein-coupled olfactory receptors within the AWC olfactory neuron signal through cGMP and a cGMP-gated channel. The cGMP-dependent kinase functions in AWC neurons during odor exposure to direct adaptation to AWC-sensed odors, suggesting that adaptation is a cell intrinsic process initiated by cGMP. A predicted phosphorylation site on the beta subunit of the cGMP-gated channel is required for adaptation after short odor exposure, suggesting that phosphorylation of signaling molecules generates adaptation at early time points. A predicted nuclear localization signal within EGL-4 is required for adaptation after longer odor exposure, suggesting that nuclear translocation of EGL-4 triggers late forms of adaptation.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotype is well known as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, but more recently also has been associated with the incidence or disease progression of other neurological diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In the present study we have examined the distribution of apoE in the spinal cord of transgenic mice with a familial ALS-linked superoxide dismutase 1 (G93A-SOD1) mutation. Western immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry showed a strong increase in apoE expression in G93A-SOD1 mice coincident with the onset of paralysis (age &gt; 24 weeks). Increased apoE expression occurred in astrocytes and throughout the neuropil. The increase in apoE expression closely correlated in time and spatial distribution with axonal and neuronal degeneration as determined with a silver staining procedure, consistent with a role as an 'injury-response' protein.
Tropomyosin binds along actin filaments and regulates actin-myosin interaction in muscle and nonmuscle cells. Seven periodic amino acid repeats are proposed to correspond to actin binding sites, and the middle periods are important for cooperative activation of actin by myosin. The functional contributions of individual periods were studied in mutants in which periods 2-6 were individually deleted from rat striated muscle alphaalpha-tropomyosin or replaced with a leucine zipper sequence. Unacetylated recombinant tropomyosins were assayed for actin binding, regulation of the actomyosin ATPase with troponin, cooperative myosin S1-induced binding to actin, and thermal stability. Tropomyosin function is relatively insensitive to deletion of period 2, but loss increases as the deletion is shifted toward the C-terminus. Retention of function upon deletion of the periodic repeats is in the order of 2 &gt; 3 approximately 4 approximately 6 &gt; 5. Internal periods are important for specific functions and are not quasiequivalent. Deletion of period 5 (residues 166-207), and especially deletion or replacement of residues 166-188, a constitutively expressed region encoded by exon 5, had severe consequences on actin affinity and cooperative myosin S1-induced binding to actin. Period 6, residues 208-242, part of the troponin binding site, is required for full inhibition of the actomyosin ATPase in the absence of calcium. The effect of the deletion can depend on its context, suggesting that sequence alone is not the only factor important for function. We propose that the local structure and stability, and consequent flexibility, of the coiled coil are major determinants of actin affinity.
5-Methyl-6-nitroquipazine, a novel analogue of the potent and selective serotonin transporter inhibitor 6-nitroquipazine was synthesized and radiolabeled with tritium and the positron emitter carbon-11. [3H]5-methyl-6-nitroquipazine was found to have a K(d)=51+/-7 pM. The high affinity and the facile labeling of [11C]5-methyl-6-nitroquipazine makes it a promising radioligand for visualization of the serotonin transporter with positron emission tomography.
Endomorphin-1 and -2 (EM1, EM2) are endogenous opioids with high affinity and selectivity for the mu-opioid receptor. Cells expressing EM-like immunoreactivity (EM-LI) are present in the hypothalamus, and fibers containing EM-LI project to many brain regions, including the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The VTA is one of the most sensitive brain regions for the rewarding and locomotor effects of opioids. It contains mu-opioid receptors, which are thought to mediate gamma-aminobutyric acid-dependent disinhibition of dopamine transmission to the nucleus accumbens. We investigated whether hypothalamic EM-LI cells project to the VTA, where they could play a natural role in this circuitry. The retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold (FG) was microinjected into the anterior or posterior VTA in rats. Nine days later, colchicine was injected, and 24 hours later, the animals were perfused and processed for fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Numerous FG-labeled cells were detected in the hypothalamus. Both EM1-LI and EM2-LI cells were present in the periventricular nucleus, between the dorsomedial and ventromedial hypothalamus and between the ventromedial and arcuate nuclei. Subpopulations of EM1-LI and EM2-LI cells were labeled by FG. Injections of FG to the anterior and posterior VTA were both effective in producing double-labeled cells, and an anterior-posterior topographical organization between the VTA and hypothalamus was observed. The results support the idea that some endomorphin-containing neurons in the hypothalamus project to the VTA, where they may modulate reward and locomotor circuitry.
