Transit assessment of the small intestine and colon is relevant in the study of physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacodynamics, and there is increasing use of small-bowel and colonic transit measurements in clinical practice as well. The main methods that are applied in clinical practice are substrate-hydrogen breath tests for small-bowel transit and radiopaque markers for colonic transit. Over the past 2-3 decades, scintigraphy has become the preferred standard in research studies, particularly for studies of pathophysiology and pharmacodynamics. New approaches include experimental stable isotope measurement of orocecal transit and the recently approved method using a wireless motility capsule that is validated as an accurate measurement of small-bowel and colonic transit.
Brain and spinal cord injury (BSI), a common neurological disease, is increasing. The functional recovery of BSI is far from satisfactory despite great improvement in clinical treatment of BSI. Research into injury of neurons and neurite as well as the microenvironment that regulate BSI conditions should be able to enable us to find a pivotal position among the complex molecular system for effective clinic practice. Further effort needs to pay attention to translational research. In this paper, we propose a crucial molecule, known as brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), for translational research in relation to BSI because of its significant role in BSI and its changes with various interventions such as acupuncture, hormone, herb and cell agents. Moreover, the establishment of BDNF transgenic release would provide a practical approach for treating BSI with BDNF. It is important that research questions derive from bedsides (what do doctors and patients need?). Answers identified by laboratory research should be put into practice (back to bedsides). This consists of B-to-B double circles. As a key concept of translational medicine, it will guide our direction towards optimal development of medical research and medical practice.





Humans daily face social situations involving conflicts between competing moral decision. Despite a substantial amount of studies published over the past 10 years, the respective role of emotions and reason, their possible interaction, and their behavioural expression during moral evaluation remains an unresolved issue. A dualistic approach to moral evaluation proposes that the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (rDLPFc) controls emotional impulses. However, recent findings raise the possibility that the right DLPFc processes emotional information during moral decision making. We used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to transiently disrupt rDLPFc activity before measuring decision making in the context of moral dilemmas. Results reveal an increase of the probability of utilitarian responses during objective evaluation of moral dilemmas in the rTMS group (compared to a SHAM one). This suggests that the right DLPFc function not only participates to a rational cognitive control process, but also integrates emotions generated by contextual information appraisal, which are decisive for response selection in moral judgements.
The relationship between anger and aggression is imperfect. Based on work on the neuroscience of anger, we predicted that anger associated with greater relative left frontal cortical activation would be more likely to result in aggression. To test this hypothesis, we combined transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the frontal cortex with interpersonal provocation. Participants received insulting feedback after 15 min of tDCS and were able to aggress by administering noise blasts to the insulting participant. Individuals who received tDCS to increase relative left frontal cortical activity behaved more aggressively when they were angry. No relation between anger and aggression was observed in the increase relative right frontal cortical activity or sham condition. These results concur with the motivational direction model of frontal asymmetry, in which left frontal activity is associated with anger. We propose that anger with approach motivational tendencies is more likely to result in aggression.

While damaged peripheral nerves demonstrate some potential to regenerate, complete functional recovery remains infrequent, owing to a functional loss of supportive Schwann cells distal to the injury. An emerging solution to improve upon this intrinsic regenerative capacity is to supplement injured nerves with stem cells derived from various tissues. While many of these strategies have proven successful in animal models, few studies have examined the behavior of transplanted stem cells in vivo, including whether they survive and differentiate. In previous work, we demonstrated that cells derived from neonatal rodent dermis (skin-derived precursor cells, or SKPs) could improve regenerative parameters when transplanted distal to both acute and chronic nerve injuries in Lewis rats. The aim of this work was to track the fate of these cells in various nerve injury paradigms and determine the response of these cells to a known glial growth factor. Here, we report that SKPs survive, respond to local cues, differentiate into myelinating Schwann cells, and avoid complete clearance by the host's immune defenses for a minimum of 10weeks. Moreover, the ultimate fate of SKPs in vivo depends on the nerve environment into which they are injected and can be modified by inclusion of heregulin-1.
To assess the effect of human umbilical cord blood (hUCB) transplantation on neuromuscular transmission in SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, we studied the probability of neuromuscular transmission (PNMT), a relevant physiological indicator of motor nerve function, in 3 SOD1(G93A) mice transplanted with hUCB and compared to PNMT in 4 SOD1(G93A) mice without cell transplantation and 3 non-mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. For preparations isolated from non-mutant SOD1 transgenic mice, PNMT was 0.93 and 0.84 during the first 5 s of 70 and 90 Hz trains, respectively. PNMT gradually declined to 0.77 and 0.42 at the end of the trains. In striking contrast, PNMT for preparations from non-treated mutant SOD1(G93A) mice was 0.52 and 0.36 in the first 5 s of 70 and 90 Hz trains, respectively (p&lt;0.05). Treatment with hUCB significantly (p&lt;0.05) improved PNMT in SOD1(G93A) preparations. That is, the initial 5 s PNMT was 0.88 and 0.68 for the 70 and 90 Hz stimuli, respectively. We concluded that hUCB transplantation significantly improved PNMT for muscles removed from SOD1(G93A) mice. Testing PNMT in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model could be used as a simple in vitro protocol to detect a positive cellular response to therapeutic interventions in ALS.
Oxygen levels in tissues including the embryonic brain are lower than those in the atmosphere. We reported previously that Notch signal activation induces demethylation of astrocytic genes, conferring astrocyte differentiation ability on midgestational neural precursor cells (mgNPCs). Here, we show that the oxygen sensor hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF1) plays a critical role in astrocytic gene demethylation in mgNPCs by cooperating with the Notch signaling pathway. Expression of constitutively active HIF1 and a hyperoxic environment, respectively, promoted and impeded astrocyte differentiation in the developing brain. Our findings suggest that hypoxia contributes to the appropriate scheduling of mgNPC fate determination.
The generation of new neurons in the mammalian hippocampus continues throughout life, and lineage progression is regulated by transcription factors, local cues, and environmental influences. The ability to direct stem/progenitor cell fate in situ may have therapeutic potential. Using an in vivo retroviral delivery and lineage tracing approach, we compare the lineage-instruction factors, Pax6 and Olig2, and demonstrate that both participate in regulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in adult rats. We show that overexpression of the proneuronal factor Pax6 pushes neuronal precursor cells to early maturation and increases the frequency of neuronal phenotypes. However, Pax6 overexpression results in no net increase in neurogenesis at 3 weeks. Blocking of Olig2 function reduces and slows neuronal commitment and differentiation and decreases net neurogenesis. Altering expression of both factors also changes gliogenesis. Our results establish that Pax6 decreases the number of Neuron-Glia 2 progenitor cells and prevents oligodendrocytic lineage commitment, while repression of Olig2 results in an expanded astrocytic lineage. We conclude that selectively modifying transcriptional cues within hippocampal progenitor cells is sufficient to induce a cell fate switch, thus altering the neurogenesis-gliogenesis ratio. In addition, our data show the competence of multiple progenitor lineages to respond divergently to the same signal. Therefore, directing instructive cues to select phenotype and developmental stage could be critical to achieve precise outcomes in cell genesis. Further understanding the regulation of lineage progression in all progenitor populations within the target region will be important for developing therapeutic strategies to direct cell fate for brain repair.
Neural differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) requires coordinated repression of the pluripotency regulatory program and reciprocal activation of the neurogenic regulatory program. Upon neural induction, ESCs rapidly repress expression of pluripotency genes followed by staged activation of neural progenitor and differentiated neuronal and glial genes. The transcriptional factors that underlie maintenance of pluripotency are partially characterized whereas those underlying neural induction are much less explored, and the factors that coordinate these two developmental programs are completely unknown. One transcription factor, REST (repressor element 1 silencing transcription factor), has been linked with terminal differentiation of neural progenitors and more recently, and controversially, with control of pluripotency. Here, we show that in the absence of REST, coordination of pluripotency and neural induction is lost and there is a resultant delay in repression of pluripotency genes and a precocious activation of both neural progenitor and differentiated neuronal and glial genes. Furthermore, we show that REST is not required for production of radial glia-like progenitors but is required for their subsequent maintenance and differentiation into neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes. We propose that REST acts as a regulatory hub that coordinates timely repression of pluripotency with neural induction and neural differentiation.
We used 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose small-animal positron-emission tomography to determine whether different styles of coping with stress are associated with different patterns of neuronal activity in the hypothalamus. Adult rats were subjected to immobilization (IMO)-stress or to a non-immobilized condition for 30 min, in random order on separate days, each of which was followed by brain-scanning. Some rats in the immobilized condition were allowed to actively cope with the stress by chewing a wooden stick during IMO, while the other immobilized rats were given nothing to chew on. Voxel-based statistical analysis of the brain imaging data shows that chewing counteracted the stress-induced increased glucose uptake in the hypothalamus to the level of the non-immobilized condition. Region-of-interest analysis of the glucose uptake values further showed that chewing significantly suppressed stress-induced increased glucose uptake in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and the anterior hypothalamic area but not in the lateral hypothalamus. Together with the finding that the mean plasma corticosterone concentration at the termination of the IMO was also significantly suppressed when rats had an opportunity to chew a wooden stick, our results showed that active coping by chewing inhibited the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to reduce the endocrine stress response.





The long-term use of many antipsychotic medications carries a risk of tardive dyskinesia in a small proportion of patients. Although metoclopramide is an antipsychotic at high doses, this drug is more commonly used at low daily doses to accelerate stomach movement of food. Because prolonged use of metoclopramide has also been associated with tardive dyskinesia, this drug is convenient to study to examine the possible basis of tardive dyskinesia. Previous work proposed that antipsychotics accumulated in the melanin granules of the human substantia nigra, ultimately building up to high concentrations that could disrupt cell membranes of nigral neurons. While previous work demonstrated the accumulation of metoclopramide in postmortem human nigral tissue, it remained to be tested whether high concentrations of metoclopramide would actually disrupt cell membranes. Therefore, the present work examined whether metoclopramide could disrupt cell membranes, using human erythrocytes directly exposed to various concentrations of metoclopramide in vitro. It was found that metoclopramide caused disruption of the red cells starting at a threshold of 1 mM, which would result in ~280 moles of metoclopramide per kilogram of dry red cell membranes. However, the nonspecific adsorption of metoclopramide to human substantia nigra is ~23 mol/kg of dry solids (measured at the clinical spinal fluid concentration of metoclopramide). Therefore, the membrane-lytic concentration of metoclopramide is only about 12 times higher than that after a single exposure of the drug to the nigral tissue. Hence, metoclopramide accumulation in the substantia nigra over a matter of months may lead to nigral neuron damage.
Within the basal ganglia, the functionally defined region referred to as the striatum contains a subset of GABAergic medium spiny neurons expressing the neuropeptide enkephalin. Although the major features of ultrastructural enkephalin localization in striatum have been characterized among various species, its ultrastructural organization has never been studied in the human brain. Human striatal tissue was obtained from the Maryland and Alabama Brain Collections from eight normal controls. The brains were received and fixed within 8 h of death allowing for excellent preservation suitable for electron microscopy. Tissue from the dorsal striatum was processed for enkephalin immunoreactivity and prepared for electron microscopy. General morphology of the dorsal striatum was consistent with light microscopy in human. The majority of neurons labeled with enkephalin was medium-sized and had a large nonindented nucleus with a moderate amount of cytoplasm, characteristic of medium spiny neurons. Of the spines receiving synapses in dorsal striatum, 39% were labeled for enkephalin and were of varied morphologies. Small percentages (2%) of synapses were formed by labeled axon terminals. Most (82%) labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses. Enkephalin-labeled terminals showed no preference toward spines or dendrites for postsynaptic targets, whereas in rat and monkey, the vast majority of synapses in the neuropil are formed with dendritic shafts. Thus, there is an increase in the prevalence of axospinous synapses formed by enkephalin-labeled axon terminals in human compared with other species. Quantitative differences in synaptic features were also seen between the caudate nucleus and the putamen in the human tissue.
Evidence indicates that dopamine (DA) mainly acts as a volume transmission (VT) transmitter through its release into the extracellular fluid where the D(1) -like and D(2) -like receptors are predominantly extrasynaptic. It was therefore of interest to compare the affinities of the two major families of DA receptors. [(3)H] raclopride /DA and [(3)H] SCH23390/DA competition assays compared the affinity of DA at D(2) -like and D(1) -like receptors in rat dorsal striatal membrane preparations as well as in membrane preparations from CHO cell lines stably transfected with human D(2L) and D(1) receptors. The IC(50) values of DA at D(2) -like receptors in dorsal striatal membranes and CHO cell membranes were markedly and significantly reduced compared with the IC(50) values of DA at D(1) -like receptors. These IC(50) values reflect differences in both the high and low affinity states. The K(iH) value for DA at [(3)H] raclopride-labeled D(2) -like receptors in dorsal striatum was 12 nM, and this can help explain PET findings that amphetamine-induced increases in DA release can produce an up to 50% decrease of [(11)C] raclopride binding in the dorsal striatum in vivo. These combined results give indications for the existence of striatal D(2) -like receptor-mediated DA VT at the local circuit level in vivo. The demonstration of a K(iH) value of 183 nM for DA at D(1) antagonist-labeled D(1) -like receptors instead gives a likely explanation for the failure of a reduction of D(1) -like receptor binding after amphetamine-induced DA release in PET studies using the D(1) -like antagonist radioligands [(11)C] SCH23390 and [(11)C] NNC. It seems difficult to evaluate the role of the extrasynaptic D(1) receptors in VT in vivo with the PET radioligands available for this receptor.
TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid family type 1) is a nonselective cation channel that is activated and/or sensitized by noxious heat, protons, and other endogenous molecules released following tissue injury. In addition, a role for TRPV1 in mechanotransmission is emerging. We have recently reported that a selective TRPV1 receptor antagonist, A-889425, reduces mechanical allodynia and spinal neuron responses to mechanical stimulation of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-inflamed rat hind paws. The population of peripheral nerve fibers through which TRPV1 antagonists mediate their effect on mechanotransmission have not yet been described. The objective of this study was to characterize TRPV1-mediated modulation of mechanically evoked activity in sensory axons innervating rat hind paws. We used an in vitro skin-nerve preparation to record neural activity from single axons isolated from rat tibial nerve. Single fibers were classified by conduction velocity, mechanical threshold, and stimulus-response relationships. We used A-889425 to investigate uninjured and inflamed skin afferent neuron populations to evoked mechanical stimulation. Application of A-889425 had no effect on the mechanical responsiveness of A and C-fiber units innervating uninjured skin. In contrast, A-889425 inhibited responses of slowly conducting A fiber units to noxious mechanical stimulation in a population of axons innervating CFA-inflamed hind paws. These data support a role for TRPV1 in mechanotransmission following peripheral inflammation, and highlight the importance of a distinct subclass of primary afferent neurons in mediating this effect.
A number of landmark trials have proven the efficacy of thrombolysis by intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in the acute phase of the ischemic stroke. Despite the recently extended time window of 4.5 hours, the number of people who are being treated in most centers is low. Several reasons seem to account for this, including poor recognition of symptoms, delays in emergency transport, low levels of public awareness, or age limits originally imposed by drug regulatory rules. Trials are ongoing to possibly extend the indications to the treatment. A major effort is to extend the time window by bridging the treatment with neuroprotective approaches, or by identifying subgroups that may particularly benefit from recanalization and reperfusion. Procedures using ultrasounds or alternative intravenous compounds are also being investigated with promising results.
Hypothermia is an effective neuroprotectant for cardiac arrest and perinatal ischemic injury. Hypothermia also improves outcome after traumatic brain injury and stroke. Although the ideal treatment parameters (duration, delay, and depth) are not fully delineated, prolonged cooling is usually more effective than shorter periods. There is the concern that extended cooling may be hazardous to brain plasticity and cause damage. In order to evaluate this possibility, we assessed the effects of 3 days of systemic hypothermia (32C) in rats subjected to a sham stroke surgery. There were no detrimental behavioral effects or signs of brain damage. As even longer cooling may be needed in some patients, we cooled (32C) the right hemisphere of rats for 3 or 21 days. Physiological variables, functional outcome, and measures of cell injury were examined. Focal brain cooling for 21 days modestly decreased heart rate, blood pressure, and core temperature. However, focal hypothermia did not affect subsequent behavior (e.g., spontaneous limb usage), cell morphology (e.g., dendritic arborization, ultrastructure), or cause cell death. In conclusion, prolonged mild hypothermia did not harm the brain of normal animals. Further research is now needed to evaluate whether such treatments affect plasticity after brain injury.
Chronic pain is a medical condition that severely decreases the quality of life for those who struggle to cope with it. Interactive voice response (IVR) technology has the ability to track symptoms and disease progression, to investigate the relationships between symptom patterns and clinical outcomes, to assess the efficacy of ongoing treatments, and to directly serve as an adjunct to therapeutic treatment for chronic pain. While many approaches exist toward the management of chronic pain, all have their pitfalls and none work universally. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is one approach that has been shown to be fairly effective, and therapeutic interactive voice response technology provides a convenient and easy-to-use means of extending the therapeutic gains of CBT long after patients have discontinued clinical visitations. This review summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of IVR technology, provides evidence for the efficacy of the method in monitoring and managing chronic pain, and addresses potential future directions that the technology may take as a therapeutic intervention in its own right.
Biological, genetic, and clinical data provide compelling proof for N-type voltage-gated calcium channels (CaV2.2) as therapeutic targets for chronic pain. While decreasing channel function is ultimately anti-nociceptive, directly targeting the channel can lead to multiple adverse effects. Targeting regulators of channel activity may facilitate improved analgesic properties associated with channel block and afford a broader therapeutic window. Towards this end, we recently identified a short peptide, designated CBD3, derived from collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2) that suppressed inflammatory and neuropathic hypersensitivity by inhibiting CRMP-2 binding to CaV2.2 [Brittain et al., Nature Medicine 17:822-829 (2011)]. Rodents administered CBD3 intraperitoneally, fused to the HIV TAT protein cell penetrating domain, exhibited antinociception lasting ~4 hours highlighting potential instability, limited oral bioavailability, and/or rapid elimination of peptide. This report focuses on improving upon the parental CBD3 peptide. Using SPOTScan analysis of synthetic versions of the parental CBD3 peptide, we identified peptides harboring single amino acid mutations that bound with greater affinity to CaV2.2. One such peptide, harboring a phenylalanine instead of glycine (G14F), was tested in rodent models of migraine and neuropathic pain. In vivo laser Doppler blood flowmetry measure of capsaicin-induced meningeal vascular responses related to headache pain was almost completely suppressed by dural application of the G14F peptide. The G14F mutant peptide, administered intraperitoneally, also exhibited greater antinociception in Stavudine (2'-3'-didehydro-2'-3'-dideoxythymidine (d4T)/Zerit) model of AIDS therapy-induced peripheral neuropathy compared to the parent CBD3 peptide. These results demonstrate the patent translational value of small biologic drugs targeting CaV2.2 for management of clinical pain.
Magnetic resonance has an established role in investigations on the evolution of stroke and the assessment of therapeutic strategies in experimental animals. Here we show that the technique has also an important place for the study of stem cell-mediated regenerative therapies after stroke. We review the literature by bridging from the methodological aspects of stem cell labeling via grafting and monitoring of cell dynamics after implantation into the brain all the way to MRI's role in analyzing the stem cell-mediated functional improvement. Thus, we have aimed at a view combining the focus on the monitoring of the cell activities with the aspect of lesion evolution while including also the essence of a potential functional improvement by the implantation of stem cells following stroke.
Since the identification of cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5) as a tau kinase and member of the Cdk family almost 20 years ago, deregulation of Cdk5 activity has been linked to an array of neurodegenerative diseases. As knowledge on the etiopathological mechanisms of these diseases evolved through the years, Cdk5 has also been implicated in additional cellular events that are affected under these pathological conditions. From the role of Cdk5 in the regulation of synaptic functions to its involvement in autophagy deregulation, significant insights have been obtained regarding the role of Cdk5 as a key regulator of neurodegeneration. Here, we summarize recent findings on the involvement of Cdk5 in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying various neurodegenerative diseases.
The functional MRI (fMRI) community has zealously embraced resting state or intrinsic functional connectivity approaches to mapping brain organization. Having demonstrated their utility for charting the large-scale functional architecture of the brain, the field is now leveraging task-independent methods for the investigation of phenotypic variation and the identification of biomarkers for clinical conditions. Enthusiasm aside, questions regarding the significance and validity of intrinsic brain phenomena remain. Here, we discuss these challenges and outline current developments that, in moving the field toward discovery science, permit a shift from cartography toward a mechanistic understanding of the neural bases of variation in cognition, emotion and behavior.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) reflect the spectrum of neural impairments seen during chronic viral infection. Current research efforts focus on improving antiretroviral and adjunctive therapies, defining disease onset and progression, facilitating drug delivery, and halting neurodegeneration and viral resistance. Because HIV is species-specific, generating disease in small-animal models has proved challenging. After two decades of research, rodent HAND models now include those containing a human immune system. Antiviral responses, neuroinflammation and immunocyte blood-brain barrier (BBB) trafficking follow HIV infection in these rodent models. We review these and other rodent models of HAND and discuss their unmet potential in reflecting human pathobiology and in facilitating disease monitoring and therapeutic discoveries.
Understanding how sensory pathways transmit information under natural conditions remains a major goal in neuroscience. The vestibular system plays a vital role in everyday life, contributing to a wide range of functions from reflexes to the highest levels of voluntary behavior. Recent experiments establishing that vestibular (self-motion) processing is inherently multimodal also provide insight into a set of interrelated questions. What neural code is used to represent sensory information in vestibular pathways? How do the interactions between the organism and the environment shape encoding? How is self-motion information processing adjusted to meet the needs of specific tasks? This review highlights progress that has recently been made towards understanding how the brain encodes and processes self-motion to ensure accurate motor control.
Dysfunctional insulin and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) signaling contributes to the pathological progression of diabetes, diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's diseases (HD). Despite their prevalence, there are limited therapeutic options available for the treatment of these neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, establishing a link between insulin/IGF-I and the pathoetiology of these diseases may provide alternative approaches toward their management. Many of the heat shock proteins (Hsps) are well-known molecular chaperones that solubilize and clear damaged proteins and protein aggregates. Recent studies suggest that modulating Hsps may represent a promising therapeutic avenue for improving insulin and IGF-I signaling. Pharmacological induction of the heat shock response (HSR) may intersect with insulin/IGF-I signaling to improve aspects of neurodegenerative phenotypes. Herein, we review the intersection between Hsps and the insulin/IGF systems under normal and pathological conditions. The discussion will emphasize the potential of non-toxic HSR inducers as viable therapeutic agents.
Objects consist of features such as shape, motion and color, all of which can be selectively used for different object processing tasks. The present study investigated whether task demands influenced how well participants attended to features of novel colored dynamic objects that were task-relevant while ignoring those that were task-irrelevant. To address this, we used tasks which had different perceptual, learning and memory demands. The unattended features were systematically changed to measure their effects on how well participants could process the attended feature. In Experiment 1, participants discriminated simultaneously presented objects on the basis their shape or motion. We found that changes to unattended motion and color did not affect participants' sensitivity to discriminate the attended feature but changes to unattended shape did. We also found that changes to unattended motion impaired how quickly observers responded. In Experiment 2, participants identified learned objects at the individual level on the basis of their shape or motion. We found that changes to any unattended features affected accuracy and reaction times. Overall, these results point to an important role of task demands in object processing: Task demands can influence whether task-irrelevant features affect object-processing performance.




Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are widely used in neuroscience research, where their utility as a model organism is rapidly expanding. Low cost, ease of experimental manipulations, and sufficient behavioral complexity make zebrafish a valuable tool for high-throughput studies in biomedicine. To complement the available repositories for zebrafish genetic information, there is a growing need for the collection of zebrafish neurobehavioral and neurological phenotypes. For this, we are establishing the Zebrafish Neurophenome Database (ZND; www.tulane.edu/znpindex/search ) as a new dynamic online open-access data repository for behavioral and related physiological data. ZND, currently focusing on adult zebrafish, combines zebrafish neurophenotypic data with a simple, easily searchable user interface, which allow scientists to view and compare results obtained by other laboratories using various treatments in different testing paradigms. As a developing community effort, ZND is expected to foster innovative research using zebrafish by federating the growing body of zebrafish neurophenotypic data.

The TRK-fused gene (TFG in human, Tfg in rat) was originally identified in human papillary thyroid cancer as a chimeric form of the NTRK1 gene. It was since reported that the gene product (TFG) plays a role in regulating phosphotyrosine-specific phosphatase-1 activity. As shown in the accompanying paper, we produced an antibody to rat TFG and used it to localize TFG to selected neurons in specific regions. In the present study, we mapped the TFG-positive neurons in the brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord of rats. In the brainstem, neurons intensely positive for TFG were distributed in the raphe nuclei, the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, the reticulotegmental nucleus of the pons, and some cranial nerve nuclei such as the trigeminal nuclei, the vestibulocochlear nuclei, and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Purkinje cells in the cerebellum and motor neurons in the spinal anterior horn were also positive for TFG. These results provide fundamental data for studying the functions of TFG in the brain.
The TRK-fused gene (TFG in human, Tfg in rat) was originally identified in human papillary thyroid cancer as a chimeric form of the NTRK1 gene. It has been reported that the gene product (TFG) plays a role in regulating phosphotyrosine-specific phosphatase-1 activity. However, no information regarding the localization of Tfg in rat tissues is available. In this study, we investigated the expression of Tfg mRNA in normal rat tissues using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We also produced an antibody against Tfg gene products and examined the localization of TFG in the rat brain and retina. The RT-PCR experiments demonstrated that two types of Tfg mRNA were expressed in rat tissues: the conventional form of Tfg (cTfg) and a novel variant form, retinal Tfg (rTfg). RT-PCR analyses demonstrated that cTfg was ubiquitously expressed in rat tissues, while rTfg was predominantly expressed in the brain and retina. Western blot analysis demonstrated two bands with molecular weights of about 30 kDa and 50 kDa in the rat brain. Immunohistochemistry indicated that TFG proteins were predominantly expressed by neurons in the brain. In the rat retina, intense TFG-immunoreactivity was detected in the layer of rods and cones and the outer plexiform layer.
Several lines of evidence suggest that (1) receptors regulate intracellular calcium concentration [Ca(2+)](i). However, no previous studies have demonstrated a consistent role for these receptors in the modulation of extracellular calcium entry through plasmalemmal voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs). To search for evidence of such a role we compared [Ca(2+)](i) under basal conditions and after depolarization with KCl in fura-2-loaded synaptosomes from wild-type and (1) receptor knockout ((1)R-KO) mice. We also tested the effects of the selective (1) receptor agonists PRE-084 and (+)-pentazocine and antagonists BD-1047 and NE-100 on the increase in [Ca(2+)](i) induced by depolarization with 60mM KCl. Mibefradil, a nonselective blocker of VDCCs, was used as a positive control. Basal [Ca(2+)](i) and the increase in [Ca(2+)](i) caused by KCl-induced depolarization were similar in brain synaptosomes from both wild-type and (1)R-KO mice. Mibefradil (1-30 M) and all (1) receptor ligands studied (3-100 M) inhibited the KCl-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in a concentration-dependent way. The order of maximum inhibition for the ligands compared here was NE-100&gt;BD-1047=PRE 084&gt;(+)-pentazocine. There were no appreciable differences in their effects between wild-type and (1)R-KO mice. These findings indicate that (1) receptors are not involved in calcium influx through VDCCs or in the inhibitory effects of these (1) ligands on Ca(2+) channels.
Ketamine, a non-selective inhibitor of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) channels is used in anesthetic or sub-anesthetic doses to induce analgesia, amnesia, to suppress fear, anxiety and depression. Although the ketamine's effect on memory acquisition is known, its effects on other aspects of memory are controversial. Morris water maze is a task which assesses spatial learning and memory. This study was aimed to assess the ketamine's differential effect on water maze memory acquisition, consolidation and retrieval. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-350 g) were trained in water maze single training session. 24h later a probe trial which was consisted of a single trial without platform was done. To assess the effect of ketamine on water maze memory acquisition it was administered before training; to assess its effect on memory consolidation it was administered immediately after training and to assess its effect on memory retrieval it was injected before probe trial. Ketamine both in sub-anesthetic and anesthetic doses impaired water maze memory acquisition, its anesthetic dose but not sub-anesthetic dose impaired memory consolidation and on retrieval stage, both doses deteriorated memory retrieval. It seems that NMDA receptor activity is not just necessary during water maze memory acquisition but also their post-learning reactivation is required to maintain memory consolidation and retrieval.
The concomitant production of IL-17A and IL-9, both Th17 cytokines, has not been compared in MS patients. We show that IL-17A but not IL-9 expression by CD3(+) cells was increased during a MS relapse. Co-expression of IL-17A and IL-9 was marginal. In addition to Th1 and Th2 cytokines, IL-17A, IL-6 and IL-23p19 were down-regulated by ivMP, but Foxp3 was not, while an increase in IL-10, TGF-1 and IL-27p28 mRNA was observed. This change in the Th17, Treg and IL-10 balance could be an additional mechanism by which corticosteroids shorten the duration of a MS relapse and promote recovery.
The mossy fiber (MF)-granule cell (GC) pathway conveys multiple modalities of information to the cerebellar cortex, converging on Purkinje cells (PC), the sole output of the cerebellar cortex. Recent in vivo experiments have shown that activity in GCs varies from tonic firing at a few hertz to phasic bursts &gt;500 Hz. However, the responses of parallel fiber (PF)-PC synapses to this wide range of input frequencies are unknown, and there is controversy regarding several frequency-related parameters of transmission at this synapse. We performed recordings of unitary synapses and combined variance-mean analysis with a carefully adapted extracellular stimulation method in young and adult rats. We show that, although the probability of release at individual sites is low at physiological calcium concentration, PF-PC synapses release one or more vesicles with a probability of 0.44 at 1.5 mm [Ca(2+)](e). Paired-pulse facilitation was observed over a wide range of frequencies; it renders burst inputs particularly effective and reproducible. These properties are primarily independent of synaptic weight and age. Furthermore, we show that the PF-PC synapse is able to sustain transmission at very high frequencies for tens of stimuli, as a result of accelerated vesicle replenishment and an apparent recruitment of release site vesicles, which appears to be a central mechanism of paired-pulse facilitation at this synapse. These properties ensure that PF-PC synapses possess a dynamic range enabling the temporal code of MF inputs to be transmitted reliably to the PC.
Acetylcholine (ACh) plays a major role in the processing of sensory inputs. Cholinergic input to the mammalian olfactory bulb modulates odor discrimination and perceptual learning by mechanisms that have yet to be elucidated. We have used the mouse olfactory bulb to examine the role of nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) in regulating the responses of mitral cells (MCs), the output neurons of the olfactory bulb, to olfactory nerve input. We show that ACh activates 34* nAChRs (* denotes the possible presence of other subunits) on MCs, leading to their excitation. Despite depolarizing MCs directly, the net effect of nAChR activation is to suppress olfactory nerve-evoked responses in these cells via activity-dependent feedback GABAergic mechanisms. Our results indicate that nAChRs gate incoming olfactory nerve input wherein weak input stimuli are filtered out, whereas strong stimuli are transmitted via the MCs. Based on our observations, we provide a mechanistic model for the sharpening of MC receptive fields by nAChRs, which could aid in odor discrimination and perceptual learning.
The corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system coordinates neuroendocrine and behavioral responses to stress and has been implicated in the development of major depressive disorder (MDD). Recent reports suggest that GG-homozygous individuals of a single nucleotide polymorphism (rs110402) in the CRH receptor 1 (CRHR1) gene show behavioral and neuroendocrine evidence of stress vulnerability. The present study explores whether those observations extend to the neuronal processing of emotional stimuli in humans. CRHR1 was genotyped in 83 controls and a preliminary sample of 16 unmedicated patients with MDD who completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan while viewing blocks of positive, negative, and neutral words. In addition, potential mediating factors such as early life stress, sex, personality traits, and negative memory bias were examined. Robust differences in blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal were found in healthy controls (A allele carriers &gt; GG-homozygotes) in the right middle temporal/angular gyrus while subjects were viewing negative versus neutral words. Among GG-homozygotes, BOLD signal in the subgenual cingulate was greater in MDD participants (n = 9) compared with controls (n = 33). Conversely, among A-carriers, BOLD signal was smaller in MDD (n = 7) compared with controls (n = 50) in the hypothalamus, bilateral amygdala, and left nucleus accumbens. Early life stress, personality traits, and levels of negative memory bias were associated with brain activity depending on genotype. Results from healthy controls and a preliminary sample of MDD participants show that CRHR1 single nucleotide polymorphism rs110402 moderates neural responses to emotional stimuli, suggesting a potential mechanism of vulnerability for the development of MDD.
Recent evidence is reshaping the view of primary auditory cortex (A1) from a unisensory area to one more involved in dynamically integrating multisensory- and task-related information. We found A1 single- (SU) and multiple-unit (MU) activity correlated with macaques' choices in an amplitude modulation (AM) discrimination task. Animals were trained to discriminate AM noise from unmodulated noise by releasing a lever for AM noise and holding down the lever for unmodulated noise. Activity for identical stimuli was compared between trials where the animals reported AM and trials where they did not. We found 47.4% of MUs and 22.8% of SUs significantly increased firing shortly before the animal's behavioral response to report AM when compared to the equivalent time period on trials where AM was not reported. Activity was also linked to lever release in a different task context, suggesting A1 modulation by somatosensory, or efference copy, input. When spikes were counted only during the stimulus, 19.6% of MUs and 13.8% of SUs increased firing rate when animals reported AM compared to when they did not, suggesting an attentional effect, or that A1 activity can be used by higher decision areas, or that such areas provide feedback to A1. Activity associated with AM reporting was correlated with a unit's AM sensitivity, suggesting AM sensitive neurons' involvement in task performance. A1 neurons' phase locking to AM correlated more weakly (compared to firing rate) with the animals' report of AM, suggesting a preferential role for rate-codes in A1 for this AM discrimination task.
In the absence of overt cellular pathology but profound perceptual disorganization and cognitive deficits, schizophrenia is increasingly considered a disorder of neural coordination. Thus, different causal factors can similarly interrupt the dynamic function of neuronal ensembles and networks, in particular in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), leading to behavioral disorganization. The importance of establishing preclinical biomarkers for this aberrant function has prompted investigations into the nature of psychotomimetic drug effects on PFC neuronal activity. The drugs used in this context include serotonergic hallucinogens, amphetamine, and NMDA receptor antagonists. A prominent line of thinking is that these drugs create psychotomimetic states by similarly disinhibiting the activity of PFC pyramidal neurons. In the present study we did not find evidence in support of this mechanism in PFC subregions of freely moving rats. Whereas the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 increased PFC population activity, the serotonergic hallucinogen DOI dose-dependently decreased population activity. Amphetamine did not strongly affect this measure. Despite different effects on the direction of change in activity, all three drugs caused similar net disruptions of population activity and modulated gamma oscillations. We also observed reduced correlations between spike-rate and local field potential power selectively in the gamma band suggesting that these drugs disconnect spike-discharge from PFC gamma oscillators. Gamma band oscillations support cognitive functions affected in schizophrenia. These findings provide insight into mechanisms that may lead to cortical processing deficits in schizophrenia and provide a novel electrophysiological approach for phenotypic characterization of animal models of this disease.
Within the olfactory system, information flow from the periphery onto output mitral cells (MCs) of the olfactory bulb (OB) has been thought to be mediated by direct synaptic inputs from olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Here, we performed patch-clamp measurements in rat and mouse OB slices to investigate mechanisms of OSN signaling onto MCs, including the assumption of a direct path, using electrical and optogenetic stimulation methods that selectively activated OSNs. We found that MCs are in fact not typically activated by direct OSN inputs and instead require a multistep, diffuse mechanism involving another glutamatergic cell type, the tufted cells. The preference for a multistep mechanism reflects the fact that signals arising from direct OSN inputs are drastically shunted by connexin 36-mediated gap junctions on MCs, but not tufted cells. An OB circuit with tufted cells intermediate between OSNs and MCs suggests that considerable processing of olfactory information occurs before its reaching MCs.
The outcomes of many decisions are uncertain and therefore need to be evaluated. We studied this evaluation process by recording neuronal activity in the supplementary eye field (SEF) during an oculomotor gambling task. While the monkeys awaited the outcome, SEF neurons represented attributes of the chosen option, namely, its expected value and the uncertainty of this value signal. After the gamble result was revealed, a number of neurons reflected the actual reward outcome. Other neurons evaluated the outcome by encoding the difference between the reward expectation represented during the delay period and the actual reward amount (i.e., the reward prediction error). Thus, SEF encodes not only reward prediction error but also all the components necessary for its computation: the expected and the actual outcome. This suggests that SEF might actively evaluate value-based decisions in the oculomotor domain, independent of other brain regions.


Neuropeptide Y's (NPY) anticonvulsant effect is generally attributed to its inhibitory effect on glutamate release from presynaptic nerve terminals, which is nicely demonstrated in in vitro settings. To date no study has attempted to investigate the effect of NPY in vivo on extracellular (EC) glutamate levels thus, via intracerebral microdialysis, we determined NPY's effect on hippocampal glutamate concentrations in vivo, and consequently the involvement of Y(1) receptors to this effect. NPY or the Y(1) agonist D-His26-NPY was intrahippocampally administered in rats for 2h, during which the hippocampal glutamate dialysate levels were monitored. Pilocarpine was subsequently co-administered with NPY or D-His26-NPY to determine their effect on pilocarpine-induced limbic seizures. Unexpectedly we noted that intrahippocampal administration of NPY or D-His26-NPY increased glutamate dialysate levels in a reproducible manner. NPY attenuated pilocarpine induced seizures, whereas D-His26-NPY did not. To clarify the role of Y(1) receptors in NPY's glutamatergic effect, NPY was co-administered with the selective Y(1) antagonist BVD10. Hippocampal Y(1) receptor blockade prevented the NPY-induced increase in hippocampal glutamate, proving that this induced glutamate increase is clearly Y(1) receptor mediated. This is the first evidence that NPY enhances hippocampal EC glutamate overflow in vivo via hippocampal Y(1) receptors without interfering with or contributing to NPY's anticonvulsant effect. Whilst this finding contrasts with the supposed glutamatergic hypothesis for NPY in the hippocampus, it is of significance to further assist in deciphering NPY's mechanisms of action in in vivo settings.
2,3-Benzodiazepine (2,3-BDZ) compounds are a group of AMPA receptor inhibitors and are drug candidates for treating neurological diseases involving excessive AMPA receptor activity. We investigated the mechanism by which GluA2Q(flip) receptor channel opening is inhibited by two 2,3-BDZ derivatives, i.e., 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3,5-dihydro-7,8-ethylenedioxy-4H-2,3-benzodiazepin-4-one (2,3-BDZ-11-2) and its 1-(4-amino-3-chlorophenyl) analogue (2,3-BDZ-11-4). Both compounds have a 7,8-ethylenedioxy moiety instead of the 7,8-methylenedioxy feature present in the structure of GYKI 52466, the prototypic 2,3-BDZ compound. Using a laser-pulse photolysis approach with a time resolution of ~60 s and a rapid solution flow technique, we characterized the effect of the two compounds on the channel opening process of the homomeric GluA2Q(flip) receptor. We found that both 2,3-BDZ-11-2 and 2,3-BDZ-11-4 are noncompetitive inhibitors with specificity for the closed-channel conformation of the GluA2Q(flip) receptor. However, 2,3-BDZ-11-4 is ~10-fold stronger, defined by its inhibition constant for the closed-channel conformation (i.e., K(I) = 2 M), than 2,3-BDZ-11-2. From double-inhibitor experiments, we determined that both compounds bind to the same site, but this site is different from two other known, noncompetitive binding sites on the GluA2Q(flip) receptor previously reported. Our results provide both mechanistic clues to improve our understanding of AMPA receptor regulation and a structure-activity relationship for designing more potent 2,3-BDZ compounds with predictable properties for this new noncompetitive site.
The lack of suitable vectors for efficient nucleic acid delivery into target cells represents a major hurdle for the successful application of gene therapy. Cationic liposomes exhibit attractive features for gene delivery, but their efficacy is still unsatisfactory, particularly for in vivo applications, which justifies the drive to further improve their performance by developing novel and efficient formulations. In the present study, we generated a new formulation of lipoplexes through electrostatic association of folate (FA) to 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-ethylphosphocholine (EPOPC):cholesterol (Chol) liposomes, prepared at different lipid/DNA charge ratios, and explored their potential to mediate gene delivery. The optimal FA-lipoplex formulation was evaluated for its efficacy to mediate antitumoral activity upon application of HSV-tk suicide gene therapy, both in vitro and in an animal model of oral cancer. Our results demonstrate that FA-EPOPC:Chol/DNA lipoplexes were able to promote a great enhancement of transfection and high in vitro antitumoral activity compared to plain lipoplexes in two different cancer cell lines. Most importantly, a considerable reduction of tumor growth was achieved with the developed FA-lipoplexes as compared to that observed for control FA-lipoplexes or plain lipoplexes. Overall, our study shows that FA-EPOPC:Chol/DNA lipoplexes constitute a promising system for the successful application of suicide gene therapy aiming at treating solid tumors.

Hemispheric specialization potentially provides evolutionary advantages by enhancing cognitive capacities. However, separation of function might be advantageous only with the presence of commissural systems allowing for efficient information exchange and cooperation between the hemispheres. Here we investigate hemispheric cooperation in pigeons as they possess an asymmetrically organized visual system that develops in response to biased ontogenetic light stimulation. This allows comparison of the integration capacities of lateralized (light-incubated) and non-lateralized (dark-incubated) animals. We show that pigeons integrate information learnt separately with each hemisphere when confronted with a transitive reasoning task that they cannot solve with the knowledge of one hemisphere alone. Impairments in dark-incubated birds demonstrate that this ability depends on asymmetrical embryonic light stimulation. Our study provides for the first time direct evidence that lateralized environmental experience not only induces hemispheric specialization, but also affects the efficiency of interhemispheric crosstalk. Environmental factors can influence the tight interplay between the hemispheres, which in turn determines cognitive abilities.

Angiotensin II (AngII) plays a key role in maintaining body fluid homeostasis. The physiological and behavioral effects of central AngII include increased blood pressure and fluid intake. In vitro experiments demonstrate that repeated exposure to AngII reduces the efficacy of subsequent AngII, and behavioral studies indicate that prior icv AngII administration reduces the dipsogenic response to AngII administered later. Specifically, rats given a treatment regimen of three icv injections of a large dose of AngII, each separated by 20 min, drink less water in response to a test injection of AngII than do vehicle-treated controls given the same test injection. The present studies were designed to test three potential explanations for the reduced dipsogenic potency of AngII after repeated administration. To this end, we tested for motor impairment caused by repeated injections of AngII, for a possible role of visceral distress or illness, and for differences in the pressor response to the final test injection of AngII. We found that repeated injections of AngII neither affected drinking stimulated by carbachol nor did they produce a conditioned flavor avoidance. Furthermore, we found no evidence that differences in the pressor response to the final test injection of AngII accounted for the difference in intake. In light of these findings, we are able to reject these three explanations for the observed behavioral desensitization, and, we suggest instead that the mechanism for this phenomenon may be at the level of the receptor.
It has been well-established that men outperform women on some spatial tasks. The tools commonly used to demonstrate this difference (e.g. The Mental Rotations Task) typically involve problems and solutions that are presented in a context devoid of referents. The study presented here assessed whether the addition of referents (or &quot;landmarks&quot;) would attenuate the well-established sex difference on the judgment of line orientation task (JLOT). Three versions of the JLOT were presented in a within design. The first iteration contained the original JLOT (JLOT 1). JLOT 2 contained three &quot;landmarks&quot; or referents and JLOT 3 contained only one landmark. The sex difference on JLOT 1 was completely negated by the addition of three landmarks on JLOT 2 or the addition of one landmark on JLOT3. In addition, salivary testosterone was measured. In men, gains in performance on the JLOT due to the addition of landmarks were positively correlated with testosterone levels. This suggests that men with the highest testosterone levels benefited the most from the addition of landmarks. These data help to highlight different strategies used by men and women to solve spatial tasks.
Vaginal marking is a stereotyped scent marking behavior in female Syrian hamsters used to attract male hamsters for mating. Although the modulation of vaginal marking by hormones and odors is well understood, the motor control of this proceptive reproductive behavior remains unknown. Therefore, we used X-ray videography to visualize individual bone movements during vaginal marking. Kinematic analyses revealed several consistent motor patterns of vaginal marking. Despite exhibiting a diversity of trial-to-trial non-marking behaviors (e.g. locomotor stepping), we found that lowering and raising the pelvis consistently corresponded with coordinated flexion and extension cycles of the hip, knee, and tail, suggesting that these movements are fundamental to vaginal marking behavior. Surprisingly, we observed only small changes in the angles of the pelvic and sacral regions, suggesting previous reports of pelvic rotation during vaginal marking may need to be reconsidered. From these kinematic data, we inferred that vaginal marking is primarily due to the actions of hip and knee extensor muscles of the trailing leg working against gravity to support the weight of the animal as it controls the descent of the pelvis to the ground. The cutaneous trunci muscle likely mediates the characteristic flexion of the tail. Interestingly, this tail movement occurred on the same time scale as the joint kinematics suggesting possible synergistic recruitment of these muscle groups. These data therefore provide new targets for future studies examining the peripheral control of female reproductive behaviors.
Laboratory rats, throughout the 24 hour day, alternate between behaviorally active and non active episodes that Kleitman called the basic rest-activity cycle (BRAC). We previously demonstrated that brown adipose tissue (BAT), body and brain temperatures and arterial pressure and heart rate increase in an integrated manner during behaviorally active phases. Studies show that eating is preceded by increases in body and brain temperature, but whether eating is integrated into the BRAC has not been investigated. In the present study of chronically instrumented, unrestrained Sprague-Dawley rats, peaks in BAT temperature occurred every 96  7 and 162  16 min (mean  SE, n=14 rats) in dark and light periods respectively, with no apparent underlying regularity. With food available ad libitum, eating was integrated into the BRAC in a temporally precise manner. Eating occurred only after an increase in BAT temperature, commencing 15  1 min (mean  SE) after the onset of an increase, with no difference between dark and light phases. There were either no or weak preprandial and postprandial relations between intermeal interval and amount eaten during a given meal. Remarkably, with no food available the rat still disturbed the empty food container 16  1 min (p&gt;0.05 versus ad libitum food) after the onset of increases in BAT temperature, and not at other times. Rather than being triggered by changes in levels of body fuels or other meal-associated factors, in sedentary laboratory rats with ad libitum access to food eating commences as part of the ultradian BRAC, a manifestation of intrinsic brain activity.
Activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis is often abnormal in depression and could hold clues for better treatment of this debilitating disease. However, it has been difficult to use HPA activity as a depression biomarker because both HPA hyperactivity and HPA hypoactivity have been reported in depression. Melancholic depression has typically been associated with HPA hyperactivity, while atypical depression has been linked with HPA hypoactivity. Many animal models of chronic stress recapitulate behavioral aberrations and elevated HPA activity that could represent a model for melancholic depression. However, there are no animal models that could be used to elucidate the etiology or treatment of atypical depression. We have used repeated social defeat in mice to test the hypothesis that this chronic stress would induce dysphoria-like behavior associated with HPA hypoactivity in a subset of subjects. Intruder mice were placed in the home cage of an aggressive resident mouse for 5 min/d for 30 days. The majority of intruder mice had elevated basal plasma corticosterone (High Morning Corticosterone, or HMC) and adrenal 11 hydroxylase mRNA levels relative to control mice that were handled daily. However, a subset of intruder mice (Low Morning Corticosterone; LMC) exhibited basal plasma corticosterone and 11 hydroxylase mRNA levels that were indistinguishable from control levels. Significant changes in emotional behavior only occurred in LMC mice, which exhibited anxiety-like increases in activity and defecation during tail suspension and anhedonia-like decreases in sucrose preference. Relative to HMC mice, LMC mice also showed increases in gene expression of mineralocorticoid receptor in CA2 hippocampus, consistent with the possibility that HPA activity in this group is constrained by increased sensitivity to glucocorticoid negative feedback. LMC mice also exhibited increased c-fos gene expression compared to HMC mice in the paraventricular hypothalamus and lateral septum suggesting that central pathways fail to habituate to chronic stress even though adrenocortical activity is not stimulated. We conclude that LMC mice showed adrenocortical hyporesponsiveness, which in combination with the behavioral abnormalities in this group may represent a model for the HPA hypoactivity associated with atypical depression.
Combinatorial transcription codes generate the myriad of cell types during development and thus likely provide crucial insights into directed differentiation of stem cells to a specific cell type. The LIM complex composed of Isl1 and Lhx3 directs the specification of spinal motor neurons (MNs) in embryos. Here, we report that Isl1-Lhx3, a LIM-complex mimicking fusion, induces a signature of MN transcriptome and concomitantly suppresses interneuron differentiation programs, thereby serving as a potent and specific inducer of MNs in stem cells. We show that an equimolar ratio of Isl1 and Lhx3 and the LIM domain of Lhx3 are crucial for generating MNs without up-regulating interneuron genes. These led us to design Isl1-Lhx3, which maintains the desirable 1:1 ratio of Isl1 and Lhx3 and the LIM domain of Lhx3. Isl1-Lhx3 drives MN differentiation with high specificity and efficiency in the spinal cord and embryonic stem cells, bypassing the need for sonic hedgehog (Shh). RNA-seq analysis revealed that Isl1-Lhx3 induces the expression of a battery of MN genes that control various functional aspects of MNs, while suppressing key interneuron genes. Our studies uncover a highly efficient method for directed MN generation and MN gene networks. Our results also demonstrate a general strategy of using embryonic transcription complexes for producing specific cell types from stem cells.
Trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) plays a key role in synaptic transmission. However, a general framework integrating the two major mechanisms regulating AMPAR delivery at postsynapses (i.e., surface diffusion and internal recycling) is lacking. To this aim, we built a model based on numerical trajectories of individual AMPARs, including free diffusion in the extrasynaptic space, confinement in the synapse, and trapping at the postsynaptic density (PSD) through reversible interactions with scaffold proteins. The AMPAR/scaffold kinetic rates were adjusted by comparing computer simulations to single-particle tracking and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments in primary neurons, in different conditions of synapse density and maturation. The model predicts that the steady-state AMPAR number at synapses is bidirectionally controlled by AMPAR/scaffold binding affinity and PSD size. To reveal the impact of recycling processes in basal conditions and upon synaptic potentiation or depression, spatially and temporally defined exocytic and endocytic events were introduced. The model predicts that local recycling of AMPARs close to the PSD, coupled to short-range surface diffusion, provides rapid control of AMPAR number at synapses. In contrast, because of long-range diffusion limitations, extrasynaptic recycling is intrinsically slower and less synapse-specific. Thus, by discriminating the relative contributions of AMPAR diffusion, trapping, and recycling events on spatial and temporal bases, this model provides unique insights on the dynamic regulation of synaptic strength.
There is extensive evidence that glucocorticoid hormones impair the retrieval of memory of emotionally arousing experiences. Although it is known that glucocorticoid effects on memory retrieval impairment depend on rapid interactions with arousal-induced noradrenergic activity, the exact mechanism underlying this presumably nongenomically mediated glucocorticoid action remains to be elucidated. Here, we show that the hippocampal endocannabinoid system, a rapidly activated retrograde messenger system, is involved in mediating glucocorticoid effects on retrieval of contextual fear memory. Systemic administration of corticosterone (0.3-3 mg/kg) to male Sprague-Dawley rats 1 h before retention testing impaired the retrieval of contextual fear memory without impairing the retrieval of auditory fear memory or directly affecting the expression of freezing behavior. Importantly, a blockade of hippocampal CB1 receptors with AM251 prevented the impairing effect of corticosterone on retrieval of contextual fear memory, whereas the same impairing dose of corticosterone increased hippocampal levels of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol. We also found that antagonism of hippocampal -adrenoceptor activity with local infusions of propranolol blocked the memory retrieval impairment induced by the CB receptor agonist WIN55,212-2. Thus, these findings strongly suggest that the endocannabinoid system plays an intermediary role in regulating rapid glucocorticoid effects on noradrenergic activity in impairing memory retrieval of emotionally arousing experiences.
The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is widely expressed throughout the central nervous system (CNS) and the functionality of type-1 cannabinoid receptors in neurons is well documented. In contrast, there is little knowledge about type-2 cannabinoid receptors (CB(2)Rs) in the CNS. Here, we show that CB(2)Rs are located intracellularly in layer II/III pyramidal cells of the rodent medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and that their activation results in IP(3)R-dependent opening of Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channels. To investigate the functional role of CB(2)R activation, we induced neuronal firing and observed a CB(2)R-mediated reduction in firing frequency. The description of this unique CB(2)R-mediated signaling pathway, controlling neuronal excitability, broadens our knowledge of the influence of the eCB system on brain function.

Trafficking and turnover of transmitter receptors required to maintain and modify the strength of chemical synapses have been characterized extensively. In contrast, little is known regarding trafficking of gap junction components at electrical synapses. By combining ultrastructural and in vivo physiological analysis at identified mixed (electrical and chemical) synapses on the goldfish Mauthner cell, we show here that gap junction hemichannels are added at the edges of GJ plaques where they dock with hemichannels in the apposed membrane to form cell-cell channels and, simultaneously, that intact junctional regions are removed from centers of these plaques into either presynaptic axon or postsynaptic dendrite. Moreover, electrical coupling is readily modified by intradendritic application of peptides that interfere with endocytosis or exocytosis, suggesting that the strength of electrical synapses at these terminals is sustained, at least in part, by fast (in minutes) turnover of gap junction channels. A peptide corresponding to a region of the carboxy terminus that is conserved in Cx36 and its two teleost homologs appears to interfere with formation of new gap junction channels, presumably by reducing insertion of hemichannels on the dendritic side. Thus, our data indicate that electrical synapses are dynamic structures and that their channels are turned over actively, suggesting that regulated trafficking of connexons may contribute to the modification of gap junctional conductance.
We used in vivo amperometry to monitor changes in synaptic dopamine (DA) release in the striatum induced by overexpression of human wild-type -synuclein in nigral DA neurons, induced by injection of an adeno-associated virus type 6 (AAV6)--synuclein vector unilaterally into the substantia nigra in adult rats. Impairments in DA release evolved in parallel with the development of degenerative changes in the nigrostriatal axons and terminals. The earliest change, seen 10 d after vector injection, was a marked, 50%, reduction in DA reuptake, consistent with an early dysfunction of the DA transporter that developed before any overt signs of axonal damage. At 3 wk, when the first signs of axonal damage were observed, the amount of DA released after a KCl pulse was reduced by 70-80%, and peak DA concentration was delayed, indicating an impaired release mechanism. At later time points, 8-16 wk, overall striatal innervation density was reduced by 60-80% and accompanied by abundant signs of axonal damage in the form of -synuclein aggregates, axonal swellings, and dystrophic axonal profiles. At this stage DA release and reuptake were profoundly reduced, by 80-90%. The early changes in synaptic DA release induced by overexpression of human -synuclein support the idea that early predegenerative changes in the handling of DA may initiate, and drive, a progressive degenerative process that hits the axons and terminals first. Synaptic dysfunction and axonopathy would thus be the hallmark of presymptomatic and early-stage Parkinson disease, followed by neuronal degeneration and cell loss, characteristic of more advanced stages of the disease.
A 30-d course of oral administration of a semipurified extract of the root of Withania somnifera consisting predominantly of withanolides and withanosides reversed behavioral deficits, plaque pathology, accumulation of -amyloid peptides (A) and oligomers in the brains of middle-aged and old APP/PS1 Alzheimer's disease transgenic mice. It was similarly effective in reversing behavioral deficits and plaque load in APPSwInd mice (line J20). The temporal sequence involved an increase in plasma A and a decrease in brain A monomer after 7 d, indicating increased transport of A from the brain to the periphery. Enhanced expression of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) in brain microvessels and the A-degrading protease neprilysin (NEP) occurred 14-21 d after a substantial decrease in brain A levels. However, significant increase in liver LRP and NEP occurred much earlier, at 7 d, and were accompanied by a rise in plasma sLRP, a peripheral sink for brain A. In WT mice, the extract induced liver, but not brain, LRP and NEP and decreased plasma and brain A, indicating that increase in liver LRP and sLRP occurring independent of A concentration could result in clearance of A. Selective down-regulation of liver LRP, but not NEP, abrogated the therapeutic effects of the extract. The remarkable therapeutic effect of W. somnifera mediated through up-regulation of liver LRP indicates that targeting the periphery offers a unique mechanism for A clearance and reverses the behavioral deficits and pathology seen in Alzheimer's disease models.
Psychiatric co-morbidities in epilepsy are common in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Pathological alterations in TLE are well characterised; however, neuropathologic data are relatively scale regarding the association between psychiatric diseases and epilepsy. Our objective was to evaluate the clinical data of 46 adult TLE patients with and without psychiatric co-morbidities and to correlate the data with hippocampal neuronal density and mossy fiber sprouting. Accordingly, patients were grouped as follows: TLE patients without history of psychiatric disorder (TLE, n=16), TLE patients with interictal psychosis (TLE+P, n=14), and TLE patients with major depression (TLE+D, n=16). Hippocampi from autopsies served as non-epileptic controls (n=10). TLE+P exhibited significantly diminished mossy fiber sprouting and decreased neuronal density in the entorhinal cortex when compared with TLE. TLE+P showed significantly poorer results in verbal memory tasks. TLE+D exhibited significantly increased mossy fiber sprouting length when compared with TLE and TLE+P. Further, a higher proportion of TLE+D and TLE+P presented secondarily generalised seizures than did TLE. Our results indicate that TLE patients with psychiatric disorders have distinct features when compared with TLE patients without psychiatric co-morbidities and that these changes may be involved in either the manifestation or the maintenance of psychiatric co-morbidities in epilepsy.
A developmental increase in working memory capacity is an important part of cognitive development, and low working memory (WM) capacity is a risk factor for developing psychopathology. Brain activity represents a promising endophenotype for linking genes to behavior and for improving our understanding of the neurobiology of WM development. We investigated gene-brain-behavior relationships by focusing on 18 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in six dopaminergic candidate genes (COMT, SLC6A3/DAT1, DBH, DRD4, DRD5, MAOA). Visuospatial WM (VSWM) brain activity, measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging, and VSWM capacity were assessed in a longitudinal study of typically developing children and adolescents. Behavioral problems were evaluated using the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). One SNP (rs6609257), located ~6.6 kb downstream of the monoamine oxidase A gene (MAOA) on human chromosome X, significantly affected brain activity in a network of frontal, parietal and occipital regions. Increased activity in this network, but not in caudate nucleus or anterior prefrontal regions, was correlated with VSWM capacity, which in turn predicted externalizing (aggressive/oppositional) symptoms, with higher WM capacity associated with fewer externalizing symptoms. There were no direct significant correlations between rs6609257 and behavioral symptoms. These results suggest a mediating role of WM brain activity and capacity in linking the MAOA gene to aggressive behavior during development.

Spasticity is a frequently used diagnosis, and anti-spastic medication is used widespread. In this systematic review article we highlight difficulties in diagnosing spasticity correctly and thus limit the value of the diagnosis in ensuring the best possible treatment. We review recent neuroscience research and conclude that it is necessary to develop better tools for clinical diagnosis of spasticity in order to avoid potential malpractice and to limit treatment with anti-spastic drugs for patients with documented increased reflex-mediated muscle tone as their main annoyance.
Transient global ischemia in rats induces delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons. Early events include caspase activation, cleavage of anti-death Bcl-2 family proteins and large mitochondrial channel activity. However, whether these events have a causal role in ischemia-induced neuronal death is unclear. We found that the Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) inhibitor ABT-737, which enhances death of tumor cells, protected rats against neuronal death in a clinically relevant model of brain ischemia. Bcl-x(L) is prominently expressed in adult neurons and can be cleaved by caspases to generate a pro-death fragment, N-Bcl-x(L). We found that ABT-737 administered before or after ischemia inhibited N-Bcl-x(L)-induced mitochondrial channel activity and neuronal death. To establish a causal role for N-Bcl-x(L), we generated knock-in mice expressing a caspase-resistant form of Bcl-x(L). The knock-in mice exhibited markedly reduced mitochondrial channel activity and reduced vulnerability to ischemia-induced neuronal death. These findings suggest that truncated Bcl-x(L) could be a potentially important therapeutic target in ischemic brain injury.
Transcription regulatory networks governing the genesis, maturation and maintenance of vertebrate brain serotonin (5-HT) neurons determine the level of serotonergic gene expression and signaling throughout an animal's lifespan. Recent studies suggest that alterations in these networks can cause behavioral and physiological pathogenesis in mice. Here, we synthesize findings from vertebrate loss-of-function and gain-of-function studies to build a new model of the transcriptional regulatory networks that specify 5-HT neurons during fetal life, integrate them into CNS circuitry in early postnatal life and maintain them in adulthood. We then describe findings from animal and human genetic studies that support possible alterations in the activity of serotonergic regulatory networks in the etiology of mental illness. We conclude with a discussion of the potential utility of our model, as an experimentally well-defined molecular pathway, to predict and interpret the biological effect of genetic variation that may be discovered in the orthologous human network.
Environmental pollutants, such as dioxins and furans, are extremely toxic and related with pulmonary disease development. Exposure of A549 human lung cells to dibenzofuran showed both time- and concentration-dependent decreases in cell proliferation and MTT reduction, but no alterations in cell viability. No differences were observed in the number of apoptotic nuclei, which can be due to the energetic failure caused by dibenzofuran-induced ATP depletion. Moreover, cells in culture exposed to the pollutant showed an increase in the conversion of LC3, a protein involved in the autophagic process. Incubation of A549 lung cells with dibenzofuran caused an increase in Lysotracker Red staining, indicating an increase in lysosomal vacuoles content. These results suggest that exposure to dibenzofuran affects lung mitochondrial phosphorylative function, causing an increase in the population of dysfunctional mitochondria and an impairment in the energetic status maintenance, therefore stimulating autophagy as a possible rescue mechanism in this cell line.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by the amplification of a polyglutamine stretch at the N terminus of the huntingtin protein. N-terminal fragments of the mutant huntingtin (mHtt) aggregate and form intracellular inclusions in brain and peripheral tissues. Aggregates are an important hallmark of the disease, translating into a high need to quantify them invitro and invivo. We developed a one-step TR-FRET-based immunoassay to quantify soluble and aggregated mHtt incell and tissue homogenates. Strikingly, quantification revealed a decrease of soluble mHtt correlating with an increase of aggregated protein in primary neuronal cell cultures, transgenic R6/2, and HdhQ150 knock-in HD mice. These results emphasize the assay's efficiency for highly sensitive and quantitative detection of soluble and aggregated mHtt and its application in high-throughput screening and characterization of HD models.

Abnormal phosphorylation and aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein Tau are hallmarks of various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer disease. Molecular mechanisms that regulate Tau phosphorylation are complex and currently incompletely understood. We have developed a novel live cell reporter system based on protein-fragment complementation assay to study dynamic changes in Tau phosphorylation status. In this assay, fusion proteins of Tau and Pin1 (peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans-isomerase 1) carrying complementary fragments of a luciferase protein serve as a sensor of altered protein-protein interaction between Tau and Pin1, a critical regulator of Tau dephosphorylation at several disease-associated proline-directed phosphorylation sites. Using this system, we identified several structurally distinct GABA(A) receptor modulators as novel regulators of Tau phosphorylation in a chemical library screen. GABA(A) receptor activation promoted specific phosphorylation of Tau at the AT8 epitope (Ser-199/Ser-202/Thr-205) in cultures of mature cortical neurons. Increased Tau phosphorylation by GABA(A) receptor activity was associated with reduced Tau binding to protein phosphatase 2A and was dependent on Cdk5 but not GSK3 kinase activity.
Altered regulation of the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor gene is implicated in major depression and mood disorders. The functional human 5-HT1A C(-1019)G promoter polymorphism (rs6295), which prevents the binding of Deaf-1/NUDR leading to dysregulation of the receptor, has been associated with major depression. In cell models Deaf-1 displays dual activity, repressing 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression in serotonergic raphe cells while enhancing postsynaptic 5-HT1A heteroreceptor expression in nonserotonergic neurons. A functional Deaf-1 binding site on the mouse 5-HT1A promoter was recognized by Deaf-1 in vitro and in vivo and mediated dual activity of Deaf-1 on 5-HT1A gene transcription. To address regulation by Deaf-1 in vivo, Deaf-1 knock-out mice bred to a C57BL/6 background were compared with wild-type siblings for changes in 5-HT1A RNA and protein by quantitative RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunofluorescence. In the dorsal raphe, Deaf-1 knock-out mice displayed increased 5-HT1A mRNA, protein, and 5-HT1A-positive cell counts but reduced 5-HT levels, whereas other serotonergic markers, such as tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH)- or 5-HT-positive cells and TPH2 RNA levels, were unchanged. By contrast, 5-HT1A mRNA and 5-HT1A-positive cells were reduced in the frontal cortex of Deaf-1-null mice, with no significant change in hippocampal 5-HT1A RNA, protein, or cell counts. The region-specific alterations of brain 5-HT1A gene expression and reduced raphe 5-HT content in Deaf-1(-/-) mice indicate the importance of Deaf-1 in regulation of 5-HT1A gene expression and provide insight into the role of the 5-HT1A G(-1019) allele in reducing serotonergic neurotransmission by derepression of 5-HT1A autoreceptors.
Glutamate receptors of the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) type mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. Synaptic strength is modulated by AMPA receptor binding partners, which regulate receptor synaptic targeting and functional properties. We identify Contactin-associated protein 1 (Caspr1) as an AMPA receptor interactor. Caspr1 is present in synapses and interacts with AMPA receptors in brain synaptic fractions. Coexpression of Caspr1 with GluA1 increases the amplitude of glutamate-evoked currents. Caspr1 overexpression in hippocampal neurons increases the number and size of synaptic GluA1 clusters, whereas knockdown of Caspr1 decreases the intensity of synaptic GluA1 clusters. Hence, Caspr1 is a regulator of the trafficking of AMPA receptors to synapses.
Using yeast-two hybrid screening followed by co-immunoprecipitation assay, we have found that the Lafora disease ubiquitin ligase malin interacts with dishevelled2, a key mediator of Wnt signaling pathway. Overexpression of malin enhances the degradation of dishevelled2 and inhibits Wnt signaling, which is evident from the down-regulation of -catenin target genes and the decrease in -catenin-mediated transcriptional activity. Partial knockdown of malin significantly increases the level of dishevelled2 and up-regulates Wnt signaling. Several malin mutants are found to be ineffective in degrading dishevelled2 and regulating the Wnt pathway. We have also found that malin enhances K48- and K63-linked ubiquitination of dishevelled2 that could lead to its degradation through both proteasome and autophagy. Altogether, our results indicate that malin regulates Wnt signaling pathway through the degradation of dishevelled2 and suggest possible deregulation of Wnt signaling in Lafora disease.
Rapid opening and closing of pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) regulate information flow throughout the brain. For pLGICs, it is postulated that neurotransmitter-induced movements in the extracellular inner -sheet trigger channel activation. Homology modeling reveals that the 4-5 linker physically connects the neurotransmitter binding site to the inner -sheet. Inserting 1, 2, 4, and 8 glycines in this region of the GABA(A) receptor -subunit progressively decreases GABA activation and converts the competitive antagonist SR-95531 into a partial agonist, demonstrating that this linker is a key element whose length and flexibility are optimized for efficient signal propagation. Insertions in the - and -subunits have little effect on GABA or SR-95531 actions, suggesting that asymmetric motions in the extracellular domain power pLGIC gating. The effects of insertions on allosteric modulator actions, pentobarbital, and benzodiazepines, have different subunit dependences, indicating that modulator-induced signaling is distinct from agonist gating.
The Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mouse has a disruption in the gene encoding cytosolic carboxypeptidase 1 (CCP1). This study tested two proposed functions of CCP1: degradation of intracellular peptides and processing of tubulin. Overexpression (2-3-fold) or knockdown (80-90%) of CCP1 in human embryonic kidney 293T cells (HEK293T) did not affect the levels of most intracellular peptides but altered the levels of -tubulin lacking two C-terminal amino acids (delta2-tubulin)  5-fold, suggesting that tubulin processing is the primary function of CCP1, not peptide degradation. Purified CCP1 produced delta2-tubulin from purified porcine brain -tubulin or polymerized HEK293T microtubules. In addition, CCP1 removed Glu residues from the polyglutamyl side chains of porcine brain - and -tubulin and also generated a form of -tubulin with two C-terminal Glu residues removed (delta3-tubulin). Consistent with this, pcd mouse brain showed hyperglutamylation of both - and -tubulin. The hyperglutamylation of - and -tubulin and subsequent death of Purkinje cells in pcd mice was counteracted by the knock-out of the gene encoding tubulin tyrosine ligase-like-1, indicating that this enzyme hyperglutamylates - and -tubulin. Taken together, these results demonstrate a role for CCP1 in the processing of Glu residues from - as well as -tubulin in vitro and in vivo.

The primary cilium, a signal transduction organelle, is present on the cell bodies of adult-born dentate gyrus granule cells as they begin maturation. In its absence, their maturation and integration are impaired.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are highly poisonous substances that are also effective medicines. Accidental BoNT poisoning often occurs through ingestion of Clostridium botulinum-contaminated food. Here, we present the crystal structure of a BoNT in complex with a clostridial nontoxic nonhemagglutinin (NTNHA) protein at 2.7 angstroms. Biochemical and functional studies show that NTNHA provides large and multivalent binding interfaces to protect BoNT from gastrointestinal degradation. Moreover, the structure highlights key residues in BoNT that regulate complex assembly in a pH-dependent manner. Collectively, our findings define the molecular mechanisms by which NTNHA shields BoNT in the hostile gastrointestinal environment and releases it upon entry into the circulation. These results will assist in the design of small molecules for inhibiting oral BoNT intoxication and of delivery vehicles for oral administration of biologics.
Neighboring genes are often coordinately expressed within cis-regulatory modules, but evidence that nonparalogous genes share functions in mammals is lacking. Here, we report that mutation of either TMEM138 or TMEM216 causes a phenotypically indistinguishable human ciliopathy, Joubert syndrome. Despite a lack of sequence homology, the genes are aligned in a head-to-tail configuration and joined by chromosomal rearrangement at the amphibian-to-reptile evolutionary transition. Expression of the two genes is mediated by a conserved regulatory element in the noncoding intergenic region. Coordinated expression is important for their interdependent cellular role in vesicular transport to primary cilia. Hence, during vertebrate evolution of genes involved in ciliogenesis, nonparalogous genes were arranged to a functional gene cluster with shared regulatory elements.
Exposure to social stressors can cause profound changes in an individual's physiology and behavior. In Syrian hamsters, even a single social defeat results in conditioned defeat, which includes an abolishment of territorial aggression and the emergence of high levels of submissive behavior. The purpose of the current study was to determine whether the lateral septum (LS) is a component of the putative neural circuit underlying conditioned defeat. Experiment 1 explored the possibility that plasticity in the LS is necessary for the induction of conditioned defeat. Infusions of the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin, prior to defeat training, however, failed to alter conditioned defeat during testing on the following day, suggesting that synaptic plasticity in the LS is not critical for defeat-induced suppression of aggression. Experiment 2 tested whether the LS is necessary for the expression of conditioned defeat. Infusions of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the LS prior to testing significantly increased aggression and decreased submission in previously defeated animals suggesting that the LS is an important component of the neural circuit mediating the expression of both aggression and submission in conditioned defeat. Experiment 3 examined whether the effects of muscimol on aggression were dependent on prior social defeat. Non-defeated animals receiving muscimol infusions prior to testing with a non-aggressive intruder displayed significantly more aggression than did hamsters receiving control injections. Thus, these data suggest that the activation of GABA(A) receptors in the LS increases aggression regardless of whether or not a hamster has previously experienced social defeat.
Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is the most common inherited form of intellectual disability, with behaviors characteristic of autism. Symptoms include abnormal social behavior, repetitive behavior, communication disorders, and seizures. Many symptoms of FXS have been replicated in the Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice. Whether Fmr1 KO mice exhibit vocal communication deficits is not known. By recording ultrasonic vocalizations (USV) produced by adult male mice during mating, we show that USV calling rate (number of calls/second) is reduced in Fmr1 KO mice compared to WT controls. The WT control and Fmr1 KO groups did not differ in other aspects of mating behavior such as time spent sniffing, mounting, rooting and without contact. Acoustic properties of calls such as mean frequency (in kHz), duration and dynamic range of frequencies were not different. This indicates a specific deficit in USV calling rate in Fmr1 KO mice. Previous studies have shown that treatment of Fmr1 KO mice with minocycline for 4weeks from birth can alleviate some behavioral symptoms. Here we tested if minocycline also reversed vocalization deficits in these mice. Calling rate increased and was similar to WT controls in adult Fmr1 KO mice treated with minocycline for four weeks from birth (P0-P28). All acoustic properties measured were similar in treated and untreated WT control mice indicating minocycline effects were specific to vocalizations in the Fmr1 KO mice. These data suggest that mating-related USVs are robust and relevant biomarkers of FXS, and that minocycline treatment is a promising avenue for treatment of FXS symptoms.
Relaxin-3 is a neuropeptide that is implicated in the regulation of stress responses and memory. The elucidation of its precise physiological role(s) has, however, been hampered by cross-activation of the relaxin-2 receptor, RXFP1, in the brain. The current study undertook to develop analogues of human relaxin-3 (H3 relaxin) that can selectively bind and activate its receptor, RXFP3. We developed a high-affinity selective agonist (analogue 2) by removal of the intra-A chain disulfide bond and deletion of 10 residues from the N terminus of the A chain. Further truncation of this analogue from the C terminus of the B chain to Cys(B22) and addition of an Arg(B23) led to a high-affinity, RXFP3-selective, competitive antagonist (analogue 3). Central administration of analogue 2 in rats increased food intake, which was blocked by prior coadministration of analogue 3. These novel RXFP3-selective peptides represent valuable pharmacological tools to study the physiological roles of H3 relaxin/RXFP3 systems in the brain and important leads for the development of novel compounds for the treatment of affective and cognitive disorders.
Multimodal objects and events activate many sensory cortical areas simultaneously. This is possibly reflected in reciprocal modulations of neuronal activity, even at the level of primary cortical areas. However, the synaptic character of these interareal interactions, and their impact on synaptic and behavioral sensory responses are unclear. Here, we found that activation of auditory cortex by a noise burst drove local GABAergic inhibition on supragranular pyramids of the mouse primary visual cortex, via cortico-cortical connections. This inhibition was generated by sound-driven excitation of a limited number of cells in infragranular visual cortical neurons. Consequently, visually driven synaptic and spike responses were reduced upon bimodal stimulation. Also, acoustic stimulation suppressed conditioned behavioral responses to a dim flash, an effect that was prevented by acute blockade of GABAergic transmission in visual cortex. Thus, auditory cortex activation by salient stimuli degrades potentially distracting sensory processing in visual cortex by recruiting local, translaminar, inhibitory circuits.
Posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) are important elements of the neural circuit for space, but whether representations in these areas are controlled by the same factors is unknown. We recorded single units simultaneously in PPC and MEC of freely foraging rats and found that a subset of PPC cells are tuned to specific modes of movement irrespective of the animals' location or heading, whereas grid cells in MEC expressed static spatial maps. The behavioral correlates of PPC cells switched completely when the same animals ran in a spatially structured maze or when they ran similar stereotypic sequences in an open arena. Representations in PPC were similar in identical mazes in different rooms where grid cells completely realigned their firing fields. The data suggest that representations in PPC are determined by the organization of actions while cells in MEC are driven by spatial inputs.
Myelination by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) is essential for proper brain function, yet the molecular determinants that control this process remain poorly understood. The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors Olig1 and Olig2 promote myelination, whereas bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and Wnt/-catenin signaling inhibit myelination. Here we show that these opposing regulators of myelination are functionally linked by the Olig1/2 common target Smad-interacting protein-1 (Sip1). We demonstrate that Sip1 is an essential modulator of CNS myelination. Sip1 represses differentiation inhibitory signals by antagonizing BMP receptor-activated Smad activity while activating crucial oligodendrocyte-promoting factors. Importantly, a key Sip1-activated target, Smad7, is required for oligodendrocyte differentiation and partially rescues differentiation defects caused by Sip1 loss. Smad7 promotes myelination by blocking the BMP- and -catenin-negative regulatory pathways. Thus, our findings reveal that Sip1-mediated antagonism of inhibitory signaling is critical for promoting CNS myelination and point to new mediators for myelin repair.
Music can be seen as a model system for understanding gene  environment interactions and how these can influence neurocognitive development. The concept of musicality, however, is underspecified and not well understood. Here, I propose a framework for defining musicality to provide a foundation for studying the contributions of biological and environmental factors.
Localized mRNA translation plays roles in dendrites and axons, but the regulatory mechanisms and downstream pathways are not well understood. An article in Cell by Yoon et al. (2012) shows that lamin B2, well known as a nuclear protein, undergoes regulated synthesis in axons, promoting mitochondrial function and axon survival.
In this issue of Neuron, Napoli et al. (2012) demonstrate that elevated ERK/MAPK signaling in Schwann cells is a crucial trigger for Schwann cell dedifferentiation in vivo. Moreover, the authors show that dedifferentiated Schwann cells have the potential to coordinate much of the peripheral nerve response to injury.
The mechanisms involved in the development of chronic pain are varied and complex. Pain processes are plastic and unrelieved pain may lead to changes in the neural structure involved in pain generation. Nociceptive pain announces the presence of a potentially damaging stimulus that occurs when noxious stimuli activate primary afferent neurons. Neuropathic pain is initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction in the nervous system resulting from trauma, infection, ischaemia, cancer or other causes such as chemotherapy. The exact mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of chronic pain are not well understood, but rapid and long-term changes are thought to occur in parts of the central nervous system that are involved in the transmission and modulation of pain following injury. Peripheral and central sensitization of sensory nerve fibres are the primary reasons for hypersensitivity to pain after injury, and mainly occur in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. During these processes the sensation of pain is enhanced as a result of changes in the environment, the nerve fibres and modifications of the functional properties and the genetic programme of primary and secondary afferent neurons. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opioid analgesics are two of the most common classes of drugs used for the treatment of pain. Response to drug treatment shows significant interindividual variability and can lead to side effects. The neurobiological mechanisms that cause pain may account for the different types of pain observed. Identification of these mechanisms may allow us to move from an empirical therapeutic approach to one that it is specifically targeted at the particular mechanisms of the type of pain experienced by an individual patient.

The image on the retina may move because the eyes move, or because something in the visual scene moves. The brain is not fooled by this ambiguity. Even as we make saccades, we are able to detect whether visual objects remain stable or move. Here we test whether this ability to assess visual stability across saccades is present at the single-neuron level in the frontal eye field (FEF), an area that receives both visual input and information about imminent saccades. Our hypothesis was that neurons in the FEF report whether a visual stimulus remains stable or moves as a saccade is made. Monkeys made saccades in the presence of a visual stimulus outside of the receptive field. In some trials, the stimulus remained stable, but in other trials, it moved during the saccade. In every trial, the stimulus occupied the center of the receptive field after the saccade, thus evoking a reafferent visual response. We found that many FEF neurons signaled, in the strength and timing of their reafferent response, whether the stimulus had remained stable or moved. Reafferent responses were tuned for the amount of stimulus translation, and, in accordance with human psychophysics, tuning was better (more prevalent, stronger, and quicker) for stimuli that moved perpendicular, rather than parallel, to the saccade. Tuning was sometimes present as well for nonspatial transaccadic changes (in color, size, or both). Our results indicate that FEF neurons evaluate visual stability during saccades and may be general purpose detectors of transaccadic visual change.
We used a network approach to study the effects of anti-parkinsonian treatment on motor sequence learning in humans. Eight Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation underwent H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography (PET) imaging to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) while they performed kinematically matched sequence learning and movement tasks at baseline and during stimulation. Network analysis revealed a significant learning-related spatial covariance pattern characterized by consistent increases in subject expression during stimulation (p = 0.008, permutation test). The network was associated with increased activity in the lateral cerebellum, dorsal premotor cortex, and parahippocampal gyrus, with covarying reductions in the supplementary motor area (SMA) and orbitofrontal cortex. Stimulation-mediated increases in network activity correlated with concurrent improvement in learning performance (p &lt; 0.02). To determine whether similar changes occurred during dopaminergic pharmacotherapy, we studied the subjects during an intravenous levodopa infusion titrated to achieve a motor response equivalent to stimulation. Despite consistent improvement in motor ratings during infusion, levodopa did not alter learning performance or network activity. Analysis of learning-related rCBF in network regions revealed improvement in baseline abnormalities with STN stimulation but not levodopa. These effects were most pronounced in the SMA. In this region, a consistent rCBF response to stimulation was observed across subjects and trials (p = 0.01), although the levodopa response was not significant. These findings link the cognitive treatment response in PD to changes in the activity of a specific cerebello-premotor cortical network. Selective modulation of overactive SMA-STN projection pathways may underlie the improvement in learning found with stimulation.
Functional connectivity networks have become a central focus in neuroscience because they reveal key higher-dimensional features of normal and abnormal nervous system physiology. Functional networks reflect activity-based coupling between brain regions that may be constrained by relatively static anatomical connections, yet these networks appear to support tremendously dynamic behaviors. Within this growing field, the stability and temporal characteristics of functional connectivity brain networks have not been well characterized. We evaluated the temporal stability of spontaneous functional connectivity networks derived from multi-day scalp encephalogram (EEG) recordings in five healthy human subjects. Topological stability and graph characteristics of networks derived from averaged data epochs ranging from 1 s to multiple hours across different states of consciousness were compared. We show that, although functional networks are highly variable on the order of seconds, stable network templates emerge after as little as 100 s of recording and persist across different states and frequency bands (albeit with slightly different characteristics in different states and frequencies). Within these network templates, the most common edges are markedly consistent, constituting a network &quot;core.&quot; Although average network topologies persist across time, measures of global network connectivity, density and clustering coefficient, are state and frequency specific, with sparsest but most highly clustered networks seen during sleep and in the gamma frequency band. These findings support the notion that a core functional organization underlies spontaneous cortical processing and may provide a reference template on which unstable, transient, and rapidly adaptive long-range assemblies are overlaid in a frequency-dependent manner.
How the brain monitors ongoing behavior for performance errors is a central question of cognitive neuroscience. Diminished awareness of performance errors limits the extent to which humans engage in corrective behavior and has been linked to loss of insight in a number of psychiatric syndromes (e.g., attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, drug addiction). These conditions share alterations in monoamine signaling that may influence the neural mechanisms underlying error processing, but our understanding of the neurochemical drivers of these processes is limited. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over design of the influence of methylphenidate, atomoxetine, and citalopram on error awareness in 27 healthy participants. The error awareness task, a go/no-go response inhibition paradigm, was administered to assess the influence of monoaminergic agents on performance errors during fMRI data acquisition. A single dose of methylphenidate, but not atomoxetine or citalopram, significantly improved the ability of healthy volunteers to consciously detect performance errors. Furthermore, this behavioral effect was associated with a strengthening of activation differences in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and inferior parietal lobe during the methylphenidate condition for errors made with versus without awareness. Our results have implications for the understanding of the neurochemical underpinnings of performance monitoring and for the pharmacological treatment of a range of disparate clinical conditions that are marked by poor awareness of errors.
High-resolution, comprehensive structural information is often the final arbiter between competing mechanistic models of biological processes, and can serve as inspiration for new hypotheses. In molecular biology, definitive structural data at atomic resolution are available for many macromolecules; however, information about the structure of the brain is much less complete, both in scope and resolution. Several technical developments over the past decade, such as serial block-face electron microscopy and trans-synaptic viral tracing, have made the structural biology of neural circuits conceivable: we may be able to obtain the structural information needed to reconstruct the network of cellular connections for large parts of, or even an entire, mouse brain within a decade or so. Given that the brain's algorithms are ultimately encoded by this network, knowing where all of these connections are should, at the very least, provide the data needed to distinguish between models of neural computation.
After entering the cerebral cortex, sensory information spreads through six different horizontal neuronal layers that are interconnected by vertical axonal projections. It is believed that through these projections layers can influence each other's response to sensory stimuli, but the specific role that each layer has in cortical processing is still poorly understood. Here we show that layer six in the primary visual cortex of the mouse has a crucial role in controlling the gain of visually evoked activity in neurons of the upper layers without changing their tuning to orientation. This gain modulation results from the coordinated action of layer six intracortical projections to superficial layers and deep projections to the thalamus, with a substantial role of the intracortical circuit. This study establishes layer six as a major mediator of cortical gain modulation and suggests that it could be a node through which convergent inputs from several brain areas can regulate the earliest steps of cortical visual processing.



BACKGROUND: Tapentadol is a mu-opioid receptor agonist and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. In clinical trials, tapentadol provided somatic pain relief comparable to mu-opioids such as oxycodone, with significantly less gastrointestinal adverse effects. The acute effects of tapentadol on gastrointestinal and colonic transit are unclear. AIM: To compare acute effects of oral tapentadol and oxycodone on gastric, small bowel and colonic transit of solids in 38 healthy human subjects. METHODS: In a randomised, parallel-group, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of identical-appearing tapentadol immediate release (IR), 75mg t.d.s., or oxycodone IR, 5mg t.d.s., for 48h, we measured gastric (GE), small bowel (SBT measured as colonic filling at 6h) and colonic transit by validated scintigraphy. Drug was commenced on the evening before the start of the transit test. The primary endpoints were overall colonic transit (geometric centre, GC) at 24h and GE half-time (t(1/2) ). ancova of transit data included gender or BMI as covariates. Adverse effects were summarised. RESULTS: At the doses tested, oxycodone and tapentadol significantly delayed GE t(1/2) and SBT, but not overall colonic transit, compared to placebo. Transit profiles in all regions were not significantly different between oxycodone and tapentadol at the doses tested. Both oxycodone and tapentadol were associated with nausea and central effects attributable to central opiate effects. CONCLUSIONS: Tapentadol significantly delayed gastric emptying t(1/2) and small bowel transit, similar to oxycodone. These data suggest that acute administration of tapentadol may not have significant advantages over standard mu-opioids, in terms of the potential to avoid upper gastrointestinal motor dysfunction.
The neural structures involved in ongoing appetitive and/or observational learning behaviors remain largely unknown. Operant conditioning and observational learning were evoked and recorded in a modified Skinner box provided with an on-line video recording system. Mice improved their acquisition of a simple operant conditioning task by observational learning. Electrical stimulation of the observer's medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) at a key moment of the demonstration (when the demonstrator presses a lever in order to obtain a reward) cancels out the benefits of observation. In contrast, electrical stimulation of the observer's nucleus accumbens (NAc) enhances observational learning. Ongoing cognitive processes in the demonstrator could also be driven by electrical stimulation of these two structures, preventing the proper execution of the ongoing instrumental task (mPFC) or stopping pellet intake (NAc). Long-term potentiation (LTP) evoked in these two cortical structures did not prevent the acquisition or retrieval process--namely, mPFC and/or NAc stimulation only prevented, or modified, the ongoing behavioral process. The dorsal hippocampus was not involved in either of these two behavioral processes. Thus, both ongoing observational learning and performance of an instrumental task require the active contribution of the mPFC and/or the NAc.
The total synthesis and structure determination of cis- and trans-flocoumafen was described. The key synthetic steps involve Knoevenagel condensation with p-methoxybenzaldehyde, in situ decarboxylation and intramolecular ring cyclization to construct the tetralone skeleton. Stereospecific reduction of the O-alkylated ketone 13 afforded good yield of precusor alcohol 5. Final coupling of alcohol 5 with 4-hydroxy-coumarin yielded flocoumafen (1). Separation and structure determination of cis- and trans-flocoumafen through 2D NMR analyses-assisted computer simulation techniques for the evaluation of anticoagulant activities are reported for the first time. This method is useful for generating the core tetralone skeleton of 4-hydroxycoumarin derivatives and provides a generalized access to various warfarin type anticoagulants.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of split size (small vs. large splits) and odd-even congruency (parity congruency vs. parity incongruency) of answers on arithmetical equation processing. Event-related potentials were recorded from 18 students in a first-answer-then-equation presentation mode. The ERP results showed that the odd-even congruency had a significant effect on the late positive wave in the small, but not the large split, with a late positive slow wave elicited by the small-split and the odd-even congruent conditions. This result suggests that the split effect has priority over parity congruency when both split and parity are at play simultaneously. Specifically, in non-retrieval arithmetic verification tasks, parity is modulated in cases where a direct judgment cannot be reached simply by depending on the split information.
The Nogo-66 receptor (NgR1) is part of a co-receptor complex on neurons that transmits a signal for inhibition of neurite outgrowth. In addition, NgR1 function has also been related to other disorders such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Here, we studied the effect of life-long deletion of NgR1 (ngr(-/-)) in tests for cognition and positive symptoms of schizophrenia. In the water maze, ngr(-/-) mice learned to locate the hidden platform as well as wild type mice, although with slower acquisition. Deletion of NgR1 did not affect amphetamine- or phencyclidine (PCP)-induced hyperactivity, two models of positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Taken together, ngr(-/-) animals show slower acquisition of a spatial learning and memory task.
The ear detects sounds so faint that they produce only atomic-scale displacements in the mechanoelectrical transducer, yet thermal noise causes fluctuations larger by an order of magnitude. Explaining how hearing can operate when the magnitude of the noise greatly exceeds that of the signal requires an understanding both of the transducer's micromechanics and of the associated noise. Using microrheology, we characterize the statistics of this noise; exploiting the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, we determine the associated micromechanics. The statistics reveal unusual Brownian motion in which the mean square displacement increases as a fractional power of time, indicating that the mechanisms governing energy dissipation are related to those of energy storage. This anomalous scaling contradicts the canonical model of mechanoelectrical transduction, but the results can be explained if the micromechanics incorporates viscoelasticity, a salient characteristic of biopolymers. We amend the canonical model and demonstrate several consequences of viscoelasticity for sensory coding.
Multiphoton microscopy is a powerful tool in neuroscience, promising to deliver important data on the spatiotemporal activity within individual neurons as well as in networks of neurons. A major limitation of current technologies is the relatively slow scan rates along the z direction compared to the kHz rates obtainable in the x and y directions. Here, we describe a custom-built microscope system based on an architecture that allows kHz scan rates over hundreds of microns in all three dimensions without introducing aberration. We further demonstrate how this high-speed 3D multiphoton imaging system can be used to study neuronal activity at millisecond resolution at the subcellular as well as the population level.
Deciding whether a set of objects are the same or different is a cornerstone of perception and cognition. Surprisingly, no principled quantitative model of sameness judgment exists. We tested whether human sameness judgment under sensory noise can be modeled as a form of probabilistically optimal inference. An optimal observer would compare the reliability-weighted variance of the sensory measurements with a set size-dependent criterion. We conducted two experiments, in which we varied set size and individual stimulus reliabilities. We found that the optimal-observer model accurately describes human behavior, outperforms plausible alternatives in a rigorous model comparison, and accounts for three key findings in the animal cognition literature. Our results provide a normative footing for the study of sameness judgment and indicate that the notion of perception as near-optimal inference extends to abstract relations.
Endocytic recycling of synaptic vesicles after exocytosis is critical for nervous system function. At synapses of cultured neurons that lack the two &quot;neuronal&quot; dynamins, dynamin 1 and 3, smaller excitatory postsynaptic currents are observed due to an impairment of the fission reaction of endocytosis that results in an accumulation of arrested clathrin-coated pits and a greatly reduced synaptic vesicle number. Surprisingly, despite a smaller readily releasable vesicle pool and fewer docked vesicles, a strong facilitation, which correlated with lower vesicle release probability, was observed upon action potential stimulation at such synapses. Furthermore, although network activity in mutant cultures was lower, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activity was unexpectedly increased, consistent with the previous report of an enhanced state of synapsin 1 phosphorylation at CaMKII-dependent sites in such neurons. These changes were partially reversed by overnight silencing of synaptic activity with tetrodotoxin, a treatment that allows progression of arrested endocytic pits to synaptic vesicles. Facilitation was also counteracted by CaMKII inhibition. These findings reveal a mechanism aimed at preventing synaptic transmission failure due to vesicle depletion when recycling vesicle traffic is backed up by a defect in dynamin-dependent endocytosis and provide new insight into the coupling between endocytosis and exocytosis.
Spoken word recognition requires complex, invariant representations. Using a meta-analytic approach incorporating more than 100 functional imaging experiments, we show that preference for complex sounds emerges in the human auditory ventral stream in a hierarchical fashion, consistent with nonhuman primate electrophysiology. Examining speech sounds, we show that activation associated with the processing of short-timescale patterns (i.e., phonemes) is consistently localized to left mid-superior temporal gyrus (STG), whereas activation associated with the integration of phonemes into temporally complex patterns (i.e., words) is consistently localized to left anterior STG. Further, we show left mid- to anterior STG is reliably implicated in the invariant representation of phonetic forms and that this area also responds preferentially to phonetic sounds, above artificial control sounds or environmental sounds. Together, this shows increasing encoding specificity and invariance along the auditory ventral stream for temporally complex speech sounds.
Mechanotransduction has an important role in physiology. Biological processes including sensing touch and sound waves require as-yet-unidentified cation channels that detect pressure. Mouse Piezo1 (MmPiezo1) and MmPiezo2 (also called Fam38a and Fam38b, respectively) induce mechanically activated cationic currents in cells; however, it is unknown whether Piezo proteins are pore-forming ion channels or modulate ion channels. Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster Piezo (DmPiezo, also called CG8486) also induces mechanically activated currents in cells, but through channels with remarkably distinct pore properties including sensitivity to the pore blocker ruthenium red and single channel conductances. MmPiezo1 assembles as a 1.2-million-dalton homo-oligomer, with no evidence of other proteins in this complex. Purified MmPiezo1 reconstituted into asymmetric lipid bilayers and liposomes forms ruthenium-red-sensitive ion channels. These data demonstrate that Piezo proteins are an evolutionarily conserved ion channel family involved in mechanotransduction.
It is generally believed that fear extinction is a form of new learning that inhibits rather than erases previously acquired fear memories. Although this view has gained much support from behavioural and electrophysiological studies, the hypothesis that extinction causes the partial erasure of fear memories remains viable. Using transcranial two-photon microscopy, we investigated how neural circuits are modified by fear learning and extinction by examining the formation and elimination of postsynaptic dendritic spines of layer-V pyramidal neurons in the mouse frontal association cortex. Here we show that fear conditioning by pairing an auditory cue with a footshock increases the rate of spine elimination. By contrast, fear extinction by repeated presentation of the same auditory cue without a footshock increases the rate of spine formation. The degrees of spine remodelling induced by fear conditioning and extinction strongly correlate with the expression and extinction of conditioned fear responses, respectively. Notably, spine elimination and formation induced by fear conditioning and extinction occur on the same dendritic branches in a cue- and location-specific manner: cue-specific extinction causes formation of dendritic spines within a distance of two micrometres from spines that were eliminated after fear conditioning. Furthermore, reconditioning preferentially induces elimination of dendritic spines that were formed after extinction. Thus, within vastly complex neuronal networks, fear conditioning, extinction and reconditioning lead to opposing changes at the level of individual synapses. These findings also suggest that fear memory traces are partially erased after extinction.
Transduction of mechanical stimuli by receptor cells is essential for senses such as hearing, touch and pain. Ion channels have a role in neuronal mechanotransduction in invertebrates; however, functional conservation of these ion channels in mammalian mechanotransduction is not observed. For example, no mechanoreceptor potential C (NOMPC), a member of transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel family, acts as a mechanotransducer in Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans; however, it has no orthologues in mammals. Degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) family members are mechanotransducers in C. elegans and potentially in D. melanogaster; however, a direct role of its mammalian homologues in sensing mechanical force has not been shown. Recently, Piezo1 (also known as Fam38a) and Piezo2 (also known as Fam38b) were identified as components of mechanically activated channels in mammals. The Piezo family are evolutionarily conserved transmembrane proteins. It is unknown whether they function in mechanical sensing in vivo and, if they do, which mechanosensory modalities they mediate. Here we study the physiological role of the single Piezo member in D. melanogaster (Dmpiezo; also known as CG8486). Dmpiezo expression in human cells induces mechanically activated currents, similar to its mammalian counterparts. Behavioural responses to noxious mechanical stimuli were severely reduced in Dmpiezo knockout larvae, whereas responses to another noxious stimulus or touch were not affected. Knocking down Dmpiezo in sensory neurons that mediate nociception and express the DEG/ENaC ion channel pickpocket (ppk) was sufficient to impair responses to noxious mechanical stimuli. Furthermore, expression of Dmpiezo in these same neurons rescued the phenotype of the constitutive Dmpiezo knockout larvae. Accordingly, electrophysiological recordings from ppk-positive neurons revealed a Dmpiezo-dependent, mechanically activated current. Finally, we found that Dmpiezo and ppk function in parallel pathways in ppk-positive cells, and that mechanical nociception is abolished in the absence of both channels. These data demonstrate the physiological relevance of the Piezo family in mechanotransduction in vivo, supporting a role of Piezo proteins in mechanosensory nociception.

Local protein synthesis plays a key role in regulating stimulus-induced responses in dendrites and axons. Recent genome-wide studies have revealed that thousands of different transcripts reside in these distal neuronal compartments, but identifying those with functionally significant roles presents a challenge. We performed an unbiased screen to look for stimulus-induced, protein synthesis-dependent changes in the proteome of Xenopus retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. The intermediate filament protein lamin B2 (LB2), normally associated with the nuclear membrane, was identified as an unexpected major target. Axonal ribosome immunoprecipitation confirmed translation of lb2 mRNA in vivo. Inhibition of lb2 mRNA translation in axons in vivo does not affect guidance but causes axonal degeneration. Axonal LB2 associates with mitochondria, and LB2-deficient axons exhibit mitochondrial dysfunction and defects in axonal transport. Our results thus suggest that axonally synthesized lamin B plays a crucial role in axon maintenance by promoting mitochondrial function.
Numerous receptors for ATP, ADP, and adenosine exist; however, it is currently unknown whether a receptor for the related nucleotide adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) exists. Using a novel cell-based assay to visualize adenosine receptor activation in real time, we found that AMP and a non-hydrolyzable AMP analog (deoxyadenosine 5'-monophosphonate, ACP) directly activated the adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R). In contrast, AMP only activated the adenosine A(2B) receptor (A(2B)R) after hydrolysis to adenosine by ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5E, CD73) or prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP, ACPP). Adenosine and AMP were equipotent human A(1)R agonists in our real-time assay and in a cAMP accumulation assay. ACP also depressed cAMP levels in mouse cortical neurons through activation of endogenous A(1)R. Non-selective purinergic receptor antagonists (pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid and suramin) did not block adenosine- or AMP-evoked activation. Moreover, mutation of His-251 in the human A(1)R ligand binding pocket reduced AMP potency without affecting adenosine potency. In contrast, mutation of a different binding pocket residue (His-278) eliminated responses to AMP and to adenosine. Taken together, our study indicates that the physiologically relevant nucleotide AMP is a full agonist of A(1)R. In addition, our study suggests that some of the physiological effects of AMP may be direct, and not indirect through ectonucleotidases that hydrolyze this nucleotide to adenosine.
INTRODUCTION: In recent decades there has been a special interest in theories that could explain the regulation of motor control, and their applications. These theories are often based on models of brain function, philosophically reflecting different criteria on how movement is controlled by the brain, each being emphasised in different neural components of the movement. The concept of motor learning, regarded as the set of internal processes associated with practice and experience that produce relatively permanent changes in the ability to produce motor activities through a specific skill, is also relevant in the context of neuroscience. Thus, both motor control and learning are seen as key fields of study for health professionals in the field of neuro-rehabilitation. DEVELOPMENT: The major theories of motor control are described, which include, motor programming theory, systems theory, the theory of dynamic action, and the theory of parallel distributed processing, as well as the factors that influence motor learning and its applications in neuro-rehabilitation. CONCLUSIONS: At present there is no consensus on which theory or model defines the regulations to explain motor control. Theories of motor learning should be the basis for motor rehabilitation. The new research should apply the knowledge generated in the fields of control and motor learning in neuro-rehabilitation.
Methamphetamine (METH) abuse is personally and socially devastating. Although effects of METH on dopamine (DA) systems likely contribute to its highly addictive nature, no medications are approved to treat METH dependence. Thus, we and others have studied the METH-induced responses of neurotensin (NT) systems. NT is associated with inhibitory feedback action on DA projections, and NT levels are elevated in both the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum after noncontingent treatment with high doses of METH. In the present study, we used a METH self-administration (SA) model (linked to lever pressing) to demonstrate that substitution of an NT agonist for METH, while not significantly affecting motor activity, dramatically reduced lever pressing but was not self-administered per se. We also found that nucleus accumbens NT levels were elevated via a D1 mechanism after five sessions in rats self-administering METH (SAM), with a lesser effect in corresponding yoked rats. Extended (15 daily sessions) exposure to METH SA manifested similar NT responses; however, more detailed analyses revealed (i) 15 days of METH SA significantly elevated NT levels in the nucleus accumbens shell and dorsal striatum, but not the nucleus accumbens core, with a lesser effect in the corresponding yoked METH rats; (ii) the elevation of NT in both the nucleus accumbens shell and dorsal striatum significantly correlated with the total amount of METH received in the self-administering, but not the corresponding yoked METH rats; and (iii) an NT agonist blocked, but an NT antagonist did not alter, lever-pressing behavior on day 15 in SAM rats. After 5 days in SAM animals, NT levels were also elevated in the ventral tegmental area, but not frontal cortex of rats self-administering METH.
The processing bias of threat is crucial for survival. However, the neurophysiological underpinnings of this bias are not fully understood. To contribute to a better understanding of the processing bias for threat, both event-related potential (ERP) and event-related oscillation (ERO) analyses were applied to the electroencephalography (EEG) data recorded from subjects while performing a go/no-go variant of the dot-probe task. In the task, subjects responded to the infrequent target stimuli and didn't respond to the standard stimuli. Both target and standard stimuli were preceded by a bilateral picture pair [one emotional (threatening or pleasant) and one neutral] as an emotional cue. The behavioral data and the P1 elicited by standard stimuli didn't show any significant main effect or interaction. The mean amplitude of N1 was greater negative for threatening cues than pleasant cues with the most significant effect in the fronto-central region, indicating a processing bias for threat related to early attention processing. In addition, the theta synchronization was stronger for threatening cues than pleasant cues with significant effect in posterior regions, suggesting that the posterior theta synchronization reflects the evaluation of emotional significance of stimuli. Taken together, the ERP and ERO analyses provide some independent insights into the processing bias for threatening cues and illustrate this bias more comprehensively.
Calcineurin is an important calcium-dependent phosphatase that is evolutionarily conserved in all studied species, and has been implicated in the consolidation and maintenance of new memories. However, recent evidence has extended the role of calcineurin. In contrast to learning tasks that require behavioral acquisition, extinction tasks that require behavioral inhibition have been shown to be reliant on calcineurin. In the present study, using a Morris water maze, we have demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of calcineurin causes augmentation of spatial learning and perseveration of spatial reversal-learning in a dose-dependent manner. Direct infusions of a specific calcineurin inhibitor, cyclosporine A, into the dorsal hippocampi bilaterally, prior to spatial learning, led to increased learning, whereas similar injections of cyclosporine A following a spatial learning task and prior to a spatial reversal-learning task resulted in perseveration of reversal-learning. Our results indicate that injections of cyclosporin A resulted in decreased calcineurin activity in the dorsal hippocampus and increased difficulty in switching to new task demands, in a dose-dependent manner, despite evidence indicating no deficit in ability to learn new information. Therefore, calcineurin activity contributes to the inhibition of previously learned but unwanted behavioral responses during competitive spatial learning. Involvement of calcineurin in extinction of fear memory has recently been demonstrated. Our results also indicate that calcineurin activity plays a role in memory extinction in spatial memory tasks, and therefore, suggest that calcineurin might be an important molecule in mediating behavioral flexibility in general.
Ex vivo gene therapy uses modified cells to deliver substances into the brain. Cell line M213-2O CL-4 expresses human glutamate decarboxylase (hGAD(67)) by means of an Epstein-Barr virus-based plasmid. This cell line releases GABA in response to depolarizing stimuli in vitro, and after brain transplantation it modulates seizures in animal models. It is unclear if the functional effects observed can be attributed to GABA release by the grafted cells and if GABA release, in turn, is related to the kinetics of transgene permanence or loss under long-term transplantation conditions. To address these issues, two experiments were performed. The first one evaluated GABA levels in the vicinity of an intranigral transplant by microdialysis followed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) quantification. GABA levels and GAD activity were higher in rats with 8-week-old transplants than in control animals, but this effect was lost in rats with 12-week-old transplants. The second experiment evaluated the number of copies of the plasmid containing the hGAD(67) (GAD1) transgene by real-time PCR after transplantation into the hippocampus at the same times. A time-dependent loss of the plasmid in the transplants was observed. The mechanism of plasmid loss was explored in vitro by analyzing the effects of DNA methylation and the absence of selection pressure. The results suggest that the loss of plasmid copies from transplants under long-term conditions may be related to methylation of plasmid regions involved in its nuclear retention. Taking these data together, we propose that the reported long-term functional effects of transplants of cell line M213-2O CL-4 may not be attributed exclusively to increased GABA release in the area of the graft, but that a paracrine-like action of GABA may lead to the remodeling of neural circuits in the host.
Substance P by acting on its preferred receptor neurokinin 1 (NK1) in the amygdala appears to be critically involved in the modulation of fear and anxiety. The present study was undertaken to identify neurochemically specific subpopulations of neuron expressing NK1 receptors in the lateral amygdaloid nucleus (LA), a key site for regulating these behaviors. We also analyzed the sources of glutamatergic inputs to these neurons. Immunofluorescence analysis of the co-expression of NK1 with calcium binding proteins in LA revealed that ~35% of NK1-containing neurons co-expressed parvalbumin (PV), whereas no co-localization was detected in the basal amygdaloid nucleus. We also show that neurons expressing NK1 receptors in LA did not contain detectable levels of calcium/calmodulin kinase II, thus suggesting that NK1 receptors are expressed by interneurons. By using a dual immunoperoxidase/immunogold-silver procedure at the ultrastructural level, we found that in LA ~75% of glutamatergic synapses onto NK1-expressing neurons were labeled for the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 indicating that they most likely are of cortical, hippocampal, or intrinsic origin. The remaining ~25% were immunoreactive for the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGluT2), and may then originate from subcortical areas. On the other hand, we could not detect VGluT2-containing inputs onto NK1/PV immunopositive neurons. Our data add to previous localization studies by describing an unexpected variation between LA and basal nucleus of the amygdala (BA) in the neurochemical phenotype of NK1-expressing neurons and reveal the relative source of glutamatergic inputs that may activate these neurons, which in turn regulate fear and anxiety responses.
Agonists for the cannabinoid CB2 receptor are antinociceptive in several rodent models and several reports have suggested that the target for these drugs is CB2 expressed in the spinal cord pain pathway. After confirming the efficacy of a systemically delivered CB2-selective agonist, GW405833, we tested this hypothesis by administering the CB2 agonists GW405833 and JWH-133, via intrathecal cannulation, to the lumbar spinal cord of rats that had undergone chronic constriction injury to induce mechanical allodynia. We found that although the non-selective CB1/CB2 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 reversed mechanical allodynia in both ipsilateral and contralateral hind paws, neither GW405833 nor JWH-133 reversed mechanical allodynia. In addition, we investigated the expression of CB2 receptors in the neuropathic spinal cord using immunohistochemistry, Western blot and CB2 agonist stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding. Although protein-based analysis of CB2 partially matched the results of earlier studies using the same antibody, we found evidence that this antibody may be insufficiently specific for the detection of CB2 in native tissue. Using [(35)S]GTPS binding assays, we found no evidence of functional CB2 in the spinal cord, in sham or surgery-treated tissue. However, WIN55,212-2 stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding showed clear evidence of functional CB1 receptors consistent with the known distribution of elements of the pain pathway, and we concluded that spinal CB2 receptors are not a likely target for cannabinoid-mediated antinociception in this model.
In Parkinson's disease, subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons burst fire with increased periodicity and synchrony. This may entail abnormal release of glutamate, the major source of which in STN is cortical afferents. Indeed, the cortico-subthalamic pathway is implicated in the emergence of excessive oscillations, which are reduced, as are symptoms, by dopamine-replacement therapy or deep brain stimulation (DBS) targeted to STN. Here we hypothesize that glutamatergic synapses in the STN may be differentially modulated by low-frequency stimulation (LFS) and high-frequency stimulation (HFS), the latter mimicking deep brain stimulation. Recordings of evoked and spontaneous excitatory post synaptic currents (EPSCs) were made from STN neurons in brain slices obtained from dopamine-intact and chronically dopamine-depleted adult rats. HFS had no significant effect on evoked (e) EPSC amplitude in dopamine-intact slices (104.48.0%) but depressed eEPSCs in dopamine-depleted slices (67.86.2%). Conversely, LFS potentiated eEPSCs in dopamine-intact slices (126.48.1%) but not in dopamine-depleted slices (106.710.0%). Analyses of paired-pulse ratio, coefficient of variation, and spontaneous EPSCs suggest that the depression and potentiation have a presynaptic locus of expression. These results indicate that the synaptic efficacy in dopamine-intact tissue is enhanced by LFS. Furthermore, the synaptic efficacy in dopamine-depleted tissue is depressed by HFS. Therefore the therapeutic effects of DBS in Parkinson's disease appear mediated, in part, by glutamatergic cortico-subthalamic synaptic depression and implicate dopamine-dependent increases in the weight of glutamate synapses, which would facilitate the transfer of pathological oscillations from the cortex.
The peripheral serotonergic system has been implicated in the modulation of an array of pain states, from migraine to fibromyalgia; however, the mechanism by which serotonin (5HT) induces pain is unclear. Peripherally released 5HT induces thermal hyperalgesia, possibly via modulation of the transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1) channel, which is gated by various noxious stimuli, including capsaicin. We previously reported in vitro that 5HT increases calcium accumulation in the capsaicin-sensitive population of sensory neurons with a corresponding increase in proinflammatory neuropeptide release, and both are antagonized by pretreatment with 5HT(2A) and 5HT(3) antagonists, as well as the anti-migraine drug sumatriptan. In the current study, we extended these findings in vivo using the rat hind paw thermal assay to test the hypothesis that peripheral 5HT enhances TRPV1-evoked thermal hyperalgesia that can be attenuated with 5HT(2A) and 5HT(3) receptor antagonists, as well as sumatriptan. Thermal hyperalgesia and edema were established by 5HT injection (0.1-10 nmol/100 l) into the rat hind paw, and the latency to paw withdrawal (PWL) from noxious heat was determined. Rats were then pretreated with either 5HT before capsaicin (3 nmol/10 l), the 5HT(2A) receptor antagonist ketanserin or the 5HT(3) receptor antagonist granisetron (0.0001-0.1 nmol/100 l) before 5HT and/or capsaicin, or the 5HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist sumatriptan (0.01-1 nmol/100 l) before capsaicin, and PWL was determined. We report that 5HT pretreatment enhances TRPV1-evoked thermal hyperalgesia, which is attenuated with local pretreatment with ketanserin, granisetron, or sumatriptan. We also report that peripheral 5HT induced a similar magnitude of thermal hyperalgesia in male and female rats. Overall, our results provide in vivo evidence supporting an enhancing role of 5HT on TRPV1-evoked thermal hyperalgesia, which can be attenuated by peripheral serotonergic intervention.
Rapamycin, a lipophilic macrolide antibiotic, has been found to reduce injury in different models of neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously shown that in neonatal rats subjected to hypoxia-ischemia (HI) the neuroprotective effect of rapamycin was associated with increased autophagy and decreased caspase-3 activation. We show here that the strong reduction of caspase-3 activation after rapamycin was due, at least in part, to its effect on the intrinsic apoptotic mitochondrial pathway because after rapamycin treatment there was a marked reduction of Bax and Bad translocation to mitochondria, cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activation. Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) cleavage and the number of terminal dUDP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were also reduced. To assess how the antiapoptotic effect of rapamycin was linked to the strong autophagy signal induced by the drug, we blocked the formation of autophagosomes with 3-methyladenine (3MA). 3MA administered 10 min after rapamycin, elicited again Bax and Bad translocation to the mitochondria but did not cause cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. After 3MA treatment, cells underwent necrotic cell death. These data indicate that rapamycin administered before HI prevents the apoptotic signaling taking place through the mitochondrial pathway. We hypothesize that rapamycin confers a preconditioning-like protection and suggest that caution is necessary before using pharmacological agents targeting autophagy in neuroprotection because they could interfere with endogenous protective mechanisms.
Women with temporal lobe epilepsy have a higher incidence of reproductive disorders, which have been linked to alterations in the pulsatile release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). These experiments tested the hypothesis that the number of GnRH neurons is reduced in an animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy. The effects of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and the subsequent spontaneous recurrent eizures on the number of GnRH-positive neurons were studied in adult female mice. Systemic injections of pilocarpine were used to induce SE, and diazepam was administered 90 min after the first seizure. Control mice received all drugs except pilocarpine. The mice were euthanized either 1 week or 3 months after SE (i.e. after spontaneous recurrent seizures were observed). Even though the estrous cycle was disrupted after SE, and hippocampal damage was detected in both the CA1 and CA3 regions, pilocarpine-treated mice did not show a significant decrease in total or regional numbers of GnRH-immunopositive neurons. Therefore, these data do not support the hypothesis that a reduction in the number of GnRH neurons is responsible for the disruption of the estrous cycle after pilocarpine-induced epilepsy, which suggests that other mechanisms contribute to female reproductive disorders associated with chronic epilepsy.
Repeated injections of psychostimulants, such as D-amphetamine (D-AMPH), provide a well-validated model of progressive cellular and systems-level alterations in brain function and behavior associated with addiction. The present study employed quantitative measures of both power spectral density and synchrony from local field potentials (LFPs) recorded simultaneously from the prefrontal cortex (PFC), parietal cortex (PAR), and hippocampus (HPC) in awake, behaving rats to assess changes in oscillations during different stages of D-AMPH-induced sensitization. The induction and development of sensitization altered the power of multiple frequency bands in a brain region-specific manner, whereas no changes were observed in animals treated with chronic saline. Specifically, the induction of sensitization to D-AMPH was accompanied by alterations in delta (2-5 Hz) and theta (5-11 Hz) oscillations similar to those observed in EEG recordings from addicted individuals describing craving and hedonic experience of the drug. Sensitization was also related to increased theta coherence between the PFC and HPC, along with suppression of cross-frequency correlations between theta and fast-gamma (65-100 Hz) in both the HPC and the PFC. Collectively, the present findings indicated the induction of a state in which the timing and synchronizing effects of oscillations are altered by sensitization to D-AMPH and are especially pronounced in the PFC. Furthermore, numerous LFP-derived measures were characterized that may serve as objective physiological correlates of pathological states observed in addiction.
Dysfunction in central glucocorticoid signaling is implicated in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis dysregulation and major depression. In comparison with men, women are twice as likely to suffer from depression and have heightened HPA axis responses to stress. We hypothesized that this striking increase in stress vulnerability in females may be because of sex differences in central glucocorticoid signaling. The current study tests the role of the forebrain type II glucocorticoid receptor (GR) on HPA axis function in female mice and depression-like behavior in both female and male mice. This was accomplished by using mice with selective deletion of GR in forebrain cortico-limbic sites including the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and basolateral amygdala (forebrain glucocorticoid receptor knockout mouse (FBGRKO)). In order to examine HPA axis function in female FBGRKO, we measured nadir, peak circadian and restraint-induced corticosterone concentrations in female FBGRKO. The data indicate that unlike male FBGRKO, basal and stress-induced corticosterone concentrations are not increased in female FBGRKO. Given the pronounced effect of central glucocorticoid signaling on mood, we also examined the necessity of corticolimbic GR on depression-like behavior with the sucrose preference and forced swim tests (FST) in male and female FBGRKO mice. Consistent with previous studies, male FBGRKO displayed increased depression-like behavior as indicated by greater immobility in the FST and decreased sucrose preference compared with littermate controls, effects that were not observed in females. Overall the findings indicate a marked sex difference in the function of forebrain GR on HPA axis regulation and depression-like behaviors, and may have implications for therapeutic approaches using GR-modulating drugs.
Presynaptic structural modifications are thought to accompany activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and learning. This may involve the conversion of nonfunctional synapses into active ones or the generation of entirely new synapses. Here, using an in vitro neural analog of classical conditioning, we investigated presynaptic structural changes restricted to auditory nerve synapses that convey the conditioned stimulus (CS) by tract tracing using fluorescent tracers combined with immunostaining for the synaptic vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin. The results show that the size of presynaptic auditory boutons increased and the area and fluorescence intensity of punctate staining for synaptophysin were enhanced after conditioning. This occurred only for auditory nerve boutons apposed to the dendrites but not the somata of abducens motor neurons. Conditioning increased the percentage of boutons that were immunopositive for synaptophysin and enhanced the number of synaptophysin puncta they contained. Pretreatment with antibodies against brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) inhibited these conditioning-induced structural changes. There was also a net increase in the number of boutons apposed to abducens motor neurons after conditioning or BDNF treatment. These data indicate that the rapid enrichment of presynaptic boutons with proteins required for neurotransmitter recycling and release occurs during classical conditioning and that these processes are mediated by BDNF.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are members of the transforming growth factor  (TGF-) superfamily. BMPs, such as BMP2 and BMP4, exert its biological functions by interacting with membrane bound receptors belonging to the serine/threonine kinase family including bone morphogenetic protein receptor I (BMPRIA, BMPRIB) and type II (BMPRII). Functions of BMPs are also regulated in the extracellular space by secreted antagonistic regulators such as noggin. Although BMP2, BMP4, noggin, BMPRIA, BMPRIB, and BMPRII expressions have been well described in the central nervous system, little information is available for their expressions in the spinal cord. We, thus, investigated these protein expressions in the adult rat spinal cord using immunohistochemistry. Here, we show that BMP2, BMP4, noggin, BMPRIA, BMPRIB, and BMPRII are widely and differentially expressed in the spinal cord. Besides abundant BMP2, BMP4, noggin, BMPRIA, BMPRIB, and BMPRII protein expressions in neurons, we detected them also in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and ependymal cells. In addition, we found BMPRIA, BMPRIB, and BMPRII protein expressions in microglia. Interestingly, we also observed that these proteins are strongly expressed in many kinds of axons in both ascending and descending tracts. These data indicate that BMP2, BMP4, noggin, BMPRIA, BMPRIB, and BMPRII proteins are more widely expressed in the adult spinal cord than previously reported, and their continued abundant expressions in the adult spinal cord strongly support the idea that BMP signaling plays pivotal roles in the adult spinal cord.
Mammalian neurokinin-3 (NK(3)) receptors of the tachykinin family of neuropeptides have been shown to activate dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a midbrain area displaying dopaminergic dysfunctional activity in schizophrenia. The recent finding of NK(3) receptors in VTA neuronal nucleus highlights a new level of neuromodulation, in addition to the traditional tachykinin-induced NK(3) receptor internalization and activation of second messenger signaling pathways. The function of nuclear NK(3) receptors is still unknown. It is also unclear how dopaminergic activation is affecting the NK(3) receptor distribution in the VTA. In the present study, trafficking of the NK(3) receptor in somatodendritic profiles of dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons of the rat VTA was investigated following acute systemic administration of the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist apomorphine. VTA sections were dual immunolabeled for the NK(3) receptor (immunogold) and the dopamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, immunoperoxidase). Electron microscopic quantifications of somatic and dendritic densities of NK(3) immunogold particles with or without TH immunolabeling were compared in vehicle-injected or apomorphine-injected rats. In dopaminergic (TH) neurons, apomorphine evoked a significant increase in NK(3) receptor densities in cytoplasmic and nuclear portions of the soma. These changes were accompanied by a respective decrease and increase in plasmalemmal and cytoplamic NK(3) receptor densities in dopaminergic dendrites. In non-TH neurons, presumably GABAergic neurons of the VTA, the NK(3) receptor densities in somata and dendrites were not significantly altered by apomorphine. The results suggest that dopaminergic receptor activation is inducing a rapid mobilization of NK(3) receptors in VTA dopaminergic neurons. The apomorphine-evoked NK(3) receptors plasticity might reflect dendritic internalization and translocation of NK(3) receptors toward the soma and nucleus. This trafficking is not observed in non-dopaminergic neurons of the VTA. The selective apomorphine-evoked redistribution of VTA NK(3) receptors might have important implications in normal or pathological conditions such as schizophrenia.
Anti-neoplastic agents in the platinum-complex, taxane, vinca alkaloid, and proteasome-inhibitor classes induce a dose-limiting, chronic, distal, symmetrical, sensory peripheral neuropathy that is often accompanied by neuropathic pain. Clinical descriptions suggest that these conditions are very similar, but clinical data are insufficient to determine the degree of similarity and to determine if they share common pathophysiological mechanisms. Animal models do not have the limitations of clinical studies and so we have characterized a rat model of chronic painful peripheral neuropathy induced by a platinum-complex agent, oxaliplatin, in order to compare it with a previously characterized model of chronic painful peripheral neuropathy induced by a taxane agent, paclitaxel. The oxaliplatin model evokes mechano-allodynia, mechano-hyperalgesia, and cold-allodynia that have a delayed onset, gradually increasing severity, a distinct delay to peak severity, and duration of about 2.5 months. There is no effect on heat sensitivity. Electron microscopy (EM) analyses found no evidence for axonal degeneration in peripheral nerve, and there is no upregulation of activating transcription factor-3 in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia. There is a statistically significant loss of intraepidermal nerve fibers in the plantar hind paw skin. Oxaliplatin treatment causes a significant increase in the incidence of swollen and vacuolated mitochondria in peripheral nerve axons, but not in their Schwann cells. Nerve conduction studies found significant slowing of sensory axons, but no change in motor axons. Single fiber recordings found an abnormal incidence of A- and C-fibers with irregular, low-frequency spontaneous discharge. Prophylactic dosing with two drugs that are known to protect mitochondria, acetyl-l-carnitine and olesoxime, significantly reduced the development of pain hypersensitivity. Our results are very similar to those obtained previously with paclitaxel, and support the hypothesis that these two agents, and perhaps other chemotherapeutics, produce very similar conditions because they have a mitotoxic effect on primary afferent neurons.
In addition to reproduction, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) has been postulated to control cholesterol metabolism via cholesterol transport, which is carried out partly by the members of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters G1 (ABCG1) and G4 (ABCG4). However, there is yet to be evidence demonstrating the relationship between these transporters with reference to GnRH neurons. In the present study, we cloned two ABCG1 messenger RNA (mRNA) variants and one ABCG4 mRNA and examined their expression in the brain including GnRH neurons (GnRH1, GnRH2, and GnRH3) in the cichlid tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). Comparison of nucleotide sequences of the tilapia ABCG1 and ABCG4 with that of other fish species showed that both of these genes are evolutionarily conserved among fishes. ABCG1 and ABCG4 were shown to have high mRNA expressions in the CNS, pituitary, and gonads. In the brain, real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) showed that ABCG4 mRNA was higher than ABCG1a in all brain regions including the olfactory bulb (ABCG1=13.34, ABCG4=6796.35; P&lt;0.001), dorsal telencephalon (ABCG1=8.64, ABCG4=10149.13; P=0.001), optic tectum (ABCG1=22.12, ABCG4=13931.04; P&lt;0.01), cerebellum (ABCG1=8.68, ABCG4=12382.90; P&lt;0.01), and preoptic area-midbrain-hypothalamus (ABCG1=21.36, ABCG4=13255.41; P=0.001). Similarly, although ABCG1 mRNA level is much higher in the pituitary compared with the brain, it was still significantly lower compared with ABCG4 (ABCG1=337.73, ABCG4=1157.87; P=0.01). The differential pattern of expression of ABCG1 and ABCG4 in the brain versus pituitary suggests that the two transporters are regulated by different mechanisms. Furthermore, ABCG1 and ABCG4 mRNA expressions were found in all three types of laser-captured GnRH neurons with highly similar percentage of expressions, suggesting that cholesterol efflux from GnRH neurons may require heterodimerization of both ABCG1 and ABCG4.
The eyeblink has long served as a model for motor learning and modulation. However, cerebellar pathways underlying conditioned blinks remain poorly studied in the mouse, and the location of blink-related neurons has never been transsynaptically mapped in the cerebellar cortex. This study aims to rectify this gap in our knowledge. By injecting GFP-expressing Pseudorabies virus (PRV-152) into the mouse orbicularis oculi muscle, neurons in the mouse eyeblink motor control circuit are transsynaptically labeled. In the facial nucleus, labeling was strictly ipsilateral to the injection site and restricted to the dorsolateral rim, consistent with previous studies. The red nucleus is bilaterally labeled at the lateral rim with clear contralateral preference. Previously unreported labeling was found in the ventrolateral red nucleus. Single-step tracing confirmed this area receives projections from eyeblink-related portions of the anterior interpositus and sends projections to eyelid-controlling portions of the facial nucleus. In the deep cerebellar nuclei, blink-related neurons were labeled both in areas associated with blink conditioning and in areas associated with other blink modulation. Finally, novel maps of the cerebellar cortex revealed a characteristic spatiotemporal pattern of labeling. Posterior vermal Purkinje cells were labeled first, followed by anterior vermal cells, then by hemispheric cells.
Modeling Parkinson's disease remains a major challenge for preclinical researchers, as existing models fail to reliably recapitulate all of the classic features of the disease, namely, the progressive emergence of a bradykinetic motor syndrome with underlying nigrostriatal -synuclein protein accumulation and nigrostriatal neurodegeneration. One limitation of the existing models is that they are normally induced by a single neuropathological insult, whereas the human disease is thought to be multifactorial with genetic and environmental factors contributing to the disease pathogenesis. Thus, in order to develop a more relevant model, we sought to determine if administration of the Parkinson's disease-associated pesticide, rotenone, into the substantia nigra of rats overexpressing the Parkinson's disease-associated protein, -synuclein, could reliably model the triad of classic features of the human disease. To do so, rats underwent stereotaxic surgery for unilateral delivery of the adeno-associated virus (AAV)--synuclein into the substantia nigra. This was followed 13 weeks later by delivery of rotenone into the same site. The effect of the genetic and environmental insults alone or in combination on lateralised motor performance (Corridor, Stepping, and Whisker Tests), nigrostriatal integrity (tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry), and -synucleinopathy (-synuclein immunohistochemistry) was assessed. We found that rats treated with either AAV--synuclein or rotenone developed significant motor dysfunction with underlying nigrostriatal neurodegeneration. However, when the genetic and environmental insults were sequentially administered, the detrimental impact of the combined insults on motor performance and nigrostriatal integrity was significantly greater than the impact of either insult alone. This indicates that sequential exposure to relevant genetic and environmental insults is a valid approach to modeling human Parkinson's disease in the rat.
The rat vas deferens has scattered sensory afferens plus a dense network of sympathetic motor efferens; these fibers are not known to interact functionally. We ascertained whether sensory fibers modulate the release of sympathetic transmitters through the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and reciprocally assessed whether sympathetic transmitters modulate the overflow of ir-CGRP from sensory fibers. The tissue overflow of electrically evoked sympathetic co-transmitters (ATP/metabolites, noradrenaline (NA), and immunoreactive neuropeptide tyrosine (ir-NPY)) and the motor responses elicited were quantified following either exogenous CGRP or capsaicin application to elicit peptide release. Conversely, the outflow of ir-CGRP was examined in the presence of sympathetic transmitters. Exogenous CGRP reduced in a concentration-dependent manner the electrically evoked outflow of ATP/metabolites, NA, and ir-NPY with EC(50) values of 1.3, 0.18, and 1.9 nM, respectively. CGRP also reduced the basal NA overflow. The CGRP-evoked modulation was blocked by CGRP8-37 or H-89. Release of endogenous CGRP by capsaicin significantly reduced the basal overflow of NA, ir-NPY, and the electrically evoked sympathetic transmitter release. ADP, 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-O-diphosphate (2-MeSADP), or UTP decreased the electrically evoked ir-CGRP overflow, whereas clonidine, ,-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate (,-mATP), or adenosine (ADO) were inactive. CGRP acting postjunctionally also reduced the motor responses elicited by exogenous NA, ATP, or electrically evoked contractions. We conclude that CGRP exerts a presynaptic modulator role on sympathetic nerve endings and reciprocally ATP or related nucleotides influence the release of ir-CGRP from sensory fibers, highlighting a dynamic sympatho-sensory control between sensory fibers and sympathetic nerve ending. Postjunctional CGRP receptors further contribute to reduce the tissue sympathetic motor tone implying a pre and postjunctional role of CGRP as a sympathetic tone modulator.
Several craniofacial pain conditions, including temporomandibular joint disorders (TMJDs), are more prevalent in women than men. The basis for sex differences in deep craniofacial pain is not known. The present study compared the magnitude of ascending projections from temporomandibular joint (TMJ)-responsive neurons in trigeminal brainstem with the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) or posterior nucleus of the thalamus (Po) in males and female rats. Fluorogold (FG) was injected into vlPAG or Po, and TMJ-responsive neurons were identified by Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) after mustard oil injection. TMJ-evoked Fos-LI was similar in males and females; however, significant differences in cell counts were seen for FG single-labeled and Fos/FG double-labeled neurons in trigeminal brainstem. After vlPAG injections, the number of FG-labeled neurons in trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris (Vi), ventral interpolaris/caudalis transition (vl-Vi/Vc), and dorsal paratrigeminal region (dPa5) was greater in females than males. The percentage of Fos/FG double-labeled neurons in vl-Vi/Vc and dPa5 after vlPAG injection also was greater in females than males. In contrast, after Po injections, males displayed a greater number of FG-labeled neurons in superficial laminae (Lam I/II) of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) and upper cervical spinal cord (C(1-2)) and deeper laminae (Lam III/V) at C(1-2) than females. The percentage of Fos/FG double-labeled neurons in Lam I/II of Vc after Po injection also was greater in males than females. These data revealed significant sex differences in ascending projections from TMJ-responsive neurons in trigeminal brainstem. Such differences may influence the ability of males and females to recruit autonomic reflexes and endogenous pain control circuits relevant for TMJ nociception.
This article concerns the kinetics, selectivity, and distribution of the Na(V)1.9, Na(V)1.8, and Na(V)1.7 channel subtypes in the CNS of the snail, Helix pomatia. Within the snail brain, Na(V)1.9- and Na(V)1.8-like channel subtypes are widely expressed, with particularly high levels in the pedal, cerebral, and buccal ganglia. The suboesophageal ganglion contains equal amounts of neurons labeled with Na(V)1.9, 1.8, and 1.7 antibodies. Our data show that different types of ion channels are localized to discrete neurons and regions of the neuronal membrane affecting by this way the physiology of synaptic transmission or nerve conduction. Based on the voltage dependence and kinetics, the non- or slowly inactivating currents were observed in identified and nonidentified neurons of the snail CNS attributed to separate Na-channel subtypes. These observations provide the first evidence for the presence of the composite Na-current in snail neurons. The significance of Na(V)1.9 channels in gastropod neurons is assigned to regulating the subthreshold membrane depolarization. First time, we have demonstrated that in addition to the Na(V)1.2-like channels most of the neurons contain Na(V)1.8- or 1.7-like channels carrying the composite inward sodium current. In this way, neurons containing different sets of channels differently are regulated, which allows further dynamic modulation of neuronal activity. The neuronal soma membrane revealed low ion selectivity of the Na-channels with slow kinetics, which is a general property of gastropod molluscs. In addition, the relative similarity of the biophysical properties of voltage-gated currents between vertebrates and invertebrates may reflect a structural similarity existing between Na-channel subtypes pointing to a common evolutionary origin.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a major cause of paralysis, and involves multiple cellular and tissular responses including demyelination, inflammation, cell death and axonal degeneration. Recent evidence suggests that perturbation on the homeostasis of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is observed in different SCI models; however, the functional contribution of this pathway to this pathology is not known. Here we demonstrate that SCI triggers a fast ER stress reaction (1-3 h) involving the upregulation of key components of the unfolded protein response (UPR), a process that propagates through the spinal cord. Ablation of X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) or activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) expression, two major UPR transcription factors, leads to a reduced locomotor recovery after experimental SCI. The effects of UPR inactivation were associated with a significant increase in the number of damaged axons and reduced amount of oligodendrocytes surrounding the injury zone. In addition, altered microglial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression were observed in ATF4 deficient mice after SCI. Local expression of active XBP1 into the spinal cord using adeno-associated viruses enhanced locomotor recovery after SCI, and was associated with an increased number of oligodendrocytes. Altogether, our results demonstrate a functional role of the UPR in SCI, offering novel therapeutic targets to treat this invalidating condition.

Among many methods used to investigate protein/protein interactions, chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry remains a vital experimental approach. Mapping peptides modified by cross-linker provides clues about proteins' interacting domains. One complication is that such modification may result from intra- but not intermolecular interactions. Therefore, for overall data interpretation, a combination of results from various platforms is necessary. It is postulated that the secretory isoform of gelsolin regulates several biological processes through interactions with proteins such as actin, fibronectin, vitamin D-binding protein, and unidentified receptors on the surface of eukaryotes; it also has been shown to self-assemble eventually leading to the formation of homo-multimers. As such, it is an excellent model for this study. We used four cross-linkers with arm length ranging from 7.7 to 21.7 and MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry as the analytical platform. Results of this study show that MALDI-based mass spectrometry generates high quality data to show lysine residues modified by cross-linkers and combined with existing data based on crystallography (Protein Data Bank, PDB) can be used to discriminate between inter- and intramolecular linking.

Airway inflammation in allergen-induced asthma is associated with eicosanoid release. These bioactive lipids exhibit anti- and pro-inflammatory activities with relevance to pulmonary pathophysiology. We hypothesized that sensitization/challenge using an extract from the ubiquitous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus in a mouse model of allergic asthma would result in altered phospholipase gene expression, thus modulating the downstream eicosanoid pathway. We observed the most significant induction in the group IVC PLA2 (phospholipase A2) [also known as cPLA2 (cytosolic PLA2) or PLA2G4C]. Our results infer that A. fumigatus extract can induce cPLA2 levels directly in eosinophils, whereas induction in lung epithelial cells is most likely to be a consequence of TNF (tumour necrosis factor ) secretion by A. fumigatus-activated macrophages. The mechanism of TNF-dependent induction of cPLA2 gene expression was elucidated through a combination of promoter deletions, ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) and overexpression studies in human bronchoepithelial cells, leading to the identification of functionally relevant CRE (cAMP-response element), NF-B (nuclear factor B) and E-box promoter elements. ChIP analysis demonstrated that RNA polymerase II, ATF-2 (activating transcription factor 2)-c-Jun, p65-p65 and USF (upstream stimulating factor) 1-USF2 complexes are recruited to the cPLA2 enhancer/promoter in response to TNF, with overexpression and dominant-negative studies implying a strong level of co-operation and interplay between these factors. Overall, our results link cytokine-mediated alterations in cPLA2 gene expression with allergic asthma and outline a complex regulatory mechanism.
The well-known interferon-inducer tilorone was found to possess potent affinity for the agonist site of the 7 neuronal nicotinic receptor (K(i)=56 nM). SAR investigations determined that both basic sidechains are essential for potent activity, however active monosubstituted derivatives can also be prepared if the flexible sidechains are replaced with conformationally rigidified cyclic amines. Analogs in which the fluorenone core is replaced with either dibenzothiophene-5,5-dioxide or xanthenone also retain potent activity.
Comment on: Krumova P, et al. J Cell Biol 2011; 194 :49-60.






The potential contribution of social science research to close the gap of knowledge between cognitive neuroscience and educational research has been underappreciated. Despite their virtual absence in the interdisciplinary dialog of neuroscience, sociology of education and related study of the cultural impact of formal education have generated research relevant to an understanding of how the social environment, such as widespread schooling, co-evolves with, and enhances neurocognitive development. Two clusters of isolated research literatures are synthesized that taken together anticipates a dynamic integration of neuroscience and education. The first cluster is on the social construction of cognition through formal education in contemporary society, including the effects of schooling on neurological and cognitive development; the demographic expansion of exposure to the developmental influence of schooling; and education's cultural impact on the meaning of the learning experience and reinforcement of cognition as the key human capability across ever more key institutions in postindustrial society. The second cluster turns the issue around by examining current investigations from neuroscience that support neurological hypotheses about the causes behind the schooling effect on neurocognitive development. We propose that further integration of these literatures will provide a more ecologically valid context in which to investigate the evolving functional architecture of the contemporary brain.
To the extent that selective attention skills are relevant for academic foundations and amenable to training, they represent an important focus for the field of education. Here, drawing on research on the neurobiology of attention, we review hypothesized links between selective attention and processing across three domains important to early academic skills. First, we provide a brief review of the neural bases of selective attention, emphasizing the effects of selective attention on neural processing, as well as the neural systems important to deploying selective attention and managing response conflict. Second, we examine the developmental time course of selective attention. It is argued that developmental differences in selective attention are related to the neural systems important for deploying selective attention and managing response conflict. In contrast, once effectively deployed, selective attention acts through very similar neural mechanisms across ages. In the third section, we relate the processes of selective attention to three domains important to academic foundations: language, literacy, and mathematics. Fourth, drawing on recent literatures on the effects of video-game play and mind-brain training on selective attention, we discuss the possibility of training selective attention. The final section examines the application of these principles to educationally-focused attention-training programs for children.
Economic models of investment in human capital sometimes refer to neuroscience as a means to support their underlying assumptions regarding human development. These assumptions have a crucial influence on the policy implications the models generate. We review the extent to which the neuroscience of development can be used to support a &quot;learning begets learning&quot; principle of human capital accumulation. We conclude that, although early neural development can be considered as foundational, it cannot be considered as a unitary phenomenon that proceeds in continuous fashion. Furthermore, the concept of the sensitive period, which is often used associated with the principle, suggests benefits of investment depend upon an individual's circumstances and developmental history, and particularly whether this can be classified as normal. A more recent model of investment has involved two different types of abilities, with outcomes demonstrating the value of including more sophisticated assumptions about human development. We conclude that, while current discussions of policy would benefit from a more careful interpretation of existing models, the potential for future work combining modern neuroscientific understanding with economic theory is considerable.

Translation of mRNA into protein proceeds in three phases: initiation, elongation, and termination. Regulated translation allows the prompt production of selective proteins in response to physiological needs and is often controlled by sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins that function at initiation. Whether the elongation phase of translation can be modulated individually by trans-acting factors to synthesize polypeptides at variable rates remains to be determined. Here, we demonstrate that the RNA-binding protein, cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein (CPEB)2, interacts with the elongation factor, eEF2, to reduce eEF2/ribosome-triggered GTP hydrolysis in vitro and slow down peptide elongation of CPEB2-bound RNA in vivo. The interaction of CPEB2 with eEF2 downregulates HIF-1 RNA translation under normoxic conditions; however, when cells encounter oxidative stress, CPEB2 dissociates from HIF-1 RNA, leading to rapid synthesis of HIF-1 for hypoxic adaptation. This study delineates the molecular mechanism of CPEB2-repressed translation and presents a unique model for controlling transcript-selective translation at elongation.
The serotonin6 (5-HT(6)) receptor has received attention for its proposed role in cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. This has lead to a search for selective 5-HT(6) receptor ligands useful for in vivo imaging in animals and humans. The novel 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist Lu AE60157 (8-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-3-phenylsulfonylquinoline) displays high affinity for the human (h) 5-HT(6) receptor (K(d) 0.2nM), and broad profiling in 60 additional binding and enzyme assays showed that Lu AE60157 displays 16-fold selectivity to the h5-HT(2A) receptor (K(i) 3.2nM) and &gt;100-fold selectivity to all other evaluated targets. Lu AE60157 was labeled with tritium in the N-methyl group and evaluated as a radioligand in vitro as well as in vivo in rats and mice. Autoradiography experiments showed that [(3)H]Lu AE60157 bound preferentially to rat brain regions with expected high 5-HT(6) receptor density. Furthermore, [(3)H]Lu AE60157 showed good brain penetration after systemic administration and high (about 75%) specific in vivo binding to the striatal 5-HT(6) receptor in rats. The striatal binding of [(3)H]Lu AE60157 was fully displaced by selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists (SB-742457; Lu AE58054) and antipsychotics known to inhibit the binding of 5-HT(6) receptors in vitro (clozapine; olanzapine; sertindole), but was not displaced by antipsychotics lacking high 5-HT(6) receptor affinities (risperidone; haloperidol; quetiapine). No specific binding to mouse brain tissue in vivo could be obtained. In conclusion, [(3)H]Lu AE60157 is suitable for measuring in vivo occupancies of 5-HT(6) receptor ligands in rat brain regions in which 5-HT(2A) receptors do not interfere.
Genetic studies have implicated the neuronal ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH) protein UCH-L1 in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Moreover, the function of UCH-L1 may be lost in the brains of PD and Alzheimer's disease patients. We have previously reported that the UCH-L1 polymorphic variant S18Y, potentially protective against PD in population studies, demonstrates specific antioxidant functions in cell culture. Albeit genetic, biochemical and neuropathological data support an association between UCH-L1, PD, synaptic degeneration and oxidative stress, the relationship between the dopaminergic system and UCH-L1 status remains obscure. In the current study, we have examined the dopaminergic system of mice lacking endogenous UCH-L1 protein (gracile axonal dystrophy mice). Our findings show that the lack of wild-type (WT) UCH-L1 does not influence to any significant degree the dopaminergic system at baseline or following injections of the neurotoxin methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Furthermore, using a novel intrastriatal adenoviral injection protocol, we have found that mouse nigral neurons retrogradely transduced with S18Y UCH-L1, but not the WT protein, are significantly protected against MPTP toxicity. Overall, these data provide evidence for an antioxidant and neuroprotective effect of the S18Y variant of UCH-L1, but not of the WT protein, in the dopaminergic system, and may have implications for the pathogenesis of PD or related neurodegenerative conditions, in which oxidative stress might play a role.
A simple and sensitive liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry method was developed for the simultaneous quantification in human plasma of all selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (citalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine and sertraline) and their main active metabolites (desmethyl-citalopram and norfluoxetine). A stable isotope-labeled internal standard was used for each analyte to compensate for the global method variability, including extraction and ionization variations. After sample (250l) pre-treatment with acetonitrile (500l) to precipitate proteins, a fast solid-phase extraction procedure was performed using mixed mode Oasis MCX 96-well plate. Chromatographic separation was achieved in less than 9.0min on a XBridge C18 column (2.1100mm; 3.5m) using a gradient of ammonium acetate (pH 8.1; 50mM) and acetonitrile as mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.3ml/min. The method was fully validated according to Socit Franaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques protocols and the latest Food and Drug Administration guidelines. Six point calibration curves were used to cover a large concentration range of 1-500ng/ml for citalopram, desmethyl-citalopram, paroxetine and sertraline, 1-1000ng/ml for fluoxetine and fluvoxamine, and 2-1000ng/ml for norfluoxetine. Good quantitative performances were achieved in terms of trueness (84.2-109.6%), repeatability (0.9-14.6%) and intermediate precision (1.8-18.0%) in the entire assay range including the lower limit of quantification. Internal standard-normalized matrix effects were lower than 13%. The accuracy profiles (total error) were mainly included in the acceptance limits of 30% for biological samples. The method was successfully applied for routine therapeutic drug monitoring of more than 1600 patient plasma samples over 9 months. The -expectation tolerance intervals determined during the validation phase were coherent with the results of quality control samples analyzed during routine use. This method is therefore precise and suitable both for therapeutic drug monitoring and pharmacokinetic studies in most clinical laboratories.
Both vagal and sacral neural crest cells contribute to the enteric nervous system in the hindgut. Because it is difficult to visualize sacral crest cells independently of vagal crest, the nature and extent of the sacral crest contribution to the enteric nervous system are not well established in rodents. To overcome this problem we generated mice in which only the fluorescent protein-labeled sacral crest are present in the terminal colon. We found that sacral crest cells were associated with extrinsic nerve fibers. We investigated the source, time of appearance, and characteristics of the extrinsic nerve fibers found in the aganglionic colon. We observed that the pelvic ganglion neurons contributed a number of extrinsic fibers that travel within the hindgut between circular and longitudinal muscles and within the submucosa and serosa. Sacral crest-derived cells along these fibers diminished in number from fetal to postnatal stages. A small number of sacral crest-derived cells were found between the muscle layers and expressed the neuronal marker Hu. We conclude that sacral crest cells enter the hindgut by advancing on extrinsic fibers and, in aganglionic preparations, they form a small number of neurons at sites normally occupied by myenteric ganglia. We also examined the colons of ganglionated preparations and found sacral crest-derived cells associated with both extrinsic nerve fibers and nascent ganglia. Extrinsic nerve fibers serve as a route of entry for both rodent and avian sacral crest into the hindgut.


Inhibition from thalamic interneurons plays a critical role in modulating information transfer between thalamus and neocortex. Interestingly, these neurons yield inhibition via two distinct outputs: presynaptic dendrites that innervate thalamocortical relay neurons and axonal outputs. Since the dendrites of thalamic interneurons are the primary targets of incoming synaptic information, it has been hypothesized that local synaptic input could produce highly focused dendritic output. To gain additional insight into the computational power of these presynaptic dendrites, we have combined two-photon laser scanning microscopy, glutamate uncaging, and whole-cell electrophysiological recordings to locally activate dendritic terminals and study their inhibitory contribution to rat thalamocortical relay neurons. Our findings demonstrate that local dendritic release from thalamic interneurons is controlled locally by AMPA/NMDA receptor-mediated recruitment of L-type calcium channels. Moreover, by mapping these connections with single dendrite resolution we not only found that presynaptic dendrites preferentially target proximal regions, but such actions differ significantly across branches. Furthermore, local stimulation of interneuron dendrites did not result in global excitation, supporting the notion that these interneurons can operate as multiplexors, containing numerous independently operating input-output devices.
The strength of synaptic inhibition can be controlled by the stability and endocytosis of surface and synaptic GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs), but the surface receptor dynamics that underpin GABA(A)R recruitment to dendritic endocytic zones (EZs) have not been investigated. Stabilization of GABA(A)Rs at EZs is likely to be regulated by receptor interactions with the clathrin-adaptor AP2, but the molecular determinants of these associations remain poorly understood. Moreover, although surface GABA(A)R downmodulation plays a key role in pathological disinhibition in conditions such as ischemia and epilepsy, whether this occurs in an AP2-dependent manner also remains unclear. Here we report the characterization of a novel motif containing three arginine residues (405RRR407) within the GABA(A)R 3-subunit intracellular domain (ICD), responsible for the interaction with AP2 and GABA(A)R internalization. When this motif is disrupted, binding to AP2 is abolished in vitro and in rat brain. Using single-particle tracking, we reveal that surface 3-subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs exhibit highly confined behavior at EZs, which is dependent on AP2 interactions via this motif. Reduced stabilization of mutant GABA(A)Rs at EZs correlates with their reduced endocytosis and increased steady-state levels at synapses. By imaging wild-type or mutant super-ecliptic pHluorin-tagged GABA(A)Rs in neurons, we also show that, under conditions of oxygen-glucose deprivation to mimic cerebral ischemia, GABA(A)Rs are depleted from synapses in dendrites, depending on the 405RRR407 motif. Thus, AP2 binding to an RRR motif in the GABA(A)R 3-subunit ICD regulates GABA(A)R residency time at EZs, steady-state synaptic receptor levels, and pathological loss of GABA(A)Rs from synapses during simulated ischemia.
The basal ganglia (BG) have been hypothesized to implement a reinforcement learning algorithm. However, it is not clear how information is processed along this network, thus enabling it to perform its functional role. Here we present three different encoding schemes of visual cues associated with rewarding, neutral, and aversive outcomes by BG neuronal populations. We studied the response profile and dynamical behavior of two populations of projection neurons [striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs), and neurons in the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe)], and one neuromodulator group [striatal tonically active neurons (TANs)] from behaving monkeys. MSNs and GPe neurons displayed sustained average activity to cue presentation. The population average response of MSNs was composed of three distinct response groups that were temporally differentiated and fired in serial episodes along the trial. In the GPe, the average sustained response was composed of two response groups that were primarily differentiated by their immediate change in firing rate direction. However, unlike MSNs, neurons in both GPe response groups displayed prolonged and temporally overlapping persistent activity. The putamen TANs stereotyped response was characterized by a single transient response group. Finally, the MSN and GPe response groups reorganized at the outcome epoch, as different task events were reflected in different response groups. Our results strengthen the functional separation between BG neuromodulators and main axis neurons. Furthermore, they reveal dynamically changing cell assemblies in the striatal network of behaving primates. Finally, they support the functional convergence of the MSN response groups onto GPe cells.
The microtubule-associated protein Tau is a major component of the neurofibrillary tangles that serve as a neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Tau is a substrate for protein phosphorylation at multiple sites and occurs in tangles in a hyperphosphorylated state. However, the physiological functions of Tau phosphorylation or how it may contribute mechanistically to Alzheimer's pathophysiology are not completely understood. Here, we examined the function of human Tau phosphorylation at three sites, Ser199, Ser202, and Thr205, which together comprise the AT8 sites that mark abnormal phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease. Overexpression of wild-type Tau or mutated forms in which these sites had been changed to either unphosphorylatable alanines or phosphomimetic aspartates inhibited mitochondrial movement in the neurite processes of PC12 cells as well as the axons of mouse brain cortical neurons. However, the greatest effects on mitochondrial translocation were induced by phosphomimetic mutations. These mutations also caused expansion of the space between microtubules in cultured cells when membrane tension was reduced by disrupting actin filaments. Thus, Tau phosphorylation at the AT8 sites may have meaningful effects on mitochondrial movement, likely by controlling microtubule spacing. Hyperphosphorylation of the AT8 sites may contribute to axonal degeneration by disrupting mitochondrial transport in Alzheimer's disease.
The receptor tyrosine kinase MuSK is indispensable for nerve-muscle synapse formation and maintenance. MuSK is necessary for prepatterning of the endplate zone anlage and as a signaling receptor for agrin-mediated postsynaptic differentiation. MuSK-associated proteins such as Dok7, LRP4, and Wnt11r are involved in these early events in neuromuscular junction formation. However, the mechanisms regulating synapse stability are poorly understood. Here we examine a novel role for the extracellular matrix protein biglycan in synapse stability. Synaptic development in fetal and early postnatal biglycan null (bgn(-/o)) muscle is indistinguishable from wild-type controls. However, by 5 weeks after birth, nerve-muscle synapses in bgn(-/o) mice are abnormal as judged by the presence of perijunctional folds, increased segmentation, and focal misalignment of acetylcholinesterase and AChRs. These observations indicate that previously occupied presynaptic and postsynaptic territory has been vacated. Biglycan binds MuSK and the levels of this receptor tyrosine kinase are selectively reduced at bgn(-/o) synapses. In bgn(-/o) myotubes, the initial stages of agrin-induced MuSK phosphorylation and AChR clustering are normal, but the AChR clusters are unstable. This stability defect can be substantially rescued by the addition of purified biglycan. Together, these results indicate that biglycan is an extracellular ligand for MuSK that is important for synapse stability.
Both 0.2 T and 9.4 T MRI systems were used to image a mouse model of glioma. RF coils were designed for both fields. A spin-echo, multi-echo pulse sequence was used to determine T(2) relaxation times of both brain and tumor tissues. Contrast-to-noise ratio was calculated based on the selected echo time. The results showed that 0.2 T is suitable for mouse model imaging, however total scan time must be long to achieve high enough SNR. T(2) relaxation times of the tumor and brain tissues can be measured at 0.2 T and are 2.1 and 1.8 times respectively longer at 0.2 T than at 9.4 T. Contrast to noise ratio for tumor and brain was better at high field than at the low field. We concluded that 0.2 T may be used to study mouse model of glioma using spin echo pulse sequence, yet the total scan time is long (about 40 min), resolution is lower (250 m  250 m) and slice thickness (3mm) must be large enough to obtain sufficient SNR.
Advances in imaging technology have enabled automated approaches for quantitative image analysis. In this study, a high content object based image analysis method was developed for quantification of -amyloid (A) plaques in postmortem brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects and in transgenic mice over overexpressing A. Digital images acquired from immunohistochemically stained sections of the superior frontal gyrus were analyzed for A plaque burden using a Definiens object-based segmentation approach. Blinded evaluation of A stained sections from AD and aged matched human subjects accurately identified AD cases with one exception. Brains from transgenic mice overexpressing A (PS1APP mice) were also evaluated by our Definiens object based image analysis approach. We observed an age-dependent increase in the amount of A plaque load that we quantified in both the hippocampus and cortex. From the contralateral hemisphere, we measured the amount of A in brain homogenates biochemically and observed a significant correlation between our biochemical measurements and those that we measured by our object based Definiens system in the hippocampus. Assessment of A plaque load in PS1APP mice using a manual segmentation technique (Image-Pro Plus) confirmed the results of our object-based image analysis approach. Image acquisition and analysis of 32 stained human slides and 100 mouse slides were executed in 8 h and 22 h, respectively supporting the relatively high throughput features of the Definiens platform. The data show that digital imaging combined with object based image analysis is a reliable and efficient approach to quantifying A plaques in human and mouse brain.
This commentary challenges the conclusions of the NC3Rs Working Group's recent special report that food- or fluid control is sometimes necessary to conduct modern neuroscientific investigations in macaque monkeys (Prescott et al., 2010). Given the potential suffering of animals subjected to food- or fluid control, the decision to subject an animal to such practices should be taken hesitantly. That decision hinges on to which extent the animal is willing to be involved in the task. The authors have done a scientific literature search and express expert opinion, but fail to mention two techniques that may greatly influence the animals' motivation to participate in the task and thus reduce the need for food- or fluid control, namely (1) the use of conditioned reinforcers in addition to primary reinforcers; and (2) the use of Variable-Ratio Schedules rather than continuous reinforcement. An ethical and humane approach to animal experimentation suggests that all options should be explored and thoroughly investigated before resorting to methods potentially challenging the animals' welfare.

Schizophrenia, a debilitating illness affecting 0.5-1% of the world's population, is characterized by positive, negative and cognitive symptoms. The latter are the best predictor of functional outcome, though largely untreated by current pharmacotherapy; thus a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits in schizophrenia is crucial. Higher order cognitive processes, such as working memory, are associated with  (4-7 Hz) and  (30-80 Hz) oscillations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), and subjects with schizophrenia exhibit working memory impairments and reduced cortical  and  band power. Cortical  and  oscillations are dependent on perisomatic inhibition of pyramidal neurons from basket cells expressing cholecystokinin (CCK(b) cells) and parvalbumin (PV(b) cells), respectively. Thus, alterations in basket cells may underlie the cortical oscillation deficits and working memory impairments in schizophrenia. Recent findings from postmortem studies suggest that schizophrenia is associated with multiple molecular alterations that regulate signalling from CCK(b) and PV(b) cells. These alterations include lower CCK and cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) in CCK(b) cells, and lower glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) and increased  opioid receptor (OR) in PV(b) cells, as well as lower GABA(A) receptor 1 subunit in pyramidal neurons postsynaptic to PV(b) cells. These changes are thought to lead to increased and decreased strength, respectively, of CCK(b) and PV(b) cell-mediated inhibition of postsynaptic pyramidal cells. Therefore, a convergence of evidence suggests a substantial shift in the relative strengths of PFC pyramidal cell inhibition from CCK(b) and PV(b) cells that may underlie cortical oscillation deficits and working memory impairments in schizophrenia.
Theta burst stimulation (TBS) protocols of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) have after-effects on excitability of motor areas thought to be due to LTP- and LTD-like processes at cortical synapses. The present experiments ask whether, despite the low intensities of stimulation used and the anatomy of the posterior fossa, TBS can also influence the cerebellum. Acquisition and retention of eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) was examined in 30 healthy volunteers after continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) over the right cerebellar hemisphere. In subjects who received cerebellar cTBS, conditioned responses were fewer and their onsets were earlier (in the last half of the acquisition blocks) than those from control subjects. There was, however, no effect of cerebellar cTBS on the re-acquisition of EBCC in another session of EBCC 710 days later. There was also no effect of cerebellar cTBS on the re-acquisition of EBCC in subjects not nave to EBCC when the stimulation was delivered immediately before a re-acquisition session. Control experiments verified that suppressive effects of cTBS on EBCC were not due to changes in motor cortical excitability or sensory disturbance caused by cTBS. Based on previous EBCC studies in various cerebellar pathologies, our data are compatible with the hypothesis that cerebellar cTBS has a focal cerebellar cortical effect, and are broadly in line with data from studies of EBCC in various animal models. These results confirm that cerebellar TBS has measurable effects on the function of the cerebellum, and indicate it is a useful non-invasive technique with which to explore cerebellar physiology and function in humans.
Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGlu) modulation of sensory processing in the rat ventrobasal thalamic nucleus (VB) has been extensively studied in vivo. However, it is not yet known what the relative contributions are of the Group II mGlu receptor subtypes (mGlu2 and mGlu3) to this modulation, nor to what extent these receptors may be activated under physiological conditions during this process. Using single-neurone recording in the rat VB in vivo with local application of the selective Group II agonist LY354740 and the subtype selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator (PAM) LY487379, our findings were twofold. Firstly, we found that there is an mGlu2 component to the effects of LY354740 on sensory responses in the VB. Secondly, we have demonstrated that application of the PAM alone can modulate sensory responses of single neurones in vivo. This indicates that mGlu2 receptors can be activated by endogenous agonist following physiological sensory stimulation. We speculate that the mGlu2 subtype could be activated under physiological stimulus-evoked conditions by 'glutamate spillover' from synapses between excitatory sensory afferents and VB neurones that can lead to a reduction in sensory-evoked inhibition arising from the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). We propose that this potential mGlu2 receptor modulation of inhibition could play an important role in discerning relevant information from background activity upon physiological sensory stimulation. Furthermore, this could be a site of action for mGlu2 PAMs to modulate cognitive processes.
The hippocampal network comprises a large variety of locally connected GABAergic interneurons exerting a powerful control on network excitability and which are responsible for the oscillatory behaviour crucial for information processing. GABAergic interneurons receive an important cholinergic innervation from the medial septum-diagonal band complex of the basal forebrain and are endowed with a variety of muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs and nAChRs) that regulate their activity. Deficits in the cholinergic system lead to the impairment of high cognitive functions, which are particularly relevant in neurodegenerative pathologies such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases as well as in schizophrenia. Here, we highlight some recent advances in the mechanisms by which cholinergic signalling via nAChRs regulates local inhibitory circuits in the hippocampus, early in postnatal life and in adulthood. We also discuss recent findings concerning the functional role of nAChRs in controlling short- and long-term modifications of synaptic efficacy. Insights into these processes may provide new targets for the therapeutic control of pathological conditions associated with cholinergic dysfunctions.
Population calcium signals generated by the action potential activity of local clusters of neurons have been recorded in the auditory cortex of mice using an optical fibre-based approach. These network calcium transients (NCaTs) occurred spontaneously as well as in response to sound stimulation. Two-photon calcium imaging experiments suggest that neurons and neuropil contribute about equally to the NCaT. Sound-evoked calcium signals had two components: an early, fast increase in calcium concentration, which corresponds to the short-latency spiking responses observed in electrophysiological experiments, and a late, slow calcium transient which lasted for at least 1 s. The slow calcium transients evoked by sound were essentially identical to spontaneous NCaTs. Their sizes were dependent on the spontaneous activity level at sound onset, suggesting that spontaneous and sensory-evoked NCaTs excluded each other. When using pure tones as stimulus, the early evoked calcium transients were more narrowly tuned than the slow NCaTs. The slow NCaTs were correlated with global up states' recorded with epidural potentials, and sound presented during an epidural down state' triggered a calcium transient that was associated with an epidural up state'. Essentially indistinguishable calcium transients were evoked by optogenetic activation of local clusters of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the auditory cortex, indicating that these neurons play an important role in the generation of the calcium signal. Taken together, our results identify sound-evoked slow NCaTs as an integral component of neuronal signalling in the mouse auditory cortex, reflecting the prolonged neuronal activity of local clusters of neurons that can be activated even by brief stimuli.
Because many different sensory modalities contribute to spatial learning in rodents, it has been difficult to determine whether spatial navigation can be guided solely by visual cues. Rodents moving within physical environments with visual cues engage a variety of nonvisual sensory systems that cannot be easily inhibited without lesioning brain areas. Virtual reality offers a unique approach to ask whether visual landmark cues alone are sufficient to improve performance in a spatial task. We found that mice could learn to navigate between two water reward locations along a virtual bidirectional linear track using a spherical treadmill. Mice exposed to a virtual environment with vivid visual cues rendered on a single monitor increased their performance over a 3-d training regimen. Training significantly increased the percentage of time avatars controlled by the mice spent near reward locations in probe trials without water rewards. Neither improvement during training or spatial learning for reward locations occurred with mice operating a virtual environment without vivid landmarks or with mice deprived of all visual feedback. Mice operating the vivid environment developed stereotyped avatar turning behaviors when alternating between reward zones that were positively correlated with their performance on the probe trial. These results suggest that mice are able to learn to navigate to specific locations using only visual cues presented within a virtual environment rendered on a single computer monitor.
The neural-hemodynamic relationships may vary depending on cortical processing patterns. To investigate how cortical hemodynamics reflects neural activity involving different cortical processing patterns, we delivered electrical stimulation pulses to rat hindpaws, unilaterally or bilaterally, and simultaneously measured electrophysiological (local field potential, LFP &lt; 100 Hz; multiunit activity, MUA&gt;300 Hz) and optical intrinsic signals associated with changes in cerebral blood volume (CBV). Unilateral stimulation evoked neural and optical signals in bilateral primary somatosensory cortices. Ipsilateral optical responses indicating an increased CBV exhibited a peak magnitude of ~30% and mediocaudal shifts relative to contralateral responses. Correlation analyses revealed different scale factors between contralateral and ipsilateral responses in LFP-MUA and LFP-CBV relationships. Bilateral stimulation at varying time intervals evoked hemodynamic responses that were strongly suppressed at 40-ms intervals. This suppression quantitatively reflected suppressed LFP responses to contralateral testing stimulation and not linear summation, with slowly fluctuating LFP responses to ipsilateral conditioning stimulation. Consequently, in the overall responses to bilateral stimulation, CBV-related responses were more linearly correlated with MUA than with LFPs. When extracting high-frequency components (&gt;30 Hz) from LFPs, we found similar scale factors between contralateral and ipsilateral responses in LFP-MUA and LFP-CBV relationships, resulting in significant linear relationships among these components, MUA, and cortical hemodynamics in overall responses to bilateral stimulation. The dependence of LFP-MUA-hemodynamic relationships on cortical processing patterns and the LFP temporal/spectral structure is important for interpreting hemodynamic signals in complex functional paradigms driving diverse cortical processing.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) have become an important tool in the quest to understand how infants process perceptual information. Identification of the activation loci of the ERP generators is a technique that provides an opportunity to explore the neural substrates that underlie auditory processing. Nevertheless, as infant brain templates from healthy, non-clinical samples have not been available, the majority of source localization studies in infants have used non-realistic head models, or brain templates derived from older children or adults. Given the dramatic structural changes seen across infancy, all of which profoundly affect the electrical fields measured with EEG, it is important to use individual MRIs or age-appropriate brain templates and parameters to explore the localization and time course of auditory ERP sources. In this study 6-month-old infants were presented with a passive oddball paradigm using consonant-vowel (CV) syllables that differed in voice onset time. Dense-array EEG/ERPs were collected while the infants were awake and alert. In addition, MRIs were acquired during natural non-sedated sleep for a subset of the sample. Discrete dipole and distributed source models were mapped onto individual and averaged infant MRIs. The CV syllables elicited a positive deflection at about 200 ms followed by a negative deflection that peaked around 400 ms. The source models generated placed the dipoles at temporal areas close to auditory cortex for both positive and negative responses. Notably, an additional dipole for the positive peak was localized at the frontal area, at the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) level. ACC activation has been reported in adults, but has not, to date, been reported in infants during processing of speech-related signals. The frontal ACC activation was earlier but smaller in amplitude than the left and right auditory temporal activations. These results demonstrate that in infancy the ERP generators to CV syllables are localized in cortical areas similar to that reported in adults, but exhibit a notably different temporal course. Specifically, ACC activation in infants significantly precedes auditory temporal activation, whereas in adults ACC activation follows that of temporal cortex. We suggest that these timing differences could be related to current maturational changes, to the ongoing construction of language-specific phonetic maps, and/or to more sensitive attentional switching as a response to speech signals in infancy.
Pattern recognition algorithms are becoming increasingly used in functional neuroimaging. These algorithms exploit information contained in temporal, spatial, or spatio-temporal patterns of independent variables (features) to detect subtle but reliable differences between brain responses to external stimuli or internal brain states. When applied to the analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) or magnetoencephalography (MEG) data, a choice needs to be made on how the input features to the algorithm are obtained from the signal amplitudes measured at the various channels. In this article, we consider six types of pattern analyses deriving from the combination of three types of feature selection in the temporal domain (predefined windows, shifting window, whole trial) with two approaches to handle the channel dimension (channel wise, multi-channel). We combined these different types of analyses with a Gaussian Nave Bayes classifier and analyzed a multi-subject EEG data set from a study aimed at understanding the task dependence of the cortical mechanisms for encoding speaker's identity and speech content (vowels) from short speech utterances (Bonte, Valente, &amp; Formisano, 2009). Outcomes of the analyses showed that different grouping of available features helps highlighting complementary (i.e. temporal, topographic) aspects of information content in the data. A shifting window/multi-channel approach proved especially valuable in tracing both the early build up of neural information reflecting speaker or vowel identity and the late and task-dependent maintenance of relevant information reflecting the performance of a working memory task. Because it exploits the high temporal resolution of EEG (and MEG), such a shifting window approach with sequential multi-channel classifications seems the most appropriate choice for tracing the temporal profile of neural information processing.
During development from childhood to adulthood the human brain undergoes considerable thinning of the cerebral cortex. Whether developmental cortical thinning is influenced by genes and if independent genetic factors influence different parts of the cortex is not known. Magnetic resonance brain imaging was done in twins at age 9 (N = 190) and again at age 12 (N = 125; 113 repeated measures) to assess genetic influences on changes in cortical thinning. We find considerable thinning of the cortex between over this three year interval (on average 0.05 mm; 1.5%), particularly in the frontal poles, and orbitofrontal, paracentral, and occipital cortices. Cortical thinning was highly heritable at age 9 and age 12, and the degree of genetic influence differed for the various areas of the brain. One genetic factor affected left inferior frontal (Broca's area), and left parietal (Wernicke's area) thinning; a second factor influenced left anterior paracentral (sensory-motor) thinning. Two factors influenced cortical thinning in the frontal poles: one of decreasing influence over time, and another independent genetic factor emerging at age 12 in left and right frontal poles. Thus, thinning of the cerebral cortex is heritable in children between the ages 9 and 12. Furthermore, different genetic factors are responsible for variation in cortical thickness at ages 9 and 12, with independent genetic factors acting on cortical thickness across time and between various brain areas during childhood brain development.
The aim of this study was to relate altered corpus callosum (CC) integrity in 106 very preterm (VPT) infants (&lt;30 weeks' gestational age or &lt;1250 g birth weight) at term equivalent to perinatal predictors and neurodevelopmental outcomes at two years. T1 and diffusion magnetic resonance images were obtained. The CC was traced, and divided into six sub-regions for cross-sectional area and shape analyses. Fractional anisotropy, mean, axial and radial diffusivity were sampled within the CC, and probabilistic tractography was performed. Perinatal predictors were explored. The Bayley Scales of Infant Development (BSID-II) was administered at two years. Intraventricular hemorrhage was associated with a smaller genu and altered diffusion values within the anterior and posterior CC of VPT infants. White matter injury was associated with widespread alterations to callosal diffusion values, especially posteriorly, and radial diffusivity was particularly elevated, indicating altered myelination. Reduced CC tract volume related to lower gestational age, particularly posteriorly. Reduced posterior callosal skew was associated with postnatal corticosteroid exposure. This more circular CC was associated with delayed cognitive development. Higher diffusivity, particularly in splenium tracts, was associated with impaired motor development. This study elucidates perinatal predictors and adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes associated with altered callosal integrity in VPT infants.
Increased sense of fatigue is an important and conspicuous symptom in multiple sclerosis (MS). Muscle fatigue is associated with increased sense of fatigue in MS (Steens et al., 2011). The aim of this study was to investigate mechanisms that can explain muscle fatigue in MS patients and controls. We assessed changes in cortical activation (BOLD), voluntary activation (twitch interpolation) and muscle force during a sustained maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) in twenty MS patients and twenty healthy controls. In control participants, individual differences in force decline (mean 65% MVC, 8 SD) during the sustained maximal contraction could be accounted for by differences in maximal voluntary force (R(2): 0.49, p = 0.001); stronger participants presented a larger force decline. The small decline in voluntary activation (mean 7.8%, 11.8 SD) did not contribute significantly to the force decline. During the sustained contraction, the force decline was accompanied by an increase in cortical activation in the main motor areas. In MS patients, the differences in the decline in force (mean 67% MVC, 9 SD) were significantly associated (R(2): 0.51, p = 0.001) with a decline in voluntary activation (mean 20.1%, 20.6 SD) and not with maximal force or decline in rest twitch. The corresponding cortical activation in motor areas showed an increase in the first two intervals of the sustained contraction but declined during the last interval. Our data indicate that muscle fatigue during a sustained contraction in MS patients is associated with changes in the voluntary activation that are not sufficiently compensated by increased cortical activation. Control participants, however, show increased cortical activation to compensate for these fatigue-related changes in voluntary activation and the major cause of force decline is therefore to be found in the periphery (muscles).
Several functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have used neural adaptation paradigms to detect anatomical locations of brain activity related to number processing. However, currently not much is known about the temporal structure of number adaptation. In the present study, we used electroencephalography (EEG) to elucidate the time course of neural events in symbolic number adaptation. The numerical distance of deviants relative to standards was manipulated. In order to avoid perceptual confounds, all levels of deviants consisted of perceptually identical stimuli. Multiple successive numerical distance effects were detected in event-related potentials (ERPs). Analysis of oscillatory activity further showed at least two distinct stages of neural processes involved in the automatic analysis of numerical magnitude, with the earlier effect emerging at around 200ms and the later effect appearing at around 400ms. The findings support for the hypothesis that numerical magnitude processing involves a succession of cognitive events.
The modular organization of the brain network can vary in two fundamental ways. The amount of inter- versus intra-modular connections between network nodes can be altered, or the community structure itself can be perturbed, in terms of which nodes belong to which modules (or communities). Alterations have previously been reported in modularity, which is a function of the proportion of intra-modular edges over all modules in the network. For example, we have reported that modularity is decreased in functional brain networks in schizophrenia: There are proportionally more inter-modular edges and fewer intra-modular edges. However, despite numerous and increasing studies of brain modular organization, it is not known how to test for differences in the community structure, i.e., the assignment of regional nodes to specific modules. Here, we introduce a method based on the normalized mutual information between pairs of modular networks to show that the community structure of the brain network is significantly altered in schizophrenia, using resting-state fMRI in 19 participants with childhood-onset schizophrenia and 20 healthy participants. We also develop tools to show which specific nodes (or brain regions) have significantly different modular communities between groups, a subset that includes right insular and perisylvian cortical regions. The methods that we propose are broadly applicable to other experimental contexts, both in neuroimaging and other areas of network science.
Brain activity during motor performance becomes more widespread and less lateralized with advancing age in response to ongoing degenerative processes. In this study, we were interested in the mechanism by which this change in the pattern of activity supports motor performance with advancing age. We used both transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess age related changes in motor system connectivity during isometric hand grip. Paired pulse TMS was used to measure the change in interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) from contralateral M1 (cM1) to ipsilateral M1 (iM1) during right hand grip. Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) of fMRI data was used to investigate the effect of age on causal interactions throughout the cortical motor network during right hand grip. Bayesian model selection was used to identify the causal model that best explained the data for all subjects. Firstly, we confirmed that the TMS and DCM measures both demonstrated a less inhibitory/more facilitatory influence of cM1 on iM1 during hand grip with advancing age. These values correlated with one another providing face validity for our DCM measures of connectivity. We found increasing reciprocal facilitatory influences with advancing age (i) between all ipsilateral cortical motor areas and (ii) between cortical motor areas of both hemispheres and iM1. There were no differences in the performance of our task with ageing suggesting that the ipsilateral cortical motor areas, in particular iM1, play a central role in maintaining performance levels with ageing through increasingly facilitatory cortico-cortical influences.
The human insula is a functionally complex yet poorly understood region of the cortex, implicated in a wide range of cognitive, motor, emotion and somatosensory activity. To elucidate the functional role of the insula, the current study used in vivo probabilistic tractography to map the structural connectivity of seven anatomically-defined insular subregions. The connectivity patterns identified reveal two complementary insular networks connected via a dual route architecture, and provide key insights about the neural basis of the numerous functions ascribed to this area. Specifically, anterior-most insular regions were associated with a ventrally-based network involving orbital/inferior frontal and anterior/polar temporal regions, forming part of a key emotional salience and cognitive control network associated with the implementation of goal-directed behavior. The posterior and dorsal-middle insular regions were associated with a network focused on posterior and (to a lesser extent) anterior temporal regions via both dorsal and ventral pathways. This is consistent with the involvement of the insula in sound-to-speech transformations, with an implicated role in the temporal resolution, sequencing, and feedback processes crucial for auditory and motor processing, and the monitoring and adjustment of expressive performance.
Diffusion imaging tractography is a valuable tool for neuroscience researchers because it allows the generation of individualized virtual dissections of major white matter tracts in the human brain. It facilitates between-subject statistical analyses tailored to the specific anatomy of each participant. There is prominent variation in diffusion imaging metrics (e.g., fractional anisotropy, FA) within tracts, but most tractography studies use a &quot;tract-averaged&quot; approach to analysis by averaging the scalar values from the many streamline vertices in a tract dissection into a single point-spread estimate for each tract. Here we describe a complete workflow needed to conduct an along-tract analysis of white matter streamline tract groups. This consists of 1) A flexible MATLAB toolkit for generating along-tract data based on B-spline resampling and compilation of scalar data at different collections of vertices along the curving tract spines, and 2) Statistical analysis and rich data visualization by leveraging tools available through the R platform for statistical computing. We demonstrate the effectiveness of such an along-tract approach over the tract-averaged approach in an example analysis of 10 major white matter tracts in a single subject. We also show that these techniques easily extend to between-group analyses typically used in neuroscience applications, by conducting an along-tract analysis of differences in FA between 9 individuals with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) and 11 typically-developing controls. This analysis reveals localized differences between FASD and control groups that were not apparent using a tract-averaged method. Finally, to validate our approach and highlight the strength of this extensible software framework, we implement 2 other methods from the literature and leverage the existing workflow tools to conduct a comparison study.
Graph theoretical analyses applied to neuroimaging datasets have provided valuable insights into the large-scale anatomical organization of the human neocortex. Most of these studies were performed with different cortical scales leading to cortical networks with different levels of small-world organization. The present study investigates how resolution of thickness-based cortical scales impacts on topological properties of human anatomical cortical networks. To this end, we designed a novel approach aimed at determining the best trade-off between small-world attributes of anatomical cortical networks and the number of cortical regions included in the scale. Results revealed that schemes comprising 540-599 regions (surface areas spanning between 250 and 275 mm(2)) at sparsities below 10% showed a superior balance between small-world organization and the size of the cortical scale employed. Furthermore, we found that the cortical scale representing the best trade-off (599 regions) was more resilient to targeted attacks than atlas-based schemes (Desikan-Killiany atlas, 66 regions) and, most importantly, it did not differ that much from the finest cortical scale tested in the present study (1494 regions). In summary, our study confirms that topological organization of anatomical cortical networks varies with both sparsity and resolution of cortical scale, and it further provides a novel methodological framework aimed at identifying cortical schemes that maximize small-worldness with the lowest scale resolution possible.
Bipolar disorder is a devastating, highly heritable mental disorder related to disturbed connectivity between limbic and frontal brain areas. A meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies as well as independent replications showed ankyrin 3 (ANK3) to be one of the best-supported risk genes for bipolar disorder. Using an imaging genetics approach employing diffusion tensor imaging in 88 healthy volunteers, we show decreased white matter integrity, indicated by lower fractional anisotropy and longitudinal diffusivity, in healthy carriers of the ANK3 rs10994336 risk genotype in the anterior limb of the internal capsule. We are also able to show that the resulting alterations of cortical-striatal-thalamic circuits are related to impaired set-shifting and increased risk-taking. For risk-allele carriers of ANK3 rs9804190 no white matter alterations or neuropsychological impairments were observed. In sum, our findings show that ANK3 rs10994336 or a variant in linkage-disequilibrium is functional in the human brain and also influences behavioral phenotypes related to bipolar disorder.
Two cerebral blood volume (CBV)-weighted fMRI techniques, gray matter nulled (GMN) and vascular space occupancy (VASO)-dependent techniques at spatial resolution of 2  2  5 mm(3), were compared in the study investigating functional responses in the human visual cortex to stimulation in normoxia (inspired O(2) = 21%) and mild hypoxic hypoxia (inspired O(2) = 12%). GMN and VASO signals and T(2)* were quantified in activated voxels. While the CBV-weighted signal changes in voxels activated by visual stimulation were similar in amplitude in both fMRI techniques in both oxygenation conditions, the number of activated voxels during hypoxic hypoxia was significantly reduced by 72  22% in GMN fMRI and 66  23% in VASO fMRI. T(2)* prolonged in GMN and VASO activated voxels in normoxia by 1.6  0.5 ms and 1.7  0.5 ms, respectively. In hypoxia, however, T(2)* shortened in GMN-activated voxels by 0.7  0.6 ms (p &lt; 0.001 relative to normoxia), but prolonged in VASO-activated ones by 1.1  0.6 ms (p &lt; 0.05 relative to normoxia). The data show that the hemodynamic responses to visual stimulation were not affected by hypoxic hypoxia, but T(2)* increases by both CBV-weighted fMRI techniques were smaller in activated voxels in hypoxia. The mechanisms influencing GMN fMRI signal in both oxygenation conditions were explored by simulating effects of the oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and partial voluming with cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and white matter in imaging voxels. It is concluded that while GMN fMRI data point to increased, rather than decreased OEF during visual stimulation in hypoxia, partial voluming by CSF is likely to affect the CBV quantification by GMN fMRI under the experimental conditions used.
Imitation plays a central role in the acquisition of culture. People preferentially imitate others who are self-similar, prestigious or successful. Because race can indicate a person's self-similarity or status, race influences whom people imitate. Prior studies of the neural underpinnings of imitation have not considered the effects of race. Here we measured neural activity with fMRI while European American participants imitated meaningless gestures performed by actors of their own race, and two racial outgroups, African American, and Chinese American. Participants also passively observed the actions of these actors and their portraits. Frontal, parietal and occipital areas were differentially activated while participants imitated actors of different races. More activity was present when imitating African Americans than the other racial groups, perhaps reflecting participants' reported lack of experience with and negative attitudes towards this group, or the group's lower perceived social status. This pattern of neural activity was not found when participants passively observed the gestures of the actors or simply looked at their faces. Instead, during face-viewing neural responses were overall greater for own-race individuals, consistent with prior race perception studies not involving imitation. Our findings represent a first step in elucidating neural mechanisms involved in cultural learning, a process that influences almost every aspect of our lives but has thus far received little neuroscientific study.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) is of central interest in research on the pathophysiology and treatment of neuro-psychiatric disorders. [(11)C]PE2I is an established radioligand that provides high-contrast delineation of brain regions that are rich in DAT. The aim of the present PET study in eight patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) was to evaluate the kinetics of [(11)C]PE2I in the brain and to compare binding parameters with those of age-matched control subjects (n = 6). Each patient participated in 90-minute PET measurements with [(11)C]PE2I. Data were analyzed using kinetic compartment analyses with metabolite-corrected arterial plasma input and reference tissue models using the cerebellum as a reference region. The time-activity curves were well described by the two-tissue compartment model (2TCM) for the DAT-rich regions. The 2TCM with fixed K(1)/k(2) ratio derived from the cerebellum provided robust and reliable estimates of binding potential (BP(ND)) and total distribution volume (V(T)). The reference tissue models also provided robust estimates of BP(ND), although they gave lower BP(ND) values than the kinetic analysis. Compared with those of control subjects, we found that BP(ND) values obtained by all approaches were reduced in the midbrain of the patients with JME. The finding indicates impaired dopamine uptake in the midbrain of JME patients. The three-tissue compartment model could best describe uptake in the cerebellum, indicating that two kinetically distinguishable compartments exist in cerebellar tissue, which may correspond to nonspecific binding and the blood-brain barrier passing metabolite. The reference tissue models should be applied with better understanding of the biochemical nature of the radioligand and the reliability of these approaches.
Conditional associative sensori-motor learning (i.e. the acquisition of specific arbitrary sensori-motor mappings) involves several processes that depend upon the integrity of the fronto-striatal system. The specific role of the different components of the fronto-striatal system in this type of learning is still unclear and was examined in the present functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) study in humans. The subjects had to learn by trial and error arbitrary associations between visual stimuli and motor responses in an experimental paradigm designed to dissociate between the neuronal substrates specifically involved in the selection of the appropriate response and in the analysis of the feedback obtained during the learning and post-learning periods. First, the results demonstrate that the dorsal premotor (PMd) cortex is the critical structure for the acquisition and execution of arbitrary mappings of visual stimuli to motor responses. Second, they reveal an important shift in activation from the cognitive fronto-striatal network (involving the caudate nucleus, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the PMd) to the motor fronto-striatal network (involving the putamen and the PMd) as we move from initial learning of sensori-motor relations to the post-learning selection of the responses. Finally, they show that feedback processing, but not response selection, increased activity in the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortical regions, demonstrating the selective involvement of these limbic frontal regions in the processing of the consequences of a given action. Altogether our data suggest that, in conditional visuo-motor learning, the associations are critically regulated by the dorsal premotor cortex and the striatum, with additional brain areas contributing to specific aspects of the learning and performance of such associations.
The visual system can automatically interpolate or &quot;fill-in&quot; the boundaries of objects when inputs are fragmented or incomplete. A canonical class of visual stimuli known as illusory-contour (IC) stimuli has been extensively used to study this contour interpolation process. Visual evoked potential (VEP) studies have identified a neural signature of these boundary completion processes, the so-called IC-effect, which typically onsets at 90-110 ms and is generated within the lateral occipital complex (LOC). Here we set out to determine the delimiting factors of automatic boundary completion with the use of illusory contour stimuli and high-density scalp recordings of brain activity. Retinal eccentricity, ratio of real to illusory contours (i.e. support ratio), and inducer diameter were each varied parametrically, and any resulting effects on the amplitude and latency of the IC-effect were examined. Somewhat surprisingly, the amplitude of the IC-effect was found to be impervious to all changes in these stimulus parameters, manipulations that are known to impact perceived illusion strength. Thus, this automatic stage of object processing appears to be a binary process in which, so-long as minimal conditions are met, contours are automatically completed. At the same time, the latency of the IC-effect was found to vary inversely with support ratio, likely reflecting the additional time necessary to interpolate across the relatively longer induced boundaries of the implied object. These data are interpreted in the context of a two stage object-recognition model that parses processing into an early automatic perceptual stage that is followed by a more effortful conceptual processing stage.
Interictal spikes are a hallmark of cortical epileptogenicity; their spatial distribution in the cortex defines the so-called 'irritative' zone or spiking volume (SV). Delineating the SV precisely is a challenge during the presurgical evaluation of patients with epilepsy. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings enable determination of the brain sources of epileptic spikes using source localization procedures. Most previous clinical MEG studies have relied on dipole modeling of epileptic spikes, which does not permit a volumetric estimation of the spiking cortex. In the present study, we propose a new source modeling procedure, Volumetric Imaging of Epileptic Spikes (VIES). In VIES, the SV is identified as the 3D region where sources of the high frequency activities (&gt;20 Hz) associated with epileptic spikes are distributed. We localized these sources using a beamforming approach (DICS, Dynamic Imaging of Coherent Neural Sources). To determine the optimal parameters and accuracy of the method, we compared the SV obtained by VIES with the SV defined by the invasive gold standard, intracranial stereotactic EEG recordings (SEEG), in 21 patients with focal epilepsy. Using rigorous validation criteria based on the exact anatomical location of SEEG contacts, we found that the overall sensitivity of VIES for detecting spiking SEEG contacts was 76% and its specificity for correctly identifying non-spiking SEEG contacts was 67%, indicating a good agreement between VIES and SEEG. Moreover, we found that classical dipole clustering was not informative in 9/21 patients, while VIES enable to delineate the SV in all patients. For the 12 patients having a SV delineated both with VIES and dipole clustering, VIES method had higher sensitivity and lower specificity. This proof-of-concept study shows that VIES is a promising approach to non-invasive estimation of the SV in focal epilepsy.
Previous simulation and experimental studies have demonstrated that the application of Variational Bayesian Multimodal EncephaloGraphy (VBMEG) to magnetoencephalography (MEG) data can be used to estimate cortical currents with high spatio-temporal resolution, by incorporating functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity as a hierarchical prior. However, the use of combined MEG and fMRI is restricted by the high costs involved, a lack of portability and high sensitivity to body-motion artifacts. One possible solution for overcoming these limitations is to use a combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). This study therefore aimed to extend the possible applications of VBMEG to include EEG data with NIRS activity as a hierarchical prior. Using computer simulations and real experimental data, we evaluated the performance of VBMEG applied to EEG data under different conditions, including different numbers of EEG sensors and different prior information. The results suggest that VBMEG with NIRS prior performs well, even with as few as 19 EEG sensors. These findings indicate the potential value of clinically applying VBMEG using a combination of EEG and NIRS.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the very large effects of saccadic latency distribution, generated by deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nuclei are reflected in quantitatively corresponding changes for manual responses, rather than representing a reflection of the specific role of the subthalamus in controlling saccades. Saccadic and manual reaction times were measured under as nearly identical conditions as possible in six patients with implanted subthalamic electrodes and in six age-matched controls with the stimulation either on or off. Median latency was found to be reduced by stimulation in a similar way to saccadic latency; in neither case was there a significant change in the Linear Approach to Threshold with Ergotic Rate parameter . For both types of response, the effect is to move the responses proportionately in the direction of average of responses in the control group. We therefore conclude that the previously described effects of stimulation on latency are not a phenomenon peculiar to saccades, increasing confidence in using saccadic latency measurements as a surrogate for more general responses when determining the efficacy of deep brain stimulation.
As an interdisciplinary research field, music perception involves various disciplines, such as neuroscience, psychology, and even physics. As research on music perception offers us a window into the mechanism of the brain, this study examined Chinese nonmusicians' electroencephalogram -band activity elicited by tempo variation. This study is the first to demonstrate electrophysiological evidence for the tempo-specific timing hypothesis by showing significant changes in the -band spectral power during tempo perception. Furthermore, results showed that a larger tempo transformation gave rise to a greater change in -band spectral power than a smaller tempo transformation.
Down's syndrome, a congenital disorder associated with cognitive impairment and early-onset Alzheimer's disease, is a progressive genetic pathology resulting from full or partial triplication of chromosome 21. Down's syndrome brain is typified by activated microglia, increases in inflammatory signaling, and an aberrant immune system. In these studies, a screening of micro-RNA (miRNA) from Down's syndrome brain and peripheral tissues indicated an upregulation of a chromosome 21-encoded miRNA-155 and a decrease in the abundance of the miRNA-155 mRNA target complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of the innate immune response. Stressed primary human neuronal-glial cells indicated both miRNA-155 increase and CFH downregulation, an effect that was reversed using anti-miRNA-155. These findings suggest that immunopathological deficits associated with Down's syndrome can, in part, be explained by a generalized miRNA-155-mediated downregulation of CFH that may contribute to both brain and systemic immune pathology.
The asiatic acid, a triterpenoids isolated from Centella asiatica was used to delineate its inhibitory effect on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) properties, excitatory post synaptic potential (EPSP) and locomotor activity. This study is consistent with asiatic acid having an effect on AChE, a selective GABA(B) receptor agonist and no sedative effect on locomotor.

Stroke represents a leading cause of long-term disability worldwide, with few therapeutic options available for improving behavioral recovery. Identification of endogenous neural stem and progenitor cells (NSPCs) that are capable of promoting reparative responses following brain injury and stroke make these cells attractive therapeutic targets for stimulating cell replacement and neuronal plasticity. Interest in the mechanisms that support NSPC survival and replenishment of damaged cells within the ischemic brain has led to elucidation of new roles for hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) in NSPC function. HIF-1 is a well-studied mediator of adaptive cellular responses to hypoxia through direct transcriptional regulation of cellular metabolism and angiogenesis. Recent evidence also indicates novel roles for HIF-1 in stem cell differentiation through modulation of Notch and Wnt/-catenin signaling pathways. In this review, we will explore the hypothesis that HIF-1 represents an important mediator of NSPC function under both non-pathological conditions and stroke; and plays a central role in the regulation of NSPC response to hypoxia, metabolism and maintenance of the vascular environment of the neural stem cell niche.
Early life is a period of unique sensitivity during which experience can confer enduring effects on brain structure and function. During early perinatal life the quality of the surrounding environment and experiences, in particular the parent-child relationship, is associated with emotional and cognitive development later in life. For instance, adverse early-life experience is correlated with an increased vulnerability to develop psychopathologies and aging-related cognitive decline. These are thought to be mediated by acute and long-lasting effects on the, at that time still developing, stress-neuroendocrine and cognitive systems. Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is involved in learning and memory while both regulation of the stress response as well as early-life stress is known to permanently reduce neurogenesis, and to be implicated in these functional deficits. In order to increase our understanding of the influence of the perinatal environment on the long-lasting programming of neurogenesis, we here discuss immediate and lasting effects of various adverse early-life experiences on hippocampal neurogenesis and the associated behavioral alterations. Considering the persistence of these effects, the underlying molecular mechanisms, with focus on the potential epigenetic mechanisms will be discussed as well. Finally, special attention will be paid to the prominent sex differences in early-life stress-induced alterations in neurogenesis.
Numerous studies have attempted to determine the function of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus using methods to deplete new neurons and examine changes in behaviors associated with this brain region. This approach has produced a set of findings that, although not entirely consistent, suggest new neurons are associated with improved learning and reduced anxiety. This paper attempts to synthesize some of these findings into a model that proposes adaptive significance to experience-dependent alterations in new neuron formation. We suggest that the modulation of adult neurogenesis, as well as of the microcircuitry associated with new neurons, by experience prepares the hippocampus to meet the specific demands of an environment that is predictably similar to one that existed previously. Reduced neurogenesis that occurs with persistent exposure to a high threat environment produces a hippocampus that is more likely to respond with behavior that maximizes the chance of survival. Conversely, enhanced neurogenesis that occurs with continual exposure to a rewarding environment leads to behavior that optimizes the chances of successful reproduction. The persistence of this form of plasticity throughout adulthood may provide the neural substrate for adaptive responding to both stable and dynamic environmental conditions.
The hippocampus has been implicated in many cognitive and emotional behaviors and in the physiology of the stress response. Within the hippocampus, the dentate gyrus has been implicated in the detection of novelty. The dentate is also a major target for stress hormones and modulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress. Whether these functions of the dentate integrate or segregate remains unknown, as most investigations of its role in stress and learning are separate. Since the exciting discovery of adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, adult-born neurons have been implicated in both novelty detection and the stress response. In this perspective we will discuss the literature that implicates the hippocampus, and potentially, adult-born neurons in these two functions. We will attempt to reconcile the seemingly contradictory behavioral results for the function of adult-born neurons. Finally, we will speculate that a key function of adult-born neurons within hippocampal function may be to modulate the stress response and perhaps assign stress salience to the sensory context.
The presence of new neurons in the adult hippocampus indicates that this structure incorporates new neurons into its circuitry and uses them for some function related to learning and/or related thought processes. Their generation depends on a variety of factors ranging from age to aerobic exercise to sexual behavior to alcohol consumption. However, most of the cells will die unless the animal engages in some kind of effortful learning experience when the cells are about one week of age. If learning does occur, the new cells become incorporated into brain circuits used for learning. In turn, some processes of learning and mental activity appear to depend on their presence. In this review, we discuss the now rather extensive literature showing that new neurons are kept alive by effortful learning, a process that involves concentration in the present moment of experience over some extended period of time. As these thought processes occur, endogenous patterns of rhythmic electrophysiological activity engage the new cells with cell networks that already exist in the hippocampus and at efferent locations. Concurrent and synchronous activity provides a mechanism whereby the new neurons become integrated with the other neurons. This integration allows the present experience to become integrated with memories from the recent past in order to learn and predict when events will occur in the near future. In this way, neurogenesis and learning interact to maintain a fit brain.
Signaling events that regulate central nervous system (CNS) angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier (BBB) formation are only beginning to be elucidated. By evaluating the gene expression profile of mouse vasculature, we identified DR6/TNFRSF21 and TROY/TNFRSF19 as regulators of CNS-specific angiogenesis in both zebrafish and mice. Furthermore, these two death receptors interact both genetically and physically and are required for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated JNK activation and subsequent human brain endothelial sprouting in vitro. Increasing beta-catenin levels in brain endothelium upregulate DR6 and TROY, indicating that these death receptors are downstream target genes of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, which has been shown to be required for BBB development. These findings define a role for death receptors DR6 and TROY in CNS-specific vascular development.
Mller glia (MG) dedifferentiation into a cycling population of multipotent progenitors is crucial to zebrafish retina regeneration. The mechanisms underlying MG dedifferentiation are unknown. Here we report that heparin-binding epidermal-like growth factor (HB-EGF) is rapidly induced in MG residing at the injury site and that pro-HB-EGF ectodomain shedding is necessary for retina regeneration. Remarkably, HB-EGF stimulates the formation of multipotent MG-derived progenitors in the uninjured retina. We show that HB-EGF mediates its effects via an EGFR/MAPK signal transduction cascade that regulates the expression of regeneration-associated genes, like ascl1a and pax6(b). We also uncover an HB-EGF/Ascl1a/Notch/hb-egf(a)-signaling loop that helps define the zone of injury-responsive MG. Finally, we show that HB-EGF acts upstream of the Wnt/-catenin-signaling cascade that controls progenitor proliferation. These data provide a link between extracellular signaling and regeneration-associated gene expression in the injured retina and suggest strategies for stimulating retina regeneration in mammals.
Dominant VAPB mutations are implicated in neurodegenerative disease, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy. In the current issue, Han et al. (2012) uncover a mechanism through which the secreted VAPB MSP domain regulates actin organization and mitochondrial function in muscle cells through LAR and Robo receptor activation.
Converging evidence suggests that when individuals are left to think to themselves, a so-called default network of the brain is engaged, allowing the individual to daydream, reflect on their past, imagine possible future scenarios, and consider the viewpoints of others. These flexible self-relevant mental explorations enable the anticipation and evaluation of events before they occur, and are essential for successful social interactions. Such self-projective efforts are particularly vulnerable to disruption in frontotemporal dementia (FTD), a neurodegenerative disorder involving damage to the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain. In this Review, we explore how the progressive degeneration of the neural networks in two subtypes of FTD-the behavioral variant and semantic dementia-affects key structures of the default network and putative self-projective functions. We examine the available evidence from studies of autobiographical memory, episodic future thinking, theory of mind, moral reasoning, and economic decision-making in these neurodegenerative diseases. Finally, we propose that the mapping of default-network functions onto discrete subsystems of the default network may need revision in light of neuropsychological and clinical evidence from studies in patients with FTD.


Dendritic spines are dynamic, actin-rich structures that form the postsynaptic sites of most excitatory synapses in the brain. The F-actin severing protein cofilin has been implicated in the remodeling of dendritic spines and synapses under normal and pathological conditions, by yet unknown mechanisms. Here we report that -arrestin-2 plays an important role in NMDA-induced remodeling of dendritic spines and synapses via translocation of active cofilin to dendritic spines. NMDAR activation triggers cofilin activation through calcineurin and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-mediated dephosphorylation and promotes cofilin translocation to dendritic spines that is mediated by -arrestin-2. Hippocampal neurons lacking -arrestin-2 develop mature spines that fail to remodel in response to NMDA. -Arrestin-2-deficient mice exhibit normal hippocampal long-term potentiation, but significantly impaired NMDA-dependent long-term depression and spatial learning deficits. Moreover, -arrestin-2-deficient hippocampal neurons are resistant to A-induced dendritic spine loss. Our studies demonstrate unique functions of -arrestin-2 in NMDAR-mediated dendritic spine and synapse plasticity through spatial control over cofilin activation.
Voltage-dependent ion channels are crucial for generation and propagation of electrical activity in biological systems. The primary mechanism for voltage transduction in these proteins involves the movement of a voltage-sensing domain (D), which opens a gate located on the cytoplasmic side. A distinct conformational change in the selectivity filter near the extracellular side has been implicated in slow inactivation gating, which is important for spike frequency adaptation in neural circuits. However, it remains an open question whether gating transitions in the selectivity filter region are also actuated by voltage sensors. Here, we examine conformational coupling between each of the four voltage sensors and the outer pore of a eukaryotic voltage-dependent sodium channel. The voltage sensors of these sodium channels are not structurally symmetric and exhibit functional specialization. To track the conformational rearrangements of individual voltage-sensing domains, we recorded domain-specific gating pore currents. Our data show that, of the four voltage sensors, only the domain IV voltage sensor is coupled to the conformation of the selectivity filter region of the sodium channel. Trapping the outer pore in a particular conformation with a high-affinity toxin or disulphide crossbridge impedes the return of this voltage sensor to its resting conformation. Our findings directly establish that, in addition to the canonical electromechanical coupling between voltage sensor and inner pore gates of a sodium channel, gating transitions in the selectivity filter region are also coupled to the movement of a voltage sensor. Furthermore, our results also imply that the voltage sensor of domain IV is unique in this linkage and in the ability to initiate slow inactivation in sodium channels.
The role of genetic inheritance in brain development has been well characterized, but little is known about the contributions of natural environmental stimuli, such as the effect of light-dark cycles, to brain development. In this study, we determined the role of light stimuli in neuronal cell migration to elucidate how environmental factors regulate brain development. We show that in early postnatal mouse cerebella, granule cell migration accelerates during light cycles and decelerates during dark cycles. Furthermore, cerebellar levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) are high during light cycles and low during dark cycles. There are causal relationships between light-dark cycles, speed of granule cell migration, and cerebellar IGF-1 levels. First, changes in light-dark cycles result in corresponding changes in the fluctuations of both speed of granule cell migration and cerebellar IGF-1 levels. Second, in vitro studies indicate that exogenous IGF-1 accelerates the migration of isolated granule cells through the activation of IGF-1 receptors. Third, in vivo studies reveal that inhibiting the IGF-1 receptors decelerates granule cell migration during light cycles (high IGF-1 levels) but does not alter migration during dark cycles (low IGF-1 levels). In contrast, stimulating the IGF-1 receptors accelerates granule cell migration during dark cycles (low IGF-1 levels) but does not alter migration during light cycles (high IGF-1 levels). These results suggest that during early postnatal development light stimuli control granule cell migration by altering the activity of IGF-1 receptors through modification of cerebellar IGF-1 levels.
Src tyrosine kinase has long been implicated in colon cancer but much remains to be learned about its substrates. The nuclear receptor hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 (HNF4) has just recently been implicated in colon cancer but its role is poorly defined. Here we show that c-Src phosphorylates human HNF4 on three tyrosines in an interdependent and isoform-specific fashion. The initial phosphorylation site is a Tyr residue (Y14) present in the N-terminal A/B domain of P1- but not P2-driven HNF4. Phospho-Y14 interacts with the Src SH2 domain, leading to the phosphorylation of two additional tyrosines in the ligand binding domain (LBD) in P1-HNF4. Phosphomimetic mutants in the LBD decrease P1-HNF4 protein stability, nuclear localization and transactivation function. Immunohistochemical analysis of approximately 450 human colon cancer specimens (Stage III) reveals that P1-HNF4 is either lost or localized in the cytoplasm in approximately 80% of tumors, and that staining for active Src correlates with those events in a subset of samples. Finally, three SNPs in the human HNF4 protein, two of which are in the HNF4 F domain that interacts with the Src SH3 domain, increase phosphorylation by Src and decrease HNF4 protein stability and function, suggesting that individuals with those variants may be more susceptible to Src-mediated effects. This newly identified interaction between Src kinase and HNF4 has important implications for colon and other cancers.
A number of neuroimaging studies have shown that drug addiction is associated with morphological differences in several brain areas, including orbito-frontal and limbic structures. Most of these studies have investigated patients with addiction to cocaine. The neurobiological mechanisms which play a role in drug addiction are not fully understood, however, and the causal factors remain under investigation. The present study investigated morphological differences between patients with history of cocaine (N=14) and heroin (N=24) abuse and healthy matched controls (N=24). A 3D T1W MRI scan was acquired for all participants and the grey matter images of each patient group compared with those of controls. A direct comparison of the two addiction groups was also carried out. When compared with controls cocaine dependent patients had lower grey matter values in the left middle occipital gyrus, right putamen and insula, whereas heroin abusers had lower grey matter values in the right insula. The direct comparison between the two addiction groups showed that cocaine abusers had less grey matter in the right posterior cingulate, medio-temporal and cerebellar regions, whereas heroin abusers showed less grey matter in parietal regions on both sides, including postcentral gyrus and inferior parietal lobule. Reduced right posterior insular cortex was commonly found in both cocaine and heroin dependent patients. This morphological difference might represent a structural marker of addiction, which is independent of the discrete regional effects of each psychotropic substance of abuse, and might constitute a possible neurobiological vulnerability or diathesis to addiction. Equally, the discrete structural differences emerging from the direct comparison of cocaine and heroin abusers might reflect the effects of differential drug binding in the brain and/or express a form of neurobiological vulnerability which might explain individual drug choice.
Epilepsy is a complex brain disorder with multiple underlying causes and poorly understood pathogenetic mechanisms. Animal models have been indispensable tools in experimental epilepsy research. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are rapidly emerging as a promising model organism to study various brain disorders. Seizure-like behavioral and neurophysiological responses can be evoked in larval and adult zebrafish by various pharmacological and genetic manipulations, collectively emphasizing the growing utility of this model for studying epilepsy. Here, we discuss recent developments in using zebrafish models to study the seizure-like behavior involved in epilepsy, outlining current challenges and strategies for further translational research in this field.
l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) remains the most effective drug for therapy of Parkinson's disease. However, the current clinical route of L-DOPA administration is variable and unreliable because of problems with drug absorption and first-pass metabolism. Administration of drugs via the nasal passage has been proven an effective alternate route for a number of medicinal substances. Here we examined the acute behavioral and neurochemical effects of intranasally (IN) applied L-DOPA in rats bearing unilateral lesions of the medial forebrain bundle, with severe depletion (97%) of striatal dopamine. Turning behavior in an open field, footslips on a horizontal grid and postural motor asymmetry in a cylinder were assessed following IN L-DOPA or vehicle administration with, or without, benserazide pre-treatment. IN L-DOPA without benserazide pre-treatment mildly decreased ipsilateral turnings and increased contralateral turnings 10-20 min after the treatment. IN L-DOPA with saline pre-treatment reduced contralateral forelimb-slips on the grid while no effects were evident in the cylinder test. These results support the hypothesis that L-DOPA can bypass the blood-brain barrier by the IN route and alleviate behavioral impairments in the hemiparkinsonian animal model.
Chronic pain following spinal cord injury (SCI) is a highly prevalent clinical condition that is difficult to treat. Using both von Frey filaments and radiant infrared heat to assess mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, respectively, we have demonstrated that a one-time injection of fibronectin (50g/mL) into the spinal dorsal column (1L/min each injection for a total of 5L) immediately after SCI inhibits the development of mechanical allodynia (but not thermal hyperalgesia) over an 8-month observation period following spinal cord dorsal column crush (DCC). DCC will only induce mechanical Allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia or overt motor deficits. By applying various fibronectin fragments as well as competitive inhibitors, these effects were shown to be dependent on the connecting segment-1 (CS-1) motif of fibronectin. Furthermore, we found that acute fibronectin treatment diminished inflammation and blood-spinal cord barrier permeability, which in turn leads to enhanced fiber sparing and sprouting. In particular, the reduction of serotonin (5-HT) in the superficial dorsal horn, an important descending brainstem system in the modulation of pain, was blocked with fibronectin treatment. We conclude that treatment of SCI with fibronectin preserves sensory regulation and prevents the development of chronic allodynia, providing a potential therapeutic intervention to treat chronic pain following SCI.
Traumatic spinal cord injuries (SCI) are rare but extremely costly. In order to improve the modelling of inclusion criteria for studies of SCI it is necessary to determine what epidemiological trends affect SCI. Using the Rhone Registry, which contains all the casualties resulting from road crashes in the Rhne dpartement of France and codes their injuries using the Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS), we describe the epidemiological trends that affect spinal cord injury (SCI), major spinal trauma (MST) and severe injuries (AIS4+) to other body regions between two periods 1996-2001 and 2003-2008. Although there has been a marked decrease (35%) in the incidence of casualties after a road traffic crash, and reductions of 22% in the incidence of MST and 33% in that of severe injuries (AIS4+) (p&lt;0.001), for SCI the incidence rate and number of casualties have remained surprisingly stable. In the second period, there was no change in the incidence of SCI resulting from road traffic crashes, nor in the associated fatality, mortality and survival rates. The incidence for car users was significantly lower in the second period. This contrasts with the incidences for motorcyclists and for the group including pedestrians and cyclists which were respectively 47% and 77% higher in the second period. The median age of the casualties, the age-adjusted incidence of SCI and the number of associated injuries were also higher in the second period. We have observed a marked reduction in the incidence of road trauma including the most severe injuries, but not SCI. The higher proportion of motorcyclists, the increase in the age of casualties and the greater presence of multiple injuries are new factors in the epidemiology of SCI after a road crash.
In order to increase our knowledge about the distribution of vitamins in the mammalian brain, we have developed a highly specific antiserum directed against retinoic acid with good affinity (10(-8) M), as evaluated by ELISA tests. In the rat brain, no immunoreactive fibers containing retinoic acid were detected. Cell bodies containing retinoic acid were only found in the hypothalamus. This work reports the first visualization and the morphological characteristics of cell bodies containing retinoic acid in the mammalian paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and in the dorsal perifornical region, using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. The restricted distribution of retinoic acid in the rat brain suggests that this vitamin could be involved in very specific physiological mechanisms.
The state of primary motor cortex (M1) excitability is crucial for the processing of voluntary movement. We aimed to test the modulation induced by 1 Hz and 5 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of M1 on both early and late components of the contingent negative variation (CNV) and on the motor reaction in normal subjects. The CNV was evaluated in basal, and after 15 min of real or sham 1 Hz and 5 Hz stimulation of the left motor cortex in 7 right handed volunteers. Inhibition of motor cortex, due to rTMS stimulation, resulted in an amplitude increase of early and late components of CNV, and a slight reducing effect on motor reaction times, while 5 Hz stimulation did not change CNV amplitude. In normal subjects transient inhibition of motor cortex causes an increase of cortical events preceding external-cued voluntary movements, as a probable compensatory phenomena able to maintain an efficient motor performance.
Hypertonic solutions are mainstay of osmotherapy to cerebral edema. How hypertonic solutions affect healthy brain homeostasis, however, is not fully understood. Using rat model of cerebral edema induced by local cryoinjury, we found with immunohistochemistry that less microglial activation in healthy hemishere 24 h after hypertonic saline (HS, 3% NaCl) administration, compared to mannitol (20%, the same osmotic concentration of 3% NaCl) while dehydrating the brain tissue. To see whether blood-brain barrier (BBB) or aquaporin-4 (AQP4) contribute to this difference, HS or mannitol was intra-arterially injected to normal rats, and BBB opening, ultrastructure and AQP4 immunoreactivity were examined. Evans blue extravasation indicated that BBB was opened much lighter in HS group than mannitol group at the same time points. Electron microscopy also showed edema around the capillaries slightly lighter in HS than mannitol group 24 h after injection. Meanwhile, HS injection led to AQP4 down regulation in expression similarly as mannitol, compared with NS group. These data suggested that bolus injection of hypertonic agents may lead to microglia activation in healthy brain in different extent, due to BBB compromise, instead of water movement or AQP4 expression. Hence in clinical application, BBB of healthy brain should be considered in perspective to maintain the brain homeostasis.
The effects of D-cycloserine (DCS), an exogenous partial agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-associated glycine site, on spatial memory were investigated using spontaneous place recognition (SPR) test. In SPR test, rats were allowed to explore an arena where two identical objects were presented for 5 min (sample phase), and after a delay of 24 h they were placed again in the same arena but one of the two objects was moved to a novel place (test phase, 4 min). Systemic administration of DCS before the sample phase, immediately after the sample phase, and before the test phase caused rats' significant preference for the object in a novel place in the test phase, although in this condition rats without DCS treatment did not show any preference. DCS affected neither total object exploration time nor locomotor activity in the arena during testing. Results suggest the possibility that DCS can facilitate various processes of spatial memory including encoding, consolidation and retrieval, and that NMDA receptors play an important role in these memory processes.

In cellular transplantation strategies for repairing the injured central nervous system, interactions between transplanted neural precursor cells (NPCs) and host tissue remain incompletely understood. Although trophins may contribute to the benefits observed, little research has explored this possibility. Candidate trophic factors were identified, and primers were designed for these genes. Template RNA was isolated from 3 NPC sources, and also from bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) and embryonic fibroblasts as comparative controls. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to determine the effect of cell source, passaging, cellular differentiation, and environmental changes on trophin factor expression in NPCs. Results were analyzed with multivariate statistical analyses. NPCs, BMSCs, and fibroblasts each expressed trophic factors in unique patterns. Trophic factor expression was similar among NPCs whether harvested from rat or mouse, brain or spinal cord, or their time in culture. The expression of neurotrophin NT-3, NT-4/5, glial-derived neurotrophic factor, and insulin-like growth factor-1 decreased with time in culture. Induced differentiation of NPCs led to a marked and statistically significant increase in the expression of trophic factors. Culture conditions and environmental changes were also associated with significant changes in trophin expression. These results suggest that trophins could contribute to the benefits associated with transplantation of NPCs as well as BMSCs. Trophic factor expression changes with NPC differentiation and environmental conditions, which could have important implications with regard to their behavior after in vivo transplantation.
Cross-presentation allows antigen-presenting cells to present exogenous antigens to CD8(+) T cells, playing an essential role in controlling infections and tumor development. IFN- induces the rapid differentiation of human mono-cytes into dendritic cells, known as IFN-DCs, highly efficient in mediating cross-presentation, as well as the cross-priming of CD8(+) T cells. Here, we have investigated the mechanisms underlying the cross-presentation ability of IFN-DCs by studying the intracellular sorting of soluble ovalbumin and nonstructural-3 protein of hepatitis C virus. Our results demonstrate that, independently from the route and mechanism of antigen entry, IFN-DCs are extraordinarily competent in preserving internalized proteins from early degradation and in routing antigens toward the MHC class-I processing pathway, allowing long-lasting, cross-priming capacity. In IFN-DCs, both early and recycling endosomes function as key compartments for the storage of both antigens and MHC-class I molecules and for proteasome- and transporter-associated with Ag processing-dependent auxiliary cross-presentation pathways. Because IFN-DCs closely resemble human DCs naturally occurring in vivo in response to infections and other danger signals, these findings may have important implications for the design of vaccination strategies in neoplastic or chronic infectious diseases.
Luteolin, a 3', 4', 5, 7-tetrahydroxyflavone, is an active compound in Rosmarinus officinalis (Lamiacea), and has been reported to exert several benefits in neuronal cells. However cholinergic-induced activities of luteolin still remain unknown. Neuronal differentiation encompasses an elaborate developmental program which plays a key role in the development of the nervous system. The advent of several cell lines, like PC12 cells, able to differentiate in culture proved to be the turning point for gaining and understanding of molecular neuroscience. In this work, we investigated the ability of luteolin to induce PC12 cell differentiation and its effect on cholinergic activities. Our findings showed that luteolin treatment significantly induced neurite outgrowth extension, enhanced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, known as neuronal differentiation marker, and increased the level of total choline and acetylcholine in PC12 cells. In addition, luteolin persistently, activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and Akt; while the addition of pharmacological MEK/ERK1/2 inhibitor (U0126) and PI3k/Akt inhibitor (LY294002) attenuated luteolin-induced AChE activity and neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. The above findings suggest that luteolin induces neurite outgrowth and enhanced cholinergic activities, at least in part, through the activation of ERK1/2 and Akt signaling.

Palmitoylation, a key regulatory mechanism controlling protein targeting, is catalyzed by DHHC-family palmitoyl acyltransferases (PATs). Impaired PAT activity is linked to neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders, suggesting critical roles for palmitoylation in neuronal function. However, few substrates for specific PATs are known, and functional consequences of palmitoylation events are frequently uncharacterized. Here, we identify the closely related PATs DHHC5 and DHHC8 as specific regulators of the PDZ domain protein GRIP1b. Binding, palmitoylation, and dendritic targeting of GRIP1b require a PDZ ligand unique to DHHC5/8. Palmitoylated GRIP1b is targeted to trafficking endosomes and may link endosomes to kinesin motors. Consistent with this trafficking role, GRIP1b's palmitoylation turnover rate approaches the highest of all reported proteins, and palmitoylation increases GRIP1b's ability to accelerate AMPA-R recycling. To our knowledge, these findings identify the first neuronal DHHC5/8 substrate, define novel mechanisms controlling palmitoylation specificity, and suggest further links between dysregulated palmitoylation and neuropathological conditions.
Several lines of evidence suggest that aberrant Notch signaling contributes to the development of several types of cancer. Activation of Notch receptor is executed through intramembrane proteolysis by -secretase, which is a multimeric membrane-embedded protease comprised of presenilin, nicastrin (NCT), anterior pharynx defective 1 and PEN-2. In this study, we report the neutralization of the -secretase activity by a novel monoclonal antibody A5226A against the extracellular domain of NCT, generated by using a recombinant budded baculovirus as an immunogen. This antibody recognized fully glycosylated mature NCT in the active -secretase complex on the cell surface, and inhibited the -secretase activity by competing with the substrate binding in vitro. Moreover, A5226A abolished the -secretase activity-dependent growth of cancer cells in a xenograft model. Our data provide compelling evidence that NCT is a molecular target for the mechanism-based inhibition of -secretase, and that targeting NCT might be a novel therapeutic strategy against cancer caused by aberrant -secretase activity and Notch signaling.
Despite longstanding evidence that hypoglycaemic neuronal injury is mediated by glutamate excitotoxicity, the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved remain incompletely defined. Here, we demonstrate that the excitotoxic neuronal death that follows GD (glucose deprivation) is initiated by glutamate extruded from astrocytes via system xc---an amino acid transporter that imports L-cystine and exports L-glutamate. Specifically, we find that depriving mixed cortical cell cultures of glucose for up to 8 h injures neurons, but not astrocytes. Neuronal death is prevented by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonism and is partially sensitive to tetanus toxin. Removal of amino acids during the deprivation period prevents--whereas addition of L-cystine restores--GD-induced neuronal death, implicating the cystine/glutamate antiporter, system xc-. Indeed, drugs known to inhibit system xc- ameliorate GD-induced neuronal death. Further, a dramatic reduction in neuronal death is observed in chimaeric cultures consisting of neurons derived from WT (wild-type) mice plated on top of astrocytes derived from sut mice, which harbour a naturally occurring null mutation in the gene (Slc7a11) that encodes the substrate-specific light chain of system xc- (xCT). Finally, enhancement of astrocytic system xc- expression and function via IL-1 (interleukin-1) exposure potentiates hypoglycaemic neuronal death, the process of which is prevented by removal of l-cystine and/or addition of system xc- inhibitors. Thus, under the conditions of GD, our studies demonstrate that astrocytes, via system xc-, have a direct, non-cell autonomous effect on cortical neuron survival.
Neonatal survival in mammals is crucially dependent upon maintenance of body temperature. Neonatal body temperature is largely maintained by thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT). BAT develops perinatally in mice requiring integration of adipogenic and thermoregulatory gene pathways. We describe a regulatory mutation in the imprinted gene cluster on mouse chromosome 12 resulting in early postnatal lethality. Maternal inheritance of this mutation impairs the ability of young mice to maintain body temperature. While mechanisms of perinatal BAT development are well understood, our work highlights a second phase of BAT recruitment necessary to support small animals newly independentof the nest. We show that the imprinted delta-like homolog 1/preadipocyte factor (Dlk1/Pref1) and iodothyronine deiodinase type 3 (Dio3) functions converge on the development of brown fat at the transition to independent life. This shows that appropriate dosage control at imprinted loci can act as a critical determinant in postnatal survival during phases of physiological adaptation.
The hypothalamic melanocortin system, which includes neurons that produce pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptides, is a major negative regulator of energy balance. POMC neurons begin to acquire their unique properties during neonatal life. The formation of functional neural systems requires massive cytoplasmic remodeling that may involve autophagy, an important intracellular mechanism for the degradation of damaged proteins and organelles. Here we investigated the functional and structural effects of the deletion of an essential autophagy gene, Atg7, in POMC neurons. Lack of Atg7 in POMC neurons caused higher postweaning body weight, increased adiposity, and glucose intolerance. These metabolic impairments were associated with an age-dependent accumulation of ubiquitin/p62-positive aggregates in the hypothalamus and a disruption in the maturation of POMC-containing axonal projections. Together, these data provide direct genetic evidence that Atg7 in POMC neurons is required for normal metabolic regulation and neural development, and they implicate hypothalamic autophagy deficiency in the pathogenesis of obesity.
OPINION STATEMENT: Anemia develops in about 50% of patients hospitalized with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and is recognized as a cause of secondary brain injury. This review examines the effects of anemia and transfusion on TBI patients through a literature search to identify original research on anemia and transfusion in TBI, the effects of transfusion on brain physiology, and the role of erythropoietin or hemoglobin-based blood substitutes (HBBSs). However, the amount of high-quality, prospective data available to help make decisions about when TBI patients should be transfused is very small. Randomized transfusion trials have involved far too few TBI patients to reach definitive conclusions. Thus, it is hardly surprising that there is widespread practice variation. In our opinion, a hemoglobin transfusion threshold of 7g/dL cannot yet be considered safe for TBI patients admitted to hospital, and in particular to the ICU, as it is for other critically ill patients. Red blood cell transfusions often have immediate, seemingly beneficial effects on cerebral physiology, but the magnitude of this effect may depend in part upon how long the cells have been stored before administration. In light of existing physiological data, we generally aim to keep hemoglobin concentrations greater than 9g/dL during the first several days after TBI. In part, the decision is based on the patient's risk of or development of secondary ischemia or brain injury. An increasing number of centers use multimodal neurologic monitoring, which may help to individualize transfusion goals based on the degree of cerebral hypoxia or metabolic distress. When available, brain tissue oxygen tension values less than 15-20mm Hg or a lactate:pyruvate ratio greater than 30-40 would influence us to use more aggressive hemoglobin correction (e.g., a transfusion threshold of 10g/dL). Clinicians can attempt to reduce transfusion requirements by limiting phlebotomy, minimizing hemodilution, and providing appropriate prophylaxis against gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Administration of exogenous erythropoietin may have a small impact in further reducing the need for transfusion, but it also may increase complications, most notably deep venous thrombosis. Erythropoietin is currently of great interest as a potential neuroprotective agent, but until it is adequately evaluated in randomized controlled trials, it should not be used routinely for this purpose. HBBSs are also of interest, but existing preparations have not been shown to be beneficial-or even safe-in the context of TBI.
The neural mechanisms that integrate new episodes with established memories are unknown. When rats explore an environment, CA1 cells fire in place fields that indicate locations. In goal-directed spatial memory tasks, some place fields differentiate behavioral histories (&quot;journey-dependent&quot; place fields) while others do not (&quot;journey-independent&quot; place fields). To investigate how these signals inform learning and memory for new and familiar episodes, we recorded CA1 and CA3 activity in rats trained to perform a &quot;standard&quot; spatial memory task in a plus maze and in two new task variants. A &quot;switch&quot; task exchanged the start and goal locations in the same environment; an &quot;altered environment&quot; task contained unfamiliar local and distal cues. In the switch task, performance was mildly impaired, new firing maps were stable, but the proportion and stability of journey-dependent place fields declined. In the altered environment, overall performance was strongly impaired, new firing maps were unstable, and stable proportions of journey-dependent place fields were maintained. In both tasks, memory errors were accompanied by a decline in journey codes. The different dynamics of place and journey coding suggest that they reflect separate mechanisms and contribute to distinct memory computations. Stable place fields may represent familiar relationships among environmental features that are required for consistent memory performance. Journey-dependent activity may correspond with goal-directed behavioral sequences that reflect expectancies that generalize across environments. The complementary signals could help link current events with established memories, so that familiarity with either a behavioral strategy or an environment can inform goal-directed learning.
Little is known about how hippocampal neurons in rodents respond to and represent conspecifics. To address this question, we let rats interact while quantifying hippocampal neuronal activation patterns with extracellular recordings and immediate-early gene (c-Fos) expression. A total of 319 single putative pyramidal neurons was recorded in dorsal hippocampus. In sessions with multiple stimulus rats, no cell responded differentially to individual rats (N = 267 cells). We did find, however, that the presence of other rats induced a significant enhancement or suppression of firing in a fraction of neurons (n = 22 of 319; 7%). As expected, a large fraction of neurons (n = 170; 53%) had place fields. There was no evidence for place-independent responses to rats. Rather, the modulations were linked to the spatial responses. While neurons did not discriminate between individual rats, they did discriminate between rats and inanimate objects. Surprisingly, neuronal responses were more strongly modulated by objects than by rats, even though subjects spent more time near their conspecifics. Consistent with the low fraction of rat-modulated cells, social encounters did not induce c-Fos expression in the hippocampus, while there was a social interaction-specific expression in the basolateral amygdala. In both interacting and non-interacting rats, the fraction of c-Fos-expressing cells in the hippocampus was very low. Our investigation of social coding in the rat hippocampus, along with other recent work, showed that social responses were rare and lacked individual specificity, altogether speaking against a role of rodent dorsal hippocampus in social memory.
Isolectin B(4)-positive [IB(4)(+)] primary afferent nociceptors challenged with an inflammatory or neuropathic insult develop a PKC-dependent long-lasting hyperalgesic response to a subsequent challenge by the proinflammatory cytokine prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), a phenomenon known as hyperalgesic priming. Here we demonstrate that the neuroplasticity underlying nociceptor priming requires 72 h to be established; rats that have been challenged with the inflammatory mediator TNF 24 or 48 h ahead of PGE(2) do not show the enhanced and prolonged hyperalgesic response by which primed IB(4)(+)-nociceptors are being characterized. Moreover, as the underlying plasticity can be interrupted by the peripheral administration of the protein translation inhibitor anisomycin it is reflected by changes in the peripheral protein expression pattern. Finally, the induction of priming by the selective PKC agonist, psi  receptor for activated c kinase (RACK) can be prevented, but not reversed by intrathecal injections of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides for the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein (CPEB) mRNA, a master regulator of protein translation that coimmunoprecipitated with PKC and is almost exclusively expressed by IB(4)(+)-nociceptors. Our results suggest that CPEB is downstream of PKC in the cellular signaling cascade responsible for the induction of priming, raising the intriguing possiblity that prion-like misfolding could be a responsible mechanism for the chronification of pain.
Inhibitory (GABAergic) interneurons entrain assemblies of excitatory principal neurons to orchestrate information processing in the hippocampus. Disrupting the dynamic recruitment as well as the temporally precise activity of interneurons in hippocampal circuitries can manifest in epileptiform seizures, and impact specific behavioral traits. Despite the importance of GABAergic interneurons during information encoding in the brain, experimental tools to selectively manipulate GABAergic neurotransmission are limited. Here, we report the selective elimination of GABAergic interneurons by a ribosome inactivation approach through delivery of saporin-conjugated anti-vesicular GABA transporter antibodies (SAVAs) in vitro as well as in the mouse and rat hippocampus in vivo. We demonstrate the selective loss of GABAergic--but not glutamatergic--synapses, reduced GABA release, and a shift in excitation/inhibition balance in mixed cultures of hippocampal neurons exposed to SAVAs. We also show the focal and indiscriminate loss of calbindin(+), calretinin(+), parvalbumin/system A transporter 1(+), somatostatin(+), vesicular glutamate transporter 3 (VGLUT3)/cholecystokinin/CB(1) cannabinoid receptor(+) and neuropeptide Y(+) local-circuit interneurons upon SAVA microlesions to the CA1 subfield of the rodent hippocampus, with interneuron debris phagocytosed by infiltrating microglia. SAVA microlesions did not affect VGLUT1(+) excitatory afferents. Yet SAVA-induced rearrangement of the hippocampal circuitry triggered network hyperexcitability associated with the progressive loss of CA1 pyramidal cells and the dispersion of dentate granule cells. Overall, our data identify SAVAs as an effective tool to eliminate GABAergic neurons from neuronal circuits underpinning high-order behaviors and cognition, and whose manipulation can recapitulate pathogenic cascades of epilepsy and other neuropsychiatric illnesses.
Practice-induced improvements in skilled performance reflect &quot;offline &quot; consolidation processes extending beyond daily training sessions. According to visual learning theories, an early, fast learning phase driven by high-level areas is followed by a late, asymptotic learning phase driven by low-level, retinotopic areas when higher resolution is required. Thus, low-level areas would not contribute to learning and offline consolidation until late learning. Recent studies have challenged this notion, demonstrating modified responses to trained stimuli in primary visual cortex (V1) and offline activity after very limited training. However, the behavioral relevance of modified V1 activity for offline consolidation of visual skill memory in V1 after early training sessions remains unclear. Here, we used neuronavigated transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) directed to a trained retinotopic V1 location to test for behaviorally relevant consolidation in human low-level visual cortex. Applying TMS to the trained V1 location within 45 min of the first or second training session strongly interfered with learning, as measured by impaired performance the next day. The interference was conditional on task context and occurred only when training in the location targeted by TMS was followed by training in a second location before TMS. In this condition, high-level areas may become coupled to the second location and uncoupled from the previously trained low-level representation, thereby rendering consolidation vulnerable to interference. Our data show that, during the earliest phases of skill learning in the lowest-level visual areas, a behaviorally relevant form of consolidation exists of which the robustness is controlled by high-level, contextual factors.
Memories for emotionally arousing experiences are typically vivid and persistent. The recurrent, intrusive memories of traumatic events in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are an extreme example. Stress-responsive neurotransmitters released during emotional arousal are proposed to enhance the consolidation of fear memory. These transmitters may include norepinephrine and epinephrine (NE/E) because stimulating -adrenergic receptors shortly after training can enhance memory consolidation. However, mice lacking NE/E acquire and consolidate fear memory normally. Here, we show by using pharmacologic and genetic manipulations in mice and rats that NE/E are not essential for classical fear memory consolidation because signaling by the (2)-adrenergic receptor is redundant with signaling by dopamine at the D(5)-dopaminergic receptor. The intracellular signaling that is stimulated by these receptors to promote consolidation uses distinct G proteins to redundantly activate phospholipase C. The results support recent evidence indicating that blocking -adrenergic receptors alone shortly after trauma may not be sufficient to prevent PTSD.

A mechanical trauma to the spinal cord can be followed by the development of irreversible and progressive neurodegeneration, as opposed to a temporary or partially reversible neurological damage. An increasing body of experimental and clinical evidence from humans and animal models indicates that spinal cord injury may set in motion the development of disabling and at times fatal neuromuscular disorders, whose occurrence is not normally associated with any major environmental event. This outcome appears to be dependent on the co-occurrence of a particular form of mechanical stress and of a genetically-determined vulnerability. This increased vulnerability to spinal cord injury may depend on a change of the nature and of the timing of activation of a number of neuroprotective and neurodestructive molecular signals in the injured cord. Among the main determinants, we could mention an altered homeostasis of lipids and neurofilaments, an earlier inflammatory response and the failure of the damaged tissue to rein in oxidative damage and apoptotic cell death. These changes could force injured tissue beyond a point of no return and precipitate an irreversible neurodegenerative process. A better knowledge of the molecular signals activated in a state of increased vulnerability to trauma can inform future treatment strategies and the prediction of the neurological outcome after spinal cord injury.
The social brain hypothesis generically posits that increasing social group size relates is associated with an increase in neocortex size. A new study identifies, within a species, the specific neural circuit that may confer the primate ability to manage social relationships as they increase in number.

Spontaneous network activity constitutes a central theme during the development of neuronal circuitry [1, 2]. Before the onset of vision, retinal neurons generate waves of spontaneous activity that are relayed along the ascending visual pathway [3, 4] and shape activity patterns in these regions [5, 6]. The spatiotemporal nature of retinal waves is required to establish precise functional maps in higher visual areas, and their disruption results in enlarged axonal projection areas (e.g., [7-10]). However, how retinal inputs shape network dynamics in the visual cortex on the cellular level is unknown. Using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging, we identified two independently occurring patterns of network activity in the mouse primary visual cortex (V1) before and at the onset of vision. Acute manipulations of spontaneous retinal activity revealed that one type of network activity largely originated in the retina and was characterized by low synchronicity (L-) events. In addition, we identified a type of high synchronicity (H-) events that required gap junction signaling but were independent of retinal input. Moreover, the patterns differed in wave progression and developmental profile. Our data suggest that different activity patterns have complementary functions during the formation of synaptic circuits in the developing visual cortex.



Many insects use the polarization pattern of the sky for obtaining compass information during orientation or navigation. E-vector information is collected by a specialized area in the dorsal-most part of the compound eye, the dorsal rim area (DRA). We tested honeybees' capability of learning certain e-vector orientations by using a classical conditioning paradigm with the proboscis extension reflex. When one e-vector orientation (CS+) was associated with sugar water, while another orientation (CS-) was not rewarded, the honeybees could discriminate CS+ from CS-. Bees whose DRA was inactivated by painting did not learn CS+. When ultraviolet (UV) polarized light (350 nm) was used for CS, the bees discriminated CS+ from CS-, but no discrimination was observed in blue (442 nm) or green light (546 nm). Our data indicate that honeybees can learn and discriminate between different e-vector orientations, sensed by the UV receptors of the DRA, suggesting that bees can determine their flight direction from polarized UV skylight during foraging. Fixing the bees' heads during the experiments did not prevent learning, indicating that they use an 'instantaneous' algorithm of e-vector detection; that is, the bees do not need to actively scan the sky with their DRAs ('sequential' method) to determine e-vector orientation.

Hair cells in the auditory, vestibular, and lateral-line systems of vertebrates receive inputs through a remarkable variety of accessory structures that impose complex mechanical loads on the mechanoreceptive hair bundles. Although the physiological and morphological properties of the hair bundles in each organ are specialized for detecting the relevant inputs, we propose that the mechanical load on the bundles also adjusts their responsiveness to external signals. We use a parsimonious description of active hair-bundle motility to show how the mechanical environment can regulate a bundle's innate behavior and response to input. We find that an unloaded hair bundle can behave very differently from one subjected to a mechanical load. Depending on how it is loaded, a hair bundle can function as a switch, active oscillator, quiescent resonator, or low-pass filter. Moreover, a bundle displays a sharply tuned, nonlinear, and sensitive response for some loading conditions and an untuned or weakly tuned, linear, and insensitive response under other circumstances. Our simple characterization of active hair-bundle motility explains qualitatively most of the observed features of bundle motion from different organs and organisms. The predictions stemming from this description provide insight into the operation of hair bundles in a variety of contexts.
Primates depend for their survival on their ability to understand their social environment, and their behavior is often shaped by social circumstances. We report that the orbitofrontal cortex, a brain region involved in motivation and reward, is tuned to social information. Macaque monkeys worked to collect rewards for themselves and two monkey partners. Behaviorally, monkeys discriminated between cues signaling large and small [corrected] rewards, and between cues signaling rewards to self only and reward to both self and another monkey, with a preference for the former over the latter in both instances. Single neurons recorded during this task encoded the meaning of visual cues that predicted the magnitude of future rewards, as well as the motivational value of rewards obtained in a social context. Furthermore, neuronal activity was found to track momentary social preferences and partner's identity and social rank. The orbitofrontal cortex thus contains key neuronal mechanisms for the evaluation of social information.
Individuals with developmental dyslexia (DD) show a disruption in posterior left-hemispheric neural networks during phonological processing. Additionally, compensatory mechanisms in children and adults with DD have been located within frontal brain areas. However, it remains unclear when and how differences in posterior left-hemispheric networks manifest and whether compensatory mechanisms have already started to develop in the prereading brain. Here we investigate functional networks during phonological processing in 36 prereading children with a familial risk for DD (n = 18, average age = 66.50 mo) compared with age and IQ-matched controls (n = 18; average age = 65.61 mo). Functional neuroimaging results reveal reduced activation in prereading children with a family-history of DD (FHD(+)), compared with those without (FHD(-)), in bilateral occipitotemporal and left temporoparietal brain regions. This finding corresponds to previously identified hypoactivations in left hemispheric posterior brain regions for school-aged children and adults with a diagnosis of DD. Furthermore, left occipitotemporal and temporoparietal brain activity correlates positively with prereading skills in both groups. Our results suggest that differences in neural correlates of phonological processing in individuals with DD are not a result of reading failure, but are present before literacy acquisition starts. Additionally, no hyperactivation in frontal brain regions was observed, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms for reading failure are not yet present. Future longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether the identified differences may serve as neural premarkers for the early identification of children at risk for DD.

The computer metaphor is dominant in most discussions of neuroscience, but the semantics attached to that metaphor are often quite naive. Herein, we examine the ontology of software-intensive systems, the nature of their structure and the application of the computer metaphor to the metaphysical questions of self and causation.
Evolution has sculpted the incredibly complex human nervous system, among the most complex functions of which extend beyond the individual to an intricate social structure. Although these functions are deterministic, those determinants are legion, heavily interacting and dependent on a specific evolutionary trajectory. That trajectory was directed by the adaptive significance of quasi-random genetic variations, but was also influenced by chance and caprice. With a different evolutionary pathway, the same neural elements could subserve functions distinctly different from what they do in extant human brains. Consequently, the properties of higher level neural networks cannot be derived readily from the properties of the lower level constituent elements, without studying these elements in the aggregate. Thus, a multi-level approach to integrative neuroscience may offer an optimal strategy. Moreover, the process of calibrative reductionism, by which concepts and understandings from one level of organization or analysis can mutually inform and 'calibrate' those from other levels (both higher and lower), may represent a viable approach to the application of reductionism in science. This is especially relevant in social neuroscience, where the basic subject matter of interest is defined by interacting organisms across diverse environments.
Transcription factors are essential for regulating neuronal microtubules (MTs) during development and after axon damage. In this paper, we identify a novel neuronal function for Drosophila melanogaster FoxO in limiting MT stability at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). foxO loss-of-function NMJs displayed augmented MT stability. In contrast, motor neuronal overexpression of wild-type FoxO moderately destabilized MTs, whereas overexpression of constitutively nuclear FoxO severely destabilized MTs. Thus, FoxO negatively regulates synaptic MT stability. FoxO family members are well-established components of stress-activated feedback loops. We hypothesized that FoxO might also be regulated by cytoskeletal stress because it was well situated to shape neuronal MT organization after cytoskeletal damage. Indeed, levels of neuronal FoxO were strongly reduced after acute pharmacological MT disruption as well as sustained genetic disruption of the neuronal cytoskeleton. This decrease was independent of the dual leucine zipper kinase-Wallenda pathway and required function of Akt kinase. We present a model wherein FoxO degradation is a component of a stabilizing, protective response to cytoskeletal insult.
Previous studies have been proposed that proliferation and release of certain growth factors by different types of cells can be modulated by low level laser therapy. We aimed to demonstrate the effect of laser irradiation on human schwann cell proliferation and neurotrophic factor gene expression in vitro. Human schwann cells (SCs) were harvested from sural nerve that was obtained from organ donor followed by treatment with an 810 nm, 50 mW diode laser (two different energies: 1 J/cm(2) and 4 J/cm(2)) in three consecutive days. SC proliferation was measured, after first irradiation on days 1, 4 and 7 by the MTT assay. Real time PCR analysis was utilized on days 5 and 20 to evaluate the expression of key genes involved in nerve regeneration consist of NGF, BDNF and GDNF. Evaluation of cellular proliferation following one day after laser treatment revealed significant decrease in cell proliferation compared to control group. However on day 7, significant increase in proliferation was found in both the irradiated groups in comparison with the control group. No significant difference was found between the laser treated groups. Treatment of SCs with laser resulted in significant increase in NGF gene expression on day 20. Difference between two treated groups and control group was not significant for BDNF and GDNF gene expression. Our results demonstrate that low level laser therapy stimulate human schwann cell proliferation and NGF gene expression in vitro.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a major player in the input and output of the basal ganglia motor circuitry. The neuronal regular firing pattern of the STN changes into a pathological bursting mode in both advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and in PD animals models with severe dopamine depletion. One of the current hypothesis, based on clinical and experimental evidence, is that this typical burst activity is responsible for some of the principal motor symptoms. In the current study we tested whether mild DA depletion, mimicking early stages of PD, induced deficits in motor behaviour and changes in STN neuronal activity. The present study demonstrated that rats with a mild lesion (20-40% loss of DA neurons) and a slowed motor response, but without gross motor abnormalities already have an increased number of bursty STN neurons under urethane anaesthesia. These findings indicate that the early increase in STN burst activity is a compensatory mechanism to maintain the dopamine homeostasis in the basal ganglia.

Phosphorylation of -synuclein at Ser-129 is of crucial relevance to Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies. Here we provide biochemical evidence that PLK2 and to a lesser extent PLK3 are superior over CK2, as catalysts of Ser-129 phosphorylation both in full length -synuclein and in a peptide reproducing the C-terminal segment of the protein. By using substituted peptides we also show that the sequence surrounding Ser-129 is optimally shaped for undergoing phosphorylation by PLK2, with special reference to the two acidic residues at positions n-3 (Glu-126) and n+2 (Glu-131) whose replacement with alanine abrogates phosphorylation.
The possible involvement of oxytocin (OT) in the generation of seizures has not received a lot of attention in the past, although generalized epileptic convulsions were observed in humans following intravenous OT infusion. We here aimed to investigate the effect of exogenous OT administration on seizure susceptibility in C57Bl/6 mice subjected to the pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) model. In addition, we studied via which receptor possible effects on seizure thresholds could be mediated since OT binds to both the OT receptor (OTR) and the vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR). We showed that C57Bl/6 mice treated with 0.5 mg/kg OT had decreased PTZ thresholds for ear twitch, myoclonic twitch, tail twitch, forelimb clonus and falling. This pronconvulsive effect was reversed by the OTR antagonist L-368.899, however, it was not mimicked by the OTR agonist carbetocin (CBT). Nevertheless, CBT had antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test that could be reversed by L-368.899. These experiments shed some doubt on the involvement of OTR in the observed effect of OT on seizure thresholds. Therefore, we investigated the role of the V1aR as a possible mediator of the proconvulsive effects of OT. We found that the proconvulsive effects of both arginine vasopressin and OT were reversed by the V1aR antagonist SR49059. In summary, OT has proconvulsive effects in our mouse model of generalized seizures that could not be mimicked by CBT. Our results suggest that the binding of OT to V1aRs is the most plausible explanation for the proconvulsive effects of OT.
Animal models provide the opportunity for in-depth and experimental investigation into the anatomical and physiological underpinnings of human neurological disorders. Rodent models of thiamine deficiency have yielded significant insight into the structural, neurochemical and cognitive deficits associated with thiamine deficiency as well as proven useful toward greater understanding of memory function in the intact brain. In this review, we discuss the anatomical, neurochemical and behavioral changes that occur during the acute and chronic phases of thiamine deficiency and describe how rodent models of Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome aid in developing a more detailed picture of brain structures involved in learning and memory.
We have previously shown that the minicolumnar spacing of neurons in the cerebral cortex relates to cognitive ability, and that minicolumn thinning occurs in old age. The present study examines further the relationship between cognitive ability and cortical fine structure (minicolumn organization and neuropathology) in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the parahippocampal gyrus (PHG) in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Premortem neuropsychological scores were related to postmortem microanatomy in 58 adults (20 normal controls, 18 MCI, and 20 confirmed AD patients). We found a correspondence between minicolumn thinning in the dlPFC and IQ decline in dementia. In mild impairment, IQ remained stable, as did dlPFC minicolumn width and dlPFC plaque load. IQ only declined as dlPFC minicolumn thinning occurred and dlPFC plaque load increased in more severe dementia. By contrast, plaque load increased and minicolumns became steadily thinner in the PHG, where minicolumn width correlated with declining mini-mental state examination score across both MCI and severe dementia. By including a further 14 younger control subjects, we found that in normal healthy aging, minicolumn width decreased in the dlPFC, whereas PHG minicolumn width did not change. AD patients in our dataset with higher IQ were older at time of death and had less pathology, which supports a neural basis for the cognitive reserve hypothesis.
Stem cells and their derivatives show tremendous potential for treating many disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases. We discuss here the challenges and potential for the translation of stem-cell-based approaches into treatments for Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
We used a bioluminescence resonance energy transfer biosensor to screen for functional selective ligands of the human oxytocin (OT) receptor. We demonstrated that OT promoted the direct engagement and activation of G(q) and all the G(i/o) subtypes at the OT receptor. Other peptidic analogues, chosen because of specific substitutions in key OT structural/functional residues, all showed biased activation of G protein subtypes. No ligand, except OT, activated G(oA) or G(oB), and, with only one exception, all of the peptides that activated G(q) also activated G(i2) and G(i3) but not G(i1), G(oA), or G(oB), indicating a strong bias toward these subunits. Two peptides (DNalOVT and atosiban) activated only G(i1) or G(i3), failed to recruit -arrestins, and did not induce receptor internalization, providing the first clear examples of ligands differentiating individual G(i/o) family members. Both analogs inhibited cell proliferation, showing that a single G(i) subtype-mediated pathway is sufficient to prompt this physiological response. These analogs represent unique tools for examining the contribution of G(i/o) members in complex biological responses and open the way to the development of drugs with peculiar selectivity profiles. This is of particular relevance because OT has been shown to improve symptoms in neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders characterized by abnormal social behaviors, such as autism. Functional selective ligands, activating a specific G protein signaling pathway, may possess a higher efficacy and specificity on OT-based therapeutics.
Ascorbate is an important antioxidant, which also displays important functions in neuronal tissues, including the retina. The retina is responsible for the initial steps of visual processing, which is further refined in cerebral high-order centers. The retina is also a prototypical model for studying physiologic aspects of cells that comprise the nervous system. Of major importance also is the cellular messenger nitric oxide (NO). Previous studies have demonstrated the significance of NO for both survival and proliferation of cultured embryonic retinal cells. Cultured retinal cells express a high-affinity ascorbate transporter, and the release of ascorbate is delicately regulated by ionotropic glutamate receptors. Therefore, we proposed whether there is interplay between the ascorbate transport system and NO signaling pathway in retinal cells. Here we show compelling evidence that ascorbate uptake is tightly controlled by NO and its downstream signaling pathway in culture. NO also modulates the expression of SVCT-2, an effect mediated by cGMP and PKG. Kinetic studies suggest that NO increases the transport capacity for ascorbate, but not the affinity of SVCT-2 for its substrate. Interestingly, NO utilizes the NF-B pathway, in a PKG-dependent manner, to modulate both SVCT-2 expression and ascorbate uptake. These results demonstrate that NO exerts a fine-tuned control of the availability of ascorbate to cultured retinal cells and strongly reinforces ascorbate as an important bioactive molecule in neuronal tissues.
Addiction to drugs is a major contemporary public health issue, characterized by maladaptive behavior to obtain and consume an increasing amount of drugs at the expense of the individual's health and social and personal life. We discovered abnormalities in fronto-striatal brain systems implicated in self-control in both stimulant-dependent individuals and their biological siblings who have no history of chronic drug abuse; these findings support the idea of an underlying neurocognitive endophenotype for stimulant drug addiction.


We used multipotent stem cells (MSCs) derived from the young rat subventricular zone (SVZ) to study the effects of glutamate in oligodendrocyte maturation. Glutamate stimulated oligodendrocyte differentiation from SVZ-derived MSCs through the activation of specific N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits. The effect of glutamate and NMDA on oligodendrocyte differentiation was evident in both the number of newly generated oligodendrocytes and their morphology. In addition, the levels of NMDAR1 and NMDAR2A protein increased during differentiation, whereas NMDAR2B and NMDAR3 protein levels decreased, suggesting differential expression of NMDA receptor subunits during maturation. Microfluorimetry showed that the activation of NMDA receptors during oligodendrocyte differentiation elevated cytosolic calcium levels and promoted myelination in cocultures with neurons. Moreover, we observed that stimulation of MSCs by NMDA receptors induced the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which were negatively modulated by the NADPH inhibitor apocynin, and that the levels of ROS correlated with the degree of differentiation. Taken together, these findings suggest that ROS generated by NADPH oxidase by the activation of NMDA receptors promotes the maturation of oligodendrocytes and favors myelination.

In this report, we describe a reliable protocol for biocytin labeling of neuronal tissue and diaminobenzidine (DAB)-based processing of brain slices. We describe how to embed tissues in different media and how to subsequently histochemically label the tissues for light or electron microscopic examination. We provide a detailed dehydration and embedding protocol using Eukitt that avoids the common problem of tissue distortion and therefore prevents fading of cytoarchitectural features (in particular, lamination) of brain tissue; as a result, additional labeling methods (such as cytochrome oxidase staining) become unnecessary. In addition, we provide correction factors for tissue shrinkage in all spatial dimensions so that a realistic neuronal morphology can be obtained from slice preparations. Such corrections were hitherto difficult to calculate because embedding in viscous media resulted in highly nonlinear tissue deformation. Fixation, immunocytochemistry and embedding procedures for light microscopy (LM) can be completed within 42-48 h. Subsequent reconstructions and morphological analyses take an additional 24 h or more.
The corticoreticular pathway (CRP) is involved in postural control and locomotor function. No study has been conducted for identification of the CRP in the human brain. In the current study, we attempted to identify the CRP in the human brain, using diffusion tensor tractography (DTT). We recruited 24 healthy volunteers for this study. Diffusion tensor images were scanned using 1.5-T. For reconstruction of the CRP, a seed region of interest (ROI) was placed on the reticular formation of the medulla. The first target ROI was placed on the midbrain tegmentum and the second target ROI was placed on the premotor cortex (Brodmann area 6). Values of fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, and tract volume of the CRP were measured. The CRP, which originated from the premotor cortex, descended through the corona radiata and the posterior limb of the internal capsule anterior to the corticospinal tract. In the midbrain and pons, it passed through the tegmentum and terminated at the pontomedullary reticular formation. No differences in terms of fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, and tract volume were observed between hemispheres (P&gt;0.05). We identified the CRP in the human brain using DTT. These methods and results would be helpful to both clinicians and researchers in the neuroscience field.
Identification of novel targets and biomarkers, such as microRNAs, is extremely helpful to understand the pathogenetic mechanisms in a disease like multiple sclerosis (MS). We tested the expression profile of 1145 microRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 19 MS patients and 14 controls, and we further explored their function by performing a whole-genome mRNA profiling in same subjects and using bioinformatic prediction tool. A total of 104 miRNAs have been identified as deregulated in MS patients; 2/10 which ranked highest (let-7g and miR-150) have been validated in a replication sample, leading to the identification of putative target genes.
Patients with persistent, recurrent, or intermittent bleeding from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract for which no definite cause has been identified by initial esophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, or conventional radiologic evaluation are considered to have an obscure GI bleeding (OGIB). The diagnosis and management of patients with OGIB is challenging, often requiring extensive and expensive workups. The main objective is the identification of the etiology and site of bleeding, which should be as rapidly accomplished as possible, in order to establish the most appropriate therapy. The introduction of capsule endoscopy and double balloon enteroscopy and the recent improvements in CT and MRI techniques have revolutionized the approach to patients with OGIB, allowing the visualization of the entire GI tract, particularly the small bowel, until now considered as the &quot;dark continent&quot; . In this article we review and compare the radiologic and endoscopic examinations currently used in occult and OGIB, focusing on diagnostic patterns, pitfalls, strengths, weaknesses, and value in patients' management.





Although benign vascular lesions are frequent in the head and the neck region, clinical evidence of cavernous haemangioma of the external auditory canal is extremely rare; when present, the lesion invades the middle ear space. Herein, a rare case of a soft mass filling the external auditory canal, not involving the tympanic membrane, in a symptomatic 59-year-old male is described. Clinical and audiological characteristics, imaging studies and surgical treatment with histological evaluation are reported, which led to a diagnosis of a cavernous haemangioma. This is only the seventh case described in the literature, to date, not involving the tympanic membrane and the middle ear space. In addition, a review has been made of the relevant literature with respect to epidemiology, presentation, evaluation, pathology, and management options for haemangiomas arising in the external auditory canal.




Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an evolutionary conserved energy sensor sensitive to changes in cellular AMP/ATP ratio which is activated by phosphorylation (pAMPK). pAMPK levels decrease in peripheral tissues with age, but whether this also occurs in the aged brain, and how this contributes to the ability of the aged brain to cope with ischemic stress is unknown. This study investigated the activation of AMPK and the response to AMPK inhibition after induced stroke in both young and aged male mice. Baseline levels of phosphorylated AMPK were higher in aged brains compared to young mice. Stroke-induced a robust activation of AMPK in young mice, yet this response was muted in the aged brain. Young mice had larger infarct volumes compared with aged animals; however, more severe behavioral deficits and higher mortality were seen in aged mice after stroke. Inhibition of AMPK with Compound C decreased infarct size in young animals, but had no effect in aged mice. Compound C administration led to a reduction in brain ATP levels and induced hypothermia, which led to enhanced neuroprotection in young but not aged mice. This work demonstrates that aging increases baseline brain pAMPK levels; aged mice have a muted stroke-induced pAMPK response; and that AMPK inhibition and hypothermia are less efficacious neuroprotective agents in the aged brain. This has important translational relevance for the development of neuroprotective agents in preclinical models and our understanding of the enhanced metabolic stress experienced by the aged brain.
Tubular aggregates (TAs), ordered arrays of elongated sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) tubules, are present in skeletal muscle from patients with myopathies and are also experimentally induced by extreme anoxia. In wild-type mice TAs develop in a clear age-, sex- (male), and fiber type- (fast twitch) dependence. However, the events preceding the appearance of TAs have not been explored. We investigated the sequential stages leading to the initial appearance and maturation of TAs in EDL from male mice. TAs' formation requires two temporally distinct steps that operate via different mechanisms. Initially (before 1year of age), the SR Ca(2+) binding protein calsequestrin (CASQ) accumulates specifically at the I band level causing swelling of free SR cisternae. In the second stage, the enlarged SR sacs at the I band level extend into multiple, longitudinally oriented tubules with a full complement of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPases (SERCA) in the membrane and CASQ in the lumen. Tubules gradually acquire a regular cylindrical shape and uniform size apparently in concert with partial crystallization of SERCA. Multiple, small TAs associate to form fewer mature TAs of very large size. Interestingly, in fibers from CASQ1-knockout mice abnormal aggregates of SR tubules have different conformation and never develop into ordered aggregates of straight cylinders, possibly due to lack of CASQ accumulation. We conclude that TAs do not arise abruptly but are the final result of a gradually changing SR architecture and we suggest that the crystalline ATPase within the aggregates may be inactive.
Traditional tests used in the clinic to identify dementia, such as the mini-mental state examination (MMSE), are useful to identify severe cognitive impairments but might be less sensitive to detect more subtle age-related cognitive changes. Previously, the novel image-novel location (NINL) object recognition test was shown to be sensitive to detect effects of apolipoprotein E4, a risk factor for developing age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease, in nondemented elderly. In the present longitudinal study, performance on the MMSE and the NINL tests were compared over a 4-year period. Individual NINL scores over this period were highly correlated. In addition, while MMSE scores did not change over the 4-year period, NINL scores did. In a final testing session of a subset of the participants, NINL scores correlated with logical memory and word recall lists, cognitive tasks used to detect dementia in the clinic, as well as clinical dementia rating scales. These results support that the NINL might be a valuable tool to assess age-related cognitive decline.

Long-term ethanol exposure has deleterious effects on both glial and neuronal function. We assessed alterations in both astrocytic and neuronal viability, and alterations in N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function, in cocultures of rat cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) and astrocytes after continuous ethanol exposure (CEE). Treatment of cells with 100 mM EtOH once every 24 h for 4 days resulted in a mean ethanol concentration of 57.3  2.1 mM. Comparisons between control and post-ethanol-treated cells were made 4 days after the last ethanol treatment. CEE did not alter glial cell viability, as indicated by the absence of either changes in astrocytic morphology, actin depolymerization, or disruption of astrocytic intracellular mitochondrial distribution at any day postethanol treatment. The CGCs were healthy and viable after CEE, as indicated by phase-contrast microscopy and the trypan-blue exclusion method. Whole-cell patch-clamp experiments indicated that NMDA-induced currents (I(NMDA)) were altered by CEE treatment. Similar to previous results obtained during the withdrawal phase from chronic ethanol exposure, I(NMDA) from CEE-treated cells were significantly larger than I(NMDA) from NMDARs in control CGCs, but returned to control values by the fourth day post-CEE. However, after the last ethanol dosing and during a time when ethanol concentrations remained high, I(NMDA) were significantly smaller than control values. Identical results were observed in CGCs expressing the NR2A or NR2B subunit. In summary, both neurons and astrocytes remained healthy following exposure to CEE with no signs of neurotoxicity at the cellular level, and modulation of NMDAR function is consistent with findings from prior experiments. Thus, we conclude that the CEE paradigm in glial-neuronal cocultures readily lends itself to long-term invitro studies of ethanol effects that include glial-neuronal interactions and the ability to study ethanol withdrawal-induced neurotoxicity.
Adolescent humans and rodents have been shown to consume more alcohol than their adult counterparts. Given that corticosterone (CORT) has been shown to be related to the intake of several drugs of abuse, this study assessed the ontogenetic effects of low-moderate doses of ethanol on CORT increases and recovery. Despite no significant differences in baseline (home cage) CORT levels, CORT responses to ethanol were greater in females than in males and in adult females than in adolescent females; males, however, showed less marked age differences in CORT levels after ethanol consumption. Adolescent blood ethanol concentrations (BECs) were lower than those of adults, although these BEC differences appear insufficient to account for the ontogenetic differences in CORT levels. Collectively, these findings suggest that it is unlikely that age differences in CORT elevations provide a major contribution to the ontogenetic differences in alcohol intake seen between adolescents and adults.

The Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent GABA-betaine transporter (BGT1) has received attention mostly as a protector against osmolarity changes in the kidney and as a potential controller of the neurotransmitter GABA in the brain. Nevertheless, the cellular distribution of BGT1, and its physiological importance, is not fully understood. Here we have quantified mRNA levels using TaqMan real-time PCR, produced a number of BGT1 antibodies, and used these to study BGT1 distribution in mice. BGT1 (protein and mRNA) is predominantly expressed in the liver (sinusoidal hepatocyte plasma membranes) and not in the endothelium. BGT1 is also present in the renal medulla, where it localizes to the basolateral membranes of collecting ducts (particularly at the papilla tip) and the thick ascending limbs of Henle. There is some BGT1 in the leptomeninges, but brain parenchyma, brain blood vessels, ependymal cells, the renal cortex, and the intestine are virtually BGT1 deficient in 1- to 3-mo-old mice. Labeling specificity was assured by processing tissue from BGT1-deficient littermates in parallel as negative controls. Addition of 2.5% sodium chloride to the drinking water for 48 h induced a two- to threefold upregulation of BGT1, tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein, and sodium-myo-inositol cotransporter 1 (slc5a3) in the renal medulla, but not in the brain and barely in the liver. BGT1-deficient and wild-type mice appeared to tolerate the salt treatment equally well, possibly because betaine is one of several osmolytes. In conclusion, this study suggests that BGT1 plays its main role in the liver, thereby complementing other betaine-transporting carrier proteins (e.g., slc6a20) that are predominantly expressed in the small intestine or kidney rather than the liver.
Prior researchers have shown that the brain has a remarkable ability for adapting to environmental changes. The positive effects of such neural plasticity include enhanced functioning in specific cognitive domains and shifts in cortical representation following naturally occurring cases of sensory deprivation; however, maladaptive changes in brain function and development owing to early developmental adversity and stress have also been well documented. Researchers examining enriched rearing environments in animals have revealed the potential for inducing positive brain plasticity effects and have helped to popularize methods for training the brain to reverse early brain deficits or to boost normal cognitive functioning. In this article, two classes of empirically based methods of brain training in children are reviewed and critiqued: laboratory-based, mental process training paradigms and ecological interventions based upon neurocognitive conceptual models. Given the susceptibility of executive function disruption, special attention is paid to training programs that emphasize executive function enhancement. In addition, a third approach to brain training, aimed at tapping into compensatory processes, is postulated. Study results showing the effectiveness of this strategy in the field of neurorehabilitation and in terms of naturally occurring compensatory processing in human aging lend credence to the potential of this approach. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2012 APA, all rights reserved).





The present study investigated the effect of taxing high-energy dense products and subsidizing low-energy dense products on changes in calorie consumption. More specifically, we hypothesized that 'more impulsive' individuals were less influenced by such pricing strategies compared to 'less impulsive' individuals. Contrary to our hypothesis, results showed that 'more impulsive' individuals adjusted their calorie consumption with regard to price changes whereas 'less impulsive' participants were less influenced by price changes. Furthermore, taxing high-energy dense products was more successful in reducing calorie consumption than subsidizing low-energy dense products.






The repetition effect in two-alternatiave forced choice (2AFC) tasks is a cornerstone effect in human cognition. Yet the experiments described here show that the customary benefit of repetition reverses to a cost of repetition when participants respond to an irrelevant event between targets. In Experiments 1A-1C, participants made manual 2AFC decisions to both of two consecutive targets on a trial and, on some trials, also made a manual response to an intervening event that appeared between the two targets. A repetition benefit was observed when no intervening event appeared, whereas a repetition cost was observed when a response was required to an intervening event. Experiment 2 ruled out a solely strategic interpretation of the repetition cost effect observed on intervening event trials. In Experiments 3A and 3B, an intervening event that required a simple vocal &quot;go&quot; response also produced a repetition cost. In Experiment 4, a repetition cost was observed when the intervening event was changed to a tone presented aurally. In Experiment 5, the repetition benefit was observed when a response was withheld to an intervening event. A dual-process interpretation of these results is discussed, with one process related to episodic integration, and the other related to processes that produce inhibition of return.

Memory deficits are common in patients with Huntington's disease (HD) and have a substantial impact on the quality of life of patients and their relatives. A good model resembling the human memory deficits is needed for research purposes. In this study we investigated the memory function of the transgenic rat model of Huntington's disease (tgHD) in the object location (OLT) and the object recognition task (ORT). Several studies have shown that the recent developed tgHD rat model resembles the human phenotype of HD. Impairments of spatial and object recognition memory in the OLT and ORT, however, have to our knowledge not yet been reported in this transgenic model. Our findings show that in both early and late stages of the disease the tgHD rats have clear deficits for both visuospatial and visual object memory. Since HD patients are known to be impaired in both types of memory, these results confirm the validity of this tgHD rat as a model for the human HD phenotype.
Although the role of hippocampus in memory processing is well assessed, an association of experience-dependent behavioural modifications with hippocampal neuron morphological and biochemical changes deserves further characterisation. Here, we present evidence of dendritic alterations together with rapid accumulation of EphrinB2, a factor known to influence cell plasticity, in pyramidal neurons of the CA1 area of mouse hippocampus, during the formation of recent contextual fear memory. Male C57BL/6N mice exhibited a robust fear response 24h after contextual and cued fear conditioning. At this time and in the absence of the memory test, conditioned mice showed morphological alterations in hippocampal and lateral amygdala neurons. Western blot analysis of extracts from conditioned but not pseudoconditioned or naive mice showed a specific increase in the amount of EphrinB2 in the hippocampus but not the cortex. However, levels of EphA4 receptor, known to interact trans-synaptically with EphrinB2, did not change upon conditioning in extracts from the same structures. Finally, immunohistochemical analysis of the hippocampus and amygdala of conditioned mice showed increased levels of EphrinB2 in pyramidal neurons of the CA1 area, when compared to pseudoconditioned and control mice. Such increase was not observed in other hippocampal areas or the amygdala. These results suggest that rapid accumulation of EphrinB2 in hippocampal CA1 neurons is involved in the behavioural and cellular modifications induced by contextual fear conditioning. A similar mechanism does not appear to occur in lateral amygdala neurons, in spite of the robust behavioural and cellular modifications induced in such structure by cued fear conditioning.
Propionic acid, an enteric bacterial fermentation product, has received recent attention in regards to satiety and obesity in humans. The possibility that propionic acid might produce internal aversive cues was investigated in two experiments using conditioned taste avoidance and place avoidance procedures to index the potential aversive nature of systemic treatment with propionic acid in male rats. Experiment 1 examined the effect of systemic treatment with propionic acid (500 mg/kg), LiCl (95 mg/kg) or vehicle (all corrected to pH 7.5) on the formation of conditioned taste avoidance using a lickometer procedure. On 3 acquisition days three groups of rats were injected with propionic acid, LiCl or vehicle, following 30 min access to 0.3M sucrose solution. Both the Propionic acid group and the LiCl group evidenced a conditioned taste avoidance by the end of the acquisition period. During a drug free extinction phase the Propionic acid group showed extinction of the taste avoidance whereas the LiCl group did not. Experiment 2 involved place preference conditioning with propionic acid treatment associated with one novel context and vehicle with a different novel context on 6 conditioning trials for each type of injection. Place avoidance was assessed on two drug free extinction trials. Multi-variable assessment of the unconditioned (Acquisition Trials) and conditioned effects (Extinction Trials) of propionic acid on locomotor activity was quantified as was chamber choice time on the extinction trials. Propionic acid induced a significant place avoidance and significantly reduced locomotor activity on some acquisition trials. During the extinction trials rats exhibited enhanced locomotor activity levels in the propionic acid associated chamber, likely due to the conditioned aversive nature of this chamber.
Behavioral flexibility, the ability to modify responses due to changing task demands, is detrimentally affected by aging with a shift towards increased cognitive rigidity. The neurobiological basis of this cognitive deficit is not clear although striatal cholinergic neurotransmission has been implicated. To investigate the possible association between striatal acetylcholine signaling with age-related changes in behavioral flexibility, young, middle-aged, and aged F344 X Brown Norway F1 rats were assessed using an attentional set-shifting task that includes two tests of behavioral flexibility: reversal learning and an extra-dimensional shift. Rats were also assessed in the Morris water maze to compare potential fronto-striatal-dependent deficits with hippocampal-dependent deficits. Behaviorally characterized rats were then assessed for acetylcholine muscarinic signaling within the striatum using oxotremorine-M-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding and [(3)H]AFDX-384 receptor binding autoradiography. The results showed that by old age, cognitive deficits were pronounced across cognitive domains, suggesting deterioration of both hippocampal and fronto-striatal regions. A significant decline in oxotremorine-M-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding was limited to the dorsomedial striatum of aged rats when compared to young and middle-aged rats. There was no effect of age on striatal [(3)H]AFDX-384 receptor binding. These results suggest that a decrease in M2/M4 muscarinic receptor coupling is involved in the age-associated decline in behavioral flexibility.
Alcohol dehydrogenases (ADH) catalyze the reversible metabolism of many types of alcohols and aldehydes to prevent the possible toxic accumulation of these compounds. ADHs are of interest in Parkinson's disease (PD) since these compounds can be harmful to dopamine (DA) neurons. Genetic variants in ADH1C and ADH4 have been found to associate with PD and lack of Adh4 gene activity in a mouse model has recently been reported to induce changes in the DA system. Adh1 knockout (Adh1-/-) and Adh1/4 double knockout (Adh1/4-/-) mice were investigated for possible changes in DA system related activity, biochemical parameters and olfactory function compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Locomotor activity was tested at 7 (adult) and &gt;15 months of age to mimic the late onset of PD. Adh1-/- and Adh1/4-/- mice displayed a significantly higher spontaneous locomotor activity than WT littermates. Both apomorphine and d-amphetamine increased total distance activity in Adh1-/- mice at both age intervals and in Adh1/4-/- mice at 7 months of age compared to WT mice. No significant changes were found regarding olfactory function, however biochemical data showed decreased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC)/DA ratios in the olfactory bulb and decreased homovanillic acid (HVA)/DA ratios in the olfactory bulb, frontal cortex and striatum of Adh1/4-/- mice compared to WT mice. Our results suggest that lack of Adh1 alone or Adh1 and Adh4 together lead to changes in DA system related behavior, and that these knockout mice might be possible rodent models to study presymptomatic PD.
The ventral pallidum (VP) is a critical element of the mesocorticolimbic system that is inter-connected with motor and limbic structures and may be considered as an interface between motivational and effector neural signals. Dopamine is important in behavioral output of the VP, and dysfunctioning its dopamine quantity leads to various neuropsychiatric disorders. Understanding neural substrate underlying this phenomenon has become an important affair in recent years. In this study, neuronal activities were recorded from the VP in presence or absence of the mixed dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist, apomorphine, and/or -carbolines, using an extracellular single-unit recording technique. We reported that subcutaneous administration of apomorphine (0.5mg/kg) decreased neural activity in the VP. In addition, neither harmine (7.8 mg/kg; i.p.) nor harmane (4 mg/kg; i.p.) and norharmane (2.5mg/kg; i.p.) had any effect on neural firing in the VP. Finally, pretreatment with -carbolines prevented the apomorphine-induced inhibition on VP firing rate. Thus, according to the results of aforementioned study and our results in the present study, we can conclude that presumably most responses in the VP are D2 dopamine dependent. Although the -carbolines were unable to alter neural activity in the VP, interestingly, pretreatment with -carbolines protect decreasing in firing rate of neurons in the VP followed by apomorphine administration. This protective effect could be explained by interaction between -carbolines and dopaminergic mechanisms.
Successful adaptation to the environment requires the learning of stimulus-response-outcome associations. Such associations can be learned actively by trial and error or by observing the behaviour and accompanying outcomes in other persons. The present study investigated similarities and differences in the neural mechanisms of active and observational learning from monetary feedback using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Two groups of 15 subjects each - active and observational learners - participated in the experiment. On every trial, active learners chose between two stimuli and received monetary feedback. Each observational learner observed the choices and outcomes of one active learner. Learning performance as assessed via active test trials without feedback was comparable between groups. Different activation patterns were observed for the processing of unexpected vs. expected monetary feedback in active and observational learners, particularly for positive outcomes. Activity for unexpected vs. expected reward was stronger in the right striatum in active learning, while activity in the hippocampus was bilaterally enhanced in observational and reduced in active learning. Modulation of activity by prediction error (PE) magnitude was observed in the right putamen in both types of learning, whereas PE related activations in the right anterior caudate nucleus and in the medial orbitofrontal cortex were stronger for active learning. The striatum and orbitofrontal cortex thus appear to link reward stimuli to own behavioural reactions and are less strongly involved when the behavioural outcome refers to another person's action. Alternative explanations such as differences in reward value between active and observational learning are also discussed.
Zebrafish are an established and widely utilized developmental genetic model system, but limitations in developed behavioral assays have meant that their potential as a model in behavioral neuroscience has yet to be fully realized. Here, we describe the development of a novel operant behavioral assay to examine a variety of aspects of stimulus control in zebrafish using a 3 choice serial reaction time task (3 CSRTT). Fish were briefly exposed to three spatially distinct, but perceptually identical stimuli, presented in a random order after a fixed-time inter-trial interval (ITI). Entries to the correct response aperture either during the stimulus presentation, or within a brief limited hold period following presentation, were reinforced with illumination of the magazine light and delivery of a small food reward. Following training, premature responding was probed with a long-ITI session three times; once at baseline, once following a saline injection and once following an injection of a low dose of amphetamine (AMPH; 0.025 mg/kg). We predicted that if premature responding was related to impulsivity (as in rodents) it would be reduced following the AMPH injection. Results confirmed that zebrafish could learn to perform a complex operant task similar to tasks developed for rodents which are used to probe sustained attention and impulsivity, but the results from the AMPH trials were inconclusive. This study provides the foundations for development and further validation of this species as a model for some aspects of human attentional and impulse control disorders, such as substance abuse disorder.
Schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BP) are associated with neuropathological brain changes, which are believed to disrupt connectivity between brain processes and may have common properties. Patients at first psychotic episode are unique, as one can assess brain alterations at illness inception, when many confounders are reduced or absent. SCZ (N=25) and BP (N=24) patients were recruited in a regional first episode psychosis MRI study. VBM methods were used to study gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) differences between patient groups and case by case matched controls. For both groups, deficits identified are more discrete than those typically reported in later stages of illness. SCZ patients showed some evidence of GM loss in cortical areas but most notable were in limbic structures such as hippocampus, thalamus and striatum and cerebellum. Consistent with disturbed neural connectivity WM alterations were also observed in limbic structures, the corpus callosum and many subgyral and sublobar regions in the parietal, temporal and frontal lobes. BP patients displayed less evidence of volume changes overall, compared to normal healthy participants, but those changes observed were primarily in WM areas which overlapped with regions identified in SCZ, including thalamus and cerebellum and subgyral and sublobar sites. At first episode of psychosis there is evidence of a neuroanatomical overlap between SCZ and BP with respect to brain structural changes, consistent with disturbed neural connectivity. There are also important differences however in that SCZ displays more extensive structural alteration.
The present experiments investigated the effects of acute ethanol exposure on voluntary intake of 0.1% saccharin or water as well as behavioral and nociceptive reactivity in 12-day-old (P12) rats exposed to differing levels of isolation. The effects of ethanol emerged only during short-term social isolation (STSI) with different patterns observed in males and females and in pups exposed to saccharin or water. The 0.5g/kg ethanol dose selectively increased saccharin intake in females, decreased rearing activity in males and attenuated isolation-induced analgesia (IIA) in all water-exposed pups. Ingestion of saccharin decreased IIA, and the 0.5g/kg ethanol dose further reduced IIA. The 1.0g/kg ethanol dose, administered either intragastrically or intraparentionally, also decreased IIA in P12 females, but not in P9 pups. A significant correlation between voluntary saccharin intake and baseline nociceptive reactivity was revealed in saline injected animals, saccharin intake was inversely correlated with behavioral activation and latency of reaction to noxious heat after 0.5g/kg ethanol in females. The 0.5g/kg ethanol dose did not affect plasma corticosterone (CORT) measured 5h after maternal separation or 20min after ethanol injection. Female pups CORT level was inversely correlated with magnitude of IIA that accompanied the first episode of STSI (pretest isolation) 1.5-2h before CORT measurement. The present findings suggest that the anxiolytic properties of ethanol are responsible for enhancement of saccharin intake during STSI. Furthermore, differential reactivity of P12 males and females to STSI plays an important role in ethanol effects observed at this age.
While moving through the world, humans as well as animals can make use of motion cues during both active and passive whole-body motion to track their own position in space. However, the functional neuroanatomy of self-motion processing remains poorly understood. In the present study we aimed to characterize brain networks reflecting whole-body self-motion experience. We used retrieval of previously experienced events, which is known to involve cortical representations of the modalities used to perceive these events. Recollection of self-motion experience may thus engage motor and sensory brain areas, reflecting the active or passive nature of the experienced movement, but may engage also common brain areas processing self-motion. We further compared the retrieval networks of self- and observed motion: even though actual action observation has been shown to recruit brain networks similar to those active during mental simulation, it is unclear to which extent recollection networks of these experiences overlap. Brain activation patterns were recorded using fMRI during mental simulation of recent episodes of (1) experiencing linear whole-body motion (active locomotion and passive transport) and (2) observing another person performing the same tasks. Following the experiential phase, participants recalled the episodes during a MR session. We found that primary sensorimotor brain areas dominate the composition of the recollection network of active walking, while recalling passive transport recruits higher level association areas. Common to both self-motion conditions was activation in the medial temporal lobe. Recollection of self-experienced and observed movement overlapped in motor planning areas. Our results provide evidence that the medial temporal lobe is specifically relevant for retrieval of self-motion information and that motor coding during action observation is reflected in recollection networks.
Sex- and age-typical responses to ethanol and novel stimuli tend to emerge postpubertally, suggesting a potential organizational or activational role for pubertal hormones in these behaviors. To test this possibility, male and female rats were gonadectomized (GX) or received sham gonadectomy (SH) either prepubertally on postnatal day (P) 23 (early) or in adulthood on P70 (late). Animals were tested as adults for response to novelty and, on the following day, challenged with either saline or ethanol (1g/kg) prior to social interaction testing with an unfamiliar partner in a familiar setting under low light conditions. Gonadectomy did not influence ethanol-induced social inhibition in either sex, but instead altered the microstructure of social behavior, with GX animals exhibiting proportionally less time in social investigation and proportionally more time in contact behavior than SH animals, regardless of age of gonadectomy. The early sham surgical manipulation process itself influenced social motivation, with early SH surgery eliminating ethanol-induced decreases in social preference in both sexes. Response to novelty was unaffected by gonadectomy, but was suppressed in early compared to late SH manipulated animals. These results suggest that adult-typical responses to ethanol and novelty-directed behaviors are little influenced by gonadal hormones during puberty or in adulthood. However, the experience of surgical manipulation itself during development exerts behavioral and pharmacological consequences that last into adulthood.
When Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) are defeated by a larger, more aggressive hamster, they subsequently exhibit submissive and defensive behavior, instead of their usual aggressive and social behavior, even toward a smaller, non-aggressive opponent. This change in behavior is termed conditioned defeat, and we have found that the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and ventral hippocampus, among others, are crucial brain areas for either the acquisition and/or expression of this behavioral response to social stress. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the nucleus accumbens is also a necessary component of the circuit mediating the acquisition and expression of conditioned defeat. We found that infusion of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the nucleus accumbens prior to defeat training failed to affect acquisition of conditioned defeat, but infusion prior to testing significantly decreased submissive behavior and significantly increased aggressive behavior directed toward the non-aggressive intruder. These data indicate that, unlike the basolateral complex of the amygdala, the nucleus accumbens is not a critical site for the plasticity underlying conditioned defeat acquisition, but it does appear to be an important component of the circuit mediating the expression of the behavioral changes that are produced in response to a previous social defeat. Of note, this is the first component of the putative &quot;conditioned defeat neural circuit&quot; wherein we have found that pharmacological manipulations are effective in restoring the territorial aggressive response in previously defeated hamsters.
Social Recognition is a fundamental skill that forms the basis of behaviors essential to the proper functioning of pair or group living in most social species. We review here various neurobiological and genetic studies that point to an interplay of oxytocin (OT), arginine-vasopressin (AVP), and the gonadal hormones, estrogens and testosterone, in the mediation of social recognition. Results of a number of studies have shown that OT and its actions at the medial amygdala seem to be essential for social recognition in both sexes. Estrogens facilitate social recognition, possibly by regulating OT production in the hypothalamus and the OT receptors at the medial amygdala. Estrogens also affect social recognition on a rapid time scale, likely through nongenomic actions. The mechanisms of these rapid effects are currently unknown but available evidence points at the hippocampus as the possible site of action. Male rodents seem to be more dependent on AVP acting at the level of the lateral septum for social recognition than female rodents. Results of various studies suggest that testosterone and its metabolites (including estradiol) influence social recognition in males primarily through the AVP V1a receptor. Overall, it appears that gonadal hormone modulation of OT and AVP regulates and fine tunes social recognition and those behaviors that depend upon it (e.g., social bonds, social hierarchies) in a sex specific manner. This points at an important role for these neuroendocrine systems in the regulation of the sex differences that are evident in social behavior and of sociality as a whole.
The basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) modulates memory for emotional events, and direct activation of the BLA following a learning session can enhance subsequent memory. Yet optimal enhancement of episodic memory during emotional events would likely require that BLA activation occur close in time to the event and to be brief enough to target specific memories if some events are to be remembered better than others. In the present study, rats were given a novel object recognition memory task in which initial encounters with some of the objects were immediately followed by brief electrical stimulation of the BLA, and these objects were remembered better one day later as compared to objects for which the initial encounter was not followed by stimulation. The results indicated that BLA stimulation can enhance memory for individual events, a necessary ability for the BLA to modulate episodic memory effectively.
Neurotransmission at dopamine (DA) and glutamate synapses has been implicated in conditioning place preference (CPP) in rats, but different receptor subtypes may be differentially involved in acquisition and expression. A balanced CPP was used to study the role of DA D2 and D3 and glutamatergic -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors in acquisition and expression of amphetamine (2.0 mg/kg) CPP. We tested the DA D3 receptor-preferring antagonist nafadotride, the AMPA/kainate glutamate-receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium salt (CNQX), and the DA D2 receptor-preferring antagonist haloperidol. The results revealed that nafadotride (0.5 mg/kg) and CNQX (0.05 mg/kg) blocked the expression of amphetamine CPP at a dose that failed to block acquisition. In contrast, haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) blocked the acquisition of CPP at a dose that failed to block expression. Cotreatment with subthreshold doses of nafadotride (0.1 mg/kg) and CNQX (0.01 mg/kg) before the test session failed to block the expression of CPP. The results suggest that AMPA/kainate and DA D3 receptors are more strongly involved in the expression of amphetamine CPP and D2 receptors are more strongly involved in the acquisition of amphetamine CPP.
Ethanol exposure during perinatal development can cause cognitive abnormalities including difficulties in learning, attention, and memory, as well as heightened impulsivity. The purpose of this study was to assess performance in spatial learning and impulsive choice tasks in rats subjected to an intragastric intubation model of binge ethanol exposure during human third trimester-equivalent brain development. Male and female Sprague-Dawley rat pups were intubated with ethanol (5.25 g/kg/day) on postnatal days 4-9. At adolescence (between postnatal days 35-38), these rats and sham intubated within-litter controls were trained in both spatial and cued versions of the Morris water maze. A subset of the male rats was subsequently tested on a delay-discounting task to assess impulsive choice. Ethanol-exposed rats were spatially impaired relative to controls, but performed comparably to controls on the cued version of the water maze. Ethanol-exposed rats also showed greater preference for large delayed rewards on the delay discounting task, but no evidence for altered reward sensitivity or perseverative behavior. These data demonstrate that early postnatal intermittent binge-like ethanol exposure has prolonged, detrimental, but selective effects on cognition, suggesting that even relatively brief ethanol exposure late in human pregnancy can be deleterious for cognitive function.
Exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy is associated with a range of adverse outcomes in offspring, including cognitive deficits and increased incidence of attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but there is a considerable controversy with regard to the causal role of tobacco smoke in these outcomes. To determine whether developmental exposure to the primary psychoactive ingredient in tobacco smoke, nicotine, may cause long-lasting behavioral alterations analogous to those in attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent a chronic neonatal nicotine administration regimen, which models third-trimester human exposure. Male rat pups were administered nicotine (6 mg/kg/day) by oral gastric intubation on postnatal days 1-7. In adulthood, rats were tested in two decision-making tasks (risky decision-making and delay discounting) as well as in free-operant responding for food reward and the elevated plus maze. Chronic neonatal nicotine attenuated weight gain during nicotine exposure, but there were no effects on performance in the decision-making task, and only a modest decrease in arm entries in the elevated plus maze in one subgroup of rats. These data are consistent with previous findings that developmental nicotine exposure has no effect on delay discounting, and they extend these findings to risky decision-making as well. They further suggest that at least some neurocognitive alterations associated with prenatal tobacco smoke exposure in humans may be due to genetic or other environmental factors, including non-nicotine components of tobacco smoke.
Few of the limited randomized controlled trails (RCTs) for adolescent anorexia nervosa (AN) have explored the effects of moderators and mediators on outcome. This study aimed to identify treatment moderators and mediators of remission at end of treatment (EOT) and 6- and 12-month follow-up (FU) for adolescents with AN (N = 121) who participated in a multi-center RCT of family-based treatment (FBT) and individual adolescent focused therapy (AFT). Mixed effects modeling were utilized and included all available outcome data at all time points. Remission was defined as  95% IBW plus within 1 SD of the Eating Disorder Examination (EDE) norms. Eating related obsessionality (Yale-Brown-Cornell Eating Disorder Total Scale) and eating disorder specific psychopathology (EDE-Global) emerged as moderators at EOT. Subjects with higher baseline scores on these measures benefited more from FBT than AFT. AN type emerged as a moderator at FU with binge-eating/purging type responding less well than restricting type. No mediators of treatment outcome were identified. Prior hospitalization, older age and duration of illness were identified as non-specific predictors of outcome. Taken together, these results indicate that patients with more severe eating related psychopathology have better outcomes in a behaviorally targeted family treatment (FBT) than an individually focused approach (AFT).
Myometrial smooth muscle contractility is regulated predominantly through the reversible phosphorylation of MYLs (myosin light chains), catalysed by MYLK (MYL kinase) and MYLP (MYL phosphatase) activities. MYLK is activated by Ca2+-calmodulin, and most uterotonic agonists operate through myometrial receptors that increase [Ca2+]i (intracellular Ca2+ concentration). Moreover, there is substantial evidence for Ca2+-independent inhibition of MYLP in smooth muscle, leading to generation of increased MYL phosphorylation and force for a given [Ca2+]i, a phenomenon known as 'Ca2+-sensitization'. ROCK (Rho-associated kinase)-mediated phosphorylation and inhibition of MYLP has been proposed as a mechanism for Ca2+-sensitization in smooth muscle. However, it is unclear to date whether the mechanisms that sensitize the contractile machinery to Ca2+ are important in the myometrium, as they appear to be in vascular and respiratory smooth muscle. In the present paper, we discuss the signalling pathways regulating MYLP activity and the involvement of ROCK in myometrial contractility, and present recent data from our laboratory which support a role for Ca2+-sensitization in human myometrium.
Approximately daily, or circadian, rhythms are ubiquitous across eukaryotes. They are manifest in the temporal co-ordination of metabolism, physiology and behaviour, thereby allowing organisms to anticipate and synchronize with daily environmental cycles. Although cellular rhythms are self-sustained and cell-intrinsic, in mammals, the master regulator of timekeeping is localized within the hypothalamic SCN (suprachiasmatic nucleus). Molecular models for mammalian circadian rhythms have focused largely on transcriptional-translational feedback loops, but recent data have revealed essential contributions by intracellular signalling mechanisms. cAMP and Ca2+ signalling are not only regulated by the cellular clock, but also contribute directly to the timekeeping mechanism, in that appropriate manipulations determine the canonical pacemaker properties of amplitude, phase and period. It is proposed that daily auto-amplification of second messenger activity, through paracrine neuropeptidergic coupling, is necessary and sufficient to account for the increased amplitude, accuracy and robustness of SCN timekeeping.
cAMP and cGMP signalling pathways are common targets in the pharmacological treatment of heart failure, and often drugs that modulate the level of these second messengers are simultaneously administered to patients. cGMP can potentially affect cAMP levels by modulating the activity of PDEs (phosphodiesterases), the enzymes that degrade cyclic nucleotides. This biochemical cross-talk provides the means for drugs that increase cGMP to concomitantly affect cAMP signals. Recent studies using FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) reporters and real-time imaging show that, in cardiac myocytes, the interplay between cGMP and cAMP has different outcomes depending on the specific location where the cross-modulation occurs. cGMP can either increase or decrease the cAMP response to catecholamines, based on the cyclase that generates it and on the PDEs associated with each subcellular compartment. cGMP-mediated modulation of cAMP signals has functional relevance as it affects protein phosphorylation downstream of protein kinase A and myocyte contractility. The physical separation of positive and negative modulation of cAMP levels by cGMP offers the previously unrecognized possibility to selectively modulate local cAMP signals to improve the efficacy of therapy.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive, fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by expanded polyglutamine repeats in the HD gene. HD is characterized by chorea, seizures, involuntary movements, dystonia, cognitive decline, intellectual impairment and emotional disturbances. Research into mutant huntingtin (Htt) and mitochondria has found that mutant Htt interacts with the mitochondrial protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1), enhances GTPase Drp1 enzymatic activity, and causes excessive mitochondrial fragmentation and abnormal distribution, leading to defective axonal transport of mitochondria and selective synaptic degeneration. This article summarizes latest developments in HD research and focuses on the role of abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and defective axonal transport in HD neurons. This article also discusses the therapeutic strategies that decrease mitochondrial fragmentation and neuronal damage in HD.
The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions, mtDNA content and aging in rhesus monkeys. Using 2 sets of specific primers, we amplified an 8 kb mtDNA fragment covering a common 5.7 kb deletion and the entire 16.5 kb mitochondrial genome in the brain and buffy-coats of young and aged monkeys. We studied a total of 66 DNA samples: 39 were prepared from a buffy-coat and 27 were prepared from occipital cortex tissues. The mtDNA data were assessed using a permutation test to identify differences in mtDNA, in the different monkey groups. Using real-time RT-PCR strategy, we also assessed both mtDNA and nuclear DNA levels for young, aged and male and female monkeys. We found a 5.7 kb mtDNA deletion in 81.8% (54 of 66) of the total tested samples. In the young group of buffy-coat DNA, we found 5.7 kb deletions in 7 of 17 (41%), and in the aged group, we found 5.7 kb deletions in 12 of 22 (54%), suggesting that the prevalence of mtDNA deletions is related to age. We found decreased mRNA levels of mtDNA in aged monkeys relative to young monkeys. The increases in mtDNA deletions and mtDNA levels in aged rhesus monkeys suggest that damaged DNA accumulates as rhesus monkeys age and these altered mtDNA changes may have physiological relevance to compensate decreased mitochondrial function.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), also known as Spinocerebellar Ataxia type 3, is an inherited dominant autosomal neurodegenerative disorder. An expansion of Cytosine-Adenine-Guanine (CAG) repeats in the ATXN3 gene is translated as an expanded polyglutamine domain in the disease protein, ataxin-3. Selective neurodegeneration in MJD is evident in several subcortical brain regions including the cerebellum. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been proposed as a mechanism of neurodegeneration in polyglutamine disorders. In this study, we used different cell models and transgenic mice to assess the importance of mitochondria on cytotoxicity observed in MJD. Transiently transfected HEK cell lines with expanded (Q84) ataxin-3 exhibited a higher susceptibility to 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an irreversible inhibitor of mitochondrial complex II. Increased susceptibility to 3-NP was also detected in stably transfected PC6-3 cells that inducibly express expanded (Q108) ataxin-3 in a tetracycline-regulated manner. Moreover, cerebellar granule cells from MJD transgenic mice were more sensitive to 3-NP inhibition than wild-type cerebellar neurons. PC6-3 (Q108) cells differentiated into a neuronal-like phenotype with nerve growth factor (NGF) exhibited a significant decrease in mitochondrial complex II activity. Mitochondria from MJD transgenic mouse model and lymphoblast cell lines derived from MJD patients also showed a trend toward reduced complex II activity. Our results suggest that mitochondrial complex II activity is moderately compromised in MJD, which may designate a common feature in polyglutamine toxicity.
Berberine (BBR) has recently been shown to improve insulin sensitivity in rodent models of insulin resistance. Although this effect was explained partly through an observed activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), the upstream and downstream mediators of this phenotype were not explored. Here, we show that BBR supplementation reverts mitochondrial dysfunction induced by High Fat Diet (HFD) and hyperglycemia in skeletal muscle, in part due to an increase in mitochondrial biogenesis. Furthermore, we observe that the prevention of mitochondrial dysfunction by BBR, the increase in mitochondrial biogenesis, as well as BBR-induced AMPK activation, are blocked in cells in which SIRT1 has been knocked-down. Taken together, these data reveal an important role for SIRT1 and mitochondrial biogenesis in the preventive effects of BBR on diet-induced insulin resistance.






Psychopathy is a constellation of self-serving attitudes and antisocial behaviors with little regard to cost to self and others. Might this symptomatology arise in part from an exaggerated response of brain motivational circuitry to prospective rewards? We examined whether psychopathic tendencies are associated with increased recruitment of incentive neurocircuitry during anticipation of instrumental and conditioned rewards. Healthy controls completed the Psychopathic Personality Inventory (PPI), then were presented with response-contingent and passively delivered rewards during functional MRI. PPI scores correlated negatively with reaction time to incentivized targets, but not with reaction time to non-incentivized targets. PPI scores also correlated positively with recruitment of ventral striatum and anterior cingulate cortex during instrumental reward anticipation. PPI scores also correlated with middle frontal cortex recruitment during anticipation of passively received rewards. These data indicate that in psychiatrically healthy controls, individuals with greater endorsement of psychopathic tendencies show more robust neurophysiological and behavioral signatures of incentive motivation.
Associating sensory cues with aversive outcomes is a relatively basic process shared across species. Yet higher-order cognitive processes likely contribute to associative fear learning in many circumstances, especially in humans. Here we ask whether fears can be acquired based on conceptual knowledge of object categories, and whether such concept-based fear conditioning leads to enhanced memory representations for conditioned objects. Participants were presented with a heterogeneous collection of images of animals and tools. Objects from one category were reinforced by an electrical shock, whereas the other category was never reinforced. Results confirmed concept-based fear learning through subjective report of shock expectancy, heightened skin conductance responses, and enhanced 24h recognition memory for items from the conditioned category. These results provide novel evidence that conditioned fear can generalize through knowledge of object concepts, and sheds light on the persistent nature of fear memories and category-based fear responses symptomatic of some anxiety disorders.
This study recorded ERPs while participants engaged in a procedure that combined semantic priming and item-method directed forgetting, aiming to investigate the issues of whether intentional forgetting demands cognitive efforts and modulates the semantic processing of to-be-remembered (TBR) and to-be-forgotten (TBF) items. Participants made lexical decisions to semantically related or unrelated prime and target words. A Remember/Forget cue, presented between the prime and target, designated the prime as TBR or TBF. When the cues were shown for 500 ms, targets preceded by Forget cues yielded a smaller P200 wave than those preceded by Remember cues. Furthermore, the topography of the N400 effect was different for targets preceded by Remember and Forget cues. The cues did not modulate the ERPs of the targets when they were shown for 1500 ms. Because P200 is sensitive to attention influence and the N400 effect reflects semantic processing, we conclude that forgetting is more effortful than remembering and that the semantic processing is different for TBR and TBF items. Nevertheless, there is a temporal limitation for the Remember/Forget cues to modulate the semantic processing and attentional resources in item-method directed forgetting.
The three proteins synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25), Syntaxin-1a and vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP-2) are collectively called SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors). By assembling into an exocytic complex, the three SNAREs help in catalyzing membrane fusion. Due to lack of probes that adequately reconstitute the intracellular behavior of endogenous SNAREs, the dynamics of SNARE complexes in living cells is poorly understood. Here we describe a new FRET-based probe, called Cerulean-SNAP-25-C4 (CSNAC), that can track the conformational changes undergone by SNAP-25 as exocytic complexes assemble. The fluorescent protein Cerulean was attached to the N terminus and served as a FRET donor. The biarsenical dye FlAsH served as a FRET acceptor and was attached to a short tetracysteine motif (C4) motif inserted into the so-called linker domain of SNAP-25. CSNAC reported successive FRET changes when first Syntaxin-1a and then VAMP-2 were added in vitro. Small tetracysteine insertions used as a FRET acceptor are expected to have less steric hindrance than previously used GFP-based fluorophores. We propose that genetically-encoded tetracysteine tags can be used to study regulated SNARE complex assembly in vivo.


Skeletal research is currently undergoing a period of marked expansion. The boundaries of &quot;bone&quot; research are being re-evaluated and with this, a growing recognition of a more complex and interconnected biology than previously considered. One aspect that has become the focus of particular attention is the relationship between bone and fat homeostasis. Evidence from a number of avenues indicates that bone and adipose regulation are both related and interdependent. This review examines the neuropeptide Y (NPY) system, known to exert powerful control over both bone and fat tissue. The actions of this system are characterized by signaling both within specific nuclei of the hypothalamus and also the target tissues, mediated predominantly through two G-protein coupled receptors (Y1 and Y2). In bone tissue, elevated NPY levels act consistently to repress osteoblast activity. Moreover, both central Y2 receptor and osteoblastic Y1 receptor signaling act similarly to repress bone formation. Conversely, loss of NPY expression or receptor signaling induces increased osteoblast activity and bone mass in both cortical and cancellous envelopes. In fat tissue, NPY action is more complex. Energy homeostasis is powerfully altered by elevations in hypothalamic NPY, resulting in increases in fat accretion and body-wide energy conservation, through the action of locally expressed Y1 receptors, while local Y2 receptors act to inhibit NPY-ergic tone. Loss of central NPY expression has a markedly reduced effect, consistent with a physiological drive to promote fat accretion. In fat tissue, NPY and Y1 receptors act to promote lipogenesis, consistent with their roles in the brain. Y2 receptors expressed in adipocytes also act in this manner, showing an opposing action to their role in the hypothalamus. While direct investigation of these processes has yet to be completed, these responses appear to be interrelated to some degree. The starvation-based signal of elevated central NPY inducing marked inhibition of osteoblast activity, whilst promoting fat accretion, indicating skeletal tissue is a component of the energy conservation system. Moreover, when NPY expression is reduced, consistent with high calorie intake and weight gain, bone formation is stimulated, strengthening the skeleton. In conclusion, NPY acts to regulate both bone and fat tissue in a coordinated manner, and remains a strong candidate for mediating interactions between these two tissues.
Following brain injury, return of consciousness and cough reflex are presumed to be associated with safe airway. We describe two patients who had a normal cough reflex, but impaired swallowing, which led to prolonged hospital stay. This report highlights the dissociation between the cough reflex and swallowing function in such patients.

Synovial cysts are often incidental findings on spinal imaging. They can present with back pain and radicular symptoms; rarely, they can rupture causing an epidural haematoma and thecal sac compression. We present the first reported case of a haemorrhagic synovial cyst causing thoracic cord compression, and review the pertinent literature.

The discovery of lysophospholipid (LP) 7-transmembrane, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that began in the 1990s, together with research into the functional roles of the major LPs known as lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), have opened new research avenues into their biological processes and mechanisms. Major examples of LP signalling effects include embryogenesis, nervous system development, vascular development, uterine implantation, immune cell trafficking, and inflammatory reactions. LP signalling also influences the pathophysiology of many diseases including cancer, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, which indicate that LP receptors may be attractive targets for pharmacological therapies. A key example of such a therapeutic agent is the S1P receptor modulator FTY720, which upon phosphorylation and continued drug exposure, acts as an S1P receptor functional antagonist. This compound (also known as fingolimod or Gilenya) has recently been approved by the FDA for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Continued basic and translational research on LP signalling should provide novel insights into both basic biological mechanisms, as well as novel therapeutic approaches to combat a range of human diseases.

Recent studies on cross-modal recognition suggest that face and voice information are linked for the purpose of person identification. We tested whether congruent associations between familiarized faces and voices facilitated subsequent person recognition relative to incongruent associations. Furthermore, we investigated whether congruent face and name associations would similarly benefit person identification relative to incongruent face and name associations. Participants were familiarized with a set of talking video-images of actors, their names, and their voices. They were then tested on their recognition of either the face, voice, or name of each actor from bimodal stimuli which were either congruent or novel (incongruent) associations between the familiarized face and voice or face and name. We found that response times to familiarity decisions based on congruent face and voice stimuli were facilitated relative to incongruent associations. In contrast, we failed to find a benefit for congruent face and name pairs. Our findings suggest that faces and voices, but not faces and names, are integrated in memory for the purpose of person recognition. These findings have important implications for current models of face perception and support growing evidence for multisensory effects in face perception areas of the brain for the purpose of person recognition.



The Na(V)1.7 sodium channel is preferentially expressed within dorsal root ganglion and sympathetic ganglion neurons and their small-diameter peripheral axons. Gain-of-function variants of Na(V)1.7 have recently been described in patients with painful small fibre neuropathy and no other apparent cause. Here, we describe a novel syndrome of pain, dysautonomia, small hands and small feet in a kindred carrying a novel Na(V)1.7 mutation. A 35-year-old male presented with erythema and burning pain in the hands since early childhood, later disseminating to the feet, cheeks and ears. He also experienced progressive muscle cramps, profound sweating, bowel disturbances (diarrhoea or constipation), episodic dry eyes and mouth, hot flashes, and erectile dysfunction. Neurological examination was normal. Physical examination was remarkable in revealing small hands and feet (acromesomelia). Blood examination and nerve conduction studies were unremarkable. Intra-epidermal nerve fibre density was significantly reduced compared to age- and sex-matched normative values. The patient's brother and father reported similar complaints including distal extremity redness and pain, and demonstrated comparable distal limb under-development. Quantitative sensory testing revealed impaired warmth sensation in the proband, father and brother. Genetic analysis revealed a novel missense mutation in the SCN9A gene encoding sodium channel Na(V)1.7 (G856D; c.2567G&gt;A) in all three affected subjects, but not in unaffected family members. Functional analysis demonstrated that the mutation hyperpolarizes (-9.3mV) channel activation, depolarizes (+6.2mV) steady-state fast-inactivation, slows deactivation and enhances persistent current and the response to slow ramp stimuli by 10- to 11-fold compared with wild-type Na(V)1.7 channels. Current-clamp analysis of dorsal root ganglion neurons transfected with G856D mutant channels demonstrated depolarized resting potential, reduced current threshold, increased repetitive firing in response to suprathreshold stimulation and increased spontaneous firing. Our results demonstrate that the G856D mutation produces DRG neuron hyperexcitability which underlies pain in this kindred, and suggest that small peripheral nerve fibre dysfunction due to this mutation may have contributed to distal limb under-development in this novel syndrome.
Emerging evidence suggests that the suppressive modulators released from nociceptive afferent neurons contribute to pain regulation. However, the suppressive modulators expressed in small-diameter neurons of the dorsal root ganglion remain to be further identified. The present study shows that the activin C expressed in small dorsal root ganglion neurons is required for suppressing inflammation-induced nociceptive responses. The expression of activin C in small dorsal root ganglion neurons of rats was markedly downregulated during the early days of peripheral inflammation induced by intraplantar injection of the complete Freund's adjuvant. Intrathecal treatment with the small interfering RNA targeting activin C or the antibodies against activin C could enhance the formalin-induced nociceptive responses, and impair the recovery from the complete Freund's adjuvant-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Intrathecally applied activin C could reduce nociceptive responses induced by formalin or complete Freund's adjuvant. Moreover, activin C was found to inhibit the inflammation-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase in the dorsal root ganglia and the dorsal spinal cord. Thus, activin C functions as an endogenous suppressor of inflammatory nociceptive transmission and may have a therapeutic potential for treatment of inflammatory pain.
Painful diabetic neuropathy is a common complication of diabetes mellitus and can affect many aspects of life and severely limit patients' daily functions. Signals of painful diabetic neuropathy are believed to originate in the peripheral nervous system. However, its peripheral mechanism of hyperalgesia has remained elusive. Numerous studies have accumulated that polymodal nociceptive C-fibres play a crucial role in the generation and conduction of pain signals and sensitization of which following injury or inflammation leads to marked hyperalgesia. Traditionally, the number of nociceptive primary afferent firings is believed to be determined at the free nerve endings, while the extended main axon of unmyelinated C-fibres only involves the reliable and faithful propagation of firing series to the central terminals. We challenged this classic view by showing that conduction of action potential can fail to occur in response to repetitive activity when they travel down the main axon of polymodal nociceptive C-fibres. Quantitative analysis of conduction failure revealed that the degree of conduction failure displays a frequency-dependent manner. Local administration of low threshold, rapidly activating potassium current blocker, -dendrotoxin (0.5nM) and persistent sodium current blocker, low doses of tetrodotoxin (&lt;100nM) on the main axon of C-fibres can reciprocally regulate the degree of conduction failure, confirming that conduction failure did occur along the main axon of polymodal nociceptive C-fibres. Following streptozotocin-induced diabetes, a subset of polymodal nociceptive C-fibres exhibited high-firing-frequency to suprathreshold mechanical stimulation, which account for about one-third of the whole population of polymodal nociceptive C-fibres tested. These high-firing-frequency polymodal nociceptive C-fibres in rats with diabetes displayed a marked reduction of conduction failure. Delivery of low concentrations of tetrodotoxin and Nav1.8 selective blocker, A-803467 on the main axon of C-fibres was found to markedly enhance the conduction failure in a dose-dependent manner in diabetic rats. Upregulated expression of sodium channel subunits Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 in both small dorsal root ganglion neurons and peripheral C-fibres as well as enhanced transient and persistent sodium current and increased excitability in small dorsal root ganglion neurons from diabetic rats might underlie the reduced conduction failure in the diabetic high-firing-frequency polymodal nociceptive C-fibres. This study shed new light on the functional capability in the pain signals processing for the main axon of polymodal nociceptive C-fibres and revealed a novel mechanism underlying diabetic hyperalgesia.
Transplanted neural stem/precursor cells possess peculiar therapeutic plasticity and can simultaneously instruct several therapeutic mechanisms in addition to cell replacement. Here, we interrogated the therapeutic plasticity of neural stem/precursor cells after their focal implantation in the severely contused spinal cord. We injected syngeneic neural stem/precursor cells at the proximal and distal ends of the contused mouse spinal cord and analysed locomotor functions and relevant secondary pathological events in the mice, cell fate of transplanted neural stem/precursor cells, and gene expression and inflammatory cell infiltration at the injured site. We used two different doses of neural stem/precursor cells and two treatment schedules, either subacute (7 days) or early chronic (21 days) neural stem/precursor cell transplantation after the induction of experimental thoracic severe spinal cord injury. Only the subacute transplant of neural stem/precursor cells enhanced the recovery of locomotor functions of mice with spinal cord injury. Transplanted neural stem/precursor cells survived undifferentiated at the level of the peri-lesion environment and established contacts with endogenous phagocytes via cellular-junctional coupling. This was associated with significant modulation of the expression levels of important inflammatory cell transcripts in vivo. Transplanted neural stem/precursor cells skewed the inflammatory cell infiltrate at the injured site by reducing the proportion of 'classically-activated' (M1-like) macrophages, while promoting the healing of the injured cord. We here identify a precise window of opportunity for the treatment of complex spinal cord injuries with therapeutically plastic somatic stem cells, and suggest that neural stem/precursor cells have the ability to re-programme the local inflammatory cell microenvironment from a 'hostile' to an 'instructive' role, thus facilitating the healing or regeneration past the lesion.
Acute and chronic stress sensitizes or &quot;primes&quot; the neuroinflammatory response to a subsequent pro-inflammatory challenge. While prior evidence shows that glucocorticoids (GCs) play a pivotal role in stress-induced potentiation of neuroinflammatory responses, it remains unclear whether stress-induced GCs sensitize the response of key CNS immune substrates (i.e. microglia) to pro-inflammatory stimuli. An ex vivo approach was used to address this question. Here, stress-induced GC signaling was manipulated in vivo and hippocampal microglia challenged with the pro-inflammatory stimulus LPS ex vivo. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were either pretreated in vivo with the GC receptor antagonist RU486 or adrenalectomized (ADX). Animals were then exposed to an acute stressor (inescapable tailshock; IS) and 24 h later hippocampal microglia were isolated and challenged with LPS to probe for stress-induced sensitization of pro-inflammatory responses. Prior exposure to IS resulted in a potentiated pro-inflammatory cytokine response (e.g. IL-1 gene expression) to LPS in isolated microglia. Treatment in vivo with RU486 and ADX inhibited or completely blocked this IS-induced sensitization of the microglial pro-inflammatory response. The present results suggest that stress-induced GCs function to sensitize the microglial pro-inflammatory response (IL-1, IL-6, NFBI) to immunologic challenges.
The search for an extended understanding of the causes of depression, and for the development of additional effective treatments is highly significant. Clinical and pre-clinical studies suggest stress is a key mediator in the pathophysiology of depression. Exercise is a readily available therapeutic option, effective as a first-line treatment in mild to moderate depression. In pre-clinical models exercise attenuates stress-related depression-like behaviours. Cellular and humoral neuroimmune mechanisms beyond inflammation and oxidative stress are highly significant in understanding depression pathogenesis. The effects of exercise on such mechanisms are unclear. When clinical and pre-clinical data is taken together, exercise may reduce inflammation and oxidation stress via a multitude of cellular and humoral neuroimmune changes. Astrocytes, microglia and T cells have an antiinflammatory and neuroprotective functions via a variety of mechanisms. It is unknown whether exercise has effects on specific neuroimmune markers implicated in the pathogenesis of depression such as markers of immunosenescence, B or T cell reactivity, astrocyte populations, self-specific CD4+ T cells, T helper 17 cells or T regulatory cells.
In two behavioral experiments involving lateralized stimulus presentation, we tested whether one of the most commonly used measures of holistic face processing-the composite face effect-would be more pronounced for stimuli presented to the right as compared to the left hemisphere. In experiment 1, we investigated the composite face effect in a verbal identification task, similar to its original report (Young, Hellawell, &amp; Hay, 1987). Aligning top and bottom halves of composite face stimuli led to performance decreases irrespective of hemifield, indicating holistic processing of comparable magnitude for inputs provided separately to either hemisphere. However, when matching of the same top parts was required in experiment 2, an alignment-dependent performance decrease was found for stimuli presented in the left, but not right visual field. These observations suggest that the right hemisphere dominates in early stages of holistic processing, as indexed by the composite face effect, but that later processes such as face identification and naming are based on unified representations that are independent of input lateralization. Moreover, the composite face effect may not rely on the exact same representation(s) when measured in matching and identification tasks.
In this study, we used event-related potentials (ERPs) to evaluate the contribution of surface color and color knowledge information in object identification. We constructed two color-object verification tasks - a surface and a knowledge verification task - using high color diagnostic objects; both typical and atypical color versions of the same object were presented. Continuous electroencephalogram was recorded from 26 subjects. A cluster randomization procedure was used to explore the differences between typical and atypical color objects in each task. In the color knowledge task, we found two significant clusters that were consistent with the N350 and late positive complex (LPC) effects. Atypical color objects elicited more negative ERPs compared to typical color objects. The color effect found in the N350 time window suggests that surface color is an important cue that facilitates the selection of a stored object representation from long-term memory. Moreover, the observed LPC effect suggests that surface color activates associated semantic knowledge about the object, including color knowledge representations. We did not find any significant differences between typical and atypical color objects in the surface color verification task, which indicates that there is little contribution of color knowledge to resolve the surface color verification. Our main results suggest that surface color is an important visual cue that triggers color knowledge, thereby facilitating object identification.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a functional neuroimaging technique that has been increasingly employed in psychology and psychiatry. Because NIRS can detect only cerebral cortex reactivities with low spatial resolution and may suffer from contaminating signals from the skin and skull, its data should be interpreted as a global index of cerebral cortex reactivities. Within these limitations, the advantages of NIRS over fMRI such as complete non-invasiveness, small measurement apparatus, high time resolution, and natural examination setting, makes it the preferred method in studies of brain substrates of subjective feelings of sleepiness and fatigue, personality, conversation, and psychiatric disorders. Two-thirds of the original articles on NIRS applications in psychiatry have been published by Japanese researchers. NIRS examination of psychiatric disorders using a verbal fluency task of only 3 minutes demonstrated their characteristics of frontal lobe function: depression was characterized by smaller activation, bipolar depression by comparable but delayed activation, and schizophrenia by reduced activation followed by re-activation during the post-task period. These characteristics can also be identified in individual NIRS data using 2 automatically calculated parameters. Based on these results, NIRS application in psychiatry has been approved as one of the Advanced Medical Technologies in 2009 as an aid for differential diagnosis of depressive symptoms. A lack of clinical laboratory tests for diagnosis and treatment has been one of the major difficulties for reliable diagnosis, quantitative treatment assessment, and prevention of psychiatric disorders; NIRS may be the first step toward such clinical laboratory tests in psychiatry.
When papers published in highly-prestigious journals in 2010 and 2011 were categorized, the number of papers on genestic studies was found to be the largest, followed by papers on brain imaging, postmortem brain studies, and animal model studies. Follow-up studies of the findings of initial genome-wide association analyses constitute a major part of genetic studies. Recent brain imaging studies were found to integrate previous findings that indicated altered responces of prefrontal cortex to cognitive stimuli and enhanced responces of amygdala to emotional faces. Reduced size of the hippocampus is reportedly not a result of stress but perhaps a vulnerability factor. Among animal model studies, molecular mechanisms underlying rapid anti-depressive effects of ketamine are drawing attention. The role of neurogenesis in fear memory and depression is complex, and a link between psychopathology and neuroscience may be needed to understand the roles of neurogenesis. Postmortem brain analyses are currently used to investigate several pathophysiological hypotheses related to the roles of monoamine, neuroplasticity, and neuroinflammation in depression, as well as the roles of GABAergic neurons and mitochondria in bipolar disorder. Several studies are integrating postmortem brain analysis and animal model studies. Genetic and neuroimaging studies of mood disorders have advanced, and neurobiological basis of the findings of these studies should be further elucidated in animal models and postmortem brains.
In birds, parents may provide differential food provisioning among offspring according to their sex. Here, we test the hypothesis that events linked to the fine dynamics of begging behaviour could modulate parental preferences. After evaluating the preference related to chick sex for each parent of six Zebra Finch Taeniopygia guttata pairs, we studied the possible modifications of this preference when offspring begging was asynchronous. Our observations show that male parents follow a &quot;first come, first served&quot; rule, whereas females keep their initial choice. Although this study remains preliminary due to the sample size, it underlines the potential importance of investigating fine temporal features of begging behaviour to fully understand parents' provisioning strategies.
Glioma cells in situ are surrounded by microglia, suggesting the potential of glioma-microglia interactions to produce various outcomes. As chemokines are important mediators of cell-cell communication, we sought first to identify commonly expressed chemokines in 16 human glioma lines. We found CCL2 (macrophage chemoattractant protein-1) messenger RNA to be expressed by the majority of glioma lines. However, these lines did not express the CCL2 receptor, CCR2, which was found on microglia. Next, we overexpressed CCL2 in the U87 glioma line, which has low basal level of CCL2, to investigate the hypothesis that glioma-secreted CCL2 interacts with microglia to affect glioma growth. Stable clones with 10- to 12-fold elevation of CCL2 have similar growth rate and invasive capacity as vector controls when cultured in isolation. However, in coculture with microglia in a three-dimensional collagen gel matrix, the invasiveness of CCL2-overexpressing clones was increased. Gene array analyses were then undertaken and they revealed that interleukin (IL)-6 was consistently increased in the coculture. Recombinant IL-6 enhanced the invasiveness of glioma cells when these were cultured alone, whereas a neutralizing antibody to IL-6 attenuated the microglia-stimulated glioma invasiveness. Finally, we found that human glioma specimens in situ contained IL-6 immunoreactivity that was expressed on CD68+ cells. This study has uncovered a mechanism by which glioma cells exploit microglia for increased invasiveness. Specifically, glioma-derived CCL2 acts upon CCR2-bearing microglia, which then produces IL-6 to stimulate gliomas. The CCL2/CCR2/IL-6 loop is a potential therapeutic target for the currently incurable malignant gliomas.

In oxygen sensing carotid glomus (type 1) cells, the hypoxia-triggered depolarization can be mimicked by mitochondrial inhibitors. We examined the possibility that, other than causing glomus cell depolarization, mitochondrial inhibition can regulate transmitter release via changes in Ca(2+) dynamics. Under whole-cell voltage clamp conditions, application of the mitochondrial inhibitors, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) or cyanide caused a dramatic slowing in the decay of the depolarization-triggered Ca(2+) signal in glomus cells. In contrast, inhibition of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX), plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) pump or sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) pump had much smaller effects. Consistent with the notion that mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake is the dominant mechanism in cytosolic Ca(2+) removal, inhibition of the mitochondrial uniporter with ruthenium red slowed the decay of the depolarization-triggered Ca(2+) signal. Hypoxia also slowed cytosolic Ca(2+) removal, suggesting a partial impairment of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. Using membrane capacitance measurement, we found that the increase in the duration of the depolarization-triggered Ca(2+) signal after mitochondrial inhibition was associated with an enhancement of the exocytotic response. The role of mitochondria in the regulation of Ca(2+) signal and transmitter release from glomus cells highlights the importance of mitochondria in hypoxic chemotransduction in the carotid bodies.
In rat pancreatic  cells, arachidonic acid (AA) triggered intracellular Ca(2+) release. This effect could be mimicked by eicosatetraynoic acid, indicating that AA metabolism is not required. The AA-mediated Ca(2+) signal was not affected by inhibition of ryanodine receptors or emptying of ryanodine-sensitive store but was reduced by 70% following the disruption of acidic stores (treatment with bafilomycin A1 or glycyl-phenylalanyl--naphthylamide (GPN)). The action of AA did not involve TRPM2 channels or NAADP receptors because intracellular dialysis of adenosine diphosphoribose (ADPR; an activator of TRPM2 channels) or NAADP did not affect the AA response. In contrast, stimulation of IP(3) receptors via intracellular dialysis of adenophostin A, or exogenous application of ATP largely abolished the AA-mediated Ca(2+) signal. Intracellular dialysis of heparin abolished the ATP-mediated Ca(2+) signal but not the AA response, suggesting that the action of AA did not involve the IP(3)-binding site. Treatment with the SERCA pump inhibitor, thapsigargin, reduced the amplitude of the AA-mediated Ca(2+) signal by 70%. Overall, our finding suggests that AA mobilizes Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic reticulum as well as an acidic store and both stores could be depleted by IP(3) receptor agonist. The possibility of secretory granules as targets of AA is discussed.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that leads to debilitating cognitive deficits. Recent evidence demonstrates that glutamate receptors are dysregulated by amyloid beta peptide (A) oligomers, resulting in disruption of glutamatergic synaptic transmission which parallels early cognitive deficits. Although it is well accepted that neuronal death in AD is related to disturbed intracellular Ca(2+) (Ca(2+)(i)) homeostasis, little is known about the contribution of NMDARs containing GluN2A or GluN2B subunits on A-induced Ca(2+)(i) rise and neuronal dysfunction. Thus, the main goal of this work was to evaluate the role of NMDAR subunits in dysregulation of Ca(2+)(i) homeostasis induced by A 1-42 preparation containing both oligomers (in higher percentage) and monomers in rat cerebral cortical neurons. The involvement of NMDARs was evaluated by pharmacological inhibition with MK-801 or the selective GluN2A and GLUN2B subunit antagonists NVP-AAM077 and ifenprodil, respectively. We show that A, like NMDA, increase Ca(2+)(i) levels mainly through activation of NMDARs containing GluN2B subunits. Conversely, GluN2A-NMDARs antagonism potentiates Ca(2+)(i) rise induced by a high concentration of A (1M), suggesting that GluN2A and GluN2B subunits have opposite roles in regulating Ca(2+)(i) homeostasis. Moreover, A modulate NMDA-induced responses and vice versa. Indeed, pre-exposure to A (1M) decrease NMDA-evoked Ca(2+)(I) rise and pre-exposure to NMDA decrease A response. Interestingly, simultaneous addition of A and NMDA potentiate Ca(2+)(I) levels, this effect being regulated by GluN2A and GluN2B subunits in opposite manners. This study contributes to the understanding of the molecular basis of early AD pathogenesis, by exploring the role of GluN2A and GluN2B subunits in the mechanism of A toxicity in AD.
Signaling downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases controls cell differentiation and survival. How signals from different receptors are integrated is, however, still poorly understood. In this work, we have identified Kidins220 (Kinase D interacting substrate of 220 kDa)/ARMS (Ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning) as a main player in the modulation of neurotrophin and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling in vivo, and a primary determinant for neuronal and cardiovascular development. Kidins220(-/-) embryos die at late stages of gestation, and show extensive cell death in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Primary neurons from Kidins220(-/-) mice exhibit reduced responsiveness to brain-derived neurotrophic factor, in terms of activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, neurite outgrowth and potentiation of excitatory postsynaptic currents. In addition, mice lacking Kidins220 display striking cardiovascular abnormalities, possibly due to impaired VEGF signaling. In support of this hypothesis, we demonstrate that Kidins220 constitutively interacts with VEGFR2. These findings, together with the data presented in the accompanying paper, indicate that Kidins220 mediates the integration of several growth factor receptor pathways during development, and mediates the activation of distinct downstream cascades according to the location and timing of stimulation.
Voltage-dependent anion channels (VDACs) are expressed in three isoforms, with common channeling properties and different roles in cell survival. We show that VDAC1 silencing potentiates apoptotic challenges, whereas VDAC2 has the opposite effect. Although all three VDAC isoforms are equivalent in allowing mitochondrial Ca(2+) loading upon agonist stimulation, VDAC1 silencing selectively impairs the transfer of the low-amplitude apoptotic Ca(2+) signals. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments show that VDAC1, but not VDAC2 and VDAC3, forms complexes with IP(3) receptors, an interaction that is further strengthened by apoptotic stimuli. These data highlight a non-redundant molecular route for transferring Ca(2+) signals to mitochondria in apoptosis.
The role of the serine protease HtrA2 in neuroprotection was initially identified by the demonstration of neurodegeneration in mice lacking HtrA2 expression or function, and the interesting finding that mutations adjacent to two putative phosphorylation sites (S142 and S400) have been found in Parkinson's disease patients. However, the mechanism of this neuroprotection and the signalling pathways associated with it remain mostly unknown. Here we report that cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5), a kinase implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, is responsible for phosphorylating HtrA2 at S400. HtrA2 and Cdk5 interact in human and mouse cell lines and brain, and Cdk5 phosphorylates S400 on HtrA2 in a p38-dependent manner. Phosphorylation of HtrA2 at S400 is involved in maintaining mitochondrial membrane potential under stress conditions and is important for mitochondrial function, conferring cells protection against cellular stress.
The mammalian stress response is an integrated physiological and psychological reaction to real or perceived adversity. Glucocorticoids (GCs) are an important component of this response, acting to redistribute energy resources to both optimize survival in the face of challenge and restore homeostasis after the immediate threat has subsided. Release of GCs is mediated by the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis, driven by a neural signal originating in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Stress levels of GCs bind to glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) in multiple body compartments, including brain, and consequently have wide-reaching actions. For this reason, GCs serve a vital function in feedback inhibition of their own secretion. Fast, non-genomic feedback inhibition of the HPA axis is mediated at least in part by GC signaling in the PVN, acting by a cannabinoid-dependent mechanism to rapidly reduce both neural activity and GC release. Delayed feedback termination of the HPA axis response is mediated by forebrain GRs, presumably by genomic mechanisms. GCs also act in the brainstem to attenuate neuropeptidergic excitatory input to the PVN via acceleration of mRNA degradation, providing a mechanism to attenuate future responses to stressors. Thus, rather than having a single defined feedback switch, GCs work through multiple neurocircuits and signaling mechanisms to coordinate HPA axis activity to suit the overall needs of multiple body systems.
Serum inducible kinase (SNK), also known as polo-like kinase 2 (PLK2), is a known regulator of mitosis, synaptogenesis and synaptic homeostasis. However, its role in early cortical development is unknown. Herein, we show that snk is expressed in the cortical plate from embryonic day 14, but not in the ventricular/subventricular zones (VZ/SVZ), and SNK protein localizes to the soma and dendrites of cultured immature cortical neurons. Loss of SNK impaired dendritic but not axonal arborization in a dose-dependent manner and overexpression had opposite effects, both in vitro and in vivo. Overexpression of SNK also caused abnormal branching of the leading process of migrating cortical neurons in electroporated cortices. The kinase activity was necessary for these effects. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway activity downstream of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) stimulation led to increases in SNK protein expression via transcriptional regulation, and this upregulation was necessary for the growth-promoting effect of BDNF on dendritic arborization. Taken together, our results indicate that SNK is essential for dendrite morphogenesis in cortical neurons.
Effective control of the Ca(2+) homeostasis in any living cell is paramount to coordinate some of the most essential physiological processes, including cell division, morphological differentiation, and intercellular communication. Therefore, effective homeostatic mechanisms have evolved to maintain the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration at physiologically adequate levels, as well as to regulate the spatial and temporal dynamics of Ca(2+)signaling at subcellular resolution. Members of the superfamily of EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins are effective to either attenuate intracellular Ca(2+) transients as stochiometric buffers or function as Ca(2+) sensors whose conformational change upon Ca(2+) binding triggers protein-protein interactions, leading to cell state-specific intracellular signaling events. In the central nervous system, some EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins are restricted to specific subtypes of neurons or glia, with their expression under developmental and/or metabolic control. Therefore, Ca(2+)-binding proteins are widely used as molecular markers of cell identity whilst also predicting excitability and neurotransmitter release profiles in response to electrical stimuli. Secretagogin is a novel member of the group of EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins whose expression precedes that of many other Ca(2+)-binding proteins in postmitotic, migratory neurons in the embryonic nervous system. Secretagogin expression persists during neurogenesis in the adult brain, yet becomes confined to regionalized subsets of differentiated neurons in the adult central and peripheral nervous and neuroendocrine systems. Secretagogin may be implicated in the control of neuronal turnover and differentiation, particularly since it is re-expressed in neoplastic brain and endocrine tumors and modulates cell proliferation in vitro. Alternatively, and since secretagogin can bind to SNARE proteins, it might function as a Ca(2+) sensor/coincidence detector modulating vesicular exocytosis of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides or hormones. Thus, secretagogin emerges as a functionally multifaceted Ca(2+)-binding protein whose molecular characterization can unravel a new and fundamental dimension of Ca(2+)signaling under physiological and disease conditions in the nervous system and beyond.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) associated with the submucosal (submucous) plexus (ICC-SP) in the proximal colon of the guinea pig were studied by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Whole-mount stretch preparations with c-Kit immunohistochemistry revealed that a number of ICC-SP constituted a dense cellular network around the submucosal plexus. Some of these ICC-SP were observed in the vicinity of the muscularis mucosae in sections immunostained for c-Kit and -smooth muscle actin. Ultrastructural observation demonstrated, for the first time, that ICC-SP of the proximal colon of the guinea pig retained typical ultrastructural characteristics of ICC repeatedly reported in association with the tunica muscularis of the gastrointestinal tract: a basal lamina, caveolae, many mitochondria, abundant intermediate filaments and the formation of gap junctions with the same type of cells. The most remarkable ultrastructural finding was the presence of thick bundles composed of the processes of ICC-SP connected to each other via large gap junctions. These ICC-SP might be involved in the main mucosal functions of the proximal colon of the guinea pig, namely the transportation of water and electrolytes, possibly via their involvement in the spontaneous contractions of the muscularis mucosae.
Although lentiviruses such as human, feline and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV, FIV, SIV) rapidly gain access to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), the mechanisms that control this entry are not well understood. One possibility is that the virus may be carried into the brain by immune cells that traffic across the blood-CSF barrier in the choroid plexus. Since few studies have directly examined macrophage trafficking across the blood-CSF barrier, we established transwell and explant cultures of feline choroid plexus epithelium and measured trafficking in the presence or absence of FIV. Macrophages in co-culture with the epithelium showed significant proliferation and robust trafficking that was dependent on the presence of epithelium. Macrophage migration to the apical surface of the epithelium was particularly robust in the choroid plexus explants where 3-fold increases were seen over the first 24h. Addition of FIV to the cultures greatly increased the number of surface macrophages without influencing replication. The epithelium in the transwell cultures was also permissive to PBMC trafficking, which increased from 17 to 26% of total cells after exposure to FIV. Thus, the choroid plexus epithelium supports trafficking of both macrophages and PBMCs. FIV significantly enhanced translocation of macrophages and T cells indicating that the choroid plexus epithelium is likely to be an active site of immune cell trafficking in response to infection.
Everyday language is replete with descriptions of emotional events that people have experienced and wish to share with others. Such descriptions presumably rely on pairings of affective words and visual information (such as events and pictures) that have been learnt throughout one's development. To study this kind of affective language learning in the brain, we used functional neuroimaging during associative learning of emotional words and pictures. Brain imaging revealed increased activation of both primary emotional areas such as the amygdala and of higher cognitive areas such as the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and medial frontal gyrus. The dynamic causal modeling with Bayesian model selection suggested that the IFG first receives the input and that the connections are bidirectional, suggesting that during such emotional picture-word pair learning, the frontal cortex drives the amygdala activation. Specifically, the interaction between the frontal regions and the amygdala was enhanced by active learning involving both negative and positive emotional stimuli as compared with neutral stimuli. This circuit (especially for negative stimuli) converges with emotion regulation circuits. The enhancement in the connectivity might be responsible for the emotional memory effect in this type of learning.
Visual imagery allows us to vividly imagine scenes in the absence of visual stimulation. The likeness of visual imagery to visual perception suggests that they might share neural mechanisms in the brain. Here, we directly investigated whether perception and visual imagery share cortical representations. Specifically, we used a combination of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and multivariate pattern classification to assess whether imagery and perception encode the &quot;category&quot; of objects and their &quot;location&quot; in a similar fashion. Our results indicate that the fMRI response patterns for different categories of imagined objects can be used to predict the fMRI response patters for seen objects. Similarly, we found a shared representation of location in low-level and high-level ventral visual cortex. Thus, our results support the view that imagery and perception are based on similar neural representations.
Negative emotional signals are known to influence task performance, but so far, investigations have focused on how emotion interacts with perceptual processes by mobilizing attentional resources. The attention-independent effects of negative emotional signals are less well understood. Here, we show that threat signals trigger defensive responses independently of what observers pay attention to. Participants were scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging while watching short video clips of threatening actions and performed either color or emotion judgments. Seeing threatening actions interfered with performance in both tasks. Amygdala activation reflected both stimulus and task conditions. In contrast, threat stimuli prompted a constant activity in a network underlying reflexive defensive behavior (periaqueductal gray, hypothalamus, and premotor cortex). Threat stimuli also disrupted ongoing behavior and provoked motor conflict in prefrontal regions during both tasks. The present results are consistent with the view that emotions trigger adaptive action tendencies independently of task settings.
We have recently shown that interference with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of right posterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS) cortex during the allocation of spatial attention leads to abnormal desynchronization of anticipatory (pretarget) electroencephalographic alpha rhythms (8-12 Hz) in occipital-parietal cortex and the detection of subsequently presented visual targets (Capotosto et al. 2009). Since lesion data suggest that lesions of the right frontoparietal cortices produce more severe and long-lasting deficits of visual spatial attention than lesions of the left hemisphere, here, we used the mentioned rTMS-electroencephalographic procedure to test if the control of anticipatory alpha rhythms by IPS is asymmetrically organized in the 2 hemispheres. Results showed that interference with either left or right IPS during covert spatial attention equally disrupted the normally lateralized anticipatory modulation of occipital visual cortex, with stronger alpha desynchronization contralaterally to the attended visual field. In contrast, only interference with right IPS induced a paradoxical pretarget synchronization of alpha rhythms and bilateral deficits of target identification. These results suggest that the control of spatial topography of anticipatory alpha rhythms in occipital-parietal cortex is shared between left and right IPS cortex, but that right IPS uniquely contributes to a bilateral prestimulus activation of occipital visual cortex.
Our olfactory system is confronted with complex mixtures of odorants, often recognized as single entities due to odor blending (e.g., coffee). In contrast, we are also able to discriminate odors from complex mixtures (e.g., off-odors). Therefore, the olfactory system is able to engage either configural or elemental processes when confronted with mixtures. However, the rules that govern the involvement of these processes during odor perception remain poorly understood. In our first experiment, we examined whether simple odorant mixtures (binary/ternary) could elicit configural perception. Twenty untrained subjects were asked to evaluate the odor typicality of mixtures and their constituents. The results revealed a significant increase in odor typicality in some but not all mixtures as compared with the single components, which suggest that perceptual odor blending can occur only in specific mixtures (configural processing). In our second experiment, we tested the hypothesis that general olfactory expertise can improve elemental perception of mixtures. Thirty-two trained subjects evaluated the odor typicality of the stimuli presented during the first experiment, and their responses were compared with those obtained from the untrained panelists. The results support the idea that general training with odors increases the elemental perception of binary and ternary blending mixtures.

With the widespread adoption of electrical lighting during the 20th century, human and nonhuman animals became exposed to high levels of light at night for the first time in evolutionary history. This divergence from the natural environment may have significant implications for certain ecological niches because of the important influence light exerts on the circadian system. For example, circadian disruption and nighttime light exposure are linked to changes in immune function. The majority of studies investigating the effects of light exposure and circadian disruption on the immune system use nocturnal rodents. In diurnal species, many hormones and immune parameters vary with secretion patterns 180 out of phase to those of nocturnal rodents. Thus, the authors investigated the effects of nighttime light exposure on immunocompetence in diurnal Nile grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus). Rats were housed in either standard 14-h light (L):10-h dark (D) cycles with L 150 lux and D 0 lux or dim light at night (dLAN) cycles of LD 14:10 with L 150 lux and D 5 lux for 3 wks, then tested for plasma bactericidal capacity, as well as humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. Rats exposed to dLAN showed increased delayed-type hypersensitivity pinna swelling, which is consistent with enhanced cell-mediated immune function. dLAN rats similarly showed increased antibody production following inoculation with keyhole lymphocyte hemocyanin (KLH) and increased bactericidal capacity. Daytime corticosterone concentrations were elevated in grass rats exposed to nighttime dim light, which may have influenced immunological measures. Overall, these results indicate nighttime light affects immune parameters in a diurnal rodent.

The mechanisms involved in the development of chronic pain are varied and complex. Pain processes are plastic and unrelieved pain may lead to changes in the neural structure involved in pain generation. Nociceptive pain announces the presence of a potentially damaging stimulus that occurs when noxious stimuli activate primary afferent neurons. Neuropathic pain is initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction in the nervous system resulting from trauma, infection, ischaemia, cancer or other causes such as chemotherapy. The exact mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of chronic pain are not well understood, but rapid and long-term changes are thought to occur in parts of the central nervous system that are involved in the transmission and modulation of pain following injury. Peripheral and central sensitization of sensory nerve fibres are the primary reasons for hypersensitivity to pain after injury, and mainly occur in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. During these processes the sensation of pain is enhanced as a result of changes in the environment, the nerve fibres and modifications of the functional properties and the genetic programme of primary and secondary afferent neurons. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opioid analgesics are two of the most common classes of drugs used for the treatment of pain. Response to drug treatment shows significant interindividual variability and can lead to side effects. The neurobiological mechanisms that cause pain may account for the different types of pain observed. Identification of these mechanisms may allow us to move from an empirical therapeutic approach to one that it is specifically targeted at the particular mechanisms of the type of pain experienced by an individual patient.
Recent studies have supported the hypothesis based upon expectations from population genetics that the high heritability of schizophrenia reflects a combination of relatively common alleles of small effect and rare alleles some with relatively large effects. Genome-wide association studies have identified a number of risk loci at genome-wide levels of significance as well as evidence for a substantial burden of common risk loci. Moreover these recent findings suggest genetic overlap with bipolar disorder which has traditionally been assumed to be genetically distinct from schizophrenia. Genome-wide studies of at least one class of relatively uncommon variant, submicroscopic chromosomal abnormalities often referred to as copy number variations (CNVs), suggest that these confer high risk of schizophrenia. There is evidence both for an increased burden of large, rare CNVs in schizophrenia and that risk is conferred by a number of specific large CNVs as well as by deletions of NRXN1 which encodes the synaptic scaffolding protein neurexin 1. Many of these CNVs have been implicated in autism, mental retardation, epilepsy and other neurodevelopment disorders. These findings have implications for pathogenesis and nosology of schizophrenia and related disorders, and for future genetic studies.






As neuroscience learns more about the causes of human behaviors, it will give us new ways to change those behaviors. When behaviors are caused by &quot;brain diseases,&quot; effective actions that intervene directly in the brain will be readily accepted, but what about direct brain interventions that treat brain-based causes of socially disfavored behaviors that are not generally viewed as diseases?

Depression, or major depressive disorder (MDD), is a serious mental illness that causes substantial worldwide disability. Current antidepressant medications mostly target the serotonin and norepinephrine neurotransmitter systems. These drugs are ineffective in many patients, and there are limited options for treatment-resistant depression. The dopamine neurotransmitter system has recently been identified as another modulator of mood and depressive symptoms, and a recently discovered interaction between the dopamine D1 and D2 receptor may be a novel antidepressant target.
Recent reports of a rapid antidepressant effect of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine, even in treatment-resistant populations, have spurred translational therapeutic and neuroscience research aimed at elucidating ketamine's mechanism of action. This article provides a concise overview of research findings that pertain to the effects of low-dose ketamine at the cellular, neurocircuitry, and behavioral levels and describes an integrated model of the action of ketamine in the treatment of depression.
Neuroticism (N) scores predict psychopathology. Therefore, it is important to know how to best interpret N-scores. This paper reviews prior interpretations, the item content of N-measures and relevant empirical studies. We propose that N-scores reflect person-specific negative affect set points. We distinguish three possible set point models. (1) The immutable set point model in which N-scores fluctuate with short-term perturbations in reaction to positive and negative experiences but always return to their person-specific set point. (2) The experience-dependent model in which an individual's set point can change during any life stage when prompted by far-reaching experiences. (3) The mixed model, a combination of the first two models, which separates the variation in neuroticism into stable and changing components. The changing component is experience-dependent. Current evidence provides little support for the immutable model. Rather, the evidence, though inconclusive, suggests that the experience-dependent or mixed model may help to explain between- and within-subject differences in N-scores across the life span. In particular, the observation that the differential consistency of N-scores tends to drop over time, but has not been shown to approach zero, is consistent with the mixed model. We discuss implications of the models and how to distinguish them empirically.
Higher body temperature is a prognostic factor of poor outcome in acute stroke. Our aim was to study the relationship between body temperature, HT (haemorrhagic transformation) and biomarkers of BBB (blood-brain barrier) damage in patients with acute ischaemic stroke untreated with rtPA (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator). We studied 229 patients with ischaemic stroke &lt;12 h from symptom onset. Body temperature was determined at admission and every 6 h during the first 3 days. HT was evaluated according to ECASS II (second European Co-operative Acute Stroke Study) criteria in a multimodal MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) at 72 h. We found that 55 patients (34.1%) showed HT. HT was associated with cardioembolic stroke (64.2% against 23.0%; P&lt;0.0001), higher body temperature during the first 24 h (36.9C compared with 36.5C; P&lt;0.0001), more severe stroke [NIHSS (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) score, 14 (9-20) against 10 (7-15); P=0.002], and greater DWI (diffusion-weighted imaging) lesion volume at admission (23.2 cc compared with 13.2 cc; P&lt;0.0001). Plasma MMP-9 (matrix metalloproteinase 9) (187.3 ng/ml compared with 44.2 ng/ml; P&lt;0.0001) and cFn (cellular fibronectin) levels (16.3 g/ml compared with 7.1 g/ml; P=0.001) were higher in patients with HT. Body temperature within the first 24 h was independently associated with HT {OR (odds ratio), 7.3 [95% CI (confidence interval), 2.4-22.6]; P&lt;0.0001} after adjustment for cardioembolic stroke subtype, baseline NIHSS score and DWI lesion volume. This effect remained unchanged after controlling for MMP-9 and cFn. In conclusion, high body temperature within the first 24 h after ischaemic stroke is a risk factor for HT in patients untreated with rtPA. This effect is independent of some biological signatures of BBB damage.
Fibromyalgia is a syndrome characterized by chronic generalized pain associated with different somatic symptoms, such as sleep disturbances, fatigue, stiffness, balance problems, hypersensitivity to physical and psychological environmental stimuli, depression and anxiety. It has been estimated to affect roughly the 2-4% of the general population in most countries studied, and it has been shown to be much more prevalent in women than in men. Although its pathophysiology is not yet fully understood, it is known that both genetic and environmental factors are involved in its development. Fibromyalgia shares a high degree of co-morbidity with other conditions, including chronic headache, temporomandibular disorder, irritable bowel syndrome, major depression, anxiety disorders and chronic fatigue syndrome. Therefore, this is a syndrome difficult to treat for which multimodal treatments including physical exercise, psychological therapies and pharmacological treatment are recommended. Although different kinds of drugs have been studied for the treatment of fibromyalgia, the most widely used drugs that have the higher degree of evidence for efficacy include the (2) ligands pregabalin and gabapentin, and the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and serotonin noradrenaline (norepinephrine) reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). However, there is a need to look for newer additional therapeutic pharmacological options for the treatment of this complex and disabling disease. First- and second-generation antipsychotics have shown analgesic properties both in an experimental setting and in humans, although most of the available evidence for the treatment of human pain concerns older antipsychotics and involves clinical trials performed several decades ago. In addition, several second-generation antipsychotics, risperidone, olanzapine and quetiapine, have shown efficacy in the treatment of some anxiety disorders. Some second-generation antipsychotics, mainly quetiapine, aripiprazole and amisulpride, have demonstrated antidepressant activity, with quetiapine approved for the treatment of bipolar depression and refractory major depression, and aripiprazole approved as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder. Finally, several old and new antipsychotics, including promethazine, levopromazine, olanzapine, quetiapine and ziprasidone, have been shown to improve sleep parameters in healthy subjects. Each of these properties suggests that antipsychotics could represent a new potential alternative for the treatment of fibromyalgia syndrome. To date, most of the published studies on the use of antipsychotics in the treatment of fibromyalgia syndrome have been uncontrolled, either case reports or case series, dealing with olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone, levopromazine and amisulpride. The studies on olanzapine and quetiapine have suggested therapeutic efficacy although, in the case of olanzapine, hampered by tolerability problems. A double-blind controlled trial, published in 1980, showed that chlorpromazine increased slow-wave sleep and improved pain and mood disturbances. More recently, four double-blind controlled studies have explored the efficacy of quetiapine, either alone or as an add-on treatment, in fibromyalgia management. None of these trials has yet been published, although two of them have been presented as congress communications, both of them suggesting that quetiapine could be a potential alternative treatment for fibromyalgia. In summary, the current available evidence suggests that at least some antipsychotics, specifically quetiapine, could be useful for the treatment of fibromyalgia and that further studies on the efficacy of these compounds are worth pursuing.

Nanoparticles from the environment or through industrial sources can induce profound alterations in human health, often leading to brain dysfunction. However, it is still unclear whether nanoparticle intoxication could also alter the physiological or pathological responses of additional brain injury, stress response or disease processes. Military personals engaged in combat or peacekeeping operations are often exposed to nanoparticles from various environmental sources, e.g., Ag, Cu, Si, C, Al. In addition, these military personals are often exposed to high environmental heat, or gun and missle explosion injury leading to head or spinal trauma. Thus it is likely that additional CNS injury or stress-induced pathophysiological processes are influenced by nanoparticle intoxication. In this situation, when a combination of nanoparticles and central nervous system (CNS) injury or stress exist together, drug therapy needed to correct these anomalies may not work as effectively as in normal situation. Previous studies from our laboratory show that nanoparticle-intoxicated animals when subjected to hyperthermia resulted in exacerbation of brain pathology. In these animals, antioxidant compounds, e.g., H-290/51 that inhibits free radical formation and induces marked neuroprotection in normal rats after heat stress, failed to protect brain damage when a combination of nanoparticles and heat exposure was used. However, nanowired H-290/51 resulted in better neuroprotection in nanoparticles intoxicated animals after heat stress. Interestingly, high doses of the normal compound induced some neuroprotection in these nanoparticle-treated, heat-stressed rats. These observations suggest that a combination of nanoparticles and heat stress is dangerous and in such situations modification of drug dosage is needed to achieve comparable neuroprotection. In this review possible mechanisms of nanoparticle-induced exacerbation of heat induced neurotoxicity and brain protection achieved by nanowired drug delivery is discussed that is largely based on our own investigations.
Long term exposure of nanoparticles e.g., silica dust (SiO2) from desert environments, or engineered nanoparticles from metals viz., Cu, Al or Ag from industry, ammunition, military equipment and related products may lead to adverse effects on mental health. However, it is unclear whether these nanoparticles may further adversely affect human health in cardiovascular or metabolic diseases e.g., hypertension or diabetes. It is quite likely that in diabetes or hypertension where the body immune system is already compromised there will be greater adverse effects following nanoparticles exposure on human health as compared to their exposure to healthy individuals. Previous experiments from our laboratory showed that diabetic or hypertensive animals are more susceptible to heat stress-induced neurotoxicity. Furthermore, traumatic injury to the spinal cord in SiO2 exposed rats resulted in exacerbation of cord pathology. However, whether nanoparticles such as Cu, Ag or SiO2 exposure will lead to enhanced neurotoxicity in diabetic animals are still not well investigated. Previous data from our laboratory showed that Cu or Ag intoxication (50 mg/kg, i.p. per day for 7 days) in streptozotocine induced diabetic rats exhibited enhanced neurotoxicity and exacerbation of sensory, motor and cognitive function as compared to normal animals under identical conditions. Thus the diabetic animals showed exacerbation of regional blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, edema formation and cell injuries along with greater reduction in the local cerebral blood flow (CBF) as compared to normal rats. These observations suggest that diabetic animals are more vulnerable to nanoparticles induced brain damage than healthy rats. The possible mechanisms and functional significance of these findings are discussed in this review largely based on our own investigations.
Neuron transmits spikes to postsynaptic neurons through synapses. Experimental observations indicated that the communication between neurons is unreliable. However most modelling and computational studies considered deterministic synaptic interaction model. In this paper, we investigate the population rate coding in an all-to-all coupled recurrent neuronal network consisting of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons connected with unreliable synapses. We use a stochastic on-off process to model the unreliable synaptic transmission. We find that synapses with suitable successful transmission probability can enhance the encoding performance in the case of weak noise; while in the case of strong noise, the synaptic interactions reduce the encoding performance. We also show that several important synaptic parameters, such as the excitatory synaptic strength, the relative strength of inhibitory and excitatory synapses, as well as the synaptic time constant, have significant effects on the performance of the population rate coding. Further simulations indicate that the encoding dynamics of our considered network cannot be simply determined by the average amount of received neurotransmitter for each neuron in a time instant. Moreover, we compare our results with those obtained in the corresponding random neuronal networks. Our numerical results demonstrate that the network randomness has the similar qualitative effect as the synaptic unreliability but not completely equivalent in quantity.
Granger causality (GC) has been widely applied in economics and neuroscience to reveal causality influence of time series. In our previous paper (Hu etal., in IEEE Trans on Neural Netw, 22(6), pp. 829-844, 2011), we proposed new causalities in time and frequency domains and particularly focused on new causality in frequency domain by pointing out the shortcomings/limitations of GC or Granger-alike causality metrics and the advantages of new causality. In this paper we continue our previous discussions and focus on new causality and GC or Granger-alike causality metrics in time domain. Although one strong motivation was introduced in our previous paper (Hu etal., in IEEE Trans on Neural Netw, 22(6), pp. 829-844, 2011) we here present additional motivation for the proposed new causality metric and restate the previous motivation for completeness. We point out one property of conditional GC in time domain and the shortcomings/limitations of conditional GC which cannot reveal the real strength of the directional causality among three time series. We also show the shortcomings/limitations of directed causality (DC) or normalize DC for multivariate time series and demonstrate it cannot reveal real causality at all. By calculating GC and new causality values for an example we demonstrate the influence of one of the time series on the other is linearly increased as the coupling strength is linearly increased. This fact further supports reasonability of new causality metric. We point out that larger instantaneous correlation does not necessarily mean larger true causality (e.g., GC and new causality), or vice versa. Finally we conduct analysis of statistical test for significance and asymptotic distribution property of new causality metric by illustrative examples.
What, if anything, is cognitive architecture and how is it implemented in neural architecture? Focusing on perceptual organization, this question is addressed by way of a pluralist approach which, supported by metatheoretical considerations, combines complementary insights from representational, connectionist, and dynamic systems approaches to cognition. This pluralist approach starts from a representationally inspired model which implements the intertwined but functionally distinguishable subprocesses of feedforward feature encoding, horizontal feature binding, and recurrent feature selection. As sustained by a review of neuroscientific evidence, these are the subprocesses that are believed to take place in the visual hierarchy in the brain. Furthermore, the model employs a special form of processing, called transparallel processing, whose neural signature is proposed to be gamma-band synchronization in transient horizontal neural assemblies. In neuroscience, such assemblies are believed to mediate binding of similar features. Their formal counterparts in the model are special input-dependent distributed representations, called hyperstrings, which allow many similar features to be processed in a transparallel fashion, that is, simultaneously as if only one feature were concerned. This form of processing does justice to both the high combinatorial capacity and the high speed of the perceptual organization process. A naturally following proposal is that those temporarily synchronized neural assemblies are &quot;gnosons&quot;, that is, constituents of flexible self-organizing cognitive architecture in between the relatively rigid level of neurons and the still elusive level of consciousness.
Ubiquitous forms of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) are caused by enduring increases or decreases in neurotransmitter release. Such forms or presynaptic plasticity are equally observed at excitatory and inhibitory synapses and the list of locations expressing presynaptic LTP and LTD continues to grow. In addition to the mechanistically distinct forms of postsynaptic plasticity, presynaptic plasticity offers a powerful means to modify neural circuits. A wide range of induction mechanisms has been identified, some of which occur entirely in the presynaptic terminal, whereas others require retrograde signaling from the postsynaptic to presynaptic terminals. In spite of this diversity of induction mechanisms, some common induction rules can be identified across synapses. Although the precise molecular mechanism underlying long-term changes in transmitter release in most cases remains unclear, increasing evidence indicates that presynaptic LTP and LTD can occur in vivo and likely mediate some forms of learning.
Although the frontal lobes contain a large proportion of the total cerebral cortex in human brain, the epilepsies arising in this region are less studied and less well characterised than epilepsies arising in the mesial temporal lobe. Detailed studies of seizure semiology have identified a number of patterns of frontal lobe seizure, but with inconsistency across studies, and with limited evidence that specific patterns arise in specific discrete frontal lobe regions. In contrast to mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, there is no consistent pattern of cognitive impairment seen in patients with frontal lobe epilepsy, although some evidence exists to support the notion that cognitive function may be impaired. Given the rich interconnectivity between frontal lobes and many other brain regions, it is not surprising to find functional deficits in the frontal lobes in patients with epilepsy arising in other sites; this is best studied in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Current concepts in epilepsy suggest that epilepsies hitherto regarded as idiopathic generalised (rather than focal) may in fact have a focal origin of seizure activity; this may be supported by increasing evidence for focal structural and functional frontal lobe abnormalities in idiopathic generalised epilepsies.

Proteases regulate numerous physiological functions in all living organisms. Because of their contribution to APP processing, -, - and -secretases have focused particular attention of researchers in the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD) during the past 20 years. Whereas the -secretase BACE1 and the heterotetrameric presenilin-dependent - secretase complex were identified between 1995 and 2002, -secretase activity was attributed to previously described ADAM10 and ADAM17, two members of the type I integral membrane protein family called ADAMs (A Disintegrin And Metalloprotease). ADAM10 and/or ADAM17 target numerous substrates through various modes of action. This review focuses on the complex physiology of these -secretases and will document their contribution to cancers, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and prion diseases besides their well characterized role in Alzheimer's disease.
Executive functions (EFs)-a set of general-purpose control processes that regulate one's thoughts and behaviors-have become a popular research topic lately and have been studied in many subdisciplines of psychological science. This article summarizes the EF research that our group has conducted to understand the nature of individual differences in EFs and their cognitive and biological underpinnings. In the context of a new theoretical framework that we have been developing (the unity/diversity framework), we describe four general conclusions that have emerged from our research. Specifically, we argue that individual differences in EFs, as measured with simple laboratory tasks, (1) show both unity and diversity (different EFs are correlated yet separable); (2) reflect substantial genetic contributions; (3) are related to various clinically and societally important phenomena; and (4) show some developmental stability.

Chemokine CXC ligand 12 (CXCL12), originally named stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), is a member of the CXC chemokine subfamily. CXCL12 is found to be expressed by all cell types that are presented in the central nervous system (CNS). It works in conjunction with the G-protein coupled receptor CXCR4, which is found at the surface of a variety of cells including neurons, astrocytes, microglia, bone marrow-derived cells, as well as other progenitor cells. Recent studies revealed that CXCL12 could also bind and signal through receptor CXCR7. CXCL12 and CXCR4 are constitutively expressed in the brain but are up-regulated in the ischemic penumbra regions following ischemic stroke. CXCL12/CXCR4 play important roles in multiple processes after ischemic stroke, which include inflammatory response, focal angiogenesis, and the recruitment of bone marrow-derived cells (BMCs) and neural progenitor cell (NPC) to injury. In addition to its roles in stroke pathology, CXCL12 is also thought to be a key regulator in stroke repairing. This review will focus on the function of CXCL12/CXCR4 in post-stroke inflammation and neurovascular repairing. The potential application of CXCL12 modulation in clinical stroke treatment is also discussed.

Peripheral neuropathy is a common clinical problem in neurology and laboratory testing is an integral part of diagnosis. In the past few years, practice parameters have been published to establish an evidence-based guide to neuropathy testing. There are many tests that are common and accepted in practice, but there is no clear mandate on which tests are necessary. This article reviews recent practice parameter publications as well as other updates in laboratory testing for peripheral neuropathy, including the roles of lipid profile, genetic testing, antibody titers, and B(12) testing in a specific dopamine-treated Parkinson's patients. These can serve as recommendations to help guide laboratory testing.
Late-onset glycogenosis type II (glycogen storage disease type II [GSDII]) is a rare autosomal disorder caused by deficiency of acid maltase, a lysosomal enzyme that hydrolyzes glycogen to glucose. Recently, both infantile and adult GSDII patients have been treated with enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), and a number of studies including large cohorts of GSDII patients have recently demonstrated that ERT is effective in modifying the natural course of the disease. The opportunity of this new treatment gave new hope to patients, but also an important impulse to the research on every feature of the disease, leading to a deeper knowledge on the response to treatment, on clinical manifestations, and on pathophysiologic aspects such as the role of autophagy and immune status.
The present study aims to investigate the effects of protein kinase C using the inhibitor Tamoxifen (TMX) on oxidative stress in a rat animal model of mania induced by d-amphetamine (d-AMPH). In the reversal model, d-AMPH or saline (Sal) were administered to rats for 14 days, and between days 8-14, rats were treated with TMX or Sal. In the prevention model, rats were pretreated with TMX or Sal, and between days 8-14, d-AMPH or Sal were administrated. In both experiments locomotor activity and risk-taking behavior were assessed by open-field test and oxidative stress was measured in prefrontal, amygdala, hippocampus and striatum. The results showed that TMX reversed and prevented d- AMPH-induced behavioral effects. In addition, the d-AMPH administration induced oxidative damage in both structures tested in two models. The TMX was able to reverse and prevent this impairment, however in a way dependent of cerebral area and technique evaluated. These findings reinforce the hypothesis that PKC play an important role in the pathophysiology of BD and the need for the study of inhibitors of PKC as a possible target for treatment the BD.
The vertebrate host represents an extraordinarily complex and heterogenous environment which pathogenic bacteria of different types able to colonize and infect. This implies that all contributory elements of an infected tissue type or intact host are pre-requisites for full understanding of bacterial pathogenesis. Within this context, intravital techniques allow such studies of infection under realistic conditions within the live host, and with improved detection methods another level of understanding is attained. Here we define this field as tissue microbiology, with its focus placed on monitoring and mimicking host-pathogen interaction within the dynamic micro-ecology significant for infectious niches in the live host. Such all-inclusive approaches promise to more coherently define relevant interactions and angles for disease intervention.
Uncovering the relationships between animal behavior and cellular activity in the brain has been one of the key aims of neuroscience research for decades, and still remains so. Electrophysiological approaches have enabled sparse sampling from electrically excitable cells in freely moving animals that has led to the identification of important phenomena such as place, grid and head-direction cells. Optical imaging in combination with newly developed labeling approaches now allows minimally invasive and comprehensive sampling from dense networks of electrically and chemically excitable cells such as neurons and glia during self-determined behavior. To achieve this two main imaging avenues have been followed: Optical recordings in head-restrained, mobile animals and miniature microscope-bearing freely moving animals. Here we review progress made toward functional cellular imaging in freely moving rodents, focusing on developments over the past few years. We discuss related challenges and biological applications.
Optogenetics has been revolutionizing circuit neuroscience in the last few years. Optical methods combined with genetics and molecular techniques have provided new tools for stimulation of neurons, which hold great promise to provide a solution to the circuit mapping problem and more generally provide us with the ability to artificially control the natural stimulus space. Nevertheless, until very recently almost all applications of optogenetics have been based on relatively simple optical schemes mainly used for inducing population activity in neuronal assembles. In this context, alternative optical schemes that enhance the spatial or temporal resolution of excitation and allow for flexible and arbitrary generation of light patterns have all synergetic impact on the development of new optogenetic actuators. In the following we discuss and compare the main new optical techniques that have become available in the recent years. Their respective strengths and limitations as well as their application to different biological contexts are illustrated.
Virtual reality (VR) holds great promise as a tool to study the neural circuitry underlying animal behaviors. Here, we discuss the advantages of VR and the experimental paradigms and technologies that enable closed loop behavioral experiments. We review recent results from VR research in genetic model organisms where the potential combination of rich behaviors, genetic tools and cutting edge neural recording techniques are leading to breakthroughs in our understanding of the neural basis of behavior. We also discuss several key issues to consider when performing VR experiments and provide an outlook for the future of this exciting experimental toolkit.
The development of advanced optical methods has played a key role in propelling progress in neurobiology. Genetically-encoded fluorescent molecules found in nature have enabled labeling of individual neurons to study their physiology and anatomy. Here we discuss the recent use of both native and synthetic optical highlighter proteins to address key problems in neurobiology, including questions relevant to synaptic function, neuroanatomy, and the organization of neural circuits.
The last decade has seen a rapid increase in the number of tools to acquire volume electron microscopy (EM) data. Several new scanning EM (SEM) imaging methods have emerged, and classical transmission EM (TEM) methods are being scaled up and automated. Here we summarize the new methods for acquiring large EM volumes, and discuss the tradeoffs in terms of resolution, acquisition speed, and reliability. We then assess each method's applicability to the problem of reconstructing anatomical connectivity between neurons, considering both the current capabilities and future prospects of the method. Finally, we argue that neuronal 'wiring diagrams' are likely necessary, but not sufficient, to understand the operation of most neuronal circuits: volume EM imaging will likely find its best application in combination with other methods in neuroscience, such as molecular biology, optogenetics, and physiology.
In recent years, interest has grown in the ability to manipulate, in a temporally precise fashion, the electrical activity of specific neurons embedded within densely wired brain circuits, in order to reveal how specific neurons subserve behaviors and neural computations, and to open up new horizons on the clinical treatment of brain disorders. Technologies that enable temporally precise control of electrical activity of specific neurons, and not these neurons' neighbors-whose cell bodies or processes might be just tens to hundreds of nanometers away-must involve two components. First, they require as a trigger a transient pulse of energy that supports the temporal precision of the control. Second, they require a molecular sensitizer that can be expressed in specific neurons and which renders those neurons specifically responsive to the triggering energy delivered. Optogenetic tools, such as microbial opsins, can be used to activate or silence neural activity with brief pulses of light. Thermogenetic tools, such as thermosensitive TRP channels, can be used to drive neural activity downstream of increases or decreases in temperature. We here discuss the principles underlying the operation of these two recently developed, but widely used, toolboxes, as well as the directions being taken in the use and improvement of these toolboxes.
Tethering genetically encoded peptide toxins or ligands close to their point of activity at the cell plasma membrane provides a new approach to the study of cell networks and neuronal circuits, as it allows selective targeting of specific cell populations, enhances the working concentration of the ligand or blocker peptide, and permits the engineering of a large variety of t-peptides (e.g., including use of fluorescent markers, viral vectors and point mutation variants). This review describes the development of tethered toxins (t-toxins) and peptides derived from the identification of the cell surface nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) modulator lynx1, the existence of related endogenous cell surface modulators of nAChR and AMPA receptors, and the application of the t-toxin and t-neuropeptide technology to the dissection of neuronal circuits in metazoans.
Toward the functional dissection of neuronal circuits, a number of new genetic tools have been developed that enable rapid and reversible manipulation of genetically defined neuronal subtypes in intact mammalian brain circuits. Alongside the breakthrough technology of optogenetics, receptor-ligand pairs provide complementary approaches to modulate neuronal activity using chemical genetics.
Genetics' demand for increased throughput is driving automatization of behavior analysis far beyond experimental workhorses like circadian monitors and the operant conditioning box. However, the new automation is not just faster: it is also allowing new kinds of experiments, many of which erase the boundaries of the traditional neuroscience disciplines (psychology, ethology and physiology) while producing insight into problems that were otherwise opaque. Ironically, a central theme of current automatization is to improve observation of animals in increasingly naturalistic environments. This is not just a return to 19th century priorities: the new observational methods provide unprecedented quantitation of actions and ever-closer integration with experimentation.
The past few decades have seen the field of genetic engineering evolve at a rapid pace, with neuroscientists now equipped with a wide range of tools for the manipulation of an animal's genome in order to study brain function. However, the number of species to which these technologies have been applied, namely the fruit fly, C. elegans, zebrafish and mouse, remains relatively few. This review will discuss the variety of approaches to genetic modification that have been developed in such traditional 'genetic systems', and highlight the progress that has been made to translate these technologies to alternative species such as rats, monkeys and birds, where certain neurobiological questions may be better studied.
Recording activity from identified populations of neurons is a central goal of neuroscience. Changes in membrane depolarization, particularly action potentials, are the most important features of neural physiology to extract, although ions, neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, second messengers, and the activation state of specific proteins are also crucial. Modern fluorescence microscopy provides the basis for such activity mapping, through multi-photon imaging and other optical schemes. Probes remain the rate-limiting step for progress in this field: they should be bright and photostable, and ideally come in multiple colors. Only protein-based reagents permit chronic imaging from genetically specified cells. Here we review recent progress in the design, optimization and deployment of genetically encoded indicators for calcium ions (a proxy for action potentials), membrane potential, and neurotransmitters. We highlight seminal experiments, and present an outlook for future progress.
Electrophysiological recordings from behaving animals provide an unparalleled view into the functional role of individual neurons. Intracellular approaches can be especially revealing as they provide information about a neuron's inputs and intrinsic cellular properties, which together determine its spiking output. Recent technical developments have made intracellular recording possible during an ever-increasing range of behaviors in both head-fixed and freely moving animals. These recordings have yielded fundamental insights into the cellular and circuit mechanisms underlying neural activity during natural behaviors in such areas as sensory perception, motor sequence generation, and spatial navigation, forging a direct link between cellular and systems neuroscience.
Understanding the highly plastic nature of neurons requires the dynamic visualization of their molecular and cellular organization in a native context. However, due to the limited resolution of standard light microscopy, many of the structural specializations of neurons cannot be resolved. A recent revolution in light microscopy has given rise to several super-resolution light microscopy methods yielding 2-10-fold higher resolution than conventional microscopy. We here describe the principles behind these techniques as well as their application to the analysis of the molecular architecture of the synapse. Furthermore, we discuss the potential for continued development of super-resolution microscopy as necessary for live imaging of neuronal structure and function in the brain.
The rapid accumulation of neuroproteomics data in recent years has prompted the emergence of novel antibody-based imaging methods that aim to understand the anatomical and functional context of the multitude of identified proteins. The pioneering field of ultrastructural multiplexed proteomic imaging now includes a number of high resolution methods, such as array tomography, stimulated emission depletion microscopy, stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy and automated transmission electron microscopy, which allow a detailed molecular characterization of individual synapses and subsynaptic structures within brain tissues for the first time. While all of these methods still face considerable limitations, a combined complementary approach building on the respective strengths of each method is possible and will enable fascinating research into the proteomic diversity of the nervous system.


Experimental evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that purinergic mechanosensory transduction can initiate visceral pain in urinary bladder, ureter, gut and uterus. In general, physiological reflexes are mediated via P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors on low threshold sensory fibres, while these receptors on high threshold sensory fibres mediate pain. Potential therapeutic strategies are considered for the treatment of visceral pain in such conditions as renal colic, interstitial cystitis and inflammatory bowel disease by purinergic agents, including P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor antagonists that are orally bioavailable and stable in vivo and agents that modulate ATP release and breakdown.
Recent animal experiments have shown that chronic medication exposure profoundly affects the function of several areas in the nervous system related to headache pathogenesis. These changes include upregulation of calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, and nitric oxide synthase in trigeminal ganglia; expansion of receptive field and decreased nociceptive threshold of central trigeminal neurons; decrease in diffuse noxious inhibitory control; and increased susceptibility to develop cortical spreading depression (CSD). These changes indicate an increase in excitability of cortical and trigeminal neurons. The neuronal hyperexcitability may be the result of derangement of a central, possibly serotonin (5-HT)-dependent, modulating control system. Experiments with animals with low 5-HT showed that the processes of CSD and trigeminal nociception are enhanced in this condition. Derangement in the central 5-HT-dependent modulating system as a result of chronic medication use may underlie the chronification of headache as observed in patients with medication-overuse headache.


Recent evidence suggests that sexual dimorphisms in the zebra finch song system and behavior arise due to factors intrinsic to the brain, rather than being solely organized by circulating steroid hormones. The present study examined expression of 10 sex chromosome genes in the song system of 25-day-old zebra finches in an attempt to further elucidate these factors. Increased expression in males was confirmed for nine of the genes by real-time qPCR using cDNA from individual whole telecephalons. In situ hybridization at the same age revealed specific, male-enhanced mRNA for three of the nine genes in one or more song control nuclei. These genes encode tubulin-specific chaperone A, mitochondrial ribosomal protein S27, and a DNA repair protein XPACCH. Based on what is currently known about these proteins' functions and their localization to particular components of the song circuit, we hypothesize that they each may be involved in specific aspects of masculinization.
Proper movement of the vertebrate eye requires the formation of precisely patterned axonal connections linking cranial somatic motoneurons, located at defined positions in the ventral midbrain and hindbrain, with extraocular muscles. The aim of this research was to assess the relative contributions of intrinsic, population-specific properties and extrinsic, outgrowth site-specific cues during the early stages of abducens and oculomotor nerve development in avian embryos. This was accomplished by surgically transposing midbrain and caudal hindbrain segments, which had been pre-labeled by electroporation with an EGFP construct. Graft-derived EGFP+ oculomotor axons entering a hindbrain microenvironment often mimicked an abducens initial pathway and coursed cranially. Similarly, some EGFP+ abducens axons entering a midbrain microenvironment mimicked an oculomotor initial pathway and coursed ventrally. Many but not all of these axons subsequently projected to extraocular muscles that they would not normally innervate. Strikingly, EGFP+ axons also took initial paths atypical for their new location. Upon exiting from a hindbrain position, most EGFP+ oculomotor axons actually coursed ventrally and joined host branchiomotor nerves, whose neurons share molecular features with oculomotor neurons. Similarly, upon exiting from a midbrain position, some EGFP+ abducens axons turned caudally, elongated parallel to the brainstem, and contacted the lateral rectus muscle, their originally correct target. These data reveal an interplay between intrinsic properties that are unique to oculomotor and abducens populations and shared ability to recognize and respond to extrinsic directional cues. The former play a prominent role in initial pathway choices, whereas the latter appear more instructive during subsequent directional choices.
Members of the K(v)7 family generate a subthreshold potassium current, termed M-current, that regulates the excitability of principal central neurons. Mutations in two members of this family, K(v)7.2 (KCNQ2) and K(v)7.3 (KCNQ3) are associated with a neurological disorder known as benign familial neonatal convulsion (BFNC). Despite their importance in normal and pathological brain function, developmental expression and function of these channels remains relatively unexplored. Here, we examined the temporal expression of K(v)7 channel subunits in zebrafish larvae using a real-time quantitative PCR approach. Spatial expression in the larval zebrafish brain was assessed using whole-mount in situ hybridization. The mRNA for three members of the K(v)7 family (KCNQ2, 3 and 5) is reported in zebrafish between two and seven days post-fertilization (dpf). Using electrophysiological techniques, we show that inhibitors of K(v)7 channels (linopirdine and XE991) induce burst discharge activity in immature zebrafish between 3 and 7 dpf. This abnormal electrical activity is blocked by a K(v)7 channel opener (retigabine) and was also shown to evoke convulsive behaviors in freely swimming zebrafish. Using morpholino oligonucleotides directed against KCNQ3, we confirmed a role for KCNQ channels in generation of electrical burst discharges. These results indicate that functional K(v)7 channels are expressed in the larval zebrafish nervous system and could play a direct role in generation of seizure activity.
Enriched environmental conditions induce neuroanatomical plasticity in a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate species. We explored the molecular processes associated with experience-induced plasticity, using naturally occurring foraging behavior in adult worker honey bees (Apis mellifera). In honey bees, the mushroom bodies exhibit neuroanatomical plasticity that is dependent on accumulated foraging experience. To investigate molecular processes associated with foraging experience, we performed a time-course microarray study to examine gene expression changes in the mushroom bodies as a function of days foraged. We found almost 500 genes that were regulated by duration of foraging experience. Bioinformatic analyses of these genes suggest that foraging experience is associated with multiple molecular processes in the mushroom bodies, including some that may contribute directly to neuropil growth, and others that could potentially protect the brain from the effects of aging and physiological stress.
During cerebral cortex development, precise control of precursor cell cycle length and cell cycle exit is required for balanced precursor pool expansion and layer-specific neurogenesis. Here, we defined the roles of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI) p57(KIP2), an important regulator of G1 phase, using deletion mutant mice. Mutant mice displayed macroencephaly associated with cortical hyperplasia during late embryogenesis and postnatal development. Embryonically, proliferation of radial glial cells (RGC) and intermediate precursors (IPC) was increased, expanding both populations, with greater effect on IPCs. Furthermore, cell cycle re-entry was increased during early corticogenesis, whereas cell cycle exit was augmented at middle stage. Consequently, neurogenesis was reduced early, whereas it was enhanced during later development. In agreement, the timetable of early neurogenesis, indicated by birthdating analysis, was delayed. Cell cycle dynamics analyses in mutants indicated that p57(KIP2) regulates cell cycle length in both RGCs and IPCs. By contrast, related CKI p27(KIP1) controlled IPC proliferation exclusively. Furthermore, p57(KIP2) deficiency markedly increased RGC and IPC divisions at E14.5, whereas p27(KIP1) increased IPC proliferation at E16.5. Consequently, loss of p57(KIP2) increased primarily layer 5-6 neuron production, whereas loss of p27(KIP1) increased neurons specifically in layers 2-5. In conclusion, our observations suggest that p57(KIP2) and p27(KIP1) control neuronal output for distinct cortical layers by regulating different stages of precursor proliferation, and support a model in which IPCs contribute to both lower and upper layer neuron generation.
Glucocorticoid receptors are highly expressed in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and arcuate nucleus (ARC). As glucocorticoids have pronounced effects on neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression and as NPY neurons projecting from the ARC to the PVN are pivotal for balancing feeding behavior and glucose metabolism, we investigated the effect of glucocorticoid signaling in these areas on endogenous glucose production (EGP) and insulin sensitivity by local retrodialysis of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone into the ARC or the PVN, in combination with isotope dilution and hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp techniques. Retrodialysis of dexamethasone for 90 min into the ARC or the PVN did not have significant effects on basal plasma glucose concentration. During the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp, retrodialysis of dexamethasone into the ARC largely prevented the suppressive effect of hyperinsulinemia on EGP. Antagonizing the NPY1 receptors by intracerebroventricular infusion of its antagonist largely blocked the hepatic insulin resistance induced by dexamethasone in the ARC. The dexamethasone-ARC-induced inhibition of hepatic insulin sensitivity was also prevented by hepatic sympathetic denervation. These data suggest that glucocorticoid signaling specifically in the ARC neurons modulates hepatic insulin responsiveness via NPY and the sympathetic system, which may add to our understanding of the metabolic impact of clinical conditions associated with hypercortisolism.

CYP2S1 is an extrahepatic cytochrome P450 (P450) that shows marked individuality in constitutive and inducible expression. CYP2S1 mRNA expression is increased in psoriasis and by treatments for psoriasis, including retinoids and UV radiation, although endogenous substrates remain poorly characterized. Because previous model systems have overexpressed modified CYP2S1 in bacteria, human HaCaT keratinocyte cells were screened for constitutive and regulatable CYP2S1 expression and CYP2S1 activity in HaCaT cells compared with a novel Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-based cell line engineered to stably coexpress CYP2S1 and NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase. Constitutive mRNA expression for CYP2S1 and additional P450s, retinoid acid receptors (RAR, RAR, RAR), and retinoid X receptors (RXR, RXR and RXR) was assessed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis in HaCaT cells. Cells were then exposed to retinoids or to UV radiation (UVR), and changes in CYP2S1 mRNA abundance were further examined by qRT-PCR analysis. P450 expression in HaCaT cells was similar to human skin, with abundant CYP2S1 expression. RAR and RAR (but not RAR) and all RXR isoforms were also detectable. All-trans retinoic acid (atRA) induced CYPS1 mRNA expression more potently than 9-cis RA or 13-cis RA. P450-dependent atRA metabolism was demonstrated in HaCaT cells, with a very similar metabolite profile to that produced by our CYP2S1-expressing CHO cells. CYP2S1 mRNA expression was also induced by UVR, more potently than CYP1B1, a known UVR-inducible P450. Our results demonstrate regulatable and functional CYP2S1 expression in HaCaT cells, thus identifying a human cell line model with utility for further analysis of CYP2S1 regulation and substrate specificity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia. In addition to a decrease in brain cholinergic activity, AD is also marked by glutamatergic excitotoxicity that results in neuronal death, characterized clinically by a loss of learning and memory abilities. The currently available drugs for symptomatic treatment of AD (i.e. memantine and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors) only temporarily slow down the natural history of the disease process. Among them, memantine is the only one that acts as a non-competitive low-affinity modulator of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Memantine's modulation of NMDA receptors has been reported to prevent the neuronal necrosis induced by glutamatergic calcium neurotoxicity, but not the neuronal apoptosis resulting from oxidative stress. This observation calls for new drug regimen strategies based on memantine combined with molecules having antioxidant effects, in order to create a multi-target therapy to increase neuronal protection and prevent AD progression. We wish to highlight that vitamin D is a secosteroid hormone that is suggested to have neuroprotective effects that include regulation of neuronal calcium homeostasis, as well as antioxidant, neurotrophic and anti-inflammatory properties. The combination of memantine plus vitamin D may provide, in one treatment, enhanced protection against several degenerative processes linked to AD. Based on the present rationale, a clinical trial testing this hypothesis is currently in recruitment (AD-IDEA trial; ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01409694). This new pharmaceutical composition may provide an effective solution to the problem of neuronal death and cognitive decline in AD.


Although both auditory and visual information can influence the perceived emotion of an individual, how these modalities contribute to the perceived emotion of a crowd of characters was hitherto unknown. Here, we manipulated the ambiguity of the emotion of either a visual or auditory crowd of characters by varying the proportions of characters expressing one of two emotional states. Using an intersensory bias paradigm, unambiguous emotional information from an unattended modality was presented while participants determined the emotion of a crowd in an attended, but different, modality. We found that emotional information in an unattended modality can disambiguate the perceived emotion of a crowd. Moreover, the size of the crowd had little effect on these crossmodal influences. The role of audiovisual information appears to be similar in perceiving emotion from individuals or crowds. Our findings provide novel insights into the role of multisensory influences on the perception of social information from crowds of individuals.

The dichotomous anxiogenic and anxiolytic properties of estrogens have been reported to be mediated by two distinct neural estrogen receptors (ER), ER and ER, respectively. Using a combination of pharmacological and genetic approaches, we confirmed that the anxiolytic actions of estradiol are mediated by ER and extended and these observations to demonstrate the neuroanatomical targets involved in ER activation in these behavioral responses. We examined the effects of the biologically active S-enantiomer of diarylpropionitrile (S-DPN) on anxiety-related behavioral measures, the corresponding stress hormonal response to hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis reactivity, and potential sites of neuronal activation in mutant female mice carrying a null mutation for ER gene (ERKO). S-DPN administration significantly reduced anxiety-like behaviors in the open field, light-dark exploration, and the elevated plus maze (EPM) in ovariectomized wild-type (WT) mice, but not in their ERKO littermates. Stress-induced corticosterone (CORT) and ACTH were also attenuated by S-DPN in the WT mice but not in the ERKO mice. Using c-fos induction after elevated plus maze, as a marker of stress-induced neuronal activation, we identified the anterodorsal medial amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis as the neuronal targets of S-DPN action. Both areas showed elevated c-fos mRNA expression with S-DPN treatment in the WT but not ERKO females. These studies provide compelling evidence for anxiolytic effects mediated by ER, and its neuroanatomical targets, that send or receive projections to/from the paraventricular nucleus, providing potential indirect mode of action for the control of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis function and behaviors.
There is growing appreciation that estrogen signaling pathways can be modulated by naturally occurring environmental compounds such as phytoestrogens and the more recently discovered xenoestrogens. Many researchers studying the effects of estrogens on brain function or behavior in animal models choose to use phytoestrogen-free food for this reason. Corncob bedding is commonly used in animal facilities across the United States and has been shown to inhibit estrogen-dependent reproductive behavior in rats. The mechanism for this effect was unclear, because the components of corncob bedding mediating this effect did not bind estrogen receptors. Here, we show in the California mouse (Peromyscus californicus) that estrogens decrease aggression when cardboard-based bedding is used but that this effect is absent when corncob bedding is used. California mice housed on corncob bedding also had fewer estrogen receptor--positive cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and ventromedial hypothalamus compared with mice housed on cardboard-based bedding. In addition, corncob bedding suppressed the expression of phosphorylated ERK in these brain regions as well as in the medial amygdala and medial preoptic area. Previous reports of the effects of corncob bedding on reproductive behavior are not widely appreciated. Our observations on the effects of corncob bedding on behavior and brain function should draw attention to the importance that cage bedding can exert on neuroendocrine research.



Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) has on rare occasions occurred during electroencephalography (EEG) telemetry, and in such cases postictal EEG suppression (PI EEG-SUP) was frequently observed. More recently a retrospective case-control study reported this pattern as a risk factor for SUDEP. We retrospectively audited frequency and electroclinical features of this pattern as well as immediate management following tonic-clonic seizures during telemetry. Forty-eight patients with tonic-clonic seizures were identified from 470 consecutive EEG-videotelemetry reports. Thirteen patients (27%) with PI EEG-SUP (mean duration 38.1 s, range 6-69 s, median 38 s) were compared to 12 randomly selected controls. One seizure was analyzed per individual. Those with PI EEG-SUP were significantly more likely to be motionless after the seizure and have simple nursing interventions performed (suction, oxygen administration, placed in recovery position, vital signs checked). This pattern is relatively common and requires further study as a potential marker for increased mortality in epilepsy.
Systems biology (SB), a recent trend in bioscience research to consider the complex interactions in biological systems from a holistic perspective, sees the disease as a disturbed network of interactions, rather than alteration of single molecular component(s). SB-relying network pharmacology replaces the prevailing focus on specific drug-receptor interaction and the corollary of rational drug design of &quot;magic bullets&quot;, by the search for multi-target drugs that would act on biological networks as &quot;magic shotguns&quot;. Epilepsy being a multi-factorial, polygenic and dynamic pathology, SB approach appears particularly fit and promising for antiepileptic drug (AED) discovery. In fact, long before the advent of SB, AED discovery already involved some SB-like elements. A reported SB project aimed to find out new drug targets in epilepsy relies on a relational database that integrates clinical information, recordings from deep electrodes and 3D-brain imagery with histology and molecular biology data on modified expression of specific genes in the brain regions displaying spontaneous epileptic activity. Since hitting a single target does not treat complex diseases, a proper pharmacological promiscuity might impart on an AED the merit of being multi-potent. However, multi-target drug discovery entails the complicated task of optimizing multiple activities of compounds, while having to balance drug-like properties and to control unwanted effects. Specific design tools for this new approach in drug discovery barely emerge, but computational methods making reliable in silico predictions of poly-pharmacology did appear, and their progress might be quite rapid. The current move away from reductionism into network pharmacology allows expecting that a proper integration of the intrinsic complexity of epileptic pathology in AED discovery might result in literally anti-epileptic drugs.
This study investigated the role of underlying pathology on memory function of children with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Memory was assessed in 44 children with TLE resulting from hippocampal sclerosis (HS) or dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumours (DNT), and 22 control children. Delayed story and paired associate recall performance was significantly more impaired in children with HS compared to those with DNT, irrespective of the affected side. Semantic memory was impaired in both HS groups, and also in the left DNT group. These results suggest a role for type, and to a lesser extent, side of pathology in the memory profile of children with TLE.
The outcomes of adult epilepsy patients prescribed lacosamide for additional seizure control. Responders were defined as having at least a 50% decrease in seizure frequency Sixty-seven patients were evaluated. Forty-six out of 67 patients (69%) were responders. Twelve of 14 patients not taking sodium channel-acting AEDs were responders (86%) and 34/53 patients taking sodium channel-acting AEDs were responders (64%) (difference not significant).
We explored the efficacy and safety of bilateral SubThalamic Nucleus (STN) stimulation in two subjects suffering from drug-resistant epilepsy even after anterior callosotomy. Case 1 had about 65% decrease of partial motor seizures and the complete disappearance of tonic-clonic generalized attacks. Case 2, with sudden drop (atonic) attacks, partial complex seizures, atypical absences and rare tonic-clonic seizures, showed no meaningful reduction of fits and a stimulation associated atypical absence rate increase.
A magnetic resonance (MR) diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) study was performed in a newborn with bilateral subependymal heterotopia (SE). White matter fractional anisotropy (FA), axial diffusivity (AD) and radial diffusivity (RD) were compared to values obtained in four newborns with moderate perinatal asphyxia and normal MRI findings. The reduction of FA and increase of AD and RD in the newborn with SE were the in vivo late expression of alterations in the intermediate zone, with an underlying arrest of neuronal migration.
In adapting to life ex utero, the foal encounters a number of physiological challenges. It has to assume the nutritional, respiratory and excretory functions of the placenta and activate full regulatory control over its own internal environment for the first time. To achieve this, there must be structural and functional changes to a wide range of tissues including several endocrine glands. In most species, including the horse, these maturational changes begin in late gestation and continue into the first few days of neonatal life. Consequently, during this perinatal period, there are major changes in the sensitivity and/or set point of key endocrine axes, which alter the circulating hormone concentrations in the foal. In turn, these endocrine changes are responsible for many of the other physiological adaptations essential for neonatal survival. The perinatal alterations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are particularly important in these processes, although the sympatho-adrenal medullary axis and endocrine pancreas also have key roles in ensuring homeostasis during the multiple novel stimuli experienced at birth. Abnormalities in the perinatal endocrine profile caused by adverse conditions before or after birth may, therefore, lead to maladaptation or aid survival of the newborn foal depending on the specific circumstances. This review examines the perinatal changes in endocrinology in normal and compromised foals and the role of these endocrine changes in the physiological adaptations to extrauterine life with particular emphasis on the HPA axis, adreno-medullary catecholamines and the endocrine pancreas.



Greater intra-subject variability (ISV) in response time is a heritable endophenotype of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Spontaneous low frequency oscillations (LFO: 0.01-0.1 Hz) observed in brain functional magnetic resonance signals might account for such behavioral variability. Recently, we demonstrated that ISV in response time (RT) explained ratings of ADHD symptoms. Building on this finding, here we hypothesized that LFO in RT time series would explain these ratings, both independently and in addition to RT coefficient of variation (CV). To measure RT LFO, we applied Morlet wavelet transform to the previously collected RT data. Our community sample consisted of 98 children (including 66 boys, mean age 9.9  1.4 years), who completed four computer Tasks of Executive Control. Conners' Parent Rating Scale ratings were obtained. RT LFO of three tasks significantly explained ratings of inattention, hyperactivity and three global Conners' subscales. In addition, RT LFO during two tasks that included an inhibitory component increased the proportions of variance explained in subscales of both inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity, beyond the effects of RT-CV. Three specific low frequency bands (Slow-5: 0.01-0.027 Hz; Slow-4: 0.027-0.073 Hz; Slow-3: 0.073-0.20 Hz) were strongly related to the ADHD scales. We conclude that RT LFO predict dimensional ratings of ADHD symptoms both independently and in addition to RTCV. Results suggest that frequency analyses are a suitable methodology to link behavioral responses to putative underlying physiological processes.
The objective of the study is to evaluate temporal trends, gender effects and methods of completed suicide amongst children and adolescent (aged 10-17) when compared with temporal trends of deaths from other causes. Data were extracted from the Italian Mortality Database, which is collected by the Italian National Census Bureau (ISTAT) and processed by the Statistics Unit of National Centre for Epidemiology, Surveillance and Health Promotion (CNESPS) at the National Institute of Health (Istituto Superiore di Sanit). A total of 1,871 children and adolescents, age 10-17 years, committed suicide in Italy from 1971 to 2003 and 109 died by suicide during the last 3-year period of observation (2006-2008). The average suicide rate over the entire period of observation was 0.91 per 100,000; the rate was 1.21 for males and 0.59 for females. During the study period, the general mortality of children and adolescents, age 10-17 years, decreased dramatically, the average annual percentage change decrease was of -3.3% (95% CI -4.4 to -1.9) for males and -2.9% (95% IC -4.4 to -2.5) for females. The decrease was observed, for both genders, for all causes of deaths except suicide. For males, the most frequent method was hanging (54.5%), followed by shooting/fire arms (19.6%), falls/jumping from high places (12.7%); for females, the most frequent method, jumping from high places/falls, accounted for 35.7% of suicides during the whole study period. In conclusion, this study highlights that over the course of several decades suicide is a far less preventable cause of death as compared to other causes of death amongst children and adolescents. Our study demonstrated that suicide rates in adolescents are not a stable phenomenon over the 40 years period of study. It suggested that rates for males and females differed and varied in different ways during specific time periods of this study. National suicide prevention actions should parallel prevention measures implemented to reduce other causes of death.
To construct and evaluate a novel wheelchair system that can be freely controlled via electroencephalogram signals in order to allow people paralyzed from the neck down to interact with society more freely. A brain-machine interface (BMI) wheelchair control system was constructed by effective signal processing methods, and subjects were trained by a feedback method to decrease the training time and improve accuracy. The implemented system was evaluated through experiments on controlling bars and avoiding obstacles using three subjects. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the feedback training method was evaluated by comparison with an imaginary movement experiment without any visual feedback for two additional subjects. In the bar-controlling experiment, two subjects achieved a 95.00% success rate, and the third had a 91.66% success rate. In the obstacle avoidance experiment, all three achieved success rate over 90% success rate, and required almost the same amount of time to reach as that when driving with a joystick. In the experiment on imaginary movement without visual feedback, the two additional subjects adapted to the experiment far slower than they did with visual feedback. In this study, the feedback training method allowed subjects to easily and rapidly gain accurate control over the implemented wheelchair system. These results show the importance of the feedback training method using neuroplasticity in BMI systems.
Although problem-based learning (PBL) was introduced into dental education some 20 years ago, there have been relatively few well-designed studies carried out to clarify whether, how or why it works in a dental context. This paper introduces the Dynamic Systems (Complexity) theory as a new and potentially productive theoretical framework for researching PBL in dental education. This framework emphasises the importance of emergent self-organisation, perception and brain plasticity in learning. In this paper, a brief overview of the history of PBL in dentistry is presented and then the fundamentals of a Dynamic Systems Approach (DSA) are explained, drawing on two recently published papers advocating the DSA in medical education and teacher education. We focus on three key points related to this new approach: emergent self-organisation rather than simple construction of knowledge; the notion that perception drives the learning process; and the brain as the substrate of all learning. The paper also suggests how the DSA can help us move forward, both in terms of the future application of PBL in dental education and also in relation to posing new types of research questions.
Genome-wide association studies have shown a strong association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the near vicinity of the TMEM18 gene. The effects of the TMEM18-associated variants are more readily observed in children. TMEM18 encodes a 3TM protein, which locates to the nuclear membrane. The functional context of TMEM18 and the effects of its associated variants are as of yet undetermined. To further explore the effects of near-TMEM18 variants, we have genotyped two TMEM18-associated SNPs, rs6548238 and rs4854344, in a cohort of 2352 Greek children (Healthy Growth Study). Included in this study are data on anthropomorphic traits body weight, BMI z-score and waist circumference. Also included are dietary energy and macronutrient intake as measured via 24-h recall interviews. Major alleles of rs6548238 and rs4854344 were significantly associated with an increased risk of obesity (odds ratio = 1.489 (1.161-1.910) and 1.494 (1.165-1.917), respectively), and positively correlated to body weight (P = 0.017, P = 0.010) and waist circumference (P = 0.003, P = 0.003). An association to energy and macronutrient intake was not observed in this cohort. We also correlated food intake and body weight in a food choice model in rats to Tmem18 expression in central regions involved in feeding behavior. We observed a strong positive correlation between TMEM18 expression and body weight in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) (r = 0.5694, P = 0.0003) indicating a potential role for TMEM18 in higher functions related to feeding involving the PFC.






Calcium (Ca(2+) ) is a major second messenger in the regulation of different forms of synaptic and intrinsic plasticity. Tightly organized in space and time, postsynaptic Ca(2+) transients trigger the activation of many distinct Ca(2+) signaling cascades, providing a means for a highly specific signal transduction and plasticity induction. High-resolution two-photon microscopy combined with highly sensitive synthetic Ca(2+) indicators in brain slices allowed for the quantification and analysis of postsynaptic Ca(2+) dynamics in great detail. Much of our current knowledge about postsynaptic Ca(2+) mechanisms is derived from studying Ca(2+) transients in the dendrites and spines of pyramidal neurons. However, postsynaptic Ca(2+) dynamics differ considerably among different cell types. In particular, distinct rules of postsynaptic Ca(2+) signaling and, accordingly, of Ca(2+) -dependent plasticity operate in GABAergic interneurons. Here, I review recent progress in understanding the complex organization of postsynaptic Ca(2+) signaling and its relevance to several forms of long-term potentiation at excitatory synapses in cortical GABAergic interneurons.
The present study aimed to create a direct bridge between observations on peripheral and central responses to odorant mixtures and their components. Three experiments were performed using mixtures of fruity (isoamyl acetate; ISO) and woody (whiskey lactone; WL) odorants known to contribute to some of the major notes in Burgundy red wine. These experiments consisted of (i) calcium imaging of human embryonic kidney cells (HEK293T) transfected with olfactory receptors (ORs); (ii) single-unit electrophysiological recordings from olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and analyses of electro-olfactogram (EOG) responses in the rat nose in vivo; and (iii) psychophysical measurements of the perceived intensity of the mixtures as rated by human subjects. The calcium imaging and electrophysiological results revealed that ISO and WL can act simultaneously on single ORs or ORNs and confirm that receptor responses to mixtures are not the result of a simple sum of the effects of the individual mixture compounds. The addition of WL to ISO principally suppressed the ORN activation induced by ISO alone and was found to enhance this activation in a subset of cases. In the human studies, the addition of high concentrations of WL to ISO decreased the perceived intensity of the ISO. In contrast, the addition of low concentrations of WL enhanced the perceived intensity of the fruity note (ISO) in this mixture, as it enhanced EOG responses in ORNs. Thus, both OR and ORN responses to ISO + WL mixtures faithfully reflected perceptual response changes, so the odour mixture information is set up after the peripheral stage of the olfactory system.
A novel class of photoreceptors, the intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs), express the photopigment melanopsin and drive non-image-forming responses to light such as circadian photoentrainment, the pupillary light reflex and suppression of nocturnal melatonin production in the pineal. Because dendrites from one subclass of these cells - the M1-type ipRGCs - make presumptive synaptic contacts at sites of dopamine release from dopaminergic amacrine cells, they are prime targets for modulation by dopamine, a neuromodulator implicated in retinal circadian rhythms and light adaptation. In patch-clamp recordings from ipRGCs in intact rat retinas, dopamine attenuated the melanopsin-based photocurrent. We confirmed that this was the result of direct action on ipRGCs by replicating the effect in dissociated ipRGCs that were isolated from influences of other retinal neurons. In these recordings, the D1-family dopamine receptor agonist SKF38393 attenuated the photocurrent, caused a modest depolarization, and reduced the input resistance of ipRGCs. The D2-family agonist quinpirole had no effect on the photocurrent. Single-cell reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction revealed that the majority of ipRGCs tested expressed drd1a, the gene coding for the D1a dopamine receptor. This finding was supported by immunohistochemical localization of D1a receptor protein in melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells. Finally, the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin, applied in combination with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX (isobutylmethylxanthine), mimicked the effects of SKF38393 on the ipRGC photocurrent, membrane potential and input resistance, consistent with a D1-receptor signaling pathway. These data suggest that dopamine, acting via D1-family receptors, alters the responses of ipRGCs and thus of non-image-forming vision.

In contrast to mammals, adult zebrafish have the ability to regrow descending axons and gain locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). In zebrafish, a decisive factor for successful spinal cord regeneration is the inherent ability of some neurons to regrow their axons via (re)expressing growth-associated genes during the regeneration period. The nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle (NMLF) is one of the nuclei capable of regenerative response after SCI. Using microarray analysis with laser capture microdissected NMLF, we show that cysteine- and glycine-rich protein (CRP)1a (encoded by the csrp1a gene in zebrafish), the function of which is largely unknown in the nervous system, was upregulated after SCI. In situ hybridization confirmed the upregulation of csrp1a expression in neurons during the axon growth phase after SCI, not only in the NMLF, but also in other nuclei capable of regeneration, such as the intermediate reticular formation and superior reticular formation. The upregulation of csrp1a expression in regenerating nuclei started at 3 days after SCI and continued to 21 days post-injury, the longest time point studied. In vivo knockdown of CRP1a expression using two different antisense morpholino oligonucleotides impaired axon regeneration and locomotor recovery when compared with a control morpholino, demonstrating that CRP1a upregulation is an important part of the innate regeneration capability in injured neurons of adult zebrafish. This study is the first to demonstrate the requirement of CRP1a for zebrafish spinal cord regeneration.



Evolution of similar phenotypes in independent populations is often taken as evidence of adaptation to the same fitness optimum. However, the genetic architecture of traits might cause evolution to proceed more often toward particular phenotypes, and less often toward others, independently of the adaptive value of the traits. Freshwater populations of Alaskan threespine stickleback have repeatedly evolved the same distinctive opercle shape after divergence from an oceanic ancestor. Here we demonstrate that this pattern of parallel evolution is widespread, distinguishing oceanic and freshwater populations across the Pacific Coast of North America and Iceland. We test whether this parallel evolution reflects genetic bias by estimating the additive genetic variance-covariance matrix (G) of opercle shape in an Alaskan oceanic (putative ancestral) population. We find significant additive genetic variance for opercle shape and that G has the potential to be biasing, because of the existence of regions of phenotypic space with low additive genetic variation. However, evolution did not occur along major eigenvectors of G, rather it occurred repeatedly in the same directions of high evolvability. We conclude that the parallel opercle evolution is most likely due to selection during adaptation to freshwater habitats, rather than due to biasing effects of opercle genetic architecture.
Visuomotor-adaptation experiments devoted to the study of plasticity are also used to indirectly test hypotheses about how the brain encodes the spatio-temporal characteristics of arm movement directed at a visual target. A current major theory, the vectorial coding hypothesis, postulates that arm movements are processed differentially for direction and amplitude. This approach, at first developed in an extrinsic Cartesian frame of references, has been also adopted in an intrinsic joint space. In the present paper, we report an experiment that corroborates this last point of view. Subjects performed pointing movements in a one degree of freedom condition, while systematic self-attributed endpoint errors were introduced. Through an observation of motor behavior in a battery of pre- and post-tests, we suggested that adaptation consisted in an increase in the motor gain in the adapted direction, with a perfect transfer to all starting points in the experimental reaching space. We explained the results by the absence of intersensory conflict and of correlative sensory adaptive component. As this paradigm was adapted from the saccadic adaptation paradigm, we eventually compared the two paradigms and highlighted that both induced mostly motor effects.
Smoking/nicotine has been shown to increase brain arousal states, yet previous studies have failed to distinguish between absolute improvements due to nicotine versus relief from withdrawal symptoms in smokers. This study examined the electrocortical response to nicotine in a nonsmoking population, in order to negate potential withdrawal symptoms. Twenty right-handed, nonsmoking participants were administered nicotine (6 mg) or placebo gum within a double-blind, repeated-measures design. In each session, EEG was recorded during a 2-min, resting, eyes-open condition. Nicotine administration (vs. placebo) resulted in significantly greater frontal (specifically left-frontal) alpha2 power. Similar to previous findings in smokers. The absence of slow-wave changes following nicotine in nonsmokers suggest that these previous results in smokers may be related to withdrawal state.

Intracranial collaterals provide residual blood flow to penumbral tissue in acute ischemic stroke and contribute to infarct size variability in humans. In the present study, hemodynamic monitoring of the borderzone territory between the leptomeningeal branches of middle cerebral artery and anterior cerebral artery was compared to lateral middle cerebral artery territory, during common carotid artery occlusion and middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. The functional performance of intracranial collaterals, shown by perfusion deficit in the territory of leptomeningeal branches either during common carotid artery occlusion or middle cerebral artery occlusion, showed significant variability among animals and consistently predicted infarct size and functional deficit. Our findings indicate that leptomeningeal collateral flow is a strong predictor of stroke severity in rats, similarly to humans. Monitoring of collateral blood flow in experimental stroke is essential for reducing variability in neuroprotection studies and accelerating the development of collateral therapeutics.
Previous studies involving injuries to the nerves of the cauda equina and the conus medullaris have shown that lumbosacral ventral root avulsion in rat models results in denervation and dysfunction of the lower urinary tract, retrograde and progressive cell death of the axotomized motor and parasympathetic neurons, as well as the emergence of neuropathic pain. Root reimplantation has also been shown to ameliorate several of these responses, but experiments thus far have been limited to studying the effects of lesion and reimplantation local to the lumbosacral region. Here, we have expanded the region of investigation after lumbosacral ventral root avulsion and reimplantation to include the thoracolumbar sympathetic region of the spinal cord. Using a retrograde tracer injected into the major pelvic ganglion, we were able to define the levels of the spinal cord that contain sympathetic preganglionic neurons innervating the lower urinary tract. We have conducted studies on the effects of the lumbosacral ventral root avulsion and reimplantation models on the afferent innervation of the dorsal horn and autonomic nuclei at both thoracolumbar and lumbosacral levels through immunohistochemistry for the markers calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1). Surprisingly, our experiments reveal a selective and significant decrease of CGRP-positive innervation in the dorsal horn at thoracolumbar levels that is partially restored with root reimplantation. However, no similar changes were detected at the lumbosacral levels despite the injury and repair targeting efferent neurons, and being performed at the lumbosacral levels. Despite the changes evident in the thoracolumbar dorsal horn, we find no changes in afferent innervation of the autonomic nuclei at either sympathetic or parasympathetic segmental levels by CGRP or VGLUT1. We conclude that even remote, efferent root injuries and repair procedures can have an effect on remote and non-lesioned sensory systems sharing common peripheral ganglia.
GABAergic dysfunction is implicated in hippocampal deficits of the Ts65Dn mouse model of Down syndrome (DS). Since Ts65Dn mice overexpress G-protein coupled inward-rectifying potassium (GIRK2) containing channels, we sought to evaluate whether increased GABAergic function disrupts the functioning of hippocampal circuitry. After confirming that GABA(B)/GIRK current density is significantly elevated in Ts65Dn CA1 pyramidal neurons, we compared monosynaptic inhibitory inputs in CA1 pyramidal neurons in response to proximal (stratum radiatum; SR) and distal (stratum lacunosum moleculare; SLM) stimulation of diploid and Ts65Dn acute hippocampal slices. Synaptic GABA(B) and GABA(A) mediated currents evoked by SR stimulation were generally unaffected in Ts65Dn CA1 neurons. However, the GABA(B)/GABA(A) ratios evoked by stimulation within the SLM of Ts65Dn hippocampus were significantly larger in magnitude, consistent with increased GABA(B)/GIRK currents after SLM stimulation. These results indicate that GIRK overexpression in Ts65Dn has functional consequences which affect the balance between GABA(B) and GABA(A) inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons, most likely in a pathway specific manner, and may contribute to cognitive deficits reported in these mice.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a neurodegenerative disease that involves cognitive decline and dementia. To model the hippocampal neurodegeneration and memory-related behavioral impairment that occurs in FTLD and other tau and TDP-43 proteinopathy diseases, we used an adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) vector to induce bilateral expression of either microtubule-associated protein tau or transactive response DNA binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) in adult rat dorsal hippocampus. Human wild-type forms of tau or TDP-43 were expressed. The vectors/doses were designed for moderate expression levels within neurons. Rats were evaluated for acquisition and retention in the Morris water task over 12 weeks after gene transfer. Neither vector altered acquisition performance compared to controls. In measurements of retention, there was impairment in the TDP-43 group. Histological examination revealed specific loss of dentate gyrus granule cells and concomitant gliosis proximal to the injection site in the TDP-43 group, with shrinkage of the dorsal hippocampus. Despite specific tau pathology, the tau gene transfer surprisingly did not cause obvious neuronal loss or behavioral impairment. The data demonstrate that TDP-43 produced mild behavioral impairment and hippocampal neurodegeneration in rats, whereas tau did not. The models could be of value for studying mechanisms of FTLD and other diseases with tau and TDP-43 pathology in the hippocampus including Alzheimer's disease, with relevance to early stage mild impairment.

This paper by Hurtado et al. examined responses of spinal cord-injured rats to treatment with a monoclonal antibody to the CD11d integrin, as a replication study of the paper by Gris et al. published in J. Neuroscience, 2004. The Hurtado et al. study addressed a portion of our investigation and obtained similar findings in the experiments that closely replicated ours in methodology and design, specifically the open field locomotor study. The high variability in their study of mechanical allodynia probably precluded detection of effects of the anti-CD11d treatment on this form of neuropathic pain. The lesion assessments were greatly different from those done in the Gris et al. study, and may not have been ideal for the extent of injury produced in this model, but did reveal a trend toward myelin preservation. The positive aspects of the study by Hurtado et al. encourage us to investigate this novel treatment further, in different animals and in different models of spinal cord injury.

These experiments were completed as part of an NIH-NINDS contract entitled &quot;Facilities of Research Excellence - Spinal Cord Injury (FORE-SCI) - Replication&quot;. Our goal was to replicate pre-clinical data from Simard et al. (2007) showing that glibenclamide, an FDA approved anti-diabetic drug that targets sulfonylurea receptor 1 (SUR1)-regulated Ca(2+) activated, [ATP](i)-sensitive nonspecific cation channels, attenuates secondary intraspinal hemorrhage and secondary neurodegeneration caused by hemicontusion injury in rat cervical spinal cord. In an initial replication attempt, the Infinite Horizons impactor was used to deliver a standard unilateral contusion injury near the spinal cord midline. Glibenclamide was administered continuously via osmotic pump beginning immediately post-SCI. The ability of glibenclamide to limit intraspinal hemorrhage was analyzed at 6, 12 and 24 h post-injury using a colorimetric assay. Acute recovery (24 h) of forelimb function was also assessed. Analysis of data from these initial studies revealed no difference between glibenclamide and vehicle-treated SCI rats. Later, it was determined that differences in primary trauma affect the efficacy of glibenclamide. Indeed, the magnitude and distribution of primary intraspinal hemorrhage was greater when the impact was directed to the dorsomedial region of the cervical hemicord (as in our initial replication experiment), as compared to the dorsolateral spinal cord (as in the Simard et al. experiment). In three subsequent experiments, injury was directed to the dorsolateral spinal cord. In each case, glibenclamide reduced post-traumatic hemorrhage 24-48 h post-injury. In the third experiment, we also assessed function and found that acute reduction of hemorrhage led to improved functional recovery. Thus, independent replication of the Simard et al. data was achieved. These data illustrate that the injury model and type of trauma can determine the efficacy of pre-clinical pharmacological treatments after SCI.
The involvement of the autonomic nervous system in Parkinson's disease causes many non-motor symptoms, among which gastrointestinal complaints are prominent. Drooling, dyspepsia, constipation, abdominal pain and fecal incontinence are frequently a source of patient distress. Dysphagia is recognized as causing both discomfort and increased risk of serious complications. Although a diagnosis can often be established based on the reports of patients and/or caregivers, and additional testing is seldom required, these diagnoses are clearly under recognized in clinical practice. These symptoms respond to the same treatment measures used in the general population, although certain drugs with a potential to increase parkinsonian symptoms should be avoided. Increased and early identification of these symptoms can result in a significant improvement in the quality of life of Parkinson's disease patients.
The two major isoforms of human APP, APP695 and APP751, differ by the presence of a Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) domain in the extracellular region. APP processing and function is thought to be regulated by homodimerization. We used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) to study dimerization of different APP isoforms and mutants. APP751 was found to form significantly more homodimers than APP695. Mutation of dimerization motifs in the TM domain did not affect fluorescence complementation, but native folding of KPI is critical for APP751 homodimerization. APP751 and APP695 dimers were mostly localized at steady state in the Golgi region, suggesting that most of the APP751 and 695 dimers are in the secretory pathway. Mutation of the KPI led to the retention of the APP homodimers in the endoplasmic reticulum. We finally showed that APP751 is more efficiently processed through the nonamyloidogenic pathway than APP695. These findings provide new insight on the particular role of KPI domain in APP dimerization. The correlation observed between dimerization, subcellular localization, and processing suggests that dimerization acts as an efficient regulator of APP trafficking in the secretory compartments that has major consequences on its processing.
The 6-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have recently been implicated in diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), including Parkinson's disease and substance abuse. In contrast, little is known about the role of 6* nAChRs in the peripheral nervous system (where the asterisk denotes the possible presence of additional subunits). Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons are known to express nAChRs with a pharmacology consistent with an 7, 34*, and 42* composition. Here we present evidence that DRG neurons also express 6* nAChRs. We used RT-PCR to show the presence of 6 subunit transcripts and patch-clamp electrophysiology together with subtype-selective -conotoxins to pharmacologically characterize the nAChRs in rat DRG neurons. -Conotoxin BuIA (500 nM) blocked acetylcholine-gated currents (I(ACh)) by 90.3  3.0%; the recovery from blockade was very slow, indicating a predominance of (x)4* nAChRs. Perfusion with either 300 nM BuIA[T5A;P6O] or 200 nM MII[E11A], -conotoxins that target the 64* subtype, blocked I(ACh) by 49.3  5 and 46.7  8%, respectively. In these neurons, I(ACh) was relatively insensitive to 200 nM ArIB[V11L;V16D] (9.42.0% blockade) or 500 nM PnIA (23.04% blockade), -conotoxins that target 7 and 32*/62* nAChRs, respectively. We conclude that 64* nAChRs are among the subtypes expressed by DRG, and to our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of 64* in neurons outside the CNS.


Inorganic nitrite, derived from the reduction of nitrate in saliva, has recently emerged as a protagonist in nitric oxide (()NO) biology as it can be univalently reduced to ()NO, in the healthy human stomach. Important physiological implications have been attributed to nitrite-derived ()NO in the gastrointestinal tract, namely modulation of host defense, blood flow, mucus formation and motility. At acidic pH, nitrite generates different nitrogen oxides depending on the local microenvironment (redox status, gastric content, pH, inflammatory conditions), including ()NO, nitrogen dioxide (()NO(2)), dinitrogen trioxide (N(2)O(3)), and peroxynitrite. Thus, the gastric environment is a significant source of nitrating and nitrosating agents, especially in individuals consuming a nitrate/nitrite-rich diet on a daily basis. Both, the gastric lumen and mucosa contain putative targets for nitration, not only proteins and lipids from ingested aliments but also endogenous proteins secreted by the oxyntic glands. The physiological and functional consequences of nitration of gastric mediators will impact on local processes including food digestion and ulcerogenesis. Additionally, gastric nitration products (such as nitrated lipids) may be absorbed and affect systemic pathways. Thus, dietary ingestion of nitrate will have direct consequences for endogenous protein nitration, as indicated by our preliminary data.
One pharmacokinetic approach to the treatment of cocaine abuse and toxicity involves the development of compounds that can be safely administered to humans and that accelerate the metabolism of cocaine to inactive components. Catalytic antibodies have been developed and shown to accelerate cocaine metabolism, but their catalytic efficiency for cocaine is relatively low. Mutations of human butyrylcholinesterase and a bacterial cocaine esterase found in the soil of coca plants have also been developed. These compounds accelerate cocaine metabolism and antagonize the behavioral and toxic effects of cocaine in animal models. Of these two approaches, the human butyrylcholinesterase mutants show the most immediate promise as they would not be expected to evoke an immune response in humans.
The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) may play a central role in the inhibition of socially regulated sex change in fish because of its known modulation of both aggressive and reproductive behavior. This is the first study to use immunohistochemical techniques to examine the morphometry of serotonergic neurons at different times during sex change. Using a model species wherein sex change is socially regulated via agonistic social interactions (the bluebanded goby, Lythrypnus dalli), we sampled brains of males and females with different social status, and of females at different times during sex change. Consistent with previous studies on other teleosts, immunoreactive neurons were found in the posterior periventricular nucleus (NPPv), the nucleus of the lateral recess (NRL), the nucleus of the posterior recess (NRP) and in the raphe nucleus. We measured the total area of NPPv, NRL, NRP, and the number and mean cell area of serotonergic neurons in the raphe nucleus. There was no significant difference in any of the brain regions between males, females or sex changing fish, but there was a slight increase in the number of dorsal raphe neurons in the brain of sex changers 2h after male removal. The results show that in L. dalli the serotonergic system does not present any morphological sex and status differences, nor any dramatic modifications during sex change. These data, together with previous results, do not support the hypothesis that serotonin inhibits socially regulated sex change.
To help celebrate the 50th anniversary of General and Comparative Endocrinology, the history of only a small portion of crustacean endocrinology is presented here. The field of crustacean endocrinology dates back to the decades prior to the establishment of General and Comparative Endocrinology and the first article about crustacean endocrinology published in this journal was concerned with the anatomy of neurosecretory and neurohemal structures in brachyuran crabs. This review looks at the history of neuroendocrinology in crustaceans during that time and tries to put perspective on the future of this field.
Delivery of therapeutic genes to a large region of the retina with minimal damage from intraocular surgery is a central goal of treatment for retinal degenerations. Recent studies have shown that AAV9 can reach the central nervous system (CNS) and retina when administered systemically to neonates, which is a promising strategy for some retinal diseases. We investigated whether the retinal transduction efficiency of systemically delivered AAV9 could be improved by mutating capsid surface tyrosines, previously shown to increase the infectivity of several AAV vectors. Specifically, we evaluated retinal transduction following neonatal intravascular administration of AAV9 vectors containing tyrosine to phenylalanine mutations at two highly conserved sites. Our results show that a novel, double tyrosine mutant of AAV9 significantly enhanced gene delivery to the CNS and retina, and that gene expression can be restricted to rod photoreceptor cells by incorporating a rhodopsin promoter. This approach provides a new methodology for the development of retinal gene therapies or creation of animal models of neurodegenerative disease.
Because living systems depend on their environment, the evolution of environmental adaptability is inseparable from the evolution of life itself (Pross 2003). In animals and humans, environmental adaptability extends further to adaptive behavior. It has recently emerged that individual adaptability depends on the interaction of adaptation mechanisms at diverse functional levels. This interaction enables the integration of genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors for coordinated regulation of adaptations. In this review, we first present the basis for the regulation of adaptation mechanisms across functional levels. We then focus on neuronal activity-regulated adaptation mechanisms that involve the regulation of genes, noncoding DNA (ncDNA), ncRNAs and proteins to change the structural and functional properties of neurons. Finally, we discuss a selection of these important neuronal activity-regulated molecules and their effects on brain structure and function and on behavior. Most of the evidence so far is based on sampling of animal tissue or post-mortem studies in humans. However, we also present techniques that combine genetic with behavioral and neurophysiological measures in humans (e.g. genetic imaging) and discuss their potential and limitations. We argue that we need to understand how neuronal activity-dependent adaptation mechanisms integrate genetic, epigenetic and experience-dependent signals in order to explain individual variations in behavior and cognitive performance.
The current study examined the changes in striatal gene network structure induced by short-term selective breeding from a heterogeneous stock for haloperidol response. Brain (striatum) gene expression data were obtained using the Illumina WG 8.2 array, and the datasets from responding and non-responding selected lines were independently interrogated using a weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). We detected several gene modules (groups of coexpressed genes) in each dataset; the membership of the modules was found to be largely concordant, and a consensus network was constructed. Further validation of the network topology showed that using approximately 35 samples is sufficient to reliably infer the transcriptome network. An in-depth analysis showed significant changes in network structure and gene connectivity associated with the selected lines; these changes were validated using a bootstrapping procedure. The most dramatic changes were associated with a gene module richly annotated with neurobehavioral traits. The changes in network connectivity were concentrated in the links between this module and the rest of the network, in addition to changes within the module; this observation is consistent with recent results in protein and metabolic networks. These results suggest that a network-based strategy will help identify the genetic factors associated with haloperidol response.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system in the brain regulates a wide variety of behavioral, metabolic and hormonal homeostatic processes required for energy balance control. During times of limited food availability, NPY promotes behavioral hyperactivity necessary to explore and prepare for novel food resources. As NPY can act via 5 different receptor subtypes, we investigated the path through which NPY affects different behavioral components relevant for adaptation to such conditions. We tested NPY Y1 and Y2 receptor knockout mice and their wild-type littermate controls in a daily scheduled limited food access paradigm with unlimited access to running wheel. Here we show that NPY Y1 receptor deficient mice lack the expression of appetitive behavior and that NPY Y2 receptors control the level of hyperactive behavior under these conditions. Thus, receptor specificity determines the differential expression of NPY-mediated behavioral adaptations to overcome a negative energy status.
Characterizing the neurocircuits and neurotransmitters that underlie arousal and circadian sleep/wake patterns is an important goal of neuroscience research, with potential implications for understanding human mental illnesses, such as major depression. Recent anatomical and functional studies suggest that relaxin-3 neurons and their ascending projections contribute to these functions via actions on key cortical, limbic and hypothalamic circuits. This study reports the behavioral phenotype of C57BL/6J backcrossed relaxin-3 knockout (KO) mice. Cohorts of adult, male and female relaxin-3 KO and wild-type (WT) littermate mice were subjected to a battery of behavioral tests to assess sensorimotor function and complex behavior. No overt deficits were detected in motor-coordination, spatial memory, sensorimotor gating, anxiety-like behavior or locomotor behavior in novel environments; and no marked genotype differences were observed in response to a chronic stress protocol. Notably however, compared to WT mice, relaxin-3 KO mice displayed robust hypoactivity during the dark/active phase when provided with free home-cage access to voluntary running wheels. This circadian hypoactivity was reflected by reduced time spent and distance traveled on running wheels, coupled with an increase in the time spent immobile, possibly reflecting increased sleeping. Overall, these studies support a role for relaxin-3 signaling in the control of arousal and sleep/wakefulness, and identify the relaxin-3 KO mouse as a useful model to study this role further.
Synapses are the fundamental units of neural circuits that enable complex behaviors. The neuromuscular junction (NMJ), a synapse formed between a motoneuron and a muscle fiber, has contributed greatly to understanding of the general principles of synaptogenesis as well as of neuromuscular disorders. NMJ formation requires neural agrin, a motoneuron-derived protein, which interacts with LRP4 (low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4) to activate the receptor tyrosine kinase MuSK (muscle-specific kinase). However, little is known of how signals are transduced from agrin to MuSK. Here, we present the first crystal structure of an agrin-LRP4 complex, consisting of two agrin-LRP4 heterodimers. Formation of the initial binary complex requires the z8 loop that is specifically present in neuronal, but not muscle, agrin and that promotes the synergistic formation of the tetramer through two additional interfaces. We show that the tetrameric complex is essential for neuronal agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering. Collectively, these results provide new insight into the agrin-LRP4-MuSK signaling cascade and NMJ formation and represent a novel mechanism for activation of receptor tyrosine kinases.
In multiple sclerosis, endogenous oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) attempt to remyelinate areas of myelin damage. During disease progression, however, these attempts fail. It has been suggested that modulating the inflammatory environment of the lesion might provide a promising therapeutic approach to promote endogenous remyelination. Microglia are known to play a central role in neuroinflammatory processes. To investigate the microglia phenotype that supports remyelination, we performed genome-wide gene expression analysis of microglia from the corpus callosum during demyelination and remyelination in the mouse cuprizone model, in which remyelination spontaneously occurs after an episode of toxin-induced primary demyelination. We provide evidence for the existence of a microglia phenotype that supports remyelination already at the onset of demyelination and persists throughout the remyelination process. Our data show that microglia are involved in the phagocytosis of myelin debris and apoptotic cells during demyelination. Furthermore, they express a cytokine and chemokine repertoire enabling them to activate and recruit endogenous OPCs to the lesion site and deliver trophic support during remyelination. This study not only provides a detailed transcriptomic analysis of the remyelination-supportive microglia phenotype but also reinforces the notion that the primary function of microglia is the maintenance of tissue homeostasis and the support of regeneration already at the earliest stages in the development of demyelinating lesions.
Glutamate transporters (GluTs) maintain a low ambient level of glutamate in the central nervous system (CNS) and shape the activation of glutamate receptors at synapses. Nevertheless, the mechanisms that regulate the trafficking and localization of transporters near sites of glutamate release are poorly understood. Here, we examined the subcellular distribution and dynamic remodeling of the predominant GluT GLT-1 (excitatory amino acid transporter 2, EAAT2) in developing hippocampal astrocytes. Immunolabeling revealed that endogenous GLT-1 is concentrated into discrete clusters along branches of developing astrocytes that were apposed preferentially to synapsin-1 positive synapses. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-GLT-1 fusion proteins expressed in astrocytes also formed distinct clusters that lined the edges of astrocyte processes, as well as the tips of filopodia and spine-like structures. Time-lapse three-dimensional confocal imaging in tissue slices revealed that GFP-GLT-1 clusters were dynamically remodeled on a timescale of minutes. Some transporter clusters moved within developing astrocyte branches as filopodia extended and retracted, while others maintained stable positions at the tips of spine-like structures. Blockade of neuronal activity with tetrodotoxin reduced both the density and perisynaptic localization of GLT-1 clusters. Conversely, enhancement of neuronal activity increased the size of GLT-1 clusters and their proximity to synapses. Together, these findings indicate that neuronal activity influences both the organization of GluTs in developing astrocyte membranes and their position relative to synapses.
The adult spinal cord contains a pool of endogenous glial precursor cells, which spontaneously respond to spinal cord injury (SCI) with increased proliferation. These include oligodendrocyte precursor cells that express the NG2 proteoglycan and can differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes. Thus, a potential approach for SCI treatment is to enhance the proliferation and differentiation of these cells to yield more functional mature glia and improve remyelination of surviving axons. We previously reported that soluble glial growth factor 2 (GGF2)- and basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2)-stimulated growth of NG2(+) cells purified from injured spinal cord in primary culture. This study examines the effects of systemic administration of GGF2 and/or FGF2 after standardized contusive SCI in vivo in both rat and mouse models. In Sprague-Dawley rats, 1 week of GGF2 administration, beginning 24 h after injury, enhanced NG2(+) cell proliferation, oligodendrogenesis, chronic white matter at the injury epicenter, and recovery of hind limb function. In 2',3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase-enhanced green fluorescent protein mice, GGF2 treatment resulted in increased oligodendrogenesis and improved functional recovery, as well as elevated expression of the stem cell transcription factor Sox2 by oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Although oligodendrocyte number was increased chronically after SCI in GGF2-treated mice, no evidence of increased white matter was detected. However, GGF2 treatment significantly increased levels of P0 protein-containing peripheral myelin, produced by Schwann cells that infiltrate the injured spinal cord. Our results suggest that GGF2 may have therapeutic potential for SCI by enhancing endogenous recovery processes in a clinically relevant time frame.
During the last years, the concept of gliotransmission has been established. Glutamate has been shown to be released from astrocytes by different mechanisms, e.g., in an exocytotic manner. The authors have previously shown that astrocytes in the dentate-molecular layers express vesicular glutamate transporters on synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs). By confocal microscopy, the authors, in this study, show that vesicles by a family of glutamate transporters 1 (VGLUT1) labeling was clearly present within astrocytic processes (diameter &gt; 1 m) in several brain regions; the dentate-molecular layers, the stratum radiatum of CA1 hippocampus, the frontal cortex, and the striatum. At the electron microscopic level, immunogold cytochemistry showed the presence of VGLUT1 gold particles over SLMVs in delicate astrocytic processes (cross-sectional diameter &lt; 500 nm) in all the above-mentioned brain regions. When measuring the distance from the membrane of SLMVs in astrocytes to the closest VGLUT1 gold particle, it turned out that most gold particles (above 95 %) were located within 25 nm from the membrane, strongly suggesting that VGLUT1 is present in SLMVs in the astrocytes. Finally, electron microscopic immunocytochemistry shows that VGLUT1 labeling was concentrated in astrocytic processes from wild type, and not in VGLUT1 knock out hippocampus. The authors have concluded that astrocytes not only in the dentate-molecular layers but also in stratum radiatum of CA1 hippocampus, frontal cortex, and the striatum possess SLMVs carrying VGLUT1, suggesting that astrocytes in all these brain regions are capable of vesicular release of glutamate.
Genetic defects in like-glycosyltransferase (LARGE) cause congenital muscular dystrophy with central nervous system manifestations. The underlying molecular pathomechanism is the hypoglycosylation of -dystroglycan (-DG), which is evidenced by diminished immunoreactivity to IIH6C4 and VIA4-1, antibodies that recognize carbohydrate epitopes. Previous studies indicate that LARGE participates in the formation of a phosphoryl glycan branch on O-linked mannose or it modifies complex N- and mucin O-glycans. In this study, we overexpressed LARGE in neural stem cells deficient in protein O-mannosyltransferase 2 (POMT2), an enzyme required for O-mannosyl glycosylation. The results showed that overexpressing LARGE did not lead to hyperglycosylation of -DG in POMT2 knockout (KO) cells but did generate IIH6C4 and VIA4-1 immunoreactivity and laminin-binding activity. Additionally, overexpressing LARGE in cells deficient in both POMT2 and -DG generated laminin-binding IIH6C4 immunoreactivity. These results indicate that LARGE expression resulted in the glycosylation of proteins other than -DG in the absence of O-mannosyl glycosylation. The IIH6C4 immunoreactivity generated in double-KO cells was largely removed by treatment either with peptide N-glycosidase F or with cold aqueous hydrofluoric acid, suggesting that LARGE expression caused phosphoryl glycosylation of N-glycans. However, the glycosylation of -DG by LARGE is dependent on POMT2, indicating that LARGE expression only modifies O-linked mannosyl glycans of -DG. Thus, LARGE expression mediates the phosphoryl glycosylation of not only O-mannosyl glycans including those on -DG but also N-glycans on proteins other than -DG.

Cochlear implant performance in difficult listening situations is limited by channel interactions. It is known that partial tripolar (PTP) stimulation reduces the spread of excitation (SOE). However, the greater the degree of current focusing, the greater the absolute current required to maintain a fixed loudness. As current increases, so does SOE. In experiment 1, the SOE for equally loud stimuli with different degrees of current focusing is measured via a forward-masking procedure. Results suggest that at a fixed loudness, some but not all patients have a reduced SOE with PTP stimulation. Therefore, it seems likely that a PTP speech processing strategy could improve spectral resolution for only those patients with a reduced SOE. In experiment 2, the ability to discriminate different levels of current focusing was measured. In experiment 3, patients subjectively scaled verbal descriptors of stimuli of various levels of current focusing. Both discrimination and scaling of verbal descriptors correlated well with SOE reduction, suggesting that either technique have the potential to be used clinically to quickly predict which patients would receive benefit from a current focusing strategy.
The click-evoked auditory brainstem response (ABR) is widely used in clinical settings, partly due to its predictability and high test-retest consistency. More recently, the speech-evoked ABR has been used to evaluate subcortical processing of complex signals, allowing for the objective assessment of biological processes underlying auditory function and auditory processing deficits not revealed by responses to clicks. Test-retest reliability of some components of speech-evoked ABRs has been shown for adults and children over the course of months. However, a systematic study of the consistency of the speech-evoked brainstem response in school-age children has not been conducted. In the present study, speech-evoked ABRs were collected from 26 typically-developing children (ages 8-13) at two time points separated by one year. ABRs were collected for /da/ presented in quiet and in a 6-talker babble background noise. Test-retest consistency of response timing, spectral encoding, and signal-to-noise ratio was assessed. Response timing and spectral encoding were highly replicable over the course of one year. The consistency of response timing and spectral encoding found for the speech-evoked ABRs of typically-developing children suggests that the speech-evoked ABR may be a unique tool for research and clinical assessment of auditory function, particularly with respect to auditory-based communication skills.
Phosphorylation of glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors by Protein Kinase A (PKA) is known to regulate AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking and stabilization at the postsynaptic membrane, which in turn is one of the key mechanisms by which synaptic transmission and plasticity are tuned. However, not much is known as to how Gs-coupled receptors contribute to endogenous PKA-mediated regulation of AMPA receptor function. Here we report that activation of the excitatory A(2A) adenosine receptor by 2-[4-(2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680, 1-30 nM) facilitates AMPA-evoked currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons, by a mechanism dependent on PKA activation, but not on protein synthesis. This modulation of AMPA currents was mimicked by forskolin (1 M) and did not occur in stratum radiatum interneurons. Superfusion of the A(2A) receptor agonist also caused an increase in the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), as well as in the membrane levels of GluR1 subunits phosphorylated at the PKA site (Ser845). The impact of this increase on GluR1-containing AMPA receptor expression was evidenced by the potentiation of LTP at the CA3-CA1 synapse that followed brief activation of A(2A) receptors. We thus propose that in conditions of increased adenosine availability, A(2A) receptor activation is responsible for setting part of the endogenous GluR1 Ser-845 phosphorylation tonus and hence, the availability of the GluR1-containing AMPA receptor extrasynaptic pool for synaptic insertion and reinforcement of synaptic strength.
Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric illness with a complex pathophysiology. We have recently documented schizophrenia-like endophenotypes in phospholipase C-1 knockout (PLC-1(-/-)) mice, including deficits in prepulse inhibition, hyperlocomotion, and cognitive impairments. PLC-1 signals via multiple G-protein coupled receptor pathways implicated in neural cellular plasticity; however, adult neurogenesis has yet to be explored in this knockout model. In this study, we employed PLC-1(-/-) mice to elucidate possible correlates between aberrant adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN) and schizophrenia-like behaviors. Using stereology and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry we demonstrated a significant increase in the density of adult-generated cells in the granule cell layer (GCL) of adult PLC-1(-/-) mice compared with wild-type littermates. Cellular phenotype analysis using confocal microscopy revealed these cells to be mature granule neurons expressing NeuN and calbindin. Increased neuronal survival occurred concomitant with reduced caspase-3(+) cells in the GCL of PLC-1(-/-) mice. Stereological analysis of Ki67(+) cells in the subgranular zone suggested that neural precursor proliferation is unchanged in PLC-1(-/-) mice. We further showed aberrant migration of mature granule neurons within the GCL of adult PLC-1(-/-) mice with excessive adult-generated mature neurons residing in the middle and outer GCL. PLC-1(-/-) mice exhibited specific behavioral deficits in location recognition, a measure of hippocampal-dependent memory, but not novel object recognition. Overall, we have shown that PLC-1(-/-) mice have a threefold increase in net AHN, and have provided further evidence to suggest a specific deficit in hippocampal-dependent cognition. We propose that abnormal cellular plasticity in these mice may contribute to their schizophrenia-like behavioral endophenotypes.
Experiments were conducted to determine whether environmental boundaries exert preferential control over the tuning of head direction (HD) cells. In each experiment, HD cells were recorded in the rat anterodorsal thalamus while they foraged for randomly scattered food in trapezoid- and rectangle-shaped environments. After an initial recording session, each environment was rotated 90, and changes in the preferred firing directions of HD cells were monitored. Rats were disoriented before each test session to prevent the use of self-movement cues to maintain orientation from one session to the next. In Experiment 1, we demonstrate that HD cell tuning consistently shifted in register with the trapezoid shaped enclosure, but was more variable in the rectangle shaped environment. In Experiments 2 and 3, we show that the strong control by the trapezoid persists in the presence of one clearly visible distal landmark, but not when three or more distal landmarks, including view of the recording room, are present. Together, the results indicate that distinct environmental boundaries exert strong stimulus control over HD cell orientation. However, this geometric control can be overridden with a sufficient number of salient distal landmarks. These results stand in contrast to the view that information from geometric cues usually takes precedence over information from landmark cues.
Activity-dependent synaptic plasticity refines neural networks during development and subserves information processing in adulthood. Previous research has revealed postnatal alterations in synaptic plasticity at nearly all forebrain synapses, suggesting different forms of synaptic plasticity may contribute to network development and information processing. To assess possible relationships between modifications in synaptic plasticity and maturation of cognitive ability, we examined excitatory synaptic function in area CA1 of the mouse hippocampus 3 weeks of age, when hippocampal-dependent learning and memory abilities first emerge. Long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy were observed in slices from juvenile animals younger than 3 weeks of age. Both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms supported LTP and LTD in juveniles. After the third postnatal week, the magnitude of LTP was reduced and the threshold for postsynaptic induction was reduced, but the threshold for presynaptic induction was increased. The reduced threshold for postsynaptic LTP appeared to be due, partly, to an increase in baseline excitatory synaptic strength, which likely permitted greater postsynaptic depolarization during induction. Low frequency stimulation did not induce LTD at this more mature stage, but it blocked subsequent induction of LTP, suggesting metaplastic differences across age groups. Late postnatal modifications in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity might reflect attenuation of mechanisms more closely tied to network formation (presynaptic potentiation and pre- and postsynaptic depression) and unmasking of mechanisms underlying information processing and storage (associative postsynaptic potentiation), which likely impact the integrative capacity of the network and regulate the emergence of adult-like cognitive abilities.
&quot;Histories from below&quot; sought to give voice to those ordinary folk whose social position had failed to afford them great power, wealth, or responsibility: the neglected undocumented. Now, Lynn Hunt (2009) calls for a revolution that would task historians with giving voice to feelings--what I will call a &quot;history from within.&quot; This is what led her to endorse Daniel Lord Smail's (2008) suggestion that historians appeal to neuroscience and thereby construct a &quot;new neurohistory.&quot; The purpose would be to introduce a common factor to all human stories: a tool to think with when describing what it was like (cf. Nagel, 1974). If successful, this would be quite powerful: in Hunt's view, such a project could lead to a universalization of human rights. But the program is not without challenges, one of which is to provide an acceptable explanation for the type of looping causation that applies to bio-cultural kinds. Smail's solution involves an appeal to evolutionary theory, but how this solves the problem of causation is not clear. Here, therefore, an attempt is made to clarify his solution. Smail and Hunt's views on the role of evidence in history are also made plain. The paper then concludes by importing related ideas from the recent history of philosophy. If one is going to have a brain-based view of felt-history, then the neurohistorian's task is to situate historical individuals in contexts of shared experience--to not just read evidence through lenses of intellectual &quot;thought collectives&quot; (generalized from paradeigma), but also through &quot;experiential&quot; or &quot;moral categories&quot; (aisthnomai).
In many species, including Syrian hamsters, the generation of male reproductive behavior depends critically on the perception of female odor cues from conspecifics in the environment. The behavioral response to these odors is mediated by a network of steroid-sensitive ventral forebrain nuclei including the medial amygdala (MA), posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and medial preoptic area (MPOA). Previous studies have demonstrated that each of these three nuclei is required for appropriate sexual behavior and that MA preferentially sends female odor information directly to BNST and MPOA. It is unknown, however, how the functional connections between MA and BNST and/or MPOA are organized to generate different aspects of reproductive behavior. Therefore, the following experiments used the asymmetrical pathway lesion technique to test the role of the functional connections between MA and BNST and/or MPOA in odor preference and copulatory behaviors. Lesions that functionally disconnected MA from MPOA eliminated copulatory behavior but did not affect odor preference. In contrast, lesions that functionally disconnected MA from BNST eliminated preference for volatile female odors but did not affect preference for directly contacted odors or copulatory behavior. These results therefore demonstrate a double dissociation in the functional connections required for attraction to volatile sexual odors and copulation and, more broadly, suggest that appetitive and consummatory reproductive behaviors are mediated by distinct neural pathways.
Many nontropical species undergo physiological and behavioral adaptations in response to seasonal changes in photoperiod, or day length. In most rodent species, short winter photoperiods reduce testosterone concentrations, which provoke gonadal regression and reduce testosterone-dependent behaviors such as mating and aggression. Seasonally-breeding Siberian hamsters, however, are paradoxically more aggressive in short-days, despite much reduced reproductive activity and testosterone concentrations. Nitric oxide (NO) signaling has been proposed as part of an alternate mechanism underlying this phenomenon. A reduction in neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), the enzyme responsible for synthesizing NO in the brain, is associated with increased aggression in male short-day hamsters. In the present study, we hypothesized that pharmacological inhibition of nNOS would increase aggressive behavior in long days, but not in short days because nNOS is already reduced. Adult male Siberian hamsters were housed in either long (LD 16:8h) or short (LD 8:16h) photoperiods for 8weeks, then treated with either the selective nNOS inhibitor, 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (3BrN) or oil vehicle, and subsequently tested for aggression in a resident-intruder test. Treatment with 3BrN increased attack frequency and duration in long days, but had no effect in short days. Short days also reduced testosterone concentrations, without any effect of treatment. These data provide further evidence linking reduced nNOS to elevated short-day aggression and support a role for NO signaling in this phenomenon.
Both animal and human studies have identified a critical role of the hippocampus in contextual fear conditioning. In humans mainly functional magnetic resonance imaging has been used. To extend these findings to volumetric properties, 58 healthy participants underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging and participated in a differential fear conditioning paradigm with contextual stimuli. Ratings of emotional valence, arousal, and contingency as well as skin conductance responses (SCRs) were used as indicators of conditioning. Twenty-nine participants with the smallest hippocampal volumes were compared with 29 persons with the largest hippocampal volumes. Persons with larger hippocampal volume (especially on the right side) learned to discriminate between two conditioned contexts, whereas those with small hippocampal volumes did not, as indicated by SCRs. Further analyses showed that these results could not be explained by amygdalar volumes. In contrast, the participant answers on the self-report measures were not significantly influenced by hippocampal or amygdalar, but by total brain volume, suggesting a role of cortical structures in these more cognitive evaluation processes. Reanalysis of the self-report data using partial hippocampal volumes revealed a significant influence of the posterior but not anterior subvolumes, which is in accordance with theories and empirical findings on hippocampal functioning. This study shows the relevance of hippocampal volume for contextual fear conditioning in healthy volunteers and may have important implications for anxiety disorders.
Calibration experiments precede multicenter trials to identify potential sources of variance and bias. In support of future imaging studies of mental health disorders and their treatment, the Neuro/PsyGRID consortium commissioned a calibration experiment to acquire functional and structural MRI from twelve healthy volunteers attending five centers on two occasions. Measures were derived of task activation from a working memory paradigm, fractal scaling (Hurst exponent) from resting fMRI, and grey matter distributions from T(1) -weighted sequences. At each intracerebral voxel a fixed-effects analysis of variance estimated components of variance corresponding to factors of center, subject, occasion, and within-occasion order, and interactions of center-by-occasion, subject-by-occasion, and center-by-subject, the latter (since there is no intervention) a surrogate of the expected variance of the treatment effect standard error across centers. A rank order test of between-center differences was indicative of crossover or noncrossover subject-by-center interactions. In general, factors of center, subject and error variance constituted &gt;90% of the total variance, whereas occasion, order, and all interactions were generally &lt;5%. Subject was the primary source of variance (70%-80%) for grey-matter, with error variance the dominant component for fMRI-derived measures. Spatially, variance was broadly homogenous with the exception of fractal scaling measures which delineated white matter, related to the flip angle of the EPI sequence. Maps of P values for the associated F-tests were also derived. Rank tests were highly significant indicating the order of measures across centers was preserved. In summary, center effects should be modeled at the voxel-level using existing and long-standing statistical recommendations.
Face, hands, and body movements are powerful signals essential for social interactions. In the last 2 decades, a large number of brain imaging studies have explored the neural correlates of the perception of these signals. Formal synthesis is crucially needed, however, to extract the key circuits involved in human motion perception across the variety of paradigms and stimuli that have been used. Here, we used the activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis approach with random effect analysis. We performed meta-analyses on three classes of biological motion: movement of the whole body, hands, and face. Additional analyses of studies of static faces or body stimuli and sub-analyses grouping experiments as a function of their control stimuli or task employed allowed us to identify main effects of movements and forms perception, as well as effects of task demand. In addition to specific features, all conditions showed convergence in occipito-temporal and fronto-parietal regions, but with different peak location and extent. The conjunction of the three ALE maps revealed convergence in all categories in a region of the right posterior superior temporal sulcus as well as in a bilateral region at the junction between middle temporal and lateral occipital gyri. Activation in these regions was not a function of attentional demand and was significant also when controlling for non-specific motion perception. This quantitative synthesis points towards a special role for posterior superior temporal sulcus for integrating human movement percept, and supports a specific representation for body parts in middle temporal, fusiform, precentral, and parietal areas.
Previous studies have shown that white matter in the deaf brain changes due to hearing loss. However, how white-matter development is influenced by early hearing experience of deaf people is still unknown. Using diffusion tensor imaging and tract-based spatial statistics, we compared white-matter structures among three groups of subjects including 60 congenitally deaf individuals, 36 acquired deaf (AD) individuals, and 38 sex- and age-matched hearing controls (HC). The result showed that the deaf individuals had significantly reduced fractional anisotropy (FA) values in bilateral superior temporal cortex and the splenium of corpus callosum compared to HC. The reduction of FA values in acquired deafness correlated with onset age of deafness, but not the duration of deafness. To explore the underlying mechanism of FA changes in the deaf groups, we further analyzed radial and axial diffusivities and found that (1) the reduced FA values in deaf individuals compared to HC is primarily driven by higher radial diffusivity values and (2) in the AD, higher radial diffusivity was correlated with earlier onset age of deafness, but not the duration of deafness. These findings imply that early sensory experience is critical for the growth of fiber myelination, and anatomical reorganization following auditory deprivation is sensitive to early plasticity in the brain.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), a common inherited form of intellectual disability with learning deficits, results from a loss of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Despite extensive research, treatment options for FXS remain limited. Since FMRP is known to play an important role in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and hippocampus-dependent learning and FMRP regulates the adult neural stem cell fate through the translational regulation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), we investigated the effects of a GSK3 inhibitor, SB216763, on Fmr1 knockout mice (Fmr1 KO). We found that the inhibition of GSK3 could reverse the hippocampus-dependent learning deficits and rescue adult hippocampal neurogenesis at multiple stages in Fmr1 KO mice. Our results point to GSK3 inhibition as a potential treatment for the learning deficits seen in FXS.
Lohse, Sherwood, and Healy (2010) found that an external focus of attention (FOA) improved performance in a dart-throwing task and reduced the time taken between throws, but using the time between trials as a measure of preparation time is relatively crude. Thus, the current experiment analyzed how FOA affects accuracy and pre-movement time in an isometric force production task, to study how FOA affected motor planning. In the current experiment, training with an external focus improved the accuracy of the isometric force production task during training and during retention and transfer testing. During training, an external FOA also significantly reduced pre-movement time in early trials. These findings are interpreted as reduced explicit control of movement as a function of an external FOA, and help to integrate FOA research with other motor control phenomena and neuropsychological theories of motor control.
The accuracy of nonrigid image registrations is commonly approximated using surrogate measures such as tissue label overlap scores, image similarity, image difference, or transformation inverse consistency error. This paper provides experimental evidence that these measures, even when used in combination, cannot distinguish accurate from inaccurate registrations. To this end, we introduce a &quot;registration&quot; algorithm that generates highly inaccurate image transformations, yet performs extremely well in terms of the surrogate measures. Of the tested criteria, only overlap scores of localized anatomical regions reliably distinguish reasonable from inaccurate registrations, whereas image similarity and tissue overlap do not. We conclude that tissue overlap and image similarity, whether used alone or together, do not provide valid evidence for accurate registrations and should thus not be reported or accepted as such.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in the developed world. It is a complex multifactorial disease, and despite new advances in treatment, many patients still succumb to visual impairment. The complement pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many diseases, and recently variants in several genes encoding complement pathway proteins have been associated with AMD. Complement proteins have been found in histological specimens of eyes with AMD. Altered levels of both intrinsic complement proteins and activated products have been found in the circulation of patients with AMD. Complement activation may be triggered by oxidative stress, resulting from retinal exposure to incoming light; indeed an inter-play between these two pathological processes seems to exist. Finally, complement inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. This article reviews the role of the complement system in AMD, and the potential of complement inhibition in preventing the devastating blindness resulting from this disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease and it poses an ever-increasing burden to an aging population. Several loci responsible for the rare, autosomal dominant form of AD have been identified (APP, PS1 and PS2), and these have facilitated the development of the amyloid cascade hypothesis of AD aetiology. The late onset form of the disease (LOAD) is poorly defined genetically, and up until recently the only known risk factor was the 4 allele of APOE. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified common genetic variants that increase risk of LOAD. Two of the genes highlighted in these studies, CLU and CR1, suggest a role for the complement system in the aetiology of AD. In this review we analyse the evidence for an involvement of complement in AD. In particular we focus on one gene, CR1, and its role in the complement cascade. CR1 is a receptor for the complement fragments C3b and C4b and is expressed on many different cell types, particularly in the circulatory system. We look at the evidence for genetic polymorphisms in the gene and the possible physiological effects of these well-documented changes. Finally, we discuss the possible impact of CR1 genetic polymorphisms in relation to the amyloid cascade hypothesis of AD and the way in which CR1 may lead to AD pathogenesis.

The chemokine CXC receptor 4 (CXCR4) is activated by stromal cell-derived factor (SDF-1). CXCR4 may be part of a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) sensing co-clustering complex that modulates TLR4 activation and evidence suggest that SDF-1 can activate anti-inflammatory signaling pathways and suppress inflammation. In the present study we examined the hypothesis that the SDF-1 peptide analog and CXCR4 agonist CTCE-0214 is anti-inflammatory in three distinct models of murine systemic inflammation. Our findings demonstrate that CTCE-0214 in vivo significantly suppressed plasma tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) increases in acute endotoxemia and following zymosan-induced multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). In both models, CTCE-0214 did not suppress plasma increases in the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10. CTCE-0214 improved survival without antibiotics in a model of severe sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). CTCE-0214 also decreased plasma increases in IL-6 but not TNF- and IL-10 in response to CLP-induced inflammation. We demonstrated in a moderately severe model of CLP (one puncture) that IL-6 levels at 24 h were similar to sham controls. However in severe CLP (two punctures) plasma IL-6 levels were markedly elevated. Plasma SDF-1 levels varied inversely with the plasma IL-6. In addition to the beneficial effect of CTCE-0214 in these models of systemic inflammation in vivo, we also demonstrated that the analog dose dependently suppressed LPS-induced IL-6 production in bone marrow-derived macrophages. CTCE-0214 therefore may be beneficial in controlling inflammation sepsis and systemic inflammatory syndromes.
It is well established that glutamate acts as an important mediator of neuronal degeneration during cerebral ischemia. Different kind of glutamate antagonists have been used to reduce the deleterious effects of glutamate. However, their preclinical success failed to translate into practical treatments. Far from the classical use of glutamate antagonists employed so far, the systemic administration of oxaloacetate represents a novel neuroprotective strategy to minimize the deleterious effect of glutamate in the brain tissue after ischemic stroke. The neuroprotective effect of oxaloacetate is based on the capacity of this molecule to reduce the brain and blood glutamate levels as a result of the activation of the blood-resident enzyme glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase. Here we review the recent experimental and clinical results where it is demonstrated the potential applicability of oxaloacetate as a novel and powerful neuroprotective treatment against ischemic stroke.
Recently developed CMOS-based microprobes contain hundreds of electrodes on a single shaft with inter-electrode distances as small as 30 m. So far, neuroscientists needed to select electrodes manually from hundreds of electrodes. Here we present an electronic depth control algorithm that allows to select electrodes automatically, hereby allowing to reduce the amount of data and locating those electrodes that are close to neurons. The electrodes are selected according to a new penalized signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) criterion that demotes electrodes from becoming selected if their signals are redundant with previously selected electrodes. It is shown that, using the PSNR, interneurons generating smaller spikes are also selected. We developed a model that aims to evaluate algorithms for electronic depth control, but also generates benchmark data for testing spike sorting and spike detection algorithms. The model comprises a realistic tufted pyramidal cell, non-tufted pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons. All neurons are synaptically activated by hundreds of fibers. This arrangement allows the algorithms to be tested in more realistic conditions, including backgrounds of synaptic potentials, varying spike rates with bursting and spike amplitude attenuation.
This study aimed to compare the effects of osmotic release oral system-methylphenidate (OROS-MPH) and atomoxetine (ATX) on executive function in children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by a randomized controlled trial. Subjects who met DSM-IV ADHD criteria were randomized to receive either OROS-MPH or ATX treatment. The doses were titrated to achieve optimal response and then maintained for 4-6 wk. A battery of executive function tests and the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) were administered to subjects who completed the dose titration (OROS-MPH, n=85; ATX, n=57) at the pre- and post-treatment periods. Forty-six children without ADHD were recruited as controls. Both OROS-MPH and ATX significantly improved scores in the Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT), digit span, and Stroop color-word task. The scores in RCFT and the reverse digit span were not significantly different from the control group at post-treatment assessment (OROS-MPH=ATX=control, p&gt;0.05), whereas the word interference time of the Stroop test was still more than that of the control group (OROS-MPH=ATX&gt;control, p&gt;0.05). OROS-MPH also significantly improved the total correct response in the verbal fluency test to normal level, and the shifting time in the trail-making test to subnormal level. The current findings suggest both OROS-MPH and ATX improved executive function generally in children and adolescents with ADHD, and could return working memory back to normative performance level.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is widely prescribed for adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but data on long-term treatment and maintenance of effect are lacking. Osmotic release oral system-methylphenidate (OROS-MPH) was evaluated in a 52-wk open-label study in subjects who had previously completed a short-term placebo-controlled trial and short-term open-label extension. Efficacy was assessed using the investigator- and subject-rated Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scales (CAARS:O-SV and CAARS:S-S), and the Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S), Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) and Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q). Subjects completing 52 wk of treatment were eligible for a 4-wk randomized, placebo-controlled withdrawal phase in which loss of treatment effect was assessed using CAARS:O-SV and CGI-S. In the open-label phase (n=156), mean CAARS:O-SV score decreased from baseline by 1.97.8 (p&lt;0.01), and small, statistically significant improvements from baseline were observed for CAARS:S-S, CGI-S and SDS. In the double-blind phase (OROS-MPH, n=23; placebo, n=22), CAARS:O-SV increased from double-blind baseline in the OROS-MPH and placebo arms (4.07.6 vs. 6.57.8, not statistically significant). Long-term OROS-MPH treatment was well tolerated, and there was no evidence of withdrawal or rebound after discontinuation. In conclusion, the short-term benefits of OROS-MPH continue during long-term open-label treatment. Maintenance of efficacy in a placebo-controlled withdrawal design remains to be confirmed in larger patient populations.
Impaired top-down regulation of the amygdala, and its modulation by serotonin (5-HT), is strongly implicated in the dysregulation of negative emotion that characterizes a number of affective disorders. However, the contribution of these mechanisms to the regulation of positive emotion is not well understood. This study investigated the role of 5-HT within the amygdala and the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), on the expression of appetitive Pavlovian conditioned emotional responses and their reversal in a primate, the common marmoset. Its effects were compared to those of the amygdala itself. Having developed conditioned autonomic and behavioural responses to an appetitive cue prior to surgery, marmosets with excitotoxic amygdala lesions failed to display such conditioned autonomic arousal at retention, but still displayed intact cue-directed conditioned behaviours. In contrast, 5,7-DHT infusions into the amygdala, reducing extracellular 5-HT levels, selectively enhanced the expression of appetitive conditioned behaviour at retention. Similar infusions into the OFC, producing marked reductions in post-mortem 5-HT tissue levels, had no overall effect on autonomic or behavioural responses, either at retention or during reversal learning, but caused an uncoupling of these responses, thereby fractionating emotional output. These data demonstrate the critical role of the amygdala in the expression of appetitive autonomic conditioning, and the region-selective contribution of 5-HT in the amygdala and OFC, respectively, to the expression of conditioned behaviour and the overall coordination of the emotional response. They provide insight into the neurochemical mechanisms underlying the regulation of positive emotional responses, advancing our understanding of the neural basis of pathologically dysregulated emotion.
Aberrant dopamine-mediated behaviours are a hallmark of a number of psychiatric disorders, including substance use disorders and schizophrenia. It has been demonstrated recently that rodent models of these diseases display enhanced dopamine neuron activity throughout the ventral tegmental area (VTA). It is known, however, that the VTA is not a homogeneous structure, and that the dopamine neuron population provides discrete, topographical innervation of nucleus accumbens subregions. In addition, these ventromedial and ventrolateral dopamine systems are known to subserve complementary but distinct aspects of goal-directed behaviour. Using in-vivo extracellular recordings of identified dopamine neurons in chloral hydrate-anaesthetized rats, we examined the level of dopamine neuron population activity across the mediolateral extent of the VTA following amphetamine sensitization or gestational methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) treatment, a verified rodent model of schizophrenia. Here we demonstrate that both models display an augmented medial VTA-ventromedial striatal dopamine system function that correlates with the augmented locomotor response to amphetamine observed in both models. In contrast, only MAM-treated rats exhibit an increase in VTA-ventrolateral striatal dopamine system function. This latter finding is consistent with human imaging studies in schizophrenia patients. In summary, we demonstrate that, although a number of disorders involving a hyperdopaminergic state demonstrate an increase in dopamine neuron population activity, there is divergence in the exact populations of neurons affected. This distinction probably underlies the observed differences in disease symptomatology.
Elevated levels of -site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) were found in the brain of some sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients; however, the underlying mechanism is unknown. BACE1 cleaves -amyloid precursor protein (APP) to generate amyloid  protein (A), a central component of neuritic plaques in AD brains. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) signalling plays an important role in gene regulation and is implicated in inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis. In this report we found that both BACE1 and NF-B p65 levels were significantly increased in the brains of AD patients. Two functional NF-B-binding elements were identified in the human BACE1 promoter region. We found that NF-B p65 expression resulted in increased BACE1 promoter activity and BACE1 transcription, while disruption of NF-B p65 decreased BACE1 gene expression in p65 knockout (RelA-knockout) cells. In addition, NF-B p65 expression leads to up-regulated -secretase cleavage and A production, while non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibited BACE1 transcriptional activation induced by strong NF-B activator tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-). Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate that NF-B signalling facilitates BACE1 gene expression and APP processing, and increased BACE1 expression mediated by NF-B signalling in the brain could be one of the novel molecular mechanisms underlying the development of AD in some sporadic cases. Furthermore, NSAIDs could block the inflammation-induced BACE1 transcription and A production. Our study suggests that inhibition of NF-B-mediated BACE1 expression may be a valuable drug target for AD therapy.

Evidence is presented that predictive coding is fundamental to brain function and present in early infancy. Indeed, mismatch responses to unexpected auditory stimuli are among the earliest robust cortical event-related potential responses, and have been measured in young infants in response to many types of deviation, including in pitch, timing, and melodic pattern. Furthermore, mismatch responses change quickly with specific experience, suggesting that predictive coding reflects a powerful, early-developing learning mechanism.
Agency is an important aspect of bodily self-consciousness, allowing us to separate own movements from those induced by the environment and to distinguish own movements from those of other agents. Unsurprisingly, theoretical frameworks for agency such as central monitoring are closely tied to computational models of sensorimotor control. Until recently agency research has largely focussed on goal-directed movements of the upper limbs. In particular, the influence of performance-related sensory cues and the relevance of prediction signals for agency judgements have been studied through a variety of spatio-temporal mismatches between movement and the sensory consequences of movement. However, agents often perform a different type of movement; highly automated movements that involve the entire body such as walking, cycling, and swimming with potentially different agency mechanisms. Here, we review recent work about agency for full-body movements such as gait, highlighting the effects of performance-related visual and auditory cues on gait agency. Gait movements differ from upper limb actions. Gait is cyclic, more rarely immediately goal-directed, and is generally considered one of the most automatic and unconscious actions. We discuss such movement differences with respect to the functional mechanisms of full-body agency and body-part agency by linking these gait agency paradigms to computational models of motor control. This is followed by a selective review of gait control, locomotion, and models of motor control relying on prediction signals and underlining their relevance for full-body agency.

Sri Lanka has an ageing population with an impending epidemic of stroke at hand. Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka has seen many recent advances in stroke services in the recent past providing a benchmark example for the countries in the Asia Pacific region, modeling the best care for stroke patients across the region with limited facilities they have. Three postgraduate trainees in neurology and medicine from Sri Lanka will spend a year at Western Health/ University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia for a period of 12 months for training in neurorehabilitation for stroke. It is timely for neurology trainees and trainees in internal medicine in Sri Lanka to be interested in neurorehabilitation. We sincerely hope the Board of study of Neurology, Post Graduate Institute of Medicine, Colombo, Sri Lanka will take the necessary steps to establish neurorehabilitation as an emerging sub-specialty for neurology trainees in Sri Lanka now.
We conducted a longitudinal study to investigate the relation between sleep experiences and dissociative symptoms in a mixed inpatient sample at a private clinic evaluated on arrival and at discharge 6 to 8 weeks later. Using hierarchical regression analyses and structural equation modeling, we found a link between sleep experiences and dissociative symptoms and determined that specifically decreases in narcoleptic experiences rather than insomnia accompany a reduction in dissociative symptoms. Although sleep improvements were associated with a general reduction in psychopathology, this reduction could not fully account for the substantial and specific effect that we found for dissociation. Our findings are consistent with Watson's (2001) hypothesis that disruptions in the sleep-wake cycle lead to intrusions of sleep phenomena into waking consciousness, resulting in dissociative experiences. Accordingly, sleep hygiene may contribute to the treatment or prevention of dissociative symptoms.


















A new route for the synthesis of fatty alcohol derivatives of hydroxytyrosol and other olive oil phenolic compounds was developed to allow the preparation of unsaturated derivatives. The biological activity of synthesized compounds was evaluated. Most of the compounds presented a significant antioxidant activity on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. The activity of the tested products was significantly influenced by the number and position of unsaturations as well as modifications on the polar head of the synthesized compounds. Some of them presented modulation of food intake in rats and, due to their molecular similarity with CB(1) endogenous ligands, the endocannabinoid system and PPAR- were also evaluated as potential targets. The pharmacodynamics could not be totally explained by CB(1) and PPAR- receptor interactions because only two of the four compounds with biological activity showed a CB(1) activity and all of them presented low PPAR- affinity, not justifying its whole in vivo activity. The hydroxytyrosol linoleylether (7) increased LDL resistance to oxidation with a capacity similar to that of hydroxytyrosol and was the most active in vivo compound with a hypophagic effect comparable to that of oleoylethanolamine. We consider that this compound could be a good lead compound for future drug development in obesity treatments.
The aim of the study was to investigate the distribution of net joint moments in the lower extremities during walking on high-heeled shoes compared with barefooted walking at identical speed. Fourteen female subjects walked at 4 km/h across three force platforms while they were filmed by five digital video cameras operating at 50 frames/second. Both barefooted walking and walking on high-heeled shoes (heel height: 9 cm) were recorded. Net joint moments were calculated by 3D inverse dynamics. EMG was recorded from eight leg muscles. The knee extensor moment peak in the first half of the stance phase was doubled when walking on high heels. The knee joint angle showed that high-heeled walking caused the subjects to flex the knee joint significantly more in the first half of the stance phase. In the frontal plane a significant increase was observed in the knee joint abductor moment and the hip joint abductor moment. Several EMG parameters increased significantly when walking on high-heels. The results indicate a large increase in bone-on-bone forces in the knee joint directly caused by the increased knee joint extensor moment during high-heeled walking, which may explain the observed higher incidence of osteoarthritis in the knee joint in women as compared with men.
Hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein is increased with exercise in rats. Monoamines seem to play a role in the regulation of BDNF, and monoamine neurotransmission is known to increase with exercise. The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of acute exercise on monoaminergic neurotransmission and BDNF protein concentrations. Hippocampal microdialysis was performed in rats that were subjected to 60 min of treadmill running at 20 m/min or rest. Two hours postexercise, the rats were killed, and the hippocampus was dissected. In experiments without microdialysis, hippocampus and serum samples were collected immediately after exercise. Exercise induced a twofold increase in hippocampal dopamine release. Noradrenaline and serotonin release were not affected. Hippocampal BDNF levels were not influenced, whether they were measured immediately or 2 h after the exercise protocol. Serum BDNF levels did not change either, but serum BDNF was negatively correlated to peripheral corticosterone concentrations, indicating a possible inhibitory reaction to the stress of running. Sixty minutes of exercise enhances dopamine release in the hippocampus of the rat in vivo. However, this increase is not associated with changes in BDNF protein levels immediately nor 2 h after the acute exercise bout. An increased corticosterone level might be the contributing factor for the absence of changes in BDNF.

Fixating an emotional facial expression can create afterimages, such that subsequent faces are seen as having the opposite expression of that fixated. Visual afterimages have been used to map the relationships among emotion categories, and this method was used here to compare ASD and matched control participants. Participants adapted to a facial expression for 45s then saw a neutral face for 800ms and chose a label to describe the latter. The ASD group showed evidence of afterimages, but atypical patterns of opposition: whereas fixating negative emotions uniformly evokes a positive afterimage in the control group, fixating negative emotions was more likely to evoke a negative afterimage in the ASD group. This study was the first to provide evidence of visual aftereffects in ASD and suggests a different psychological organization among emotions in those with ASD.
Children with autism spectrum disorder or Williams syndrome are vulnerable to anxiety. The factors that contribute to this risk remain unclear. This study compared anxiety in autism spectrum disorder and Williams syndrome and examined the relationship between repetitive behaviours and anxiety. Thirty-four children with autism and twenty children with Williams syndrome were assessed with measures of anxiety and repetitive behaviours. Children with autism had higher levels of anxiety. Within the autism sample higher levels of repetitive behaviours were associated with more anxiety. This was not replicated in the Williams syndrome sample, indicating a differential role for restricted and repetitive behaviours in relation to anxiety. Understanding the links between repetitive behaviours and anxiety is essential for effective intervention.
Micro-optical probes, including gradient index (GRIN) lenses and microprisms, have expanded the range of in vivo multiphoton microscopy to reach previously inaccessible deep brain structures such as deep cortical layers and the underlying hippocampus in mice. Yet imaging with GRIN lenses has been fundamentally limited by large amounts of spherical aberration and the need to construct compound lenses that limit the field-of-view. Here, we demonstrate the use of 0.5-mm-diameter, 1.7-mm-long GRIN lens singlets with 0.6 numerical aperture in conjunction with a cover glass and a conventional microscope objective correction collar to balance spherical aberrations. The resulting system achieves a lateral resolution of 618 nm and an axial resolution of 5.5 m, compared to lateral and axial resolutions of  1 m and  15 m, respectively, for compound GRIN lenses of similar diameter. Furthermore, the GRIN lens singlets display fields-of-view in excess of 150 m, compared with a few tens of microns for compound GRIN lenses. The GRIN lens/cover glass combination presented here is easy to assemble and inexpensive enough for use as a disposable device, enabling ready adoption by the neuroscience community.
Understanding heart metabolism during preservation is crucial to develop new effective cardioplegic solutions. We aim to investigate metabolic alterations during heart preservation in the clinically used Celsior (Cs) and histidine buffer solution (HBS). We also focused in gender-specific metabolic adaptations during ischemia. We followed energy metabolism in hearts from men and women preserved during 6 hours in Cs and HBS. Hearts were subjected to cold ischemia (4C) in Cs or HBS, and aliquots of the cardioplegic solution were collected throughout preservation for nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. HBS-preserved hearts from men consumed glucose mostly between 240 and 360 minutes, whereas HBS-preserved hearts from women consumed glucose throughout the 6 hours of ischemia. Lactate production rates followed approximately the glucose consumption rates in HBS-preserved hearts. The lactate to alanine ratio, an indicator of the redox state, was increased in HBS-preserved hearts when compared with Cs-preserved hearts. Hearts from men presented a higher redox state than those from women preserved in Cs after 300 minutes. Both Cs and HBS were capable of preventing acidification in hearts from women but not in hearts from men, which decreased the extracellular pH. HBS-preserved hearts from men and women produced 0.1  0.01 and 0.15  0.03 molmin(-1)gdw(-1) of lactate, respectively. Those rates were significantly higher than in Cs-preserved hearts. Thus, Cs was more effective in preventing lactate production. We conclude that glycolysis and lactate production are stimulated in HBS-preserved hearts. HBS shows better overall results particularly in hearts from women, which presented less extracellular acidification and were more effective in recycling the metabolic subproducts.
Avascular tissues such as a cartilage contains a unique type of cell called as the chondrocyte. We, however, have not understood the origin of the chondrocyte population and how this population is maintained in the normal tissue. In spite of being considered to be a simple tissue, scientist had always faced difficulties to engineer this tissue. This is because different structural regions of the articular cartilage were never understood. In addition to this, the limited self-repair potential of cartilage tissue and lack of effective therapeutic options for the treatment of damaged cartilage has remained an unsolved problem. Mesenchymal stem cell based therapy may provide a solution for cartilage regeneration. This is due to their ability to differentiate into chondrogenic lineage when appropriate conditions are provided. An ideal cell source, a three-dimensional cell culture, a suitable scaffold material that accomplishes all the necessary properties and bioactive factors in specific amounts are required to induce chondrocyte differentiation and proliferation. Cartilage tissue engineering is a promising and rapidly expanding area of research that assures cartilage regeneration. However, many unsolved questions concerning the mechanism of engraftment of chondrocytes following transplantation in vivo, biological safety after transplantation and the retention of these cells for lifetime remain to be addressed that is possible only through years of extensive research. Further studies are therefore required to estimate the long-term sustainability of these cells in the native tissue, to identify well suited delivery materials and to have a thorough understanding of the mechanism of interaction between the chondrocytes and extracellular matrix and time is not far when this cell based therapy will provide a comprehensive cure to cartilage disease.
There are longstanding inconsistencies in the evidence thought to link vasospasm in the major branches of the Circle of Willis with delayed cerebral ischemia and poor outcome from aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH). The demonstrations, first in the laboratory, and more recently in patients with aSAH, of cortical spreading ischemia based on an abnormal response of the cerebral microcirculation to spreading depolarization offer an additional possible mechanism for delayed ischemia. That such events can occur in the substantial absence of proximal vasospasm is compatible with this concept, but the preliminary evidence needs support from more extensive studies.
Ischemic stroke affecting the adult brain causes increased progenitor proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and generation of neuroblasts, which migrate into the damaged striatum and differentiate to mature neurons. Meteorin (METRN), a newly discovered neurotrophic factor, is highly expressed in neural progenitor cells and immature neurons during development, suggesting that it may be involved in neurogenesis. Here, we show that METRN promotes migration of neuroblasts from SVZ explants of postnatal rats and stroke-subjected adult rats via a chemokinetic mechanism, and reduces N-methyl-D-asparate-induced apoptotic cell death in SVZ cells in vitro. Stroke induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion upregulates the expression of endogenous METRN in cells with neuronal phenotype in striatum. Recombinant METRN infused into the stroke-damaged brain stimulates cell proliferation in SVZ, promotes neuroblast migration, and increases the number of immature and mature neurons in the ischemic striatum. Our findings identify METRN as a new factor promoting neurogenesis both in vitro and in vivo by multiple mechanisms. Further work will be needed to translate METRN's actions on endogenous neurogenesis into improved recovery after stroke.
Normal brain function depends critically on moment-to-moment regulation of oxygen supply by the bloodstream to meet changing metabolic needs. Neurovascular coupling, a range of mechanisms that converge on arterioles to adjust local cerebral blood flow (CBF), represents our current framework for understanding this regulation. We modeled the combined effects of CBF and capillary transit time heterogeneity (CTTH) on the maximum oxygen extraction fraction (OEF(max)) and metabolic rate of oxygen that can biophysically be supported, for a given tissue oxygen tension. Red blood cell velocity recordings in rat brain support close hemodynamic-metabolic coupling by means of CBF and CTTH across a range of physiological conditions. The CTTH reduction improves tissue oxygenation by counteracting inherent reductions in OEF(max) as CBF increases, and seemingly secures sufficient oxygenation during episodes of hyperemia resulting from cortical activation or hypoxemia. In hypoperfusion and states of blocked CBF, both lower oxygen tension and CTTH may secure tissue oxygenation. Our model predicts that disturbed capillary flows may cause a condition of malignant CTTH, in which states of higher CBF display lower oxygen availability. We propose that conditions with altered capillary morphology, such as amyloid, diabetic or hypertensive microangiopathy, and ischemia-reperfusion, may disturb CTTH and thereby flow-metabolism coupling and cerebral oxygen metabolism.
Akt and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) are both activated after traumatic brain injury (TBI), however complex interplay between the two hampers deciphering their functional implications in vivo. We examined the effects of single and combination inhibitors of Akt/mTOR in a mouse controlled cortical impact (CCI) model. Following CCI, phospho-Akt-473 (p-Akt) and -S6 ribosomal protein (p-S6RP), a downstream substrate of mTOR, were increased in cortical and hippocampal brain homogenates (P&lt;0.05 versus sham). At 24hours, p-S6RP was detected in neurons and was robustly induced in microglia and astrocytes in injured hippocampus. In vivo activity of Akt and mTOR inhibitors administered separately was confirmed by reduced expression of p-GSK3 (P&lt;0.01) or p-S6RP (P&lt;0.05), respectively, after CCI. Importantly, administration of Akt and mTOR inhibitors together (but not of either alone) improved postinjury motor (P=0.02) and cognitive deficits (hidden platform trials, P=0.001; probe trials, P&lt;0.05), decreased propidium iodide-positive cells in CA1 and CA3 (P&lt;0.005), and unexpectedly increased p-GSK3 in hippocampus. Although the roles of Akt and mTOR in the pathogenesis of TBI remain to be fully elucidated, dual inhibition of Akt and mTOR may have therapeutic potential for TBI.
The deficiency in the mitochondrial aspartate/glutamate transporter Aralar/AGC1 results in a loss of the malate-aspartate NADH shuttle in the brain neurons, hypomyelination, and additional defects in the brain metabolism. We studied the development of cortico/hippocampal local field potential (LFP) in Aralar/AGC1 knockout (KO) mice. Laminar profiles of LFP, evoked potentials, and unit activity were recorded under anesthesia in young (P15 to P22) Aralar-KO and control mice as well as control adults. While LFP power increased 3 to 7 times in both cortex and hippocampus of control animals during P15 to P22, the Aralar-KO specimens hardly progressed. The divergence was more pronounced in the CA3/hilus region. In parallel, spontaneous multiunit activity declined severely in KO mice. Postnatal growth of hippocampal-evoked potentials was delayed in KO mice, and indicated abnormal synaptic and spike electrogenesis and reduced output at P20 to P22. The lack of LFP development in KO mice was accompanied by the gradual appearance of epileptic activity in the CA3/hilus region that evolved to status epilepticus. Strikingly, CA3 bursts were poorly conducted to the CA1 field. We conclude that disturbed substrate supply to neuronal mitochondria impairs development of cortico-hippocampal LFPs. Aberrant neuronal electrogenesis and reduced neuron output may explain circuit dysfunction and phenotype deficiencies.




Physicians often do not use the International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD-II) for diagnosis of migraine in their routine clinical practice. The diagnosis of headache subtypes in 453 patients was made by headache experts according to the ICHD-II and the likelihood ratios (LR) of clinical characteristics of migraine were calculated in Part I of the study. Asian headache specialists designed the Asian Migraine Criteria (AMC) based on these LR and their experience. In Part II of the study, another group of 500 patients with headache were evaluated by a family physician, based on the AMC. Thereafter the headache experts, who were blinded to the diagnosis of these patients based on the AMC, re-evaluated them according to the ICHD-II. The AMC consists of seven items: (i) unilateral location; (ii) throbbing quality; (iii) nausea and/or vomiting; (iv) photophobia and/or sonophobia; (v) osmophobia; (vi) family history of migraine; and (vii) aura. In the AMC the presence of at least three items in adults and at least two items in children is necessary for the detection of definite migraine. The AMC had a sensitivity 99.3%, specificity 84.5%, positive predictive value (PPV) 96.9%, negative predictive value (NPV) 96.1% and validity of 96.8% for diagnosis of adult migraine compared to the ICHD-II as the gold standard. The AMC had a sensitivity 93.5%, specificity 46.8%, PPV 69.9%, NPV 86.6% and a validity of 73.4% for detection of childhood migraine against the ICHD-II. The AMC was shown to be a highly valid and reliable tool for screening of adult migraine by non-neurologists. AMC was shown to be moderately valid for detection of pediatric migraine.
Precise and manageable diagnostic criteria are vital for researchers and clinicians dealing with headache. The lack of clear and accessible markers of the biological distinctions between different types of headache means that criteria are determined by expert consensus. The International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD) criteria are the current benchmark and are evolving. They are effective for research as they exclude questionable cases from consideration, but in clinical practice they are used inconsistently by neurologists, and rarely by general practitioners, because of complexity. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience, Ghandehari et al. have proposed a new set of criteria, the Asian Migraine Criteria (AMC). These criteria perform well against the gold-standard ICHD, but are almost as complex. They do not have the simplicity of the ID Migraine tool. Nevertheless, they are welcome: any tool that general practitioners may be attracted to use that increases the accuracy of headache diagnosis is to be applauded.
This review assesses the feasibilty of high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) in neurosurgical applications, specifically occlusion of intact blood vessels. Fourteen articles were examined. In summary, MRI was effective for HIFU guidance whereas MR angiography assessed vessel occlusion. Several studies noted immediate occlusion of blood vessels with HIFU. Long-term data, though scarce, indicated a trend of vessel recanalization and return to pre-treatment diameters. Effective parameters for extracranial vascular occlusion included intensity ranges of 1,690-8,800 W/cm(2), duration &lt;15 seconds, and 0.68-3.3 MHz frequency. A threshold frequency-intensity product of 8,250 MHzW/cm(2) was needed for vascular occlusion with a sensitivity of 70% and a specificity of 86%. Complications include skin burns, hemorrhage, and damage to surrounding structures. With evidence that HIFU can successfully occlude extracranial blood vessels, refinement in applications and demonstrable intracranial occlusion are needed.
CKD-602 (7-[2-(N-isopropylamino)ethyl]-(20S)-camptothecin, belotecan), a novel synthetic water-soluble camptothecin derivative, is known to have a significant anticancer effect in vitro on human glioma cell lines, including U87MG and U251MG. In the present study, we evaluated the in vivo antitumor effect of CKD-602 in a mouse glioma model. Nude mice with established U87MG glioma were treated with a dose of CKD-602 of 0mg/kg (control group, injection with saline only; n=5), 40 mg/kg (group A) or 60 mg/kg (group B). Thereafter, the dose was repeated once every 4 days for a total of four doses. Tumor volume was measured histologically and apoptosis was detected using the terminal deoxynucleotide transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and immunofluorescence analysis with cleaved caspase-3. Mean tumor volume in each group was: control, 145.35 mm(3); group A, 76.51 mm(3); group B, 73.99 mm(3)). Tumor volume was significantly smaller in both groups A and B compared with the control group (group A, p&lt;0.01; group B, p&lt;0.05). Apoptosis of tumor cells was evident to a greater extent in groups A and B relative to the control group, but there were no significant differences in tumor volume or apoptotic index between groups A and B. These results suggest that CKD-602 has a significant anticancer effect on glioma cells in vivo.
Flail-leg syndrome or lower limb diplegia is a form of motor neuron disease characterized by a slower progression rate. The differential diagnosis with motor neuropathy is important. We present two patients with a previous diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-flail-leg syndrome, in whom neurophysiological studies suggested proximal conduction block. Both patients responded to immunomodulatory therapy, which suggested an immunologically mediated, treatable flail-leg syndrome phenotype. We stress the importance of fasciculations in the diagnosis of ALS, and the study of nerve root conduction in the differential diagnosis.
Despite benefit in acute ischaemic stroke, less than 3% of patients receive tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in Australia. The FASTER (Face, Arm, Speech, Time, Emergency Response) protocol was constructed to reduce pre-hospital and Emergency Department (ED) delays and improve access to thrombolysis. This study aimed to determine if introduction of the FASTER protocol increases use of tPA using a prospective pre- and post-intervention cohort design in a metropolitan hospital. A pre-hospital assessment tool was used by ambulance services to screen potential tPA candidates. The acute stroke team was contacted, hospital bypass allowed, triage and CT radiology alerted, and the patient rapidly assessed on arrival to ED. Data were collected prospectively during the first 6 months of the new pathway and compared to a 6-month period 12 months prior to protocol initiation. In the 6 months following protocol introduction, 115 patients presented within 24 hours of onset of an ischaemic stroke: 22 (19%) received thrombolysis, significantly greater than five (7%) of 67 patients over the control period, p=0.03. Overall, 42 patients were referred via the FASTER pathway, with 21 of these receiving tPA (50%). One inpatient stroke was also treated. Only two referrals (&lt;5%) were stroke mimics. Introduction of the FASTER pathway also significantly reduced time to thrombolysis and time to admission to the stroke unit. Therefore, fast-track referral of potential tPA patients involving the ambulance services and streamlined hospital assessment is effective and efficient in improving patient access to thrombolysis.


In this study, we explored the neural correlates of perceptual awareness during a masked face detection task. To assess awareness more precisely than in previous studies, participants employed a 4-point scale to rate subjective visibility. An event-related fMRI and a high-density ERP study were carried out. Imaging data showed that conscious face detection was linked to activation of fusiform and occipital face areas. Frontal and parietal regions, including the pre-SMA, inferior frontal sulcus, anterior insula/frontal operculum, and intraparietal sulcus, also responded strongly when faces were consciously perceived. In contrast, no brain area showed face-selective activity when participants reported no impression of a face. ERP results showed that conscious face detection was associated with enhanced N170 and also with the presence of a second negativity around 300 msec and a slow positivity around 415 msec. Again, face-related activity was absent when faces were not consciously perceived. We suggest that, under conditions of backward masking, ventral stream and fronto-parietal regions show similar, strong links of face-related activity to conscious perception and stress the importance of a detailed assessment of awareness to examine activity related to unseen stimulus events.
Functional neuroimaging studies suggest that the medial PFC (mPFC) is a key component of a large-scale neural system supporting a variety of self-related processes. However, it remains unknown whether the mPFC is critical for such processes. In this study, we used a human lesion approach to examine this question. We administered a standard trait judgment paradigm [Kelley, W. M., Macrae, C. N., Wyland, C. L., Caglar, S., Inati, S., &amp; Heatherton, T. F. Finding the self? An event-related fMRI study. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14, 785-794, 2002] to patients with focal brain damage to the mPFC. The self-reference effect (SRE), a memory advantage conferred by self-related processing, served as a measure of intact self-processing ability. We found that damage to the mPFC abolished the SRE. The results demonstrate that the mPFC is necessary for the SRE and suggest that this structure is important for self-referential processing and the neural representation of self.
Visual scene perception owes greatly to surface features such as color and brightness. Yet, early visual cortical areas predominantly encode surface boundaries rather than surface interiors. Whether human early visual cortex may nevertheless carry a small signal relevant for surface perception is a topic of debate. We induced brightness changes in a physically constant surface by temporally modulating the luminance of surrounding surfaces in seven human participants. We found that fMRI activity in the V2 representation of the constant surface was in antiphase to luminance changes of surrounding surfaces (i.e., activity was in-phase with perceived brightness changes). Moreover, the amplitude of the antiphase fMRI activity in V2 predicted the strength of illusory brightness perception. We interpret our findings as evidence for a surface-related signal in early visual cortex and discuss the neural mechanisms that may underlie that signal in concurrence with its possible interaction with the properties of the fMRI signal.
An inattentional blindness paradigm was adapted to measure ERPs elicited by visual contour patterns that were or were not consciously perceived. In the first phase of the experiment, subjects performed an attentionally demanding task while task-irrelevant line segments formed square-shaped patterns or random configurations. After the square patterns had been presented 240 times, subjects' awareness of these patterns was assessed. More than half of all subjects, when queried, failed to notice the square patterns and were thus considered inattentionally blind during this first phase. In the second phase of the experiment, the task and stimuli were the same, but following this phase, all of the subjects reported having seen the patterns. ERPs recorded over the occipital pole differed in amplitude from 220 to 260 msec for the pattern stimuli compared with the random arrays regardless of whether subjects were aware of the patterns. At subsequent latencies (300-340 msec) however, ERPs over bilateral occipital-parietal areas differed between patterns and random arrays only when subjects were aware of the patterns. Finally, in a third phase of the experiment, subjects viewed the same stimuli, but the task was altered so that the patterns became task relevant. Here, the same two difference components were evident but were followed by a series of additional components that were absent in the first two phases of the experiment. We hypothesize that the ERP difference at 220-260 msec reflects neural activity associated with automatic contour integration whereas the difference at 300-340 msec reflects visual awareness, both of which are dissociable from task-related postperceptual processing.
In everyday life, we often need to track several objects simultaneously, a task modeled in the laboratory using the multiple-object tracking (MOT) task [Pylyshyn, Z., &amp; Storm, R. W. Tracking multiple independent targets: Evidence for a parallel tracking mechanism. Spatial Vision, 3, 179-197, 1988]. Unlike MOT, however, in life, the set of relevant targets tends to be fluid and change over time. Humans are quite adept at &quot;juggling&quot; targets in and out of the target set [Wolfe, J. M., Place, S. S., &amp; Horowitz, T. S. Multiple object juggling: Changing what is tracked during extended MOT. Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review, 14, 344-349, 2007]. Here, we measured the neural underpinnings of this process using electrophysiological methods. Vogel and colleagues [McCollough, A. W., Machizawa, M. G., &amp; Vogel, E. K. Electrophysiological measures of maintaining representations in visual working memory. Cortex, 43, 77-94, 2007; Vogel, E. K., McCollough, A. W., &amp; Machizawa, M. G. Neural measures reveal individual differences in controlling access to working memory. Nature, 438, 500-503, 2005; Vogel, E. K., &amp; Machizawa, M. G. Neural activity predicts individual differences in visual working memory capacity. Nature, 428, 748-751, 2004] have shown that the amplitude of a sustained lateralized negativity, contralateral delay activity (CDA) indexes the number of items held in visual working memory. Drew and Vogel [Drew, T., &amp; Vogel, E. K. Neural measures of individual differences in selecting and tracking multiple moving objects. Journal of Neuroscience, 28, 4183-4191, 2008] showed that the CDA also indexes the number of items being tracking a standard MOT task. In the current study, we set out to determine whether the CDA is a signal that merely represents the number of objects that are attended during a trial or a dynamic signal capable of reflecting on-line changes in tracking load during a single trial. By measuring the response to add or drop cues, we were able to observe dynamic changes in CDA amplitude. The CDA appears to rapidly represent the current number of objects being tracked. In addition, we were able to generate some initial estimates of the time course of this dynamic process.
We analyzed the function of neural progenitors in the developing central nervous system of Xenopus laevis tadpoles by using in vivo time-lapse confocal microscopy to collect images through the tectum at intervals of 2-24 hours over 3 days. Neural progenitor cells were labeled with fluorescent protein reporters based on expression of endogenous Sox2 transcription factor. With this construct, we identified Sox2-expressing cells as radial glia and as a component of the progenitor pool of cells in the developing tectum that gives rise to neurons and other radial glia. Lineage analysis of individual radial glia and their progeny demonstrated that less than 10% of radial glia undergo symmetric divisions resulting in two radial glia, whereas the majority of radial glia divide asymmetrically to generate neurons and radial glia. Time-lapse imaging revealed the direct differentiation of radial glia into neurons. Although radial glia may guide axons as they navigate to the superficial tectum, we find no evidence that radial glia function as a scaffold for neuronal migration at early stages of tectal development. Over 3 days, the number of labeled cells increased 20%, as the fraction of radial glia dropped and the proportion of neuronal progeny increased to approximately 60% of the labeled cells. Tadpoles provided with short-term visual enhancement generated significantly more neurons, with a corresponding decrease in cell proliferation. Together these results demonstrate that radial glial cells are neural progenitors in the developing optic tectum and reveal that visual experience increases the proportion of neurons generated in an intact animal.
The spatial variation of the extracellular action potentials (EAP) of a single neuron contains information about the size and location of the dominant current source of its action potential generator, which is typically in the vicinity of the soma. Using this dependence in reverse in a three-component realistic probe + brain + source model, we solved the inverse problem of characterizing the equivalent current source of an isolated neuron from the EAP data sampled by an extracellular probe at multiple independent recording locations. We used a dipole for the model source because there is extensive evidence it accurately captures the spatial roll-off of the EAP amplitude, and because, as we show, dipole localization, beyond a minimum cell-probe distance, is a more accurate alternative to approaches based on monopole source models. Dipole characterization is separable into a linear dipole moment optimization where the dipole location is fixed, and a second, nonlinear, global optimization of the source location. We solved the linear optimization on a discrete grid via the lead fields of the probe, which can be calculated for any realistic probe + brain model by the finite element method. The global source location was optimized by means of Tikhonov regularization that jointly minimizes model error and dipole size. The particular strategy chosen reflects the fact that the dipole model is used in the near field, in contrast to the typical prior applications of dipole models to EKG and EEG source analysis. We applied dipole localization to data collected with stepped tetrodes whose detailed geometry was measured via scanning electron microscopy. The optimal dipole could account for 96% of the power in the spatial variation of the EAP amplitude. Among various model error contributions to the residual, we address especially the error in probe geometry, and the extent to which it biases estimates of dipole parameters. This dipole characterization method can be applied to any recording technique that has the capabilities of taking multiple independent measurements of the same single units.
Estimating biologically realistic model neurons from electrophysiological data is a key issue in neuroscience that is central to understanding neuronal function and network behavior. However, directly fitting detailed Hodgkin-Huxley type model neurons to somatic membrane potential data is a notoriously difficult optimization problem that can require hours/days of supercomputing time. Here we extend an efficient technique that indirectly matches neuronal currents derived from somatic membrane potential data to two-compartment model neurons with passive dendrites. In consequence, this approach can fit semi-realistic detailed model neurons in a few minutes. For validation, fits are obtained to model-derived data for various thalamo-cortical neuron types, including fast/regular spiking and bursting neurons. A key aspect of the validation is sensitivity testing to perturbations arising in experimental data, including sampling rates, inadequately estimated membrane dynamics/channel kinetics and intrinsic noise. We find that maximal conductance estimates and the resulting membrane potential fits diverge smoothly and monotonically from near-perfect matches when unperturbed. Curiously, some perturbations have little effect on the error because they are compensated by the fitted maximal conductances. Therefore, the extended current-based technique applies well under moderately inaccurate model assumptions, as required for application to experimental data. Furthermore, the accompanying perturbation analysis gives insights into neuronal homeostasis, whereby tuning intrinsic neuronal properties can compensate changes from development or neurodegeneration.

Drug delivery to the brain still remains highly challenging for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The development of new practical treatment modalities for the treatment of AD is currently a highly active area of research. Our lack of success in the development of effective therapies for AD is attributed to, but not limited to a number of factors including the complexity of the brain. Besides this, it is recognized that AD is multisystemic in nature and this presents numerous difficulties for the potential treatment of these disorders. Another important reason for the lack of development of effective drugs and drug delivery system for AD is inability to deliver drugs effectively to the brain due to the numerous protective barriers surrounding the CNS i.e. blood-brain barrier (BBB), blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB) and circumventricular organs (CVOs). Solutions to these problems require enhanced novel research activities that can address each of these problems. This review article provides a concise movement into the current and future applications of nanoparticulate drug delivery systems for the treatment of AD and explores the application of nanotechnology in clinical neuroscience to develop innovative therapeutic modalities for the AD.


The current research compared the ability of adults and children to determine where another person is looking in shared visual space (triadic gaze). In Experiment 1, children (6-, 8-, 10-, and 14-year-olds) and adults viewed photographs of a model fixating a series of positions separated by 1.6 along the horizontal plane. The task was to indicate whether the model was looking to the left or right of one of three target positions (midline, 6.4 left, or 6.4 right). By 6 years of age, thresholds were quite small (M=1.94) but were roughly twice as large as those of adults (M=1.05). Thresholds decreased to adult-like levels around 10 years of age. All age groups showed the same pattern of higher sensitivity for central targets than peripheral targets and of misjudging gaze toward peripheral targets as farther from midline than it really was. In subsequent experiments, we evaluated possible reasons for the higher thresholds in 6- and 8-year-olds. In Experiment 2, the thresholds of 6-year-olds did not improve when the range of deviations from the target position that the model fixated covered a much wider range. In Experiment 3, 8-year-olds were less sensitive than adults to small shifts in eye position even though the task required only matching faces with the same eye position and not determining where the person was looking. These findings suggest that by 6 years of age, children are quite sensitive to triadic gaze, which may support inferences about others' interests and intentions. Subsequent improvements in sensitivity involve, at least in part, an increase in sensitivity to eye position.
Facial expressions have long been considered the &quot;universal language of emotion.&quot; Yet consistent cultural differences in the recognition of facial expressions contradict such notions (e.g., R. E. Jack, C. Blais, C. Scheepers, P. G. Schyns, &amp; R. Caldara, 2009). Rather, culture--as an intricate system of social concepts and beliefs--could generate different expectations (i.e., internal representations) of facial expression signals. To investigate, they used a powerful psychophysical technique (reverse correlation) to estimate the observer-specific internal representations of the 6 basic facial expressions of emotion (i.e., happy, surprise, fear, disgust, anger, and sad) in two culturally distinct groups (i.e., Western Caucasian [WC] and East Asian [EA]). Using complementary statistical image analyses, cultural specificity was directly revealed in these representations. Specifically, whereas WC internal representations predominantly featured the eyebrows and mouth, EA internal representations showed a preference for expressive information in the eye region. Closer inspection of the EA observer preference revealed a surprising feature: changes of gaze direction, shown primarily among the EA group. For the first time, it is revealed directly that culture can finely shape the internal representations of common facial expressions of emotion, challenging notions of a biologically hardwired &quot;universal language of emotion.&quot;
That objective reference is necessary for formation of reliable beliefs about the external world is almost axiomatic. However, Condorcet (1785) suggested that purely subjective information--if shared and combined via social interaction--is enough for accurate understanding of the external world. We asked if social interaction and objective reference contribute differently to the formation and build-up of collective perceptual beliefs. In three experiments, dyads made individual and collective perceptual decisions in a two-interval, forced-choice, visual search task. In Experiment 1, participants negotiated their collective decisions with each other verbally and received feedback about accuracy at the end of each trial. In Experiment 2, feedback was not given. In Experiment 3, communication was not allowed but feedback was provided. Social interaction (Experiments 1 and 2 vs. 3) resulted in a significant collective benefit in perceptual decisions. When feedback was not available a collective benefit was not initially obtained but emerged through practice to the extent that in the second half of the experiments, collective benefits obtained with (Experiment 1) and without (Experiment 2) feedback were robust and statistically indistinguishable. Taken together, this work demonstrates that social interaction was necessary for build-up of reliable collaborative benefit, whereas objective reference only accelerated the process but--given enough opportunity for practice--was not necessary for building up successful cooperation.
The perinatal results of the widespread adoption of the continuous electronic fetal heart rate monitoring during labor remain rather disappointing. This is due in part to a lack of consistent interpretation of the fetal heart tracings. Despite efforts by referral agencies over the past decade the situation has not improved. In defense of practitioners the heterogeneity and complexity of definitions and classifications patterns especially morphological currently proposed should be noted. Whereas with the recent advances in the field of neuroscience, it is now possible to visualize the chain of pathophysiological events that lead from the hypoxemic stimulus of the glomus cell to changes in the morphology of the fetal heart rate tracing. Thus by taking some examples of real situations, we propose a method of analysis that dissects the fetal heart tracing and take into account the functional specifications of the chemoreceptor when exposed to a hypoxic environment. Furthermore we can identify tracings with a &quot;threshold effect&quot; and also &quot;sensitization and desensitization effects&quot; according to the intensity, duration and recurrence of hypoxaemic episodes. This new approach based upon specific research into the mechanism behind the fetal heart rate abnormalities may be useful to complement the morphological study of the fetal heart tracing, to provide a better idea of the fetal status and to better define the indications of fetal blood sampling procedures.
Foraging experience is correlated with structural plasticity of the mushroom bodies of the honey bee brain. While several neurotransmitter and intracellular signaling pathways have been previously implicated as mediators of these structural changes, none interact directly with the cytoskeleton, the ultimate effector of changes in neuronal morphology. The Rho family of GTPases are small, monomeric G proteins that, when activated, initiate a signaling cascade that reorganizes the neuronal cytoskeleton. In this study, we measured activity of two members of the Rho family of GTPases, Rac and RhoA, in the mushroom bodies of bees with different durations of foraging experience. A transient increase in Rac activity coupled with a transient decrease in RhoA activity was found in honey bees with 4 days foraging experience compared with same-aged new foragers. These observations are in accord with previous reports based on studies of other species of a growth supporting role for Rac and a growth opposing role for RhoA. This is the first report of Rho GTPase activation in the honey bee brain.

The use of mice as experimental models in pharmacological and biochemical research began over 100years ago, during which time different mice strains with specific features were developed. Numerous studies demonstrate that the pharmacological efficacy of various compounds significantly varies among different animal strains, a factor which must be considered when analyzing experimental data. The Sabra strain, developed more than 35years ago, is widely used for research in Israel but has an unclear origin and is not characterized as well as other strains. Comparative analyses of the molecular characteristics of Sabra and other strains should help to understand their characteristics and to enhance the validity of their experimental use. Thus, four mouse strains-outbred ICR and Sabra as well as inbred C57Bl/6J and Balb/c were compared. Animals' weight, blood corticosterone and hippocampal BDNF mRNA levels were measured, and animals' behavior was compared using the EPM, open field, FST, and hot plate tests. We found that although Sabra mice are bigger and heavier than other tested lines, this is not reflected in behavior or in biomolecular features, wherein Sabra mice lay within the diapason of other tested animals. Thus, behavioral tests of anxiety-like behavior and locomotor activity revealed that Sabra mice scored close to the mean of all tested lines. Analysis of blood corticosterone levels did not show significant differences among tested strains. We also found a correlation between general and locomotor activity of the tested strains and their hippocampal BDNF mRNA expression. In summary, we may conclude that Sabra mice have traits similar to the better known lines, and therefore they are good subjects for neuroscience research.
Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) are of great concern in cognitive and clinical neuroscience as well as in the recent research field of brain-computer interfaces (BCIs). In this study, a chirp-modulated stimulation was employed to serve as a novel type of visual stimulus. Based on our empirical study, the chirp stimuli visual evoked potential (Chirp-VEP) preserved frequency features of the chirp stimulus analogous to the steady state evoked potential (SSVEP), and therefore it can be regarded as a generalization of SSVEP. Specifically, we first investigated the characteristics of the Chirp-VEP in the time-frequency domain and the fractional domain via fractional Fourier transform. We also proposed a group delay technique to derive the apparent latency from Chirp-VEP. Results on EEG data showed that our approach outperformed the traditional SSVEP-based method in efficiency and ease of apparent latency estimation. For the recruited six subjects, the average apparent latencies ranged from 100 to 130 ms. Finally, we implemented a BCI system with six targets to validate the feasibility of Chirp-VEP as a potential candidate in the field of BCIs.
The concentration of kynurenic acid (KYNA) in the cerebrospinal fluid, which is in the nanomolar range, is known to decrease in epilepsy. The experimental data suggest that treatment with L: -KYN dose dependently increases the concentration of the neuroprotective KYNA in the brain, which itself hardly crosses the blood-brain barrier. However, it is suggested that new synthetic KYNA analogs may readily cross the blood-brain barrier. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that a new KYNA analog administered systemically in a sufficient dose results in a decreased population spike activity recorded from the pyramidal layer of area CA1 of the hippocampus, and also provides protection against pentylenetetrazole-induced epileptiform seizures.
The neuroactive properties and neuroprotective potential of endogenous L: -kynurenine, kynurenic acid (KYNA) and its derivatives are well established. KYNA acts as an antagonist on the obligatory co-agonist glycine site, and has long been at the focus of neuroprotective trials. Unfortunately, KYNA is barely able to cross the blood-brain barrier. Accordingly, the development and synthesis of KYNA analogs which can readily cross the BBB have been at the focus of research interest with the aim of neuroprotection. Earlier we reported a new KYNA-amide crosses the BBB and proved neuroprotective in several experiments. In the present study, we investigated the locomotor activity, working memory performance, and also the long-lasting, consolidated reference memory of animals treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with the novel analog. The effects of the novel analog on the spatial orientation and learning ability of rats were assessed in the Morris water maze (MWM) paradigm. The effects on locomotor activity of mice was assessed in the open field (OF) paradigm, and those on the spatial orientation and learning ability of mice were investigated in the radial arm maze (RAM) paradigm. It emerged that there is a dose of this KYNA-amide which is neuroprotective, but does not worsen the cognitive function of the brain. This result is significant in that a putative neuroprotectant without adverse cognitive side-effects is of great benefit.
Several components of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism are now recognised to have actions of profound biological importance. These include the ability to modulate the activation of glutamate and nicotinic receptors, to modify the responsiveness of the immune system to inflammation and infection, and to modify the generation and removal of reactive oxygen species. As each of these factors is being recognised increasingly as contributing to major disorders of the central nervous system (CNS), so the potentially fundamental role of the kynurenine pathway in those disorders is presenting a valuable target both for understanding the progress of those disorders and for developing potential drug treatments. This review will summarise some of the evidence for an important contribution of the kynurenines to Huntington's disease and to stroke damage in the CNS. Together with preliminary evidence from a study of kynurenine metabolites after major surgery, an important conclusion is that kynurenine pathway activation closely reflects cognitive function, and may play a significant role in cognitive ability.
Antipsychotic drugs have various neuropharmacological properties as a result of their structural diversity. Despite their therapeutic benefits, most of the prescribed atypical antipsychotics can induce severe side effects, including weight gain, type II diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular diseases. Among the developed atypical antipsychotic agents, tetracyclic dibenzodiazepine and thienobenzodiazepine compounds, particularly clozapine and olanzapine, are associated with the greatest weight gain and metabolic disturbances. However, the unique chemical structure of these compounds causes the low risk of side effects reported for typical antipsychotics (e.g. extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia). This report reviews the recent discovery of the potential role of the chemical structure of antipsychotics in their therapeutic properties and metabolic disturbances. By developing structure-activity relationship studies for atypical antipsychotics, we will improve our understanding of the structural modifications of these chemical classes that lead to reduced weight gain, which will be an invaluable step toward the discovery of the next generation of atypical antipsychotics. In this review, we suggest that a novel dibenzodiazepine or thienobenzodiazepine antipsychotic drug with lower affinity for H(1) receptors may significantly advance schizophrenia therapy.
Intracellular deposition of fibrillar aggregates of -synuclein (Syn) characterizes neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies. However, recent evidence indicates that small Syn oligomeric aggregates that precede fibril formation may be the most neurotoxic species and can be found extracellularly. This new evidence has changed the view of pathological Syn aggregation from a self-contained cellular phenomenon to an extracellular event and prompted investigation of the putative effects of extracellular Syn oligomers. In this study, we report that extracellular application of Syn oligomers detrimentally impacts neuronal welfare and memory function. We found that oligomeric Syn increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels, induced calcineurin (CaN) activity, decreased cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) transcriptional activity and resulted in calcineurin-dependent death of human neuroblastoma cells. Similarly, CaN induction and CREB inhibition were observed when Syn oligomers were applied to organotypic brain slices, which opposed hippocampal long-term potentiation. Furthermore, Syn oligomers induced CaN, inhibited CREB and evoked memory impairments in mice that received acute intracerebroventricular injections. Notably, all these events were reversed by pharmacological inhibition of CaN. Moreover, we found decreased active CaN and reduced levels of phosphorylated CREB in autopsy brain tissue from patients affected by dementia with Lewy bodies, which is characterized by deposition of Syn aggregates and progressive cognitive decline. These results indicate that exogenously applied Syn oligomers impact neuronal function and produce memory deficits through mechanisms that involve CaN activation.
Aberrant dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is believed to underlie schizophrenia, but the mechanistic pathway through which a widely used antipsychotic, clozapine (Clz), evokes neurotransmitter-releasing electrical stimulation is unclear. We analyzed Clz-evoked regulation of neuronal activity in the PFC by stimulating axons in layers IV and V and recording the electrical effect in the post-synaptic pyramidal cells of layers II and III. We observed a Clz-evoked increase in population spike (PS), which was mediated by serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)-R), phospholipase C, and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Immunoblotting demonstrated that the Clz-activation of CaMKII was 5-HT(1A)-R-mediated. Intriguingly, the NMDA receptor (NMDA-R) antagonist ()2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) eliminated the Clz-mediated increase in PS, suggesting that the 5-HT(1A)-R, NMDA-R and CaMKII form a synergistic triad, which boosts excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP), thereby enhancing PS. In corroboration, Clz as well as NMDA augmented field EPSP (fEPSP), and WAY100635 (a 5-HT(1A)-R antagonist), APV, and a CaMKII inhibitor eliminated this increase. As previously shown, CaMKII binds to the NMDA-R 2B (NR2B) subunit to become constitutively active, thereby inducing -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptor recruitment to the post-synaptic membrane and an increase in fEPSP. Co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that Clz potentiates interactions among CaMKII, NR2B, and 5-HT(1A)-R, possibly in the membrane rafts of the post-synaptic density (PSD), because pretreatment with methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD), an agent that disrupts rafts, inhibited both co-immunoprecipitation as well as fEPSP. In summary, Clz functions in the PFC by orchestrating a synergism among 5-HT(1A)-R, CaMKII, and NMDA-R, which augments excitability in the PFC neurons of layers II/III.
The effect of oestrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on stroke incidence and severity has been extensively debated. Clinical trials of ERT have demonstrated an increased risk of stroke in treated women, although the study participants were well past menopause when therapy was initiated. It has been suggested that detrimental effects of ERT may be unmasked after prolonged periods of hypoestrogenicity. To date, very few studies have examined the effect of ERT in aged animals, although the timing of replacement may be critical to the neuroprotective effects of ERT. We hypothesised that chronic ERT initiated in late middle age would decrease infarct size in the brain after an induced stroke, whereas acute ERT would have no beneficial effects in aged females. To test this hypothesis, two paradigms of ERT were administered to aged mice of both sexes aiming to determine the effects on stroke outcome and to explore the possible mechanisms by which ERT interacts with age. Female mice that received chronic ERT from 17-20months of age showed improved stroke outcomes after experimental stroke, whereas females that had acute ERT initiated at 20months of age did not. Chronic ERT females exhibited diminished levels of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) translocation compared to acute ERT females after stroke. Acute ERT females demonstrated both an increase in nuclear NF-B and enhanced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition, a sexual dimorphic effect of ERT was seen because males benefited from ERT, regardless of the timing of initiation. Aged males had significantly reduced expression of pro-inflammatory markers after stroke compared to age-matched females, suggesting a pro-inflammatory milieu emerges with age in females. These results are consistent with the emerging clinical literature suggesting that ERT should be initiated at the time of menopause to achieve beneficial effects. The present study demonstrates the importance of using appropriate animal models in preclinical studies.
Despite the well established central pathophysiology of Huntington's disease (HD), less is known about systemic impairments that are emerging as significant contributors to the morbidity of this neurodegenerative condition. Given the evidence of neuroendocrine dysfunction in HD patients and the pro-neural properties of sex-hormones, we explored the therapeutic potential of hormone therapy in the HD R6/1 mouse model (HD mice). HD mice over-express exon-1 of the defective human HD gene and replicate many of the clinical behavioural, biochemical and physiological impairments. Seven-week-old HD and wild-type littermate mice had either saline (control) or testosterone (treatment; 160g/day over 90days) pellets implanted s.c. and were subsequently subjected to behavioural, molecular and cellular analysis. Separate mice were used to establish a decrease in serum testosterone concentrations in HD mice at 12weeks of age. Baseline serum testosterone was significantly reduced in control 19-week-old HD mice, whereas treatment significantly raised serum testosterone in both wild-type and HD mice. Testosterone treatment had a limited effect on the development of rotarod deficiencies in HD mice and no effect on progressive body weight loss or the development of central mutant huntingtin-containing aggregates. Testosterone treatment induced hypo-locomotion in both genotypes. Deficits in hippocampal-dependent cognition and neurogenesis were not rescued in testosterone-treated HD mice. By contrast, wild-type-treatment mice experienced significantly increased neuronal survival and differentiation. Testosterone treatment in HD mice did rescue androgen receptor levels in the hippocampus and testes, significantly improved severe testicular atrophy and restored spermatogenesis. We conclude that chronic testosterone provides systemic efficacy in treating spermatogenesis deficits and testicular atrophy but not central cellular and behavioural pathologies in R6/1 HD mice.
Maternal care is an important environmental factor for rats early in life. Adult offspring from dams exhibiting extremely high versus low maternal care differ remarkably in dendritic complexity and long-term synaptic potentiation in the CA1 area. However, &gt;70% of the pups do not belong to these extreme categories of maternal care, questioning the general relevance of these observations. Therefore, the present study investigated whether the influence of maternal care is discernable over its entire range and can serve as an index predicting later CA1 structure and function. The amount of licking and grooming (%LG) received was determined for each pup during the first postnatal week. In males, both total apical branch length and dendritic complexity correlated significantly and positively with %LG. In females, we observed a nonsignificant negative correlation, also when controlled for variations in oestradiol and progesterone levels. The correlation in females was significantly different from that in males. No significant correlation was observed between the %LG and the amount of synaptic potentiation, either in male or in female offspring, regardless of whether slices had been treated with corticosterone or vehicle. However, in male rats, the degree of potentiation seen after corticosterone compared to vehicle treatment was almost significantly related to the %LG received early in life; this differed significantly from that observed in females. The data from the present study suggest that %LG received early in life results in mild, yet sex-dependent effects on adult CA1 structure and function.
Steroid hormones largely exert their actions by activating nuclear receptors, which, as transcription factors, powerfully influence fundamental processes of neural development. Often, steroid receptor action demonstrates remarkable specificity under different developmental, anatomical or hormonal conditions. Yet, the mechanisms underlying such specificity are poorly understood. The present study examined the anatomically-specific regulation of progestin receptor (PR) expression by oestrogen receptor (ER) activation in the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) of the hypothalamus and the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of the neonatal female rat brain, using the selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), tamoxifen and ICI 182780 (ICI), in the presence or absence of oestradiol benzoate (EB) treatment. The results demonstrate that PR immunoreactivity (PR-ir) in the neonatal female MPN was significantly increased by EB and this increase was abolished by either tamoxifen or ICI treatment. In contrast, within the VMN of the same animals, EB had no effect on PR-ir and the SERMs only modestly decreased PR-ir. Interestingly, ICI acted as a true antagonist regardless of EB treatment, whereas tamoxifen acted as an ER agonist in the absence of EB in the MPN, but not the VMN, representing one of the first in vivo demonstrations of tissue-specific and oestradiol-independent effects of tamoxifen on ER activation. The present results indicate that PR expression is highly dependent on oestradiol and its receptor in the MPN, although it is independent of both oestradiol and ER activation within the neonatal VMN. These findings demonstrate the anatomically-specific actions of oestradiol and its receptor to induce PR in two brain regions controlling different aspects of female reproductive behaviours in adulthood.

The authors present a unique side-cutting instrument (NICO Myriad, Indianapolis, IN) with variable aspiration designed specifically for tumor resection. The study included retrospective review of data collected from 10/2009 to 01/2011. We detail the use of the Myriad in 31 patients with the following pathologies: meningioma (n=16), chordoma (n=3), schwannoma (n=3), pituitary adenoma (n=2), metastasis (n=3), hemangioblastoma (n=1), craniopharyngioma (n=1), and nasopharyngeal tumors (n=2). Surgical approaches included expanded endonasal approach (n=19), endoscopic brain port (n=3), supraorbital &quot;eyebrow&quot; craniotomy (n=3), retrosigmoid suboccipital craniotomy (n=3), pterional craniotomy (n=1), extreme far lateral (n=1), and laminectomy (n=1). Successful tumor resection was achieved in 30 cases. Instrument failure was noted in only one extremely fibrous meningioma. The design of this instrument facilitated maneuvering through narrow corridors while providing direct visualization of the suction aperture during tumor resection. These features allowed for tumor removal without injury to adjacent neurovascular structures. The side-cutting aspiration device allows safe and effective tumor removal. Its low profile, variable aspiration, and lack of thermal heat energy are particularly useful in tumor resection through narrow corridors, such as endonasal, port, and keyhole approaches. The multifunctional nature of the instrument (suction, scissors, and dissectors) minimizes multiple exchanges, facilitating tumor resection through these minimal access corridors.
We conducted a prospective, observational study to verify the efficacy, tolerability and impact on quality of life, mood and global neurocognitive performances of oxcarbazepine monotherapy in patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE). Patients were followed for 12 months. We recruited 25 patients (11 females 14 males; mean age 49.7) affected with BTRE (17 de novo patients and 7 in monotherapy with other antiepileptics) and introduced oxcarbazepine monotherapy because of uncontrolled seizures and/or side effects. At first visit, patients underwent neurological examination, Qolie 31P V2, EORTC QLQC30, Zung self-depression rating scale (ZSDRS) and adverse events profile. A seizure diary was given to each patient. Follow-up duration was 1-12 months (mean 7.1 months, 5 patients died and 10 dropped out). Totals of 16 patients underwent both chemotherapy and radiotherapy, 4 chemotherapy only, 1 radiotherapy only, and 4 did not undergo any systemic therapy. Mean dosage of oxcarbazepine was 1,230 mg/day (min 600, max 2,100 mg/day). McNemar's test showed a significant difference in seizure freedom rate (P = 0.002) between baseline and final follow-up in the intent-to-treat population. Six patients (24%) had serious side effects and one patient (4%) mild. Logistic regression revealed that, in our study, chemotherapy and radiotherapy did not affect the efficacy of OXC in seizure outcome (P = 0.658). The test evaluation at final follow-up showed a significant improvement in ZSDRS (P = 0.011) and no change over time. Oxcarbazepine seems to be efficacious in controlling seizures and in improving mood in patients with BTRE, but special caution should be taken when it is administered during radiotherapy.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is a consequence of a slowly propagating wave of neuronal and glial depolarization (spreading depolarization; SD). Massive release of glutamate contributes to SD propagation, and it was recently shown that Zn(2+) is also released from synaptic vesicles during SD. The present study examined consequences of extracellular Zn(2+) accumulation on the propagation of SD. SD mechanisms were studied first in murine brain slices, using focal KCl applications as stimuli and making electrical and optical recordings in hippocampal area CA1. Elevating extracellular Zn(2+) concentrations with exogenous ZnCl(2) reduced SD propagation rates. Selective chelation of endogenous Zn(2+) (using TPEN or CaEDTA) increased SD propagation rates, and these effects appeared due to chelation of Zn(2+) derived from synaptic vesicles. Thus, in tissues where synaptic Zn(2+) release was absent [knockout (KO) of vesicular Zn(2+) transporter ZnT-3], SD propagation rates were increased, and no additional increase was observed following chelation of endogenous Zn(2+) in these tissues. The role of synaptic Zn(2+) was then examined on CSD in vivo. ZnT-3 KO animals had higher susceptibility to CSD than wild-type controls as evidenced by significantly higher propagation rates and frequencies. Studies of candidate mechanisms excluded changes in neuronal excitability, presynaptic release, and GABA receptors but left open a possible contribution of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor inhibition. These results suggest the extracellular accumulation of synaptically released Zn(2+) can serve as an intrinsic inhibitor to limit SD events. The inhibitory action of extracellular Zn(2+) on SD may counteract to some extent the neurotoxic effects of intracellular Zn(2+) accumulation in acute brain injury models.
ATP signaling to neurons and glia in the nervous system occurs via activation of both P2Y and P2X receptors. Here, we investigated the effects of P2Y(1) receptor stimulation in developing striatal medium-sized neurons using patch-clamp recordings from acute brain slices of 7- and 28-day-old rats. Application of the selective P2Y(1) receptor agonist 2-(Methylthio) ADP trisodium salt (2-MeSADP; 250 nM) increased outward K(+) currents evoked by a ramp depolarization protocol in voltage-clamp recordings. This effect was observed in 59 out of 82 cells (72%) and was blocked completely by the P2Y(1) antagonist, 2'-deoxy-N(6)-methyl adenosine 3',5'-diphosphate. The averaged 2-MeSADP-sensitive conductance was fitted by the sum of a linear conductance and a Boltzmann relation, giving one-half activation voltage of -14.2 mV and an equivalent charge of 2.91. The 2MeSADP-mediated effect was sensitive to submillimolar concentrations of tetraethylammonium (TEA; 200 M), to 200 nM iberiotoxin and to 100 nM apamin, suggesting the involvement of both big and small potassium (BK and SK, respectively) calcium-activated channels. In current-clamp experiments, 2-MeSADP decreased depolarization-evoked action potential (AP) firing in all 26 cells investigated, and this effect was reversed by TEA and by apamin but not by iberiotoxin. We conclude that the stimulation of P2Y(1) receptors in developing striatal neurons leads to activation of calcium-activated potassium channels [I(K(Ca))] of both BK and SK subtypes, the latter responsible for decreasing the frequency of AP firing in response to current injection. Therefore, P2Y(1) signaling leading to activation of I(K(Ca)) may be important in regulating the activity of medium-sized neurons in the striatum.
Auditory cortical processing is thought to be accomplished along two processing streams. The existence of a posterior/dorsal stream dealing, among others, with the processing of spatial aspects of sound has been corroborated by numerous studies in several species. An anterior/ventral stream for the processing of nonspatial sound qualities, including the identification of sounds such as species-specific vocalizations, has also received much support. Originally discovered in anterolateral belt cortex, most recent work on the anterior/ventral pathway has been performed on far anterior superior temporal (ST) areas and on ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC). Regions of the anterior/ventral stream near its origin in early auditory areas have been less explored. In the present study, we examined three early auditory regions with different anteroposterior locations (caudal, middle, and rostral) in awake rhesus macaques. We analyzed how well classification based on sound-evoked activity patterns of neuronal populations replicates the original stimulus categories. Of the three regions, the rostral region (rR), which included core area R and medial belt area RM, yielded the greatest classification success across all stimulus classes or between classes of natural sounds. Starting from 80 ms past stimulus onset, clustering based on the population response in rR became clearly more successful than clustering based on responses from any other region. Our study demonstrates that specialization for sound-identity processing can be found very early in the auditory ventral stream. Furthermore, the fact that this processing develops over time can shed light on underlying mechanisms. Finally, we show that population analysis is a more sensitive method for revealing functional specialization than conventional types of analysis.
Our laboratory previously reported that gastric activity is controlled by a robust GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition in the medial nucleus of the tractus solitarius (mNTS) (Herman et al. 2009), and that -opioid receptor activation inhibits gastric tone by suppression of this GABA signaling (Herman et al. 2010). These data raised two questions: 1) whether any of this inhibition was due to tonic GABA(A) receptor-mediated conductance in the mNTS; and 2) whether -opioid receptor activation suppressed both tonic and phasic GABA signaling. In whole cell recordings from rat mNTS neurons, application of three GABA(A) receptor antagonists (gabazine, bicuculline, and picrotoxin) produced a persistent reduction in holding current and decrease in population variance or root mean square (RMS) noise, suggesting a blockade of tonic GABA signaling. Application of gabazine at a lower concentration abolished phasic currents, but had no effect on tonic currents or RMS noise. Application of the -subunit preferring agonist gaboxadol (THIP) produced a dose-dependent persistent increase in holding current and RMS noise. Pretreatment with tetrodotoxin prevented the action of gabazine, but had no effect on the THIP-induced current. Membrane excitability was unaffected by the selective blockade of phasic inhibition, but was increased by blockade of both phasic and tonic currents. In contrast, activation of tonic currents decreased membrane excitability. Application of the -opioid receptor agonist DAMGO produced a persistent reduction in holding current that was not observed following pretreatment with a GABA(A) receptor antagonist and was not evident in mice lacking the -subunit. These data suggest that mNTS neurons possess a robust tonic inhibition that is mediated by GABA(A) receptors containing the -subunit, that determines membrane excitability, and that is partially regulated by -opioid receptors.
Noise is a major concern in circuits processing electrical signals, including neural circuits. There are many factors that influence how noise propagates through neural circuits, and there are few systems in which noise levels have been studied throughout a processing pathway. We recorded intracellularly from multiple stages of a sensory-motor pathway in the locust that detects approaching objects. We found that responses are more variable and that signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) are lower further from the sensory periphery. SNRs remain low even with the use of stimuli for which the pathway is most selective and for which the neuron representing its final sensory level must integrate many synaptic inputs. Modeling of this neuron shows that variability in the strength of individual synaptic inputs within a large population has little effect on the variability of the spiking output. In contrast, jitter in the timing of individual inputs and spontaneous variability is important for shaping the responses to preferred stimuli. These results suggest that neural noise is inherent to the processing of visual stimuli signaling impending collision and contributes to shaping neural responses along this sensory-motor pathway.
Electrical stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist may elicit a blink reflex [hand blink reflex (HBR)] mediated by a neural circuit at brain stem level. As, in a Sherringtonian sense, the blink reflex is a defensive response, in a series of experiments we tested, in healthy volunteers, whether and how the HBR is modulated by the proximity of the stimulated hand to the face. Electromyographic activity was recorded from the orbicularis oculi, bilaterally. We observed that the HBR is enhanced when the stimulated hand is inside the peripersonal space of the face, compared with when it is outside, irrespective of whether the proximity of the hand to the face is manipulated by changing the position of the arm (experiment 1) or by rotating the head while keeping the arm position constant (experiment 3). Experiment 2 showed that such HBR enhancement has similar magnitude when the participants have their eyes closed. Experiments 4 and 5 showed, respectively, that the blink reflex elicited by the electrical stimulation of the supraorbital nerve, as well as the N20 wave of the somatosensory evoked potentials elicited by the median nerve stimulation, are entirely unaffected by hand position. Taken together, our results provide compelling evidence that the brain stem circuits mediating the HBR in humans undergo tonic and selective top-down modulation from higher order cortical areas responsible for encoding the location of somatosensory stimuli in external space coordinates. These findings support the existence of a &quot;defensive&quot; peripersonal space, representing a safety margin advantageous for survival.
To intercept or avoid moving objects successfully, we must compensate for the sensorimotor delays associated with visual processing and motor movement. Although straightforward in the case of constant velocity motion, it is unclear how humans compensate for accelerations, as our visual system is relatively poor at detecting changes in velocity. Work on free-falling objects suggests that we are able to predict the effects of gravity, but this represents the most simple, limiting case in which acceleration is constant and motion linear. Here, we show that an internal model also predicts the effects of complex, varying accelerations when they result from lawful interactions with the environment. Participants timed their responses with the arrival of a ball rolling within a tube of various shapes. The pattern of errors indicates that participants were able to compensate for most of the effects of the ball acceleration (85%) within a relatively short practice (300 trials). Errors on catch trials in which the ball velocity was unexpectedly maintained constant further confirmed that participants were expecting the effect of acceleration induced by the shape of the tube. A similar effect was obtained when the visual scene was projected upside down, indicating that the mechanism of this prediction is flexible and not confined to ecologically valid interactions. These findings demonstrate that the brain is able to predict motion on the basis of prior experience of complex interactions between an object and its environment.
The parafascicular nucleus (Pf) receives cholinergic input from the pedunculopontine nucleus, part of the reticular activating system involved in waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and sends projections to the cortex. We tested the hypothesis that Pf neurons fire maximally at gamma band frequency (30-90 Hz), that this mechanism involves high-threshold voltage-dependent P/Q- and N-type calcium channels, and that this activity is enhanced by the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CAR). Patch-clamped 9- to 25-day-old rat Pf neurons (n = 299) manifested a firing frequency plateau at gamma band when maximally activated (31.5  1.5 Hz) and showed gamma oscillations when voltage-clamped at holding potentials above -20 mV, and the frequency of the oscillations increased significantly with age (24.6  3.8 vs. 51.6  4.4 Hz, P &lt; 0.001) but plateaued at gamma frequencies. Cells exposed to CAR showed significantly higher frequencies early in development compared with those without CAR (24.6  3.8 vs. 41.7  4.3 Hz, P &lt; 0.001) but plateaued with age. The P/Q-type calcium channel blocker -agatoxin-IVA (-Aga) blocked gamma oscillations, whereas the N-type blocker -conotoxin-GVIA (-CgTx) only partially decreased the power spectrum amplitude of gamma oscillations. The blocking effect of -Aga on P/Q-type currents and -CgTx on N-type currents was consistent over age. We conclude that P/Q- and N-type calcium channels appear to mediate Pf gamma oscillations during development. We hypothesize that the cholinergic input to the Pf could activate these cells to oscillate at gamma frequency, and perhaps relay these rhythms to cortical areas, thus providing a stable high-frequency state for &quot;nonspecific&quot; thalamocortical processing.
How the brain processes signals in the presence of noise impacts much of behavioral neuroscience. Thresholds provide one way to assay noise. While perceptual thresholds have been widely investigated, vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) thresholds have seldom been studied and VOR threshold dynamics have never, to our knowledge, been reported. Therefore, we assessed VOR thresholds as a function of frequency. Specifically, we measured horizontal VOR thresholds evoked by yaw rotation in rhesus monkeys, using standard signal detection approaches like those used in earlier human vestibular perceptual threshold studies. We measured VOR thresholds ranging between 0.21 and 0.76/s; the VOR thresholds increased slightly with frequency across the measured frequency range (0.2-3 Hz). These results do not mimic the frequency response of human perceptual thresholds that have been shown to increase substantially as frequency decreases below 0.5 Hz. These reported VOR threshold findings could indicate a qualitative difference between vestibular responses of humans and nonhuman primates, but a more likely explanation is an additional dynamic neural mechanism that does not influence the VOR but, rather, influences perceptual thresholds via a decision-making process included in direction recognition tasks.
Because of the availability of disease and genetic models, the mouse has become a valuable species for auditory neuroscience that will facilitate long-term goals of understanding neuronal mechanisms underlying the perception and processing of sounds. The goal of this study was to define the basic sound-evoked response properties of single neurons in the mouse dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). Neurons producing complex spikes were distinguished as cartwheel cells (CWCs), and other neurons were classified according to the response map scheme previously developed in DCN. Similar to observations in other rodent species, neurons of the mouse DCN exhibit relatively little sound-driven inhibition. As a result, type III was the most commonly observed response. Our findings are generally consistent with the model of DCN function that has been developed in the cat and the gerbil, suggesting that this in vivo mouse preparation will be a useful tool for future studies of auditory physiology.
We investigated the influence of nociceptive stimulation on the accuracy of task execution and motor unit spike trains during low-force isometric contractions. Muscle pain was induced by infusion of hypertonic saline into the abductor digiti minimi muscle of 11 healthy men. Intramuscular EMG signals were recorded from the same muscle during four isometric contractions of 60-s duration at 10% of the maximal force [maximal voluntary contraction (MVC)] performed before injection (baseline), after injection of isotonic (control) or hypertonic saline (pain), and 15 min after pain was no longer reported. Each contraction was preceded by three 3-s ramp contractions from 0% to 10% MVC. The low-frequency oscillations of motor unit spike trains were analyzed by the first principal component of the low-pass filtered spike trains [first common component (FCC)], which represents the effective neural drive to the muscle. Pain decreased the accuracy of task performance [coefficient of variation (CoV) for force: baseline, 2.8  1.8%, pain, 3.9  1.8%; P &lt; 0.05] and reduced motor unit discharge rates [11.6  2.3 pulses per second (pps) vs. 10.7  1.7 pps; P &lt; 0.05]. Motor unit recruitment thresholds (2.2  1.2% MVC vs. 2.4  1.6% MVC), interspike interval variability (18.4  4.9% vs. 19.1  5.4%), strength of motor unit short-term synchronization [common input strength (CIS) 1.02  0.44 vs. 0.83  0.22], and strength of common drive (0.47  0.08 vs. 0.47  0.06) did not change across conditions. The FCC signal was correlated with force (R = 0.45  0.06), and the CoV for FCC increased in the painful condition (5.69  1.29% vs. 7.83  2.61%; P &lt; 0.05). These results indicate that nociceptive stimulation increased the low-frequency variability in synaptic input to motoneurons.
Rett syndrome (RTT) results from loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and is characterized by abnormal motor, respiratory and autonomic control, cognitive impairment, autistic-like behaviors and increased risk of seizures. RTT patients and Mecp2-null mice exhibit reduced expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which has been linked in mice to increased respiratory frequency, a hallmark of RTT. The present study was undertaken to test the hypotheses that BDNF deficits in Mecp2 mutants are associated with reduced activation of the BDNF receptor, TrkB, and that pharmacologic activation of TrkB would improve respiratory function. We characterized BDNF protein expression, TrkB activation and respiration in heterozygous female Mecp2 mutant mice (Het), a model that recapitulates the somatic mosaicism for mutant MECP2 found in typical RTT patients, and evaluated the ability of a small molecule TrkB agonist, LM22A-4, to ameliorate biochemical and functional abnormalities in these animals. We found that Het mice exhibit (1) reduced BDNF expression and TrkB activation in the medulla and pons and (2) breathing dysfunction, characterized by increased frequency due to periods of tachypnea, and increased apneas, as in RTT patients. Treatment of Het mice with LM22A-4 for 4 weeks rescued wild-type levels of TrkB phosphorylation in the medulla and pons and restored wild-type breathing frequency. These data provide new insight into the role of BDNF signaling deficits in the pathophysiology of RTT and highlight TrkB as a possible therapeutic target in this disease.
A long-standing goal in neuroscience is to perform exhaustive recording of each neuron in a functional local circuit. To achieve this goal, one promising approach is optical imaging of fluorescent calcium indicators, but typically the tens or hundreds of cells imaged simultaneously comprise only a tiny percentage of the neurons in an intact circuit. Here, we show that a recent innovation, objective-coupled planar illumination (OCPI) microscopy, permits simultaneous recording from three-dimensional volumes containing many thousand neurons. We used OCPI microscopy to record chemosensory responses in the mouse vomeronasal epithelium, for which expression of hundreds of receptor types implies high functional diversity. The implications of this diversity for sensory coding were examined using several classes of previously reported vomeronasal ligands, including sulfated steroids. A collection of just 12 sulfated steroids activated more than a quarter of the neurons in the apical vomeronasal epithelium; unexpectedly, responses were functionally organized into a modest number of classes with characteristic spatial distribution. Recording from a whole sensory system thus revealed new organizational principles.
Subplate neurons (SPNs) are a population of neurons in the mammalian cerebral cortex that exist predominantly in the prenatal and early postnatal period. Loss of SPNs prevents the functional maturation of the cerebral cortex. SPNs receive subcortical input from the thalamus and relay this information to the developing cortical plate and thereby can influence cortical activity in a feedforward manner. Little is known about potential feedback projections from the cortical plate to SPNs. Thus, we investigated the spatial distribution of intracortical synaptic inputs to SPNs in vitro in mouse auditory cortex by photostimulation. We find that SPNs fell into two broad classes based on their distinct spatial patterns of synaptic inputs. The first class of SPNs receives inputs from only deep cortical layers, while the second class of SPNs receives inputs from deep as well as superficial layers including layer 4. We find that superficial cortical inputs to SPNs emerge in the second postnatal week and that SPNs that receive superficial cortical input are located more superficially than those that do not. Our data thus suggest that distinct circuits are present in the subplate and that, while SPNs participate in an early feedforward circuit, they are also involved in a feedback circuit at older ages. Together, our results show that SPNs are tightly integrated into the developing thalamocortical and intracortical circuit. The feedback projections from the cortical plate might enable SPNs to amplify thalamic inputs to SPNs.
An ultimate goal of visual neuroscience is to understand the neural encoding of complex, everyday scenes. Yet most of our knowledge of neuronal receptive fields has come from studies using simple artificial stimuli (e.g., bars, gratings) that may fail to reveal the full nature of a neuron's actual response properties. Our goal was to compare the utility of artificial and natural stimuli for estimating receptive field (RF) models. Using extracellular recordings from simple type cells in cat A18, we acquired responses to three types of broadband stimulus ensembles: two widely used artificial patterns (white noise and short bars), and natural images. We used a primary dataset to estimate the spatiotemporal receptive field (STRF) with two hold-back datasets for regularization and validation. STRFs were estimated using an iterative regression algorithm with regularization and subsequently fit with a zero-memory nonlinearity. Each RF model (STRF and zero-memory nonlinearity) was then used in simulations to predict responses to the same stimulus type used to estimate it, as well as to other broadband stimuli and sinewave gratings. White noise stimuli often elicited poor responses leading to noisy RF estimates, while short bars and natural image stimuli were more successful in driving A18 neurons and producing clear RF estimates with strong predictive ability. Natural image-derived RF models were the most robust at predicting responses to other broadband stimulus ensembles that were not used in their estimation and also provided good predictions of tuning curves for sinewave gratings.
Moral distress has been explored within a number of nursing contexts, including critical care, neuroscience, and end-of-life decision making. Although the antecedents and consequences of this concept continue to be uncovered, its unique attributes remain ambiguous. This analysis aims to clarify the concept of moral distress, contribute new insights about moral distress to nursing as a whole and to the subspecialty of neuroscience nursing in particular, and enhance advancements in nursing knowledge and practice. Literature published in English between 1987 and 2009 was searched using the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and Google Scholar databases. Eleven journal articles were used in the final analysis. Rodgers' evolutionary model of concept analysis was used in this study. Four comprehensive attributes were formulated to describe moral distress in neuroscience nursing: negative feelings, powerlessness, conflicting loyalties, and uncertainty. These attributes are intimately related, holding true meaning only when viewed within the context of one another and with respect to the historical and philosophical underpinnings of nursing praxis. This analysis demonstrates the fluidity, complexity, and multifacetedness of moral distress. Knowledge of the conceptual attributes presented herein will facilitate recognition and validation of personal experiences within the neuroscience nursing community.
In vitro models are important tools for studying the mechanisms that govern neuronal responses to injury. Most neuronal culture methods employ nonphysiological conditions with regard to metabolic parameters. Standard neuronal cell culture is performed at ambient (21%) oxygen levels, whereas actual tissue oxygen levels in the mammalian brain range from 1% to 5%. In this study, we examined the consequences of oxygen level on the viability and metabolism of primary cultures of cortical neurons. Our results indicate that physiological oxygen level (5% O(2)) has a beneficial effect on cortical neuronal survival and mitochondrial function in vitro. Moreover, oxygen level affects metabolic fluxes: glucose uptake and glycolysis was enhanced at physiological oxygen level, whereas glucose oxidation and fatty acid oxidation were reduced. Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was more activated in 5% O(2) and appears to play a role in these metabolic effects. Inhibiting AMPK activity with compound C decreased glucose uptake, intracellular ATP level, and viability in neurons cultured in 5% O(2). These data indicate that oxygen level is an important parameter to consider when modeling neuronal responses to stress in vitro.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) exerts anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects in rodents that appear to be mediated via Y1 receptors. Gene therapy using recombinant viral vectors to induce overexpression of NPY in the hippocampus or amygdala has previously been shown to confer anxiolytic-like effect in rodents. The present study explored an alternative and more specific approach: overexpression of Y1 receptors. Using a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) encoding the Y1 gene (rAAV-Y1), we, for the first time, induced overexpression of functional transgene Y1 receptors in the hippocampus of adult mice and tested the animals in anxiety- and depression-like behavior. Hippocampal Y1 receptors have been suggested to mediate seizure-promoting effect, so the effects of rAAV-induced Y1 receptor overexpression were also tested in kainate-induced seizures. Y1 receptor transgene overexpression was found to be associated with modest anxiolytic-like effect in the open field and elevated plus maze tests, but no effect was seen on depression-like behavior using the tail suspension and forced swim tests. However, the rAAV-Y1 vector modestly aggravated kainate-induced seizures. These data indicate that rAAV-induced overexpression of Y1 receptors in the hippocampus could confer anxiolytic-like effect accompanied by a moderate proconvulsant adverse effect. Further studies are clearly needed to determine whether Y1 gene therapy might have a future role in the treatment of anxiety disorders.
The molecular pathways underlying the neuroprotective effects of preconditioning are promising, potentially drugable targets to promote cell survival. However, these pathways are complex and are not yet fully understood. In this study we have established a paradigm of hypoxic preconditioning based on a chick embryo model of normobaric acute hypoxia previously developed by our group. With this model, we analyzed the role of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) stabilization during preconditioning in HIF-1 signaling after the hypoxic injury and in the development of a neuroprotective effect against the insult. To this end, we used a pharmacological approach, based on the in vivo administration of positive (Fe(2+), ascorbate) and negative (CoCl(2)) modulators of the activity of HIF-prolyl hydroxylases (PHDs), the main regulators of HIF-1. We have found that preconditioning has a reinforcing effect on HIF-1 accumulation during the subsequent hypoxic injury. In addition, we have also demonstrated that HIF-1 induction during hypoxic preconditioning is necessary to obtain an enhancement in HIF-1 accumulation and to develop a tolerance against a subsequent hypoxic injury. We provide in vivo evidence that administration of Fe(2+) and ascorbate modulates HIF accumulation, suggesting that PHDs might be targets for neuroprotection in the CNS.

Dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I is an enzyme involved in the biological degradation of enkephalins. It has been suggested that C-terminal amidation of enkephalins enhances their resistance to dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I-mediated biodegradation. In this study, a novel [Met5]enkephalin amide (MEA) analogue [Met5]enkephalin (ME)-semicarbazide synthesized by another laboratory in our group was assessed for its antinociceptive effects compared with ME-ethylamide, MEA and ME, using tail flick test. To protect the administered drugs from biodegradation, rats were pretreated with peptidase inhibitors including amastatin, phosphoramidon and captopril. Then captopril (dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I inhibitor) was deleted from the peptidase inhibitors' combination for evaluating in vivo resistance of the synthetic drugs to dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I. According to the results, ME-semicarbazide and MEA were resistant enough to dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I to exert their strong antinociception following intrathecal administration even in the absence of captopril, whereas the antinociceptive effects produced by ME-ethylamide (10nmol) were abolished in rats not pretreated with captopril, indicating that significant amounts of the ME-ethylamide were degraded by dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I. Replacement of the amide moiety of MEA with semicarbazide provides a new ME derivative, with high analgesic effects as well as more resistance to dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase-I-mediated biodegradation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder associated with severe motor impairments caused by the loss of dopaminergic innervation of the striatum. Previous studies have demonstrated that positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGlu), including N-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino) cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide, can produce antiparkinsonian-like effects in preclinical models of PD. However, these early mGlu PAMsexhibited unsuitable physiochemical properties for systemic dosing, requiring intracerebroventricular administration and limiting their broader utility as in vivo tools to further understand the role of mGlu in the modulation of basal ganglia function relevant to PD. In the present study, we describe the pharmacologic characterization of a systemically active mGlu PAM, N-(3-chlorophenyl)picolinamide (VU0364770), in several rodent PD models. VU0364770 showed efficacy alone or when administered in combination with L-DOPA or an adenosine 2A (A2A) receptor antagonist currently in clinical development (preladenant). When administered alone, VU0364770 exhibited efficacy in reversing haloperidol-induced catalepsy, forelimb asymmetry-induced by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the median forebrain bundle, and attentional deficits induced by bilateral 6-OHDA nigrostriatal lesions in rats. In addition, VU0364770 enhanced the efficacy of preladenant to reverse haloperidol-induced catalepsy when given in combination. The effects of VU0364770 to reverse forelimb asymmetry were also potentiated when the compound was coadministered with an inactive dose of L-DOPA, suggesting that mGlu PAMs may provide L-DOPA-sparing activity. The present findings provide exciting support for the potential role of selective mGlu PAMs as a novel approach for the symptomatic treatment of PD and a possible augmentation strategy with either L-DOPA or A2A antagonists.
Event-related oscillations (EROs) are heritable electrophysiological measures associated with cognitive activity and have been shown to be particularly informative for the genetic analysis of substance dependence and other psychiatric disorders. In the present study associations between the cortical event-related oscillations (EROs) elicited by affective stimuli, and the diagnosis of ASPD or CD (ASPD/CD) were investigated, and heritability and linkage analyses conducted in 662 individuals residing in an American Indian community. Results from this study found that participants with ASPD/CD showed increased alpha ERO energy in centro-parietal leads in the 0-250ms time window in response to all three emotional expressions (sad, neutral and happy faces). Participants with ASPD/CD also showed increased alpha ERO energy in centro-parietal leads in the 400-700ms time window in response to happy and neutral faces. Variance components analysis suggested a significant familial component to each of the described ERO phenotypes. Although a follow-up genome-wide linkage analysis failed to detect significant evidence of genetic linkage for any of these phenotypes, centro-parietal alpha energy in response to happy faces showed suggestive evidence of linkage to chromosome 1p36.31 (LOD=2.40), in an area found in previous studies to be associated with externalizing phenotypes. Findings from this study suggest greater activation of neural circuits required to perform a facial recognition task in participants with ASPD/CD. The observed increase in alpha ERO energy may represent a heritable endophenotype associated with select externalizing disorders in this population.
Neuroimaging has revealed structural abnormalities in the amygdala of different psychiatric disorders. The polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a molecule related to neuronal structural plasticity, which expression is altered in schizophrenia, major depression and in animal models of these disorders, may participate in these changes. However, PSA-NCAM has not been studied in the human amygdala. To know whether its expression and that of presynaptic markers, was affected in psychiatric disorders, we have analyzed post-mortem sections from the Stanley Neuropathology Consortium, which includes controls, schizophrenia, bipolar and major depression patients. PSA-NCAM was expressed in neuronal somata and neuropil puncta, many of which corresponded to interneurons. Depressed patients showed decreases in PSA-NCAM expression in the basolateral and basomedial amygdala; synaptophysin and GAD67 were also decreased, while VGLUT-1 was increased, in different nuclei. Increases in PSA-NCAM expression were found in the lateral nucleus of bipolar patients; synaptophysin and GAD67 were reduced, and VGLUT-1 increased, in their basolateral and lateral nuclei. The expression of synaptophysin and GAD67 was downregulated in the basolateral nucleus of schizophrenics. These results indicate that inhibitory and excitatory amygdaloid circuits are affected in these disorders and that abnormal PSA-NCAM expression in depressive and bipolar patients may underlie these alterations.
Unaffected 1st degree relatives of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) are more likely to develop MDD than healthy controls. The aim of our study was to establish neuronal correlates of familial susceptibility in the process of inhibition of emotional information. Unaffected 1st degree relatives of patients with MDD (N=21) and matched healthy controls (N=25) underwent a functional magnetic resonance imaging procedure with an inhibition task. Blood oxygenated level dependent signal was evaluated for the two groups during inhibition of positive, negative and neutral information. In a 23 ANOVA unaffected relatives of patients with MDD were compared to healthy controls, jointly and separately for all three levels of emotional valence of the information. The interaction between group and emotional valence of the inhibited information was significant, indicating &quot;a negative neural drift&quot; in unaffected relatives of patients with MDD. The unaffected relatives of patients with MDD displayed an increased activation during inhibiting of negative material in the right middle cingulate cortex and the left caudate nucleus (p&lt;0.05, family wise error corrected). There was no difference between the two groups in terms of inhibiting positive or neutral stimuli. Our findings provide the first evidence that unaffected relatives of patients with MDD differ from the standard population in terms of neural correlates of inhibition of negative emotional information. Overactivation of cingulate cortex and caudate nucleus may indicate a learnt strategy aimed at coping with increased susceptibility to negative information schemata and may have future consequences for therapy.
Obsessive compulsive disorder is a common psychiatric disorder defined by the presence of obsessive thoughts and repetitive compulsive actions. The mutations or polymorphic variants in mitochondrial DNA-encoded genes or nuclear genes result in oxidative stress, which has recently been associated with various psychiatric disorders. In order to understand the association of mitochondrial disorders with oxidative stress in obsessive compulsive disorder, we examined genetic variants of manganese superoxide dismutase and uncouple-2 antioxidant genes and malondialdehyde and glutathione, markers of oxidative stress. The study sample comprised 104 patients with OCD and 110 healthy controls. For manganese superoxide dismutase, the frequencies of CT (Ala/Val) genotype (p&lt;0.01) in patients were significantly lower than those of controls. In contrast, CC (Ala/Ala) genotype was significantly more frequent in patients than controls (p&lt;0.05). For uncouple-2 I/D, the frequencies of ID genotype (p&lt;0.01) and I allele (p&lt;0.05) were lower in patients as compared with controls. In contrast, DD genotype was more prevalent in patients than controls (p&lt;0.01). While whole blood glutathione was significantly diminished (p&lt;0.0001), serum malondialdehyde was significantly elevated in patients compared with controls (p&lt;0.0001). Malondialdehyde levels were significantly elevated in subjects with DD genotype of UCP-2 I/D (p&lt;0.05) and CC genotype of manganese superoxide dismutase (p&lt;0.05) as compared with II or ID and TT or CT genotype, respectively. Malondialdehyde levels in patients carrying CC (p&lt;0.05) or CT (p&lt;0.05) genotype were significantly higher than those of carrying TT genotype. In conclusion, CC genotype of manganese superoxide dismutase or DD genotype of UCP-2 might result in mitochondrial disorders by increasing oxidative stress in obsessive compulsive disorders.
The effects of chronic cocaine dependence on cortical inhibitory/excitatory processes are not well characterized. Employing transcranial magnetic stimulation measures of motor cortical excitability, we have previously reported an elevation of motor threshold (MT) suggesting reduced excitability and an increased long-interval intracortical facilitation (LICF) suggesting increased excitability. In the current study, we used an expanded battery of TMS cortical excitability measures to further examine motor cortex excitability in a larger sample of well-characterized and closely monitored for drug use, abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects (N=52) and healthy controls (N=42). Furthermore, coil-to-cortex distance was assessed in a subsample of both groups. We verified that long-interval intracortical facilitation (LICF), possibly representing glutamatergic cortical neurotransmission, was significantly increased in cocaine-dependent patients. Significantly longer cortical silent periods (CSP) and elevated MT were also observed while there was no significant abnormality in long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI). Increased LICF and CSP duration suggest increased cortical excitability and increased inhibition, respectively, of different neurotransmitter systems in cocaine-dependent patients. Increased MT might reflect an adaptation to those effects of cocaine abuse that enhance cortical excitability. Overall, the data point to the complex nature of chronic cocaine dependence on the balance of cortical inhibitory/excitatory mechanisms.


The stress-dampening effects of alcohol have been attributed to 'appraisal disruption'- decreased ability of stimuli to evoke threatening associations in memory. Appraisal disruption could apply to oneself as well as situational stimuli. This question was investigated in undergraduate drinkers (n=90/Gender) with low or high anxiety sensitivity (AS; n=90/AS Group), a trait linked with hyper-vigilance to threat. Subjects received alcohol (0.7 g/kg males; 0.63 g/kg females), placebo or soft drink and performed a speech about their appearance. Sequence of drink administration and speech advisory (threat) was manipulated between subjects: Threat before Drink, Threat after Drink, No-Threat Control. The Implicit Association Test measured self-relevant associations based upon time to classify positive and negative attribute words (e.g. Cute, Ugly) paired with self-relevant or non-self-relevant object words (e.g. Me, Them). Alcohol selectively slowed negative self-relevant decisions, regardless of other factors. Relative fluency of negative versus positive decisions (D) correlated inversely with state anxiety and systolic blood pressure immediately before speech performance, and correlated directly with severity of alcohol problems. These findings are consistent with the Appraisal Disruption hypothesis. Preferential impairment of negative self-relevant associations may decrease perceived vulnerability under alcohol and increase risk for alcohol problems in young drinkers.

Motor activity in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder (RBD) has been linked to dream content. Systematic and controlled sleep laboratory studies directly assessing the relation between RBD behaviours and experienced dream content are, however, largely lacking. We aimed to investigate whether a link can be established between RBD behaviours and dream content when both are systematically sampled in a controlled setting. We investigated six patients with Parkinson syndrome and RBD who underwent 2-3 nights of video-polysomnographic recording during which they were awakened from REM sleep (10min after the onset of the second and successive REM periods). Spontaneous free-worded dream reports and a structured dream questionnaire were obtained. Video recordings of motor manifestations were each combined with four dream reports, and seven judges had to match the video clip with the correctly reported dream content from a choice of four possibilities. Of the 35 REM sleep awakenings performed, a total of 17 (48.6%) motor-behavioural episodes with recalled dream content were obtained. The mean of correctly identified video-dream pairs was 39.5% (range 0-100%). Our data showed that reported dream content can be linked to motor behaviours above chance level. Matching accuracy was affected mainly by the clarity of dream reports and the specific nature of movements manifest in video recordings.
A question of great interest in current sleep research is whether and how sleep might facilitate complex cognitive skills such as decision-making. The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) was used to investigate effects of sleep on affect-guided decision-making. After a brief standardized preview of the IGT that was insufficient to learn its underlying rule, participants underwent a 12-h delay containing either a normal night's sleep (Sleep group; N=28) or continuous daytime wake (Wake group; N=26). Following the delay, both groups performed the full IGT. To control for circadian effects, two additional groups performed both the preview and the full task either in the morning (N=17) or the evening (N=21). In the IGT, four decks of cards were presented. Draws from two 'advantageous decks' yielded low play-money rewards, occasional low losses and, over multiple draws, a net gain. Draws from 'disadvantageous' decks yielded high rewards, occasional high losses and, over multiple draws, a net loss. Participants were instructed to win and avoid losing as much as possible, and better performance was defined as more advantageous draws. Relative to the wake group, the sleep group showed both superior behavioral outcome (more advantageous draws) and superior rule understanding (blindly judged from statements written at task completion). Neither measure differentiated the two control groups. These results illustrate a role of sleep in optimizing decision-making, a benefit that may be brought about by changes in underlying emotional or cognitive processes.
The purpose of the study was to compare the effects of maximal resistance training (MRT) vs. endurance resistance training (ERT) on improvements in insulin levels and glucose tolerance in overweight individuals at risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Eighteen participants with baseline values suggesting impaired glucose tolerance were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 engaged in supervised MRT (Bernstein inverted pyramid system: 5  3-4, 60-85% 1 repetition maximum [1RM]), 3 dwk(-1) over 4 months, whereas members of group 2 acted as controls. Later, group 2 engaged in supervised ERT (3  12-15, 45-65% 1RM), 3 dwk(-1) over a 4 month period with the 2 prebaselines as controls. Both interventions consisted of 8 exercises that included the entire body. Glucose (fasting and 2-hour test), insulin and C-peptide measures were assessed from pre to post in both groups. The MRT led to reduced blood levels of 2-hour glucose (p = 0.044) and fasting C-peptide (p = 0.023) and decreased insulin resistance (p = 0.040). The ERT caused a significant reduction in the blood levels of insulin (p = 0.023) and concomitant positive effects on % insulin sensitivity (p = 0.054) and beta-cell function (p = 0.020). The findings indicate that both MRT and ERT lead to decreased insulin resistance in people with a risk of developing type 2 diabetes; MRT led to a greater increase in glucose uptake capacity (in muscles), whereas ERT led to greater insulin sensitivity, supporting the recommendation of both MRT and ERT as primary intervention approaches for individuals at a risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Very little is known about the sub-cellular distribution of metal ions in cells. Some metals such as zinc, copper and iron are essential and play an important role in the cell metabolism. Dysfunctions in this delicate housekeeping may be at the origin of major diseases. There is also a prevalent use of metals in a wide range of diagnostic agents and drugs for the diagnosis or treatment of a variety of disorders. This is becoming more and more of a concern in the field of nanomedicine with the increasing development and use of nanoparticles, which are suspected of causing adverse effects on cells and organ tissues. Synchrotron-based X-ray and Fourier-transformed infrared microspectroscopies are developing into well-suited sub-micrometer analytical tools for addressing new problems when studying the role of metals in biology. As a complementary tool to optical and electron microscopes, developments and studies have demonstrated the unique capabilities of multi-keV microscopy: namely, an ultra-low detection limit, large penetration depth, chemical sensitivity and three-dimensional imaging capabilities. More recently, the capabilities have been extended towards sub-100nm lateral resolutions, thus enabling sub-cellular chemical imaging. Possibilities offered by these techniques in the biomedical field are described through examples of applications performed at the ESRF synchrotron-based microspectroscopy platform (ID21 and ID22 beamlines).



Adjuvants may induce autoimmune diseases in susceptible individuals, a phenomenon recently defined as autoimmune/inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants (ASIA). Patients with both antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) and the genetic coagulopathy factor V Leiden (FVL) are frequently found. We therefore evaluated whether adjuvant can induce aPL in heterozygous FVL mice. aPL were measured in nave mice and at 1 and 5 months after immunization with either complete or incomplete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, IFA) in FVL and control C57/B6 background mice. We defined antibody levels 3 SD above the mean of C57/B6 mice immunized with adjuvant as positive (specificity of 99%). For (2)GPI-dependent aPL, 28.6% (6/21) of FVL mice 5 months after immunization with adjuvant (both IFA and CFA) were positive compared with 4.8% (1/22) of FVL mice 1 month after adjuvant and 0% of nave FVL and C57/B6 mice (0/16, p &lt; 0.001). aPL levels correlated with behavioral hyperactivity in the staircase test. FVL mice immunized with adjuvant did not develop (2)GPI-independent aPL. We hypothesize that the FVL aPL association is not a coincidence, but that chronic coagulation defects combined with external inflammatory stimuli analogous to adjuvant may induce aPL and also antiphospholipid syndrome, thus supporting the notion of ASIA.
White matter loss, ventricular enlargement and white matter lesions are common findings on brain scans of older subjects. Accurate assessment of these different features is therefore essential for normal aging research. Recently, we developed a novel unsupervised classification method, named 'Multispectral Coloring Modulation and Variance Identification' (MCMxxxVI), that fuses two different structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences in red/green color space and uses Minimum Variance Quantization (MVQ) as the clustering technique to segment different tissue types. Here we investigate how this method performs compared with several commonly used supervised image classifiers in segmenting normal-appearing white matter, white matter lesions and cerebrospinal fluid in the brains of 20 older subjects with a wide range of white matter lesion load and brain atrophy. The three tissue classes were segmented from T(1)-, T(2)-, T(2)- and fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR)-weighted structural MRI data using MCMxxxVI and the four supervised multispectral classifiers available in the Analyze package, namely, Back-Propagated Neural Networks, Gaussian classifier, Nearest Neighbor and Parzen Windows. Bland-Altman analysis and Jaccard index values indicated that, in general, MCMxxxVI performed better than the supervised multispectral classifiers in identifying the three tissue classes, although final manual editing was still required to deliver radiologically acceptable results. These analyses show that MVQ, as implemented in MCMxxxVI, has the potential to provide quick and accurate white matter segmentations in the aging brain, although further methodological developments are still required to automate fully this technique.
About 150 researchers around the world convened at the Chateau Lake Louise on February 20-23, 2011 to present and discuss the latest research in human and animal imaging and spectroscopy at field strengths of 7 T or above (termed ultrahigh field) at the third ISMRM-sponsored high field workshop. The clear overall message from the workshop presentations and discussion is that ultrahigh field imaging is gaining momentum with regard to new clinically relevant findings, anatomic and functional MRI results, susceptibility contrast advancements, solutions to high field-related image quality challenges, and to generally push the limits of resolution and speed of high field imaging. This meeting report is organized in a manner reflecting the meeting organization itself, covering the seven sessions that were approximately titled: (1) high field overview from head to body to spectroscopy; (2) susceptibility imaging; (3) proffered session on susceptibility, ultrafast imaging, unique contrast at 7 T, and angiography; (4) neuroscience applications; (5) proffered session on coils, shimming, parallel imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, and MRI-PET fusion; (6) high field animal imaging and spectroscopy, as well as a vendor overview, and (7) Cutting edge technology at 7 T.

Tetrodotoxin (TTX) is a potent neurotoxin that blocks voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs). VGSCs play a critical role in neuronal function under both physiological and pathological conditions. TTX has been extensively used to functionally characterize VGSCs, which can be classified as TTX-sensitive or TTX-resistant channels according to their sensitivity to this toxin. Alterations in the expression and/or function of some specific TTX-sensitive VGSCs have been implicated in a number of chronic pain conditions. The administration of TTX at doses below those that interfere with the generation and conduction of action potentials in normal (non-injured) nerves has been used in humans and experimental animals under different pain conditions. These data indicate a role for TTX as a potential therapeutic agent for pain. This review focuses on the preclinical and clinical evidence supporting a potential analgesic role for TTX. In addition, the contribution of specific TTX-sensitive VGSCs to pain is reviewed.
Stroke is a leading cause of disability and therefore rehabilitation is a major part of patient care. Most interventions do not target aged patient but there is unequivocal evidence to promote rehabilitation in multidisciplinary stroke units or integrated care of a multidisciplinary team in the community. Most research has focused on the effect of interventions on recovery in different forms of impairment and disability. The most promising options for motor recovery of the arm include constraint-induced movement therapy and robotic-assisted strategies. Interventions to improve postural stability and gait include fitness training, high-intensity therapy, and repetitive-task training. However, information about the clinical effect of various strategies of cognitive rehabilitation and strategies for aphasia and dysarthria is scarce. Several large trials of rehabilitation practice are underway to test these interventions in the elderly, either alone or in combination with early mobilisation, cardiorespiratory fitness training and physical exercise.
Age-related loss of hearing and vision are two very common disabling conditions, but the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. Damage by reactive oxygen species and other reactive cellular metabolites, which in turn may damage macromolecules such as DNA, has been implicated in both processes. To investigate whether DNA damage can contribute to age-related hearing and vision loss, we investigated hearing and vision in Ercc1(/-) mutant mice, which are deficient in DNA repair of helix-distorting DNA lesions and interstrand DNA crosslinks. Ercc1(/-) mice showed a progressive, accelerated increase of hearing level thresholds over time, most likely arising from deteriorating cochlear function. Ercc1(/-) mutants also displayed a progressive decrease in contrast sensitivity followed by thinning of the outer nuclear layer of the eyeball. The strong parallels with normal ageing suggest that unrepaired DNA damage can induce age-related decline of the auditory and visual system.
Evidence from psychology and neuroscience indicates that our spatial experience, including the bodily one, involves the integration of different sensory inputs within two different reference frames egocentric (body as reference of first-person experience) and allocentric (body as object in the physical world). Even if functional relations between these two frames are usually limited, they influence each other during the interaction between long- and short-term memory processes in spatial cognition. If, for some reasons, this process is impaired, the egocentric sensory inputs are no more able to update the contents of the allocentric representation of the body: the subject is locked to it. In the presented perspective, subjects with eating disorders are locked to an allocentric representation of their body, stored in long-term memory (allocentric lock). A significant role in the locking may be played by the medial temporal lobe, and in particular by the connection between the hippocampal complex and amygdala. The differences between exogenous and endogenous causes of the lock may also explain the difference between bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa.
Magnetic resonance images tend to be influenced by various random factors usually referred to as &quot;noise&quot;. The principal sources of noise and related artefacts can be divided into two types: arising from hardware (acquisition coil arrays, gradient coils, field inhomogeneity); and arising from the subject (physiological noise including body motion, cardiac pulsation or respiratory motion). These factors negatively affect the resolution and reproducibility of the images. Therefore, a proper noise treatment is important for improving the performance of clinical and research investigations. Noise reduction becomes especially critical for the images with a low signal-to-noise ratio, such as those typically acquired in diffusion tensor imaging at high diffusion weightings. The standard methods of signal correction usually assume a uniform distribution of the standard deviation of the noise across the image and evaluate a single correction parameter for the whole image. We pursue a more advanced approach based on the assumption of an inhomogeneous distribution of noise in space and evaluate correction factors for each voxel individually. The Rician nature of the underlying noise is considered for low and high signal-to-noise ratios. The approach developed here has been examined using numerical simulations and in vivo brain diffusion tensor imaging experiments. The efficacy and usefulness of this approach is demonstrated here and the resultant effective tool is described.
Neuroimaging plays a fundamental role in the study of human cognitive neuroscience. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), based on the Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent signal, is currently considered as a standard technique for a system level understanding of the human brain. The problem of identifying regionally specific effects in neuroimaging data is usually solved by applying Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). Here, a mutual information (MI) criterion is used to identify regionally specific effects produced by a task. In particular, two MI estimators are presented for its use in fMRI data. The first one uses a Parzen probability density estimation, and the second one is based on a K Nearest Neighbours (KNN) estimation. Additionally, a statistical measure has been introduced to automatically detect the voxels which are relevant to the fMRI task. Experiments demonstrate the advantages of MI estimators over SPM maps; firstly, providing more significant differences between relevant and irrelevant voxels; secondly, presenting more focalized activation; and, thirdly, detecting small areas related to the task. These findings, and the improved performance of KNN MI estimator in multisubject and multistimuli studies, make the proposed methods a good alternative to SPM.
High grade gliomas, frequently with their infiltrative nature, often make the outcome from neurosurgical intervention alone unsatisfactory. It is recognized that adjuvant radiochemotherapy approaches offer an improved prognosis. For these reasons, we opted for surgical debulking, intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) in combination with whole brain irradiation therapy and chemotherapy (temozolamide cycles) in the management of a 42 year-old lady with Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM). Her troublesome symptoms improved after 3 months of this polymodal therapy and remained independently functional for more than two years.
During feeding, dietary galactose is a potential source of hepatic glycogen synthesis; but its contribution has not been measured to date. In the presence of deuterated water ((2)H(2)O), uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucose derived from galactose is not enriched, whereas the remainder derived from glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) is enriched in position 2 to the same level as body water, assuming complete G6P-fructose-6-phosphate (F6P) exchange. Hence, the difference between UDP-glucose position 2 and body water enrichments reflects the contribution of galactose to glycogen synthesis relative to all other sources. In study 1, G6P-F6P exchange in 6 healthy subjects was quantified by supplementing a milk-containing breakfast meal with 10 g of [U-(2)H(7)]glucose and quantifying the depletion of position 2 enrichment in urinary menthol glucuronide. In study 2, another 6 subjects ingested (2)H(2)O and acetaminophen followed by an identical breakfast meal with 10 g of [1-(13)C]glucose to resolve direct/indirect pathways and galactose contributions to glycogen synthesis. Metabolite enrichments were determined by (2)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance. In study 1, G6P-F6P exchange approached completion; therefore, the difference between position 2 and body water enrichments in study 2 (0.20%  0.03% vs 0.27%  0.03%, P &lt; .005) was attributed to galactose glycogenesis. Dietary galactose contributed 19%  3% to glycogen synthesis. Of the remainder, 58%  5% was derived from the direct pathway and 22%  4% via the indirect pathway. The contribution of galactose to hepatic glycogen synthesis was resolved from that of direct and indirect pathways using a combination of (2)H(2)O and [1-(13)C]glucose tracers.
The importance of transition metals in biological processes has been well established. Copper (Cu) is a transition metal that can exist in oxidised and reduced states. This allows it to participate in redox and catalytic chemistry, making it a suitable cofactor for a diverse range of enzymes and molecules. Cu deficiency or toxicity is implicated in a variety of pathological conditions; therefore inorganic complexes of Cu have been investigated for their therapeutic and diagnostic potential. These Cu complexes have been shown to be effective in cancer treatment due to their cytotoxic action on tumour cells. Alternatively, Cu complexes can also modulate Cu homeostasis in the brain, resulting in protective effects in several models of neurodegeneration. In other diseases such as coronary heart disease and skin disease, the success of Cu complexes as potential therapeutics will most likely be due to their ability to increase SOD activity, leading to relief of oxidative stress. This review seeks to provide a broad insight into some of the diverse actions of Cu complexes and demonstrate the strong future for these compounds as potential therapeutic agents.
Protein localization in dendritic spines is the focus of intense investigations within neuroscience. Applications of super-resolution microscopy to dissect nanoscale protein distributions, as shown in this work with dual-color STED, generate spatial correlation coefficients having quite small values. This means that colocalization analysis to some extent looses part of its correlative impact. In this study we thus introduced nearest neighbor analysis to quantify the spatial relations between two important proteins in neurons, the dopamine D1 receptor and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. The analysis gave new information on how dense the D1 receptor and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase constituting nanoclusters are located both with respect to the homogenous (self to same) and the heterogeneous (same to other) topology. The STED dissected nanoscale topologies provide evidence for both a joint as well as a separated confinement of the D1 receptor and the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the postsynaptic areas of dendritic spines. This confined topology may have implications for generation of local sodium gradients and for structural and functional interactions modulating slow synaptic transmission processes.
Neuroinflammatory processes are known to contribute to the cascade of events culminating in the neuronal damage that underpins neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Recently, there has been much interest in the potential neuroprotective effects of flavonoids, a group of plant secondary metabolites known to have diverse biological activity in vivo. With respect to the brain, flavonoids, such as those found in cocoa, tea, berries and citrus, have been shown to be highly effective in preventing age-related cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in both animals and humans. Evidence suggests that flavonoids may express such ability through a multitude of physiological functions, including an ability to modulate the brains immune system. This review will highlight the evidence for their potential to inhibit neuroinflammation through an attenuation of microglial activation and associated cytokine release, iNOS expression, nitric oxide production and NADPH oxidase activity. We will also detail the current evidence indicting that their regulation of these immune events appear to be mediated by their actions on intracellular signaling pathways, including the nuclear factor-B (NF-B) cascade and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. As such, flavonoids represent important precursor molecules in the quest to develop of a new generation of drugs capable of counteracting neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative disease.
Vacuolar protein sorting 9 (VPS9)-ankyrin-repeat protein (Varp) has recently been identified as an effector molecule for two small GTPases-Rab32 and Rab38-in the transport of a melanogenic enzyme tyrosinase-related protein 1 (Tyrp1) to melanosomes in melanocytes. Although Varp contains a Rab21-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domain (i.e., VPS9 domain), since Rab21-GEF activity is not required for Tyrp1 transport, nothing is known about the physiological significance of the Rab21-GEF activity in melanocytes. Here we show by knockdown-rescue experiments that the Rab21-GEF activity of Varp, but not its Rab32/38 effector function, is required for forskolin-induced dendrite formation of cultured melanocytes. We found that Varp-deficient cells are unable to extend dendrites in response to forskolin stimulation and that reexpression of wild-type Varp or a Rab32/38-binding-deficient mutant Varp(Q509A/Y550A) in Varp-deficient cells completely restores their ability to form dendrites. By contrast, VPS9 mutants (D310A and Y350A) and a vesicle-associated membrane protein 7 (VAMP7)-binding-deficient mutant were unable to support forskolin-induced dendrite formation in Varp-deficient cells. These findings indicate that the Rab21-GEF activity and Rab32/38 binding activity of Varp are required for different melanocyte functions, that is, Rab21 activation by the VPS9 domain is required for dendrite formation, and the Rab32/38 effector function of the ankyrin repeat 1 domain is required for Tyrp1 transport to melanosomes, although VAMP7-binding ability is required for both functions.
Small RNAs derived from repetitive sequences appear to play essential roles in mammalian gametogenesis and early development. In this study we focused on the short interspersed nucleotide element B1 (SINE/B1) small RNAs, which were zygotically expressed in pre-implantation mouse embryos; and we investigated whether the SINE/B1 small RNAs played an active role in gene silencing during early mouse development. The results indicated that the level of silencing activity involving the SINE/B1 small RNAs as mediators was significantly reduced in Dicer-knockdown mouse embryos. In addition, when the SINE/B1 small RNAs were mapped to a full-length SINE/B1 sequence, phase-distribution of the small RNAs appeared, suggesting possible enzymatic involvement. Therefore, our present study suggested that the zygotically expressed SINE/B1 small RNAs in pre-implantation mouse embryos contain active small RNAs, which were presumably processed by Dicer and involved in gene silencing.
The cerebellum (Cb) controls movement related physiology using a diverse array of morphologically and biochemically distinct neurons. During development, the Cb is derived from rhombomere 1 (r1), an embryonic compartment patterned by a signaling center referred to as the isthmus organizer. The secreted glycoprotein WNT1 is expressed in the midbrain primordia (mesencephalon, mes) and at the posterior limit of the mes. WNT1 plays a pivotal role in maintaining the isthmus organizer and mutations in Wnt1 produce severe Cb defects that are generally attributed to aberrant organizer activity. Interestingly, Wnt1 is also expressed at the most posterior limit of dorsal r1, in a region known as the upper rhombic lip (URL). However, the distribution and molecular identity of Wnt1 expressing progenitors have not been carefully described in r1. We used Wnt1-Venus transgenic mice to generate a molecular map of Wnt1 expressing progenitors in relation to other well characterized Cb biomarkers such as MATH1 (ATOH1), LMX1a and OTX2. Our analysis validated Wnt1 expression in the URL and revealed molecularly-defined developmental zones in r1. We then used genetic inducible fate mapping (GIFM) to link transient Wnt1 expression in r1 to terminal cell fates in the mature Cb. Wnt1 expressing progenitors primarily contributed to neurons in deep cerebellar nuclei, granule cells, and unipolar brush cells in distinct but overlapping temporal windows and sparsely contributed to inhibitory neurons and Bergmann glia. We further demonstrate that the Wnt1 lineage does not follow a competency model of progressive lineage restriction to generate the Cb or the functionally related precerebellar system. Instead, progenitors initiate Wnt1 expression de novo to give rise to each Cb cell type and precerebellar nuclei. We also used GIFM to determine how the temporal control of Wnt1 expression is related to molecular identity and cell migration in Cb development. Our findings provide new insight into how lineage and timing establish cell diversity within the Cb system.
In rodents and most other mammals studied, neuronal precursors generated in the subventricular zone (SVZ) migrate to the adult olfactory bulb (OB) to differentiate into interneurons called granule and periglomerular cells. How the newborn cells navigate in the postnatal forebrain to reach precisely their target area is largely unknown. However, it is often thought that postnatal neurogenesis recapitulates the neuronal development occurring during embryogenesis. During brain development, intracellular kinases are key elements for controlling cell polarization as well as the coupling between polarization and cellular movement. We show here that the polarity kinase MARK2 maintains its expression in the postnatal SVZ-OB system. We therefore investigated the potential role of this kinase in adjusting postnatal neuroblast migration. We employed mouse brain slices maintained in culture, in combination with lentiviral vector injections designed to label neuronal precursors with GFP and to diminish the expression of MARK2. Time-lapse video microscopy was used to monitor neuroblast migration in the postnatal forebrain from SVZ precursors to cells populating the OB. We found that reduced MARK2 expression resulted in altered migratory patterns and stalled neuroblasts in the rostral migratory stream (RMS). In agreement with the observed migratory defects, we report a diminution of the proportion of cells reaching the OB layers. Our study reveals the involvement of MARK2 in the maintenance of the migratory direction in postnatally-generated neuroblasts and consequently on the control of the number of newly-generated neurons reaching and integrating the appropriate target circuits.
Optogenetics is a rapidly evolving field of technology that allows optical control of genetically targeted biological systems at high temporal and spatial resolution. By heterologous expression of light-sensitive microbial membrane proteins, opsins, cell type-specific depolarization or silencing can be optically induced on a millisecond time scale. What started in a petri dish is applicable today to more complex systems, ranging from the dissection of brain circuitries in vitro to behavioral analyses in freely moving animals. Persistent technical improvement has focused on the identification of new opsins, suitable for optogenetic purposes and genetic engineering of existing ones. Optical stimulation can be combined with various readouts defined by the desired resolution of the experimental setup. Although recent developments in optogenetics have largely focused on neuroscience it has lately been extended to other targets, including stem cell research and regenerative medicine. Further development of optogenetic approaches will not only highly increase our insight into health and disease states but might also pave the way for a future use in therapeutic applications.
Luciferases have proven to be useful tools in advancing our understanding of biologic processes. Having a multitude of bioluminescent reporters with different properties is highly desirable. We characterized codon-optimized thermostable green- and red-emitting luciferase variants from the Italian firefly Luciola italica for mammalian gene expression in culture and in vivo. Using lentivirus vectors to deliver and stably express these luciferases in mammalian cells, we showed that both variants displayed similar levels of activity and protein half-lives as well as similar light emission kinetics and higher stability compared to the North American firefly luciferase. Further, we characterized the red-shifted variant for in vivo bioluminescence imaging. Intramuscular injection of tumor cells stably expressing this variant into nude mice yielded a robust luciferase activity. Light emission peaked at 10 minutes post-d-luciferin injection and retained &gt; 60% of signal at 1 hour. Similarly, luciferase activity from intracranially injected glioma cells expressing the red-shifted variant was readily detected and used as a marker to monitor tumor growth over time. Overall, our characterization of these codon-optimized luciferases lays the groundwork for their further use as bioluminescent reporters in mammalian cells.
Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) are the enzymes that are responsible for the A to I RNA editing process in mammals, which is an important mechanism that increases molecular diversity. A to I RNA editing consists of an enzymatic conversion of specific adenosine in pre-mRNA, leading to alteration of the properties of both the RNA itself and the translated protein. Currently, the importance of this phenomenon is increasingly recognized as it affects a diverse set of cellular pathways. ADAR function within the cell, especially in the neurons, is to diversify the features of a limited set of unique transcripts, mostly neurotransmitter receptors; however, a growing set of target is going to be discovered, increasing the importance of the RNA editing event in the proper physiology of the cell. Despite the functional relevance of these enzymes, there is a gap of knowledge in the mechanisms that regulate ADAR activity and consequently about the modulation of RNA editing process. This review summarizes ongoing investigations of ADAR regulation at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational level and addresses new hypothetical mechanisms that are capable of modulating ADAR activity, including subcellular localization, dimerization and interaction with trans-acting factors.
Since the early clinical studies of cancer immunotherapy, the question arose as to whether it was possible to combine it with standard cancer treatments, mostly chemotherapy. The answer, now, is past history. The combined use of immunotherapy and chemotherapy is not only possible but, in certain cases, can be advantageous, depending on the drug, the dose and the combination modalities. In order to find the best synergisms between the two treatments and to turn weak immunotherapeutic interventions into potent anticancer instruments, it is mandatory to understand the complex mechanisms responsible for the positive interactions between chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In this article, we review the current knowledge on mechanisms involved in the immunostimulating activity of chemotherapy and summarize the main studies in both mouse models and patients aimed at exploiting such mechanisms for enhancing the response to cancer immunotherapy.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and -opioid receptors (DORs) are both involved in controlling cell survival, energy metabolism, and food intake, but little is known on the interaction between these two signaling molecules. Here we show that activation of human DORs stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells increased AMPK activity and AMPK phosphorylation on Thr172. DOR-induced AMPK phosphorylation was prevented by pertussis toxin, reduced by protein kinase A (PKA) activators, and unaffected by PKA, transforming growth factor--activated kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and protein kinase C inhibitors. Conversely, the DOR effect was reduced by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase (CaMKK) inhibition, apyrase treatment, G(q/11) antagonism, and blockade of P2 purinergic receptors. Apyrase treatment also depressed DOR stimulation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, whereas P2 receptor antagonism blocked DOR stimulation of inositol phosphate accumulation. In SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and primary olfactory bulb neurons, DOR activation failed to affect AMPK phosphorylation per se but potentiated the stimulation by either muscarinic agonists or 2-methyl-thio-ADP. Sequestration of G protein  subunits (G) blocked the DOR potentiation of AMPK phosphorylation induced by oxotremorine-M. In CHO cells, the AMPK activator 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide1--D-ribonucleoside stimulated AMPK phosphorylation and glucose uptake, whereas pharmacological inhibition of AMPK, expression of a dominant-negative mutant of AMPK1, and P2Y receptor blockade reduced DOR-stimulated glucose uptake. The data indicate that in different cell systems, DOR activation up-regulates AMPK through a G-dependent synergistic interaction with G(q/11)-coupled receptors, potentiating Ca(2+) release and CaMKK-dependent AMPK phosphorylation. In CHO cells, this coincident signaling mechanism is involved in DOR-induced glucose uptake.
Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu(5)) have emerged as an exciting new approach for the treatment of schizophrenia and other central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Of interest, some mGlu(5) PAMs act as pure PAMs, only potentiating mGlu(5) responses to glutamate whereas others [allosteric agonists coupled with PAM activity (ago-PAMs)] potentiate responses to glutamate and have intrinsic allosteric agonist activity in mGlu(5)-expressing cell lines. All mGlu(5) PAMs previously shown to have efficacy in animal models act as ago-PAMs in cell lines, raising the possibility that allosteric agonist activity is critical for in vivo efficacy. We have now optimized novel mGlu(5) pure PAMs that are devoid of detectable agonist activity and structurally related mGlu(5) ago-PAMs that activate mGlu(5) alone in cell lines. Studies of mGlu(5) PAMs in cell lines revealed that ago-PAM activity is dependent on levels of mGlu(5) receptor expression in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, whereas PAM potency is relatively unaffected by levels of receptor expression. Furthermore, ago-PAMs have no agonist activity in the native systems tested, including cortical astrocytes and subthalamic nucleus neurons and in measures of long-term depression at the hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse. Finally, studies with pure PAMs and ago-PAMs chemically optimized to provide comparable CNS exposure revealed that both classes of mGlu(5) PAMs have similar efficacy in a rodent model predictive of antipsychotic activity. These data suggest that the level of receptor expression influences the ability of mGlu(5) PAMs to act as allosteric agonists in vitro and that ago-PAM activity observed in cell-based assays may not be important for in vivo efficacy.
A small number of rare, recurrent genomic copy number variants (CNVs) are known to substantially increase susceptibility to schizophrenia. As a consequence of the low fecundity in people with schizophrenia and other neurodevelopmental phenotypes to which these CNVs contribute, CNVs with large effects on risk are likely to be rapidly removed from the population by natural selection. Accordingly, such CNVs must frequently occur as recurrent de novo mutations. In a sample of 662 schizophrenia proband-parent trios, we found that rare de novo CNV mutations were significantly more frequent in cases (5.1% all cases, 5.5% family history negative) compared with 2.2% among 2623 controls, confirming the involvement of de novo CNVs in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Eight de novo CNVs occurred at four known schizophrenia loci (3q29, 15q11.2, 15q13.3 and 16p11.2). De novo CNVs of known pathogenic significance in other genomic disorders were also observed, including deletion at the TAR (thrombocytopenia absent radius) region on 1q21.1 and duplication at the WBS (Williams-Beuren syndrome) region at 7q11.23. Multiple de novos spanned genes encoding members of the DLG (discs large) family of membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) that are components of the postsynaptic density (PSD). Two de novos also affected EHMT1, a histone methyl transferase known to directly regulate DLG family members. Using a systems biology approach and merging novel CNV and proteomics data sets, systematic analysis of synaptic protein complexes showed that, compared with control CNVs, case de novos were significantly enriched for the PSD proteome (P=1.72  10. This was largely explained by enrichment for members of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) (P=4.24  10) and neuronal activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (ARC) (P=3.78  10) postsynaptic signalling complexes. In an analysis of 18492 subjects (7907 cases and 10585 controls), case CNVs were enriched for members of the NMDAR complex (P=0.0015) but not ARC (P=0.14). Our data indicate that defects in NMDAR postsynaptic signalling and, possibly, ARC complexes, which are known to be important in synaptic plasticity and cognition, play a significant role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Here, we describe the construction and testing of a novel herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) derived oncolytic virus (OV): 34.5ENVE (viral ICP34.5 Expressed by Nestin promotor and Vstat120 Expressing), for the treatment of cancer. This virus showed significant glioma-specific killing and antiangiogenic effects in vitro and in vivo. Treatment of subcutaneous and intracranial glioma-bearing mice with 34.5ENVE showed a significant increase in median survival of mice in four different glioma models. Histology and dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) revealed reduced microvessel density (MVD) and increased tumoral necrosis in 34.5ENVE-treated tumor tissue compared to control OV-treated tumor tissue. Collectively, these results describe the construction, efficacy, and impact on tumor microenvironment of a transcriptionally driven OV armed with Vstat120 gene expression. These preclinical results will facilitate future clinical testing of 34.5ENVE.

About one-third of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are diagnosed with apathy in cross-sectional studies. However, once patients with concomitant depression and dementia are excluded, the frequency of apathy drops to 5% to 10%. Several scales have been recommended to rate apathy in PD, but specific psychiatric interviews have not been developed, and recently proposed standardized diagnostic criteria are still in the validation process. Most studies assessing the association between subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) and apathy have reported a relative increase in the frequency and severity of apathy, although discrepant findings have also been reported. Several mechanisms to explain apathy in PD have been proposed, from dopaminergic imbalances in frontal-basal ganglia circuits to dysfunction of nondopaminergic circuits and the cingulate gyrus. Future studies should provide reliable and valid instruments to diagnose apathy in PD, and should examine the mechanism of apathy accounting for relevant confounders, such as depression and cognitive deficits, and important contextual factors. Finally, treatment for apathy in PD should not be restricted to psychoactive drugs, but should also include nonpharmacological techniques such as psychotherapy and occupational therapy.

The foundations of the clinical classification of movement disorders rest on the precise definition of the words used to describe the disorders. Here we argue that the current use of the term stereotypy falls well short of the precision needed for either clinical or academic use, and fails both to provide a clinically useful diagnostic category and to define a set of conditions that are linked pathophysiologically. The difficulty in defining this concept is not a new one as our review of the history of the term demonstrates. We synthesise this historical background, explore why clinicians have felt it necessary to use the category of stereotypy for certain movements rather than the related category of tics, discuss the multiple uses of the term in current research and clinical practice and on this basis suggest a new definition and classification.






Recent findings highlight a pathologic and functional convergence in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD) at the level of protein recycling and disposal. Genes linked to rare cases of familial ALS and ALS-FTD, like UBQLN2, OPTN, SQSTM1/p62, and VCP, may converge onto a unifying pathogenic pathway and thereby provide novel therapeutic targets common to a spectrum of etiologically diverse forms of ALS and ALS-FTD. Interactions between these genes need to be further explored to understand their common molecular pathways. Future efforts should be directed toward generation and characterization of in vivo models to dissect the pathogenic mechanisms of ALS and ALS-FTD and the role of protein degradation pathways, both centrally, at the cell body, and peripherally, at the level of the synapse. Such efforts will rapidly accelerate the discovery of new drugs that regulate accumulation of pathogenic proteins and their downstream consequences in ALS and ALS-FTD and, possibly, other neurodegenerative diseases as well.
We studied the effects of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) on the electrophysiological properties of cultured mouse chromaffin cells, a model of spontaneously firing cells. The exposure of chromaffin cells to MWCNTs at increasing concentrations (30-263 g/ml) for 24 h reduced, in a dose-dependent way, both the cell membrane input resistance and the number of spontaneously active cells (from 80-52%). Active cells that survived from the toxic effects of MWCNTs exhibited more positive resting potentials, higher firing frequencies and unaltered voltage-gated Ca(2+), Na(+) and K+ current amplitudes. MWCNTs slowed down the inactivation kinetics of Ca(2+)-dependent BK channels. These electrophysiological effects were accompanied by MWCNTs internalization, as confirmed by transmission electron microscopy, indicating that most of the toxic effects derive from a dose-dependent MWCNTs-cell interaction that damages the spontaneous cell activity.

In short-term memory networks, transient stimuli are represented by patterns of neural activity that persist long after stimulus offset. Here, we compare the performance of two prominent classes of memory networks, feedback-based attractor networks and feedforward networks, in conveying information about the amplitude of a briefly presented stimulus in the presence of gaussian noise. Using Fisher information as a metric of memory performance, we find that the optimal form of network architecture depends strongly on assumptions about the forms of nonlinearities in the network. For purely linear networks, we find that feedforward networks outperform attractor networks because noise is continually removed from feedforward networks when signals exit the network; as a result, feedforward networks can amplify signals they receive faster than noise accumulates over time. By contrast, attractor networks must operate in a signal-attenuating regime to avoid the buildup of noise. However, if the amplification of signals is limited by a finite dynamic range of neuronal responses or if noise is reset at the time of signal arrival, as suggested by recent experiments, we find that attractor networks can outperform feedforward ones. Under a simple model in which neurons have a finite dynamic range, we find that the optimal attractor networks are forgetful if there is no mechanism for noise reduction with signal arrival but nonforgetful (perfect integrators) in the presence of a strong reset mechanism. Furthermore, we find that the maximal Fisher information for the feedforward and attractor networks exhibits power law decay as a function of time and scales linearly with the number of neurons. These results highlight prominent factors that lead to trade-offs in the memory performance of networks with different architectures and constraints, and suggest conditions under which attractor or feedforward networks may be best suited to storing information about previous stimuli.
Stochastic event synchrony (SES) is a recently proposed family of similarity measures. First, &quot;events&quot; are extracted from the given signals; next, one tries to align events across the different time series. The better the alignment, the more similar the N time series are considered to be. The similarity measures quantify the reliability of the events (the fraction of &quot;nonaligned&quot; events) and the timing precision. So far, SES has been developed for pairs of one-dimensional (Part I) and multidimensional (Part II) point processes. In this letter (Part III), SES is extended from pairs of signals to N &gt; 2 signals. The alignment and SES parameters are again determined through statistical inference, more specifically, by alternating two steps: (1) estimating the SES parameters from a given alignment and (2), with the resulting estimates, refining the alignment. The SES parameters are computed by maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation (step 1), in analogy to the pairwise case. The alignment (step2) is solved by linear integer programming. In order to test the robustness and reliability of the proposed N-variate SES method, it is first applied to synthetic data. We show that N-variate SES results in more reliable estimates than bivariate SES. Next N-variate SES is applied to two problems in neuroscience: to quantify the firing reliability of Morris-Lecar neurons and to detect anomalies in EEG synchrony of patients with mild cognitive impairment. Those problems were also considered in Parts I and II, respectively. In both cases, the N-variate SES approach yields a more detailed analysis.
As neural activity is transmitted through the nervous system, neuronal noise degrades the encoded information and limits performance. It is therefore important to know how information loss can be prevented. We study this question in the context of neural population codes. Using Fisher information, we show how information loss in a layered network depends on the connectivity between the layers. We introduce an algorithm, reminiscent of the water filling algorithm for Shannon information that minimizes the loss. The optimal connection profile has a center-surround structure with a spatial extent closely matching the neurons' tuning curves. In addition, we show how the optimal connectivity depends on the correlation structure of the trial-to-trial variability in the neuronal responses. Our results explain how optimal communication of population codes requires the center-surround architectures found in the nervous system and provide explicit predictions on the connectivity parameters.
Cortico-basalganglio-thalamic loops are involved in both cognitive processes and motor control. We present a biologically meaningful computational model of how these loops contribute to the organization of working memory and the development of response behavior. Via reinforcement learning in basal ganglia, the model develops flexible control of working memory within prefrontal loops and achieves selection of appropriate responses based on working memory content and visual stimulation within a motor loop. We show that both working memory control and response selection can evolve within parallel and interacting cortico-basalganglio-thalamic loops by Hebbian and three-factor learning rules. Furthermore, the model gives a coherent explanation for how complex strategies of working memory control and response selection can derive from basic cognitive operations that can be learned via trial and error.
Tau is an abundant cytosolic protein which regulates cytoskeletal stability by associating with microtubules in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. We have found a significant proportion of tau is located in the membrane fraction of rat cortical neurons and is dephosphorylated, at least at Tau-1 (Ser199/Ser202), AT8 (Ser199/Ser202/Thr205) and PHF-1 (Ser396/Ser404) epitopes. Inhibition of tau kinases casein kinase 1 (CK1) or glycogen synthase kinase-3 decreased tau phosphorylation and significantly increased amounts of tau in the membrane fraction. Mutation of serine/threonine residues to glutamate to mimic phosphorylation in the N-terminal, but not C-terminal, region of tau prevented its membrane localization in transfected cells, demonstrating that the phosphorylation state of tau directly impacts its localization. Inhibiting CK1 in neurons lacking the tyrosine kinase fyn also induced tau dephosphorylation but did not affect its membrane association. Furthermore, inhibition of CK1 increased binding of neuronal tau to the fyn-SH3 domain. We conclude that trafficking of tau between the cytosol and the neuronal membrane is dynamically regulated by tau phosphorylation through a mechanism dependent on fyn expression.
Aging is associated with impairments in learning and memory and a greater incidence of limbic seizures. These changes in the aged brain have been associated with increased excitability of hippocampal pyramidal cells caused by a reduced number of gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic (GABAergic) interneurons. To better understand these issues, we performed cell counts of GABAergic interneurons and examined GABA efflux and GABAergic inhibition in area CA1 of the hippocampus of young (3-5 months) and aged (26-30 months) rats. Aging significantly reduced high K(+)/Ca(2+)-evoked GABA, but not glutamate efflux in area CA1. Immunostaining revealed a significant loss of GABAergic interneurons, but not inhibitory boutons in stratum oriens and stratum lacunosum moleculare. Somatostatin-immunoreactive oriens-lacunosum moleculare (O-LM) cells, but not parvalbumin-containing interneurons were selectively lost. Oriens-lacunosum moleculare cells project to distal dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells, providing dendritic inhibition. Accordingly, inhibition of dendritic input to CA1 from entorhinal cortex was selectively reduced. These findings suggest that the age-dependent loss of interneurons impairs dendritic inhibition and dysregulates entorhinal cortical input to CA1, potentially contributing to cognitive impairment and seizures.
We randomly assigned 23 older adults with mild cognitive impairment to either a high carbohydrate or very low carbohydrate diet. Following the 6-week intervention period, we observed improved verbal memory performance for the low carbohydrate subjects (p = 0.01) as well as reductions in weight (p &lt; 0.0001), waist circumference (p &lt; 0.0001), fasting glucose (p = 0.009), and fasting insulin (p = 0.005). Level of depressive symptoms was not affected. Change in calorie intake, insulin level, and weight were not correlated with memory performance for the entire sample, although a trend toward a moderate relationship between insulin and memory was observed within the low carbohydrate group. Ketone levels were positively correlated with memory performance (p = 0.04). These findings indicate that very low carbohydrate consumption, even in the short term, can improve memory function in older adults with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. While this effect may be attributable in part to correction of hyperinsulinemia, other mechanisms associated with ketosis such as reduced inflammation and enhanced energy metabolism also may have contributed to improved neurocognitive function. Further investigation of this intervention is warranted to evaluate its preventive potential and mechanisms of action in the context of early neurodegeneration.
Neuronal loss in the locus coeruleus (LC) is 1 of the early pathological events in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Projections of noradrenergic neurons of the LC innervate the olfactory bulb (OB). Because olfactory deficits have been reported in early AD, we investigated the effect of induced LC degeneration on olfactory memory and discrimination in an AD mouse model. LC degeneration was induced by treating APP/PS1 mice with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-bromo-benzylamine (DSP4) repeatedly between 3 and 12 months of age. Short term odor retention, ability for spontaneous habituation to an odor, and spontaneous odor discrimination were assessed by behavioral tests. DSP4 treatment in APP/PS1 mice resulted in an exacerbation of short term olfactory memory deficits and more discrete weakening of olfactory discrimination abilities, suggesting that LC degeneration contributes to olfactory deficits observed in AD. Importantly, DSP4 treatment also increased amyloid  (A) deposition in the olfactory bulb of APP/PS1 mice, which correlated with olfactory memory, not with discrimination deficits.
Insertion and deletion variants (indels) within poly glycine tracts of fused in sarcoma (FUS) were initially reported as causative of disease in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Subsequent studies identified similar indels in controls and suggested that these indels may confer susceptibility to ALS. We aimed to elucidate the role of previously published and novel exonic indels in FUS in an extensive cohort of 630 ALS patients and 1063 controls. We detected indels in FUS exons 5, 6, 12, and 14 with similar frequencies in patients (0.95%) and controls (0.75%). Exonic indels in poly glycine tracts were also observed with similar frequencies. The largest indel (p.Gly138_Tyr143del) was observed in 1 control. In 1 patient, a 3 base pair deletion in exon 14 (p.Gly475del) was identified, however in vitro studies did not reveal abnormal localization of p.Gly475del mutant FUS. These findings suggest that not all exonic indels in FUS cause disease.
Aged rhesus monkeys exhibit deficits in hippocampus-dependent memory, similar to aging humans. Here we explored the basis of cognitive decline by first testing young adult and aged monkeys on a standard recognition memory test (delayed nonmatching-to-sample test; DNMS). Next we quantified synaptic density and morphology in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) outer (OML) and inner molecular layer (IML). Consistent with previous findings, aged monkeys were slow to learn DNMS initially, and they performed significantly worse than young subjects when challenged with longer retention intervals. Although OML and IML synaptic parameters failed to differ across the young and aged groups, the density of perforated synapses in the OML was coupled with recognition memory accuracy. Independent of chronological age, monkeys classified on the basis of menses data as peri- or post-menopausal scored worse on DNMS, and displayed lower OML perforated synapse density, than premenopausal monkeys. These results suggest that naturally occurring reproductive senescence potently influences synaptic connectivity in the DG OML, contributing to individual differences in the course of normal cognitive aging.
The authors investigated relationships between glucose metabolism, amyloid load, and measures of cognitive and functional impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients meeting criteria for probable AD underwent (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh Compound-B ([(11)C]PIB) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and were assessed on a set of clinical measures. The Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) Distribution volume ratios and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) scans were spatially normalized and average PIB counts from regions-of-interest (ROI) were used to compute a measure of global PIB uptake. Separate voxel-wise regressions explored local and global relationships between metabolism, amyloid burden, and clinical measures. Regressions reflected cognitive domains assessed by individual measures, with visuospatial tests associated with more posterior metabolism, and language tests associated with metabolism in the left hemisphere. Correlating regional FDG uptake with these measures confirmed these findings. In contrast, no correlations were found between either voxel-wise or regional PIB uptake and any of the clinical measures. Finally, there were no associations between regional PIB and FDG uptake. We conclude that regional and global amyloid burden does not correlate with clinical status or glucose metabolism in AD.
In this study we identified 62 estrogen receptor alpha (ER) mRNA splice variants in different human brain areas of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control cases and classified them into 12 groups. Forty-eight of these splice forms were identified for the first time. The distribution of alternatively spliced ER mRNAs was brain area- and case-specific. The dominant negative deletion (del.) 7 isoform appeared to be the major splice variant. The average number of ER splice forms per brain area was lower in AD cases compared with controls, although the incidence of large deletions with alternative usage of 5' and 3' splice sites inside exons was more frequent in AD female cases. Relative transcription levels of del. 7 and del. 2 (missing exon 2) variants were decreased in the temporal cortex of AD patients, whereas the expression of the wild type ER mRNA did not change. Our data show that alternative splicing of ER mRNA is diminished in the AD brain and more prominently in AD female cases.
Aging causes anatomical and functional changes in visual and circadian systems. In wild type mice rods, cones, and photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (pRGCs) decline with age. In rd/rd cl mice, the early loss of rods and cones is followed by protracted transneuronal loss of inner retinal neurons as well as the pRGCs. Here we use Fos induction to study the light input pathway to the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the intergeniculate leaflets (IGL) and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei (vLGN) of old (700 days) and young (150 days) wild type and rd/rd cl mice. Cholera toxin tracing was used in parallel to study the anatomy of this pathway. We find that aging rather than retinal degeneration is a more important factor in reducing light input to the SCN, causing both a reduction in Fos expression and retinal afferents. Furthermore, we show light-induced Fos within the vLGN and IGL is predominantly subserved by rods and cones, and once again aging reduces the amplitude of this response.
Compared with apoE3, apoE4 is associated with increased risk to develop age-related cognitive decline, particularly in women. In this study, young, middle-aged, and old female mice expressing human apoE under control of the mouse apoE promoter were behaviorally analyzed. Cognitive performance in the water maze decreased with age in all mice. Compared with apoE2 and apoE3 mice, apoE4 mice showed better cognitive performance and higher measures of anxiety than apoE2 and apoE3 mice. Measures of anxiety correlated with cognitive performance in the water maze and passive avoidance tests and might have contributed to the enhanced cognitive performance of the apoE4 mice. ApoE4 mice showed better water maze learning and higher cortical apoE levels than mice expressing apoE4 in astrocytes under control of the GFAP promoter. This was not seen in apoE3 mice. There were no line differences in either genotype in spatial memory retention in the probe trial following the last day of hidden platform training. Thus, the promoter used to express apoE4 critically modulates its effects on brain function.
We investigated the possible involvement of vascular damage in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), by assessment of plasma levels of tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), a serine protease inhibitor induced by endothelial injury, and homocysteine (Hcy), a known risk factor for cerebrovascular disorders, folate levels were also measured. 110 probable AD, 38 mild cognitive impairment, 31 patients affected by idiopathic Parkinson's disease (without dementia) and 100 healthy controls, who displayed no vascular disorders were enrolled. TFPI and Hcy were significantly higher in AD patients with respect to other groups. The levels of TFPI and Hcy were positively correlated in hyperhomocysteinemic AD and mild cognitive impairment subjects, and were negatively correlated with folate levels. Our findings suggest that an impairment of endothelial function associated with high Hcy levels may occur in AD patients, despite the absence of manifest cerebrovascular lesions. Therefore, TFPI may represent a candidate marker of endothelial damage in AD and might be used for the identification and monitoring of patients that would benefit from folate supplementation treatment.
Reductions in dendritic arbor length and complexity are among the most consistently replicated changes in neuronal structure in post mortem studies of cerebral cortical samples from subjects with schizophrenia, however, the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been identified. This study is the first to identify an alteration in a regulatory protein which is known to promote both dendritic length and arborization in developing neurons, Kalirin-9. We found Kalirin-9 expression to be paradoxically increased in schizophrenia. We followed up this observation by overexpressing Kalirin-9 in mature primary neuronal cultures, causing reduced dendritic length and complexity. Kalirin-9 overexpression represents a potential mechanism for dendritic changes seen in schizophrenia.
Cognitive impairment in Down syndrome (DS) involves the hippocampus. In the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS, deficits in hippocampus-dependent learning and synaptic plasticity were linked to enhanced inhibition. However, the mechanistic basis of changes in inhibitory efficiency remains largely unexplored, and efficiency of the GABAergic synaptic neurotransmission has not yet been investigated in direct electrophysiological experiments. To investigate this important feature of neurobiology of DS, we examined synaptic and molecular properties of the GABAergic system in the dentate gyrus (DG) of adult Ts65Dn mice. Both GABAA and GABAB receptor-mediated components of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were significantly increased in Ts65Dn vs. control (2N) DG granule cells. These changes were unaccompanied by alterations in hippocampal levels of GABAA (1, 2, 3, 5 and 2) or GABAB (Gbr1a and Gbr1b) receptor subunits. Immunoreactivity for GAD65, a marker for GABAergic terminals, was also unchanged. In contrast, there was a marked change in functional parameters of GABAergic synapses. Paired stimulations showed reduced paired-pulse ratios of both GABAA and GABAB receptor-mediated IPSC components (IPSC2/IPSC1), suggesting an increase in presynaptic release of GABA. Consistent with increased gene dose, the level of the Kir3.2 subunit of potassium channels, effectors for postsynaptic GABAB receptors, was increased. This change was associated with enhanced postsynaptic GABAB/Kir3.2 signaling following application of the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen. Thus, both GABAA and GABAB receptor-mediated synaptic efficiency is increased in the Ts65Dn DG, thus likely contributing to deficient synaptic plasticity and poor learning in DS.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterised by progressive motor, psychological and cognitive decline. R6/1 HD transgenic mice model the clinical hippocampal-dependent cognitive deficits observed in patients. Cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal projections play important roles in hippocampal-dependent cognition. The current study examined neuronal activity of cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal projections in response to arousal elicited during differing behavioural states. The different behavioural states examined were; home cage (controls), acute exploration of a novel enriched environment and either spontaneous wakefulness (dark phase) or spontaneous sleep (light phase). We employed triple-label immunohistochemistry using c-Fos as an indirect marker of neuron activation and parvalbumin and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) to label GABAergic and cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, respectively. The Y-maze was used to assess short-term hippocampal-dependent memory independently during either the dark or light phase and revealed a memory deficit in R6/1 HD mice compared to wild types that was particularly prominent during the dark phase. Three-way ANOVA of basal forebrain cholinergic and GABAergic activity through co-expression of c-Fos revealed overt responses to differing behavioural states. Both genotypes increased cholinergic neuron activity in response to exploring a novel enriched environment and also an increase during the dark phase compared to the light phase. Novel enriched environment exploration caused a larger response of GABAergic neuron activity in R6/1 HD mice, which also failed to increase the activity of GABAergic neurons during the dark phase compared to the light phase as observed for wildtype mice. Basal levels of c-Fos-positive cells were greatly increased in the hippocampal granule cell layer of R6/1 HD mice during both circadian phases. The differential activation of septohippocampal cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in R6/1 HD mice in response to differing behavioural states may be associated with impaired hippocampal-dependent short-term memory.
Senktide, a potent neurokinin-3 receptor (NK3-R) agonist, increases acetylcholine (ACh) release in the striatum, the prefrontal cortex (Schble et al., 2011), the amygdala and hippocampus, presumably via postsynaptic mechanisms. A promnestic action of NK3-R agonists has been described in a variety of learning/memory tasks. The memory-enhancing effects of NK3-R agonists and their activating influence on ACh suggest a possible role of the NK3-R in learning and memory via cholinergic modulation. Deterioration of the cholinergic system in the basal forebrain has been associated with learning and memory deficits and cholinergic agents have promnestic effects in a variety of learning paradigms. The anticholinergic drug, scopolamine, a muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist, incurs deficits in a variety of learning tasks and provides a useful tool to investigate the role of the cholinergic systems in mechanisms underlying learning and memory. The aim of this study was to ascertain the effect of the NK3-R agonist, senktide, in the scopolamine-induced deficit model. We hypothesized that senktide treatment would attenuate scopolamine-induced (subcutaneous--s.c. 0.75 mg/kg) memory impairment in three novelty preference paradigms based on spontaneous object exploration: namely object recognition, object-place recognition and object recognition for temporal order. Administration of senktide reversed the scopolamine-induced memory deficits by re-establishing object recognition (s.c. 0.2 mg/kg), object-place recognition (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg), as well as object recognition for temporal order (0.4 mg/kg) in adult Wistar rats. These results indicate memory enhancing effects of senktide in animals subjected to scopolamine-induced memory impairments and indicate that the promnestic action of NK3-R agonists is mediated by muscarinic cholinergic mechanisms.
The positive impact of sleep on memory consolidation has been shown for human subjects in numerous studies, but there is still sparse knowledge on this topic in rats, one of the most prominent model species in neuroscience research. Here, we examined the role of sleep in the object-place recognition task, a task closely comparable to tasks typically applied for testing human declarative memory: It is a one-trial task, hippocampus-dependent, not stressful and can be repeated within the same animal. A test session consisted of the Sample trial, followed by a 2-h retention interval and a Test trial, the latter examining the memory the rat had for the places of two objects presented at the Sample trial. In Experiment 1, each rat was tested twice, with the retention interval taking place either in the morning or evening, i.e., in the inactive or active phase, respectively. Rats showed significantly (p&lt;0.01) better memory for object place after the Morning session. To control for confounding circadian factors, in Experiment 2 rats were tested four times, i.e., in the morning or in the evening while sleep was or was not deprived. Sleep during the retention interval was recorded polysomnographically. Rats only showed significant memory for the target object place in the Test trial after the Morning retention interval in the absence of sleep deprivation, and recognition performance in this condition was significantly superior to that in the three other conditions (p&lt;0.05). EEG recordings during spontaneous morning sleep revealed increased slow oscillation (0.85-2.0 Hz) and upper delta (2.0-4.0 Hz), but reduced spindle band (10.5-13.5 Hz) activity, as compared to evening sleep. However, spindle band power was increased in the Morning retention interval in comparison to a Morning Baseline period (p&lt;0.05). We conclude that consolidation of object-place memory depends on sleep, and presumably requires NonREM sleep rich in both slow wave and spindle activity.
A case report is presented detailing the successful use of awake intraoperative memory testing while using white matter stimulation in order to isolate the fornix tracks involved in memory function. The identification of the white matter tracks of the fornix that were involved in memory function was used to tailor the neurosurgical resection of a third ventricle tumor that was impinging on the fornix in order to successfully preserve memory functioning in the patient.
We investigated the effect of CDP-choline on brain plasticity markers expression in the acute phase of cerebral infarct in an experimental animal model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) and treated or not with CDP-choline (500 mg/kg) daily for 14 days starting 30 min after pMCAO. Functional status was evaluated with Roger's test; lesion volume with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and hematoxylin and eosin staining (H&amp;E); cell death with TUNEL; cellular proliferation with BrdU immunohistochemistry; vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) by immunofluorescence and Western-blot techniques. CDP-choline significantly improved functional recovery and decreased lesion volume on MRI, TUNEL-positive cell number and LRP levels at 14 days. In addition, CDP-choline significantly increased BrdU, VEGF and synaptophysin values and decreased GFAP levels in the peri-infarct zone compared with the infarct group. In conclusion, our data indicate that CDP-choline improved functional recovery after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in association with reductions in lesion volume, cell death and LRP expression. In fact, CDP-choline increased cell proliferation, vasculogenesis and synaptophysin levels and reduced GFAP levels in the peri-infarct area of the ischemic stroke.
The destruction of blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-nerve barrier (BNB) has been considered to be a key step in the disease process of a number of neurological disorders including cerebral ischemia, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and diabetic neuropathy. Although glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) facilitate neuronal or axonal regeneration in the brain or peripheral nerves, their action in the BBB and BNB remains unclear. The purpose of the present study was to elucidate whether these neurotrophic factors secreted from the brain or peripheral nerve pericytes increase the barrier function of the BBB or BNB, using our newly established human brain microvascular endothelial cell (BMEC) line or peripheral nerve microvascular endothelial cell (PnMEC) line. GDNF increased the expression of claudin-5 and the transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) of BMECs and PnMECs, whereas BDNF did not have this effect. Furthermore, we herein demonstrate that the GDNF secreted from the brain and peripheral nerve pericytes was one of the key molecules responsible for the up-regulation of claudin-5 expression and the TEER value in the BBB and BNB. These results indicate that the regulation of GDNF secreted from pericytes may therefore be a novel therapeutic strategy to modify the BBB or BNB functions and promote brain or peripheral nerve regeneration.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by selective degeneration and loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) of the ventral mid brain leading to dopamine depletion in the striatum. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage have been implicated in the death of SN neurons during the evolution of PD. In our previous study on human PD brains, we observed that compared to SN, striatum was significantly protected against oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction. To understand whether brain aging contributes to the vulnerability of midbrain to neurodegeneration in PD compared to striatum, we assessed the status of oxidant and antioxidant markers, glutathione metabolic enzymes, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression and mitochondrial complex I(CI) activity in SN (n = 23) and caudate nucleus (n = 24) during physiological aging in human brains. We observed a significant increase in protein oxidation (P &lt; 0.001), loss of CI activity (P = 0.04) and increased astrocytic proliferation indicated by GFAP expression (P &lt; 0.001) in SN compared to CD with increasing age. These changes were attributed to significant decrease in antioxidant function represented by superoxide dismutase (SOD) (P = 0.03), glutathione (GSH) peroxidase (GPx) (P = 0.02) and GSH reductase (GR) (P = 0.03) and a decreasing trend in total GSH and catalase with increasing age. However, these parameters were relatively unaltered in CD. We propose that SN undergoes extensive oxidative damage, loss of antioxidant and mitochondrial function and increased GFAP expression during physiological aging which might make it more vulnerable to neurotoxic insults thus contributing to selective degeneration during evolution of PD.
In high-grade glioma surgery, several techniques are used to achieve the maximum cytoreductive treatment preserving neurological functions. However, the effectiveness of all the methods used alone is reduced by specific limitations of each. We assessed the reliability of a multimodal strategy based on 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) and neuronavigation. We prospectively studied 18 patients with suspected, non eloquent-area malignant gliomas amenable for complete resection. Conventional illumination was used until the excision appeared complete. The cavity was then systematically inspected in violet-blue light to identify any residual tumour. Multiple biopsies of both fluorescent and non-fluorescent tissue were performed in all cases. Each specimen was labelled according to the sampling location (inside or outside the boundary set by the neuronavigator). The samples were analysed by a neuropathologist blinded to the intraoperative classification. We reviewed the results of both methods, either singly or in combination. Individual analysis showed higher 5-ALA reliability compared to neuronavigation. However, several false-negative fluorescent specimens were detected. With the combined use of fluorescence and neuroimaging, only 1 sample (negative for both 5-ALA and navigation) was tumoral tissue. In our experience, the combined approach showed the best sensitivity and it is recommended in cases of lesions involving non-eloquent areas.

Advanced hemodynamic monitoring is necessary for many patients with acute brain and/or spinal cord injury. Optimizing cerebral and systemic physiology requires multi-organ system function monitoring. Hemodynamic manipulations are cardinal among interventions to regulate cerebral perfusion pressure and cerebral blood flow. The pulmonary artery catheter is not any more the sole tool available; less invasive and potentially more accurate methodologies have been developed and employed in the operating room and among diverse critically ill populations. These include transpulmonary thermodilution, arterial pressure pulse contour, and waveform analysis and bedside critical care ultrasound. A thorough understanding of hemodynamics and of the available monitoring modalities is an essential skill for the neurointensivist.

Mutations in the gene encoding the neural cell adhesion molecule L1CAM cause several neurological disorders collectively referred to as L1 syndrome. We report here a family case of X-linked hydrocephalus in which an obligate female carrier has two exonic L1CAM missense mutations in trans substituting amino acids in the first (p.W635C) or second (p.V768I) fibronectin-type III domains. We performed various biochemical and cell biological in vitro assays to evaluate the pathogenicity of these variants. Mutant L1-W635C protein accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), is not transported into axons, and fails to promote L1CAM-mediated cell-cell adhesion as well as neurite growth. Immunoprecipitation experiments show that L1-W635C associates with the molecular ER chaperone calnexin and is modified by poly-ubiquitination. The mutant L1-V768I protein localizes at the cell surface, is not retained in the ER, and promotes neurite growth similar to wild-type L1CAM. However, the p.V768I mutation impairs L1CAM-mediated cell-cell adhesion albeit less severe than L1-W635C. These data indicate that p.W635C is a novel loss-of-function L1 syndrome mutation. The p.V768I mutation may represent a non-pathogenic variant or a variant associated with low penetrance. The poly-ubiquitination of L1-W635C and its association with the ER chaperone calnexin provide further insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying defective cell surface trafficking of L1CAM in L1 syndrome.
Spontaneous activity in the resting human brain has been studied extensively; however, how such activity affects the local processing of a sensory stimulus is relatively unknown. Here, we examined the impact of spontaneous activity in primary visual cortex on neuronal and behavioural responses to a simple visual stimulus, using functional MRI. Stimulus-evoked responses remained essentially unchanged by spontaneous fluctuations, combining with them in a largely linear fashion (i.e., with little evidence for an interaction). However, interactions between spontaneous fluctuations and stimulus-evoked responses were evident behaviourally; high levels of spontaneous activity tended to be associated with increased stimulus detection at perceptual threshold. Our results extend those found in studies of spontaneous fluctuations in motor cortex and higher order visual areas, and suggest a fundamental role for spontaneous activity in stimulus processing.

Alterations in cerebral perfusion and metabolism in Parkinson's disease have been assessed in several studies, using nuclear imaging techniques and more recently magnetic resonance imaging. However, to date there is no consensus in the literature regarding the extent and the magnitude of these alterations. In this work, arterial spin labeled perfusion MRI was employed to quantify absolute cerebral blood flow in a group of early-to-moderate Parkinson's disease patients and age-matched healthy controls. Perfusion comparisons between the two groups showed that Parkinson's disease is characterized by wide-spread cortical hypoperfusion. Subcortically, hypoperfusion was also found in the caudate nucleus. This pattern of hypoperfusion could be related to cognitive dysfunctions that have been previously observed even at the disease early stages. The present results were obtained by means of whole brain voxel-wise comparisons of absolute perfusion values, using statistical parametric mapping, thus avoiding the potentially biased global mean normalization procedure. In addition, this work demonstrates that between-group comparison of relative perfusion values after global mean normalization, introduced artifactual relative perfusion increases, where absolute perfusion was in fact preserved. This has implications for perfusion studies of other brain disorders.
The cerebellum is thought to be engaged not only in motor control, but also in the neural network dedicated to visual processing of body motion. However, the pattern of connectivity within this network, in particular, between the cortical circuitry for observation of others' actions and the cerebellum remains largely unknown. By combining functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with functional connectivity analysis and dynamic causal modelling (DCM), we assessed cerebro-cerebellar connectivity during a visual perceptual task with point-light displays depicting human locomotion. In the left lateral cerebellum, regions in the lobules Crus I and VIIB exhibited increased fMRI response to biological motion. The outcome of the connectivity analyses delivered the first evidence for reciprocal communication between the left lateral cerebellum and the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS). Through communication with the right posterior STS that is a key node not only for biological motion perception but also for social interaction and visual tasks on theory of mind, the left cerebellum might be involved in a wide range of social cognitive functions.
Diffusion imaging of post-mortem brains could provide valuable data for validation of diffusion tractography of white matter pathways. Long scans (e.g., overnight) may also enable high-resolution diffusion images for visualization of fine structures. However, alterations to post-mortem tissue (T2 and diffusion coefficient) present significant challenges to diffusion imaging with conventional diffusion-weighted spin echo (DW-SE) acquisitions, particularly for imaging human brains on clinical scanners. Diffusion-weighted steady-state free precession (DW-SSFP) has been proposed as an alternative acquisition technique to ameliorate this tradeoff in large-bore clinical scanners. In this study, both DWSE and DW-SSFP are optimized for use in fixed white matter on a clinical 3-Tesla scanner. Signal calculations predict superior performance from DW-SSFP across a broad range of protocols and conditions. DW-SE and DW-SSFP data in a whole, post-mortem human brain are compared for 6- and 12-hour scan durations. Tractography is performed in major projection, commissural and association tracts (corticospinal tract, corpus callosum, superior longitudinal fasciculus and cingulum bundle). The results demonstrate superior tract-tracing from DW-SSFP data, with 6-hour DW-SSFP data performing as well as or better than 12-hour DW-SE scans. These results suggest that DW-SSFP may be a preferred method for diffusion imaging of post-mortem human brains. The ability to estimate multiple fibers in imaging voxels is also demonstrated, again with greater success in DW-SSFP data.
Increasing attention has recently been directed to the applications of pattern recognition and brain imaging techniques in the effective and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, most of the existing research focuses on the use of single-modal (e.g., structural or functional MRI) or single-level (e.g., brain local or connectivity metrics) biomarkers for the diagnosis of AD. In this study, we propose a methodological framework, called multi-modal imaging and multi-level characteristics with multi-classifier (M3), to discriminate patients with AD from healthy controls. This approach involved data analysis from two imaging modalities: structural MRI, which was used to measure regional gray matter volume, and resting-state functional MRI, which was used to measure three different levels of functional characteristics, including the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo) and regional functional connectivity strength (RFCS). For each metric, we computed the values of ninety regions of interest derived from a prior atlas, which were then further trained using a multi-classifier based on four maximum uncertainty linear discriminant analysis base classifiers. The performance of this method was evaluated using leave-one-out cross-validation. Applying the M3 approach to the dataset containing 16 AD patients and 22 healthy controls led to a classification accuracy of 89.47% with a sensitivity of 87.50% and a specificity of 90.91%. Further analysis revealed that the most discriminative features for classification are predominantly involved in several default-mode (medial frontal gyrus, posterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus), occipital (fusiform gyrus, inferior and middle occipital gyrus) and subcortical (amygdale and pallidum of lenticular nucleus) regions. Thus, the M3 method shows promising classification performance by incorporating information from different imaging modalities and different functional properties, and it has the potential to improve the clinical diagnosis and treatment evaluation of AD.
Perception of speech at multiple temporal scales is important for the efficient extraction of meaningful phonological elements. Individuals with developmental dyslexia have difficulty in the accurate neural representation of phonological aspects of speech, across languages. Recently, it was proposed that these difficulties might arise in part because of impaired phase locking to the slower modulations in the speech signal (&lt;10 Hz), which would affect syllabic parsing and segmentation of the speech stream (the &quot;temporal sampling&quot; hypothesis, Goswami, 2011). Here we measured MEG responses to different rates of amplitude modulated white noise in adults with and without dyslexia. In line with the temporal sampling hypothesis, different patterns of phase locking to amplitude modulation at the delta rate of 2 Hz were found when comparing participants with dyslexia to typically-reading participants. Typical readers exhibited better phase locking to slow modulations in right auditory cortex, whereas adults with dyslexia showed more bilateral phase locking. The results suggest that oscillatory phase locking mechanisms for slower temporal modulations are atypical in developmental dyslexia.
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) demonstrates that the subliminal presentation of arousing stimuli can activate subcortical brain regions independently of consciousness-generating top-down cortical modulation loops. Delineating these processes may elucidate mechanisms for arousal, aberration in which may underlie some psychiatric conditions. Here we are the first to review and discuss four Activation Likelihood Estimation (ALE) meta-analyses of fMRI studies using subliminal paradigms. We find a maximum of 9 out of 12 studies using subliminal presentation of faces contributing to activation of the amygdala, and also a significantly high number of studies reporting activation in the bilateral anterior cingulate, bilateral insular cortex, hippocampus and primary visual cortex. Subliminal faces are the strongest modality, whereas lexical stimuli are the weakest. Meta-analyses independent of studies using Regions of Interest (ROI) revealed no biasing effect. Core neuronal arousal in the brain, which may be at first independent of conscious processing, potentially involves a network incorporating primary visual areas, somatosensory, implicit memory and conflict monitoring regions. These data could provide candidate brain regions for the study of psychiatric disorders associated with aberrant automatic emotional processing.
Our ability to reason by analogy facilitates problem solving and allows us to communicate ideas efficiently. In this study, we examined the neural correlates of analogical reasoning and, more specifically, the contribution of rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) to reasoning. This area of the brain has been hypothesized to integrate relational information, as in analogy, or the outcomes of subgoals, as in multi-tasking and complex problem solving. Using fMRI, we compared visuospatial analogical reasoning to a control task that was as complex and difficult as the analogies and required the coordination of subgoals but not the integration of relations. We found that analogical reasoning more strongly activated bilateral RLPFC, suggesting that anterior prefrontal cortex is preferentially recruited by the integration of relational knowledge. Consistent with the need for inhibition during analogy, bilateral, and particularly right, inferior frontal gyri were also more active during analogy. Finally, greater activity in bilateral inferior parietal cortex during the analogy task is consistent with recent evidence for the neural basis of spatial relation knowledge. Together, these findings indicate that a network of frontoparietal areas underlies analogical reasoning; we also suggest that hemispheric differences may emerge depending on the visuospatial or verbal/semantic nature of the analogies.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) are widely used in basic neuroscience and in clinical diagnostic procedures. In contrast, neurophysiological insights from ERPs have been limited, as several different mechanisms lead to ERPs. Apart from stereotypically repeated responses (additive evoked responses), these mechanisms are asymmetric amplitude modulations and phase-resetting of ongoing oscillatory activity. Therefore, a method is needed that differentiates between these mechanisms and moreover quantifies the stability of a response. We propose a constrained subspace independent component analysis that exploits the multivariate information present in the all-to-all relationship of recordings over trials. Our method identifies additive evoked activity and quantifies its stability over trials. We evaluate identification performance for biologically plausible simulation data and two neurophysiological test cases: Local field potential (LFP) recordings from a visuo-motor-integration task in the awake behaving macaque and magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings of steady-state visual evoked fields (SSVEFs). In the LFPs we find additive evoked response contributions in visual areas V2/4 but not in primary motor cortex A4, although visually triggered ERPs were also observed in area A4. MEG-SSVEFs were mainly created by additive evoked response contributions. Our results demonstrate that the identification of additive evoked response contributions is possible both in invasive and in non-invasive electrophysiological recordings.
Despite myriad studies, neurophysiologic mechanisms mediating illusory contour (IC) sensitivity remain controversial. Among the competing models one favors feed-forward effects within lower-tier cortices (V1/V2). Another situates IC sensitivity first within higher-tier cortices, principally lateral-occipital cortices (LOC), with later feedback effects in V1/V2. Still others postulate that LOC are sensitive to salient regions demarcated by the inducing stimuli, whereas V1/V2 effects specifically support IC sensitivity. We resolved these discordances by using misaligned line gratings, oriented either horizontally or vertically, to induce ICs. Line orientation provides an established assay of V1/V2 modulations independently of IC presence, and gratings lack salient regions. Electrical neuroimaging analyses of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) disambiguated the relative timing and localization of IC sensitivity with respect to that for grating orientation. Millisecond-by-millisecond analyses of VEPs and distributed source estimations revealed a main effect of grating orientation beginning at 65 ms post-stimulus onset within the calcarine sulcus that was followed by a main effect of IC presence beginning at 85 ms post-stimulus onset within the LOC. There was no evidence for differential processing of ICs as a function of the orientation of the grating. These results support models wherein IC sensitivity occurs first within the LOC.
Both the pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA) and the right inferior frontal gyrus (rIFG) are important for stopping action outright. These regions are also engaged when preparing to stop. We aimed to elucidate the roles of these regions by harnessing the high spatio-temporal resolution of electrocorticography (ECoG), and by using a task that engages both preparing to stop and stopping outright. First, we validated the task using fMRI in 16 healthy control participants to confirm that both the preSMA and the rIFG were active. Next, we studied a rare patient with intracranial grid coverage of both these regions, using macrostimulation, diffusion tractography, cortico-cortical evoked potentials (CCEPs) and task-based ECoG. Macrostimulation of the preSMA induced behavioral motor arrest. Diffusion tractography revealed a structural connection between the preSMA and rIFG. CCEP analysis showed that stimulation of the preSMA evoked strong local field potentials within 30 ms in rIFG. During the task, when preparing to stop, there was increased high gamma amplitude (~70-250 Hz) in both regions, with preSMA preceding rIFG by ~750 ms. For outright stopping there was also a high gamma amplitude increase in both regions, again with preSMA preceding rIFG. Further, at the time of stopping, there was an increase in beta band activity (~16 Hz) in both regions, with significantly stronger inter-regional coherence for successful vs. unsuccessful stop trials. The results complement earlier reports of a structural/functional action control network between the preSMA and rIFG. They go further by revealing between-region timing differences in the high gamma band when preparing to stop and stopping outright. They also reveal strong between-region coherence in the beta band when stopping is successful. Implications for theories of action control are discussed.
T2*-weighted imaging of the spinal cord suffers from signal dropouts that hamper blood-oxygenation-level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). They are due to field inhomogeneities caused by the different magnetic susceptibilities of the vertebrae and the intervertebral disks that vary periodically along the cord and, thus, cannot be compensated appropriately with conventional (constant) shimming. In this study, a single, slice-specific gradient pulse (&quot;z-shim&quot;) is applied in echo-planar imaging of axial sections in order to compensate for the corresponding through-slice signal dephasing without affecting the acquisition time, i.e. the temporal resolution. Based on a reference acquisition sampling a range of compensation moments, the value yielding the maximum signal amplitude within the spinal cord is determined for each slice. Severe N/2 ghosting for larger compensation moments is avoided by applying the gradient pulse after the corresponding reference echoes. Furthermore, first-order flow compensation in the slice direction of both the slice-selection and the z-shim gradient pulse considerably reduces signal fluctuations in the cerebro-spinal fluid surrounding the spinal cord, i.e. would minimize ringing artifacts in fMRI. Phantom and in vivo experiments show the necessity to use slice-specific compensation moments in the presence of local susceptibility differences. Measurements performed in a group of 24 healthy volunteers at 3T demonstrate that this approach improves T2*-weighted imaging of axial sections of the cervical spinal cord by (i) increasing the signal intensity (overall by about 20%) and (ii) reducing signal intensity variations along the cord (by about 80%). Thus, it may help to improve the feasibility and reliability of fMRI of the spinal cord.
A long-standing issue in non-rigid image registration is the choice of the level of regularisation. Regularisation is necessary to preserve the smoothness of the registration and penalise against unnecessary complexity. The vast majority of existing registration methods use a fixed level of regularisation, which is typically hand-tuned by a user to provide &quot;nice&quot; results. However, the optimal level of regularisation will depend on the data which is being processed; lower signal-to-noise ratios require higher regularisation to avoid registering image noise as well as features, and different pairs of images require registrations of varying complexity depending on their anatomical similarity. In this paper we present a probabilistic registration framework that infers the level of regularisation from the data. An additional benefit of this proposed probabilistic framework is that estimates of the registration uncertainty are obtained. This framework has been implemented using a free-form deformation transformation model, although it would be generically applicable to a range of transformation models. We demonstrate our registration framework on the application of inter-subject brain registration of healthy control subjects from the NIREP database. In our results we show that our framework appropriately adapts the level of regularisation in the presence of noise, and that inferring regularisation on an individual basis leads to a reduction in model over-fitting as measured by image folding while providing a similar level of overlap.
Track-density imaging (TDI) was recently introduced as a method to achieve super-resolution imaging using whole-brain fibre-tracking data (the so called tractogram). A similar approach to achieve super-resolution was later applied for average pathlength mapping (APM). These two methods have in common that the tractogram information is used to create an image with novel contrast and super-resolution properties. In this study, we present a generalised framework for creating super-resolution track-weighted imaging (TWI), where the intensity of the map can be made dependent on any specific property of the streamlines or their set of spatial coordinates. Furthermore, each contrast can be determined by a number of characteristics that are under user control. It is shown that TDI and APM represent specific cases of this generalised framework, and that this framework opens up the possibility of generating a large range of images with novel image contrasts. Finally, it is shown that the same super-resolution principles as those introduced in the original TDI method are also applicable to any of these new images.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) are primary tools of the psychological neurosciences. It is therefore important to understand the relationship between hemodynamic and electrophysiological responses. An early study by Huettel and colleagues found that the coupling of fMRI blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal (BOLD) and subdurally-recorded signal-averaged event-related potentials (ERPs) was not consistent across brain regions. Instead, a growing body of evidence now indicates that hemodynamic changes measured by fMRI reflect non-phase-locked changes in high frequency power rather than the phase-locked ERP. Here, we revisit the data from Huettel and colleagues and measure event-related spectral perturbations (ERSPs) to examine the time course of frequency changes. We found that, unlike the ERP, -ERSP power was consistently coupled with the hemodynamic response across three visual cortical regions. Stimulus duration modulated the BOLD signal and the -ERSP in the peri-calcarine and fusiform cortices, whereas there was no such modulation of either physiological signal in the lateral temporal-occipital cortex. This finding reconciles the original report with the more recent literature and demonstrates that the ERP and ERSP reflect dissociable aspects of neural activity.
Comprehensive information on the spatio-temporal dynamics of the vascular response is needed to underpin the signals used in hemodynamics-based functional imaging. It has recently been shown that red blood cells (RBCs) velocity and its changes can be extracted from wide-field optical imaging recordings of intrinsic absorption changes in cortex. Here, we describe a complete processing work-flow for reliable RBC velocity estimation in cortical networks. Several pre-processing steps are implemented: image co-registration, necessary to correct for small movements of the vasculature, semi-automatic image segmentation for fast and reproducible vessel selection, reconstruction of RBC trajectories patterns for each micro-vessel, and spatio-temporal filtering to enhance the desired data characteristics. The main analysis step is composed of two robust algorithms for estimating the RBCs' velocity field. Vessel diameter and its changes are also estimated, as well as local changes in backscattered light intensity. This full processing chain is implemented with a software suite that is freely distributed. The software uses efficient data management for handling the very large data sets obtained with in vivo optical imaging. It offers a complete and user-friendly graphical user interface with visualization tools for displaying and exploring data and results. A full data simulation framework is also provided in order to optimize the performances of the algorithm with respect to several characteristics of the data. We illustrate the performance of our method in three different cases of in vivo data. We first document the massive RBC speed response evoked by a spreading depression in anesthetized rat somato-sensory cortex. Second, we show the velocity response elicited by a visual stimulation in anesthetized cat visual cortex. Finally, we report, for the first time, visually-evoked RBC speed responses in an extended vascular network in awake monkey extrastriate cortex.
Given the central role of the amygdala in fear perception and expression and its likely abnormality in affective disorders and autism, there is great demand for a technique to measure differences in neurochemistry of the human amygdala. Unfortunately, it is also a technically complex target for magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) due to a small volume, high field inhomogeneity and a shared boundary with hippocampus, which can undergo opposite changes in response to stress. We attempted to achieve reliable PRESS-localized single-voxel MRS at 3T of the isolated human amygdala by using anatomy to guide voxel size and location. We present data from 106 amygdala-MRS sessions from 58 volunteers aged 10 to 52 years, including two tests of one-week stability and a feasibility study in an adolescent sample. Our main outcomes were indices of spectral quality, repeated measurement variability (within- and between-subject standard deviations), and sensitivity to stable individual differences measured by intra-class correlation (ICC). We present metrics of amygdala-MRS reliability for n-acetyl-aspartate, creatine, choline, myo-Inositol, and glutamate+glutamine (Glx). We found that scan quality suffers an age-related difference in field homogeneity and modified our protocol to compensate. We further identified an effect of anatomical inclusion near the endorhinal sulcus, a region of high synaptic density, that contributes up to 29% of within-subject variability across 4 sessions (n=14). Remaining variability in line width but not signal-to-noise also detracts from reliability. Statistical correction for partial inclusion of these strong neurochemical gradients decreases n-acetyl-aspartate reliability from an intraclass correlation of 0.84 to 0.56 for 7-minute acquisitions. This suggests that systematic differences in anatomical inclusion can contribute greatly to apparent neurochemical concentrations and could produce false group differences in experimental studies. Precise, anatomically-based prescriptions that avoid age-related sources of inhomogeneity and use longer scan times may permit study of individual differences in neurochemistry throughout development in this late-maturing structure.
Central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory demyelinating diseases are a group of disorders that include multiple sclerosis, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, and neuromyelitis optica. These conditions may result in emergencies because of severe inflammatory destruction of CNS tissues or complications thereof. Most of these conditions are responsive to appropriate therapy and early diagnosis and treatment leads to better outcomes. We discuss the spectrum of emergencies associated with these disorders, as well as clinical features, investigations, and management.
Hyperemesis gravidarum can impair correct absorption of an adequate amount of thiamine and can cause electrolyte imbalance. This study investigated the neurological complications in a pregnant woman with hyperemesis gravidarum. A 29-year-old pregnant woman was admitted for hyperemesis gravidarum. Besides undernutrition, a neurological examination disclosed weakness with hyporeflexia, ophthalmoparesis, multidirectional nystagmus and optic disks swelling; the patient became rapidly comatose. Brain MRI showed symmetric signal hyperintensity and swelling of periaqueductal area, hypothalamus and mammillary bodies, medial and posterior portions of the thalamus and columns of fornix, consistent with Wernicke encephalopathy (WE). Neurophysiological studies revealed an axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy, likely due to thiamine deficiency or critical illness polyneuropathy. Sodium and potassium supplementation and parenteral thiamine were administered with improvement of consciousness state in a few days. WE evolved in Korsakoff syndrome. A repeat MRI showed a marked improvement of WE-related alterations and a new hyperintense lesion in the pons, suggestive of central pontine myelinolysis. No sign or symptom due to involvement of the pons was present.
A number of MRI studies have shown focal or diffuse cortical gray matter (GM) abnormalities in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, the results of these studies are unclear regarding the cortical regions involved in this condition, perhaps due to the heterogeneity of the PTSD population included or to the differences in the methodology used for the quantification of the brain structures. In this study, we assessed differences in cortical GM volumes between a selected group of 25 drug-naive PTSD patients with history of adulthood trauma and 25 matched non-traumatized controls. Analyses were performed by using two different automated methods: the structural image evaluation using normalization of atrophy (SIENAX) and the voxel-based morphometry (VBM), as we trusted that if these complementary techniques provided similar results, it would increase the confidence in the validity of the assessment. Results of SIENAX and VBM analyses similarly showed that cortical GM volume decreases in PTSD patients when compared to healthy controls, particularly in the frontal and occipital lobes. These decreases seem to correlate with clinical measures. Our findings suggest that in drug-nave PTSD patients with a history of adulthood trauma, brain structural damage is diffuse, with a particular prevalence for the frontal and occipital lobes, and is clinically relevant.
We report on a case of a 80-year-old man who developed progressive drowsiness with headache, fever and signs of meningeal irritation 2 days after a head trauma. Suspecting an infective meningoencephalitis, the patient was treated with wide spectrum antibiotic and antiviral therapy. Brain CT scan revealed a previously unknown pituitary expansive lesion. A brain MRI study confirmed the presence of an intrasellar lesion, which presented remarkable contrast ring enhancement, and showed non-specific inflammatory tissue on the clivus, possibly responsible of the clinical features of sterile meningitis. A biopsy proven diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy was made. This case highlights MRI as an important investigation for earlier recognition of pituitary apoplexy that can present with a clinical picture resembling an infective meningoencephalitis.
We present the case of a 48-year old female patient with a history of migraine without aura, who also reported a headache triggered by a Valsalva manoeuvre, peculiarly performed with her head bent forward below her knees. By this position, she could obtain temporary relief from a persistent cacosmia of unknown etiology that had developed about 20 years earlier. A possible pathogenic mechanism for this headache is proposed.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is an unrelenting, sporadic, adult-onset, neurodegenerative disease of unknown aetiology. Its clinically progressive course is characterized by a variable combination of parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia and/or autonomic dysfunction. Neuropathological examination often reveals gross abnormalities of the striatonigral and/or olivopontocerebellar systems, which upon microscopic examination are associated with severe neuronal loss, gliosis, myelin pallor and axonal degeneration. MSA is a member of a diverse group of neurodegenerative disorders termed -synucleinopathies, due to the presence of abnormal -synuclein positive cytoplasmic inclusions in oligodendrocytes, termed glial cytoplasmic inclusions. These are the hallmark neuropathological lesion of MSA and are thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of the disease. In this review, neuropathological features of MSA are described in detail, along with recent advances in the pathophysiology and genetics of the disease. Our current knowledge of the expression and accumulation of -synuclein, and efforts to model the disease in vitro and in vivo, are emphasized in this paper and have helped formulate a working hypothesis for the pathogenesis of MSA.

Neuronal/glioneuronal tumors are uncommon neoplasms of the CNS with frequent association with refractory epilepsy. Reports documenting the entire spectrum of neuronal/glioneuronal tumors are scarce in the literature. Zulch etal. from Germany in a large series reported that neuronal/glioneuronal tumors accounted for 0.4% (38/9000 cases) of all brain tumors, with similar incidence reported from Japan (0.4%), with higher incidence from Korea (2.1%). However, data from the Indian subcontinent are lacking. We reviewed 244 cases of neuronal/glioneuronal tumors of the CNS diagnosed over the last decade at our Institute and they constituted 0.86% of all CNS tumors (244/28061) received in that period. Mean age at presentation was 25.06 years (range: 1-75 years) with male preponderance (M:F=1.54:1). The majority occurred in third decade (76 cases, 31.4%), with only few cases occurring beyond fifth decade (13 cases, 5.3%). Ganglioglioma/gangliocytoma (94 cases, 38.52%) was the most frequent followed by central neurocytoma (86 cases, 35.24%), paraganglioma (32 cases, 13.52%), dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNET) (21 cases, 8.6%), desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma/desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma (DIA/DIG) (6 cases, 2.45%), papillary glioneuronal tumor (PGNT) (3 cases, 1.22%) and rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor (RGNT) (1 case, 0.4%). Association with seizures was noted in 40.95% of cases. Glioneuronal tumors are an expanding group of tumors with varying spectra of morphologic patterns and biological behavior. An improved understanding has direct clinical implications for optimizing current treatments and developing novel therapeutic approaches. Although most glioneuronal tumors carry a favorable prognosis, other factors such as inaccessibility to surgical resection and rarely, malignant transformation, make it difficult to accurately predict the biological behavior based on histopathology alone. Reliable prognostic markers remain to be defined.
Down syndrome is the most common genetic disorder associated with mental retardation. Subjects and mice models for Down syndrome (such as Ts65Dn) show defects in the formation of neuronal networks in both the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. The principal neurons display alterations in the morphology, density and distribution of dendritic spines in the cortex as well as in the hippocampus. Several evidences point to the possibility that the atrophy observed in principal neurons could be mediated by changes in their inhibitory inputs and, in fact, an imbalance between excitation and inhibition has been observed in Ts65Dn mice in these regions, which are crucial for learning and information processing. These animals have an increased density of interneurons in the primary somatosensory cortex, especially of those expressing calretinin and calbindin D-28k. Here, we have analysed the expression and distribution of several neuropeptides in the primary somatosensory cortex of Ts65Dn mice in order to investigate whether these subpopulations of interneurons are affected. We have observed an increase in the total density of somatostatin expressing interneurons and of those expressing VIP in layer IV in Ts65Dn mice. The typology of the somatostatin and VIP interneurons was unaltered as attested by the pattern of co-expression with other markers. Somatostatin immunoreactive neurons co-express mainly D-28k calbindin and VIP expressing interneurons maintain its pattern of co-expression with calcium binding proteins. These alterations, in case they were also present in subjects with Down syndrome, could be related to their impairment in cognitive profile and could be involved in the neurological defects observed in this disorder.
Reduced sensitivity to aversive effects of methamphetamine (MA) may increase risk for MA abuse. Studies in two replicate sets of mouse lines that were selectively bred for high and low levels of MA intake support this view. Current studies examined the extent of insensitivity to aversive MA effects of mice bred for high levels of MA drinking. Conditioning procedures in which drugs are delivered shortly after cue exposure have been used to detect aversive drug effects and, in some cases, are more sensitive to such effects. Aversive effects induced by MA injected immediately after exposure to cues from two different sensory modalities were examined. In addition, effects of higher MA doses than those used previously were examined. MA-associated place conditioning utilized tactile cues, whereas MA-induced taste conditioning utilized a novel tastant. Second replicate, MA high drinking (MAHDR-2) and low drinking (MALDR-2) mice were treated with doses of MA up to 4 mg/kg. MAHDR-2 mice were insensitive to aversive effects of MA, except after place conditioning with the 4 mg/kg dose; MALDR-2 mice exhibited sensitivity to aversive effects of MA at doses as low as 1 mg/kg. These studies show that the expression of aversion is dependent upon procedure and MA dose, and that MAHDR-2 mice have markedly reduced sensitivity to the aversive effects of MA. The current and previous results support a strong genetic relationship between level of MA intake and level of sensitivity to aversive effects of MA, a factor that could impact risk for MA use in humans. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Chronic methamphetamine (meth) can lead to persisting cognitive deficits in human addicts and animal models of meth addiction. Here, we examined the impact of either contingent or non-contingent meth on memory performance using an object-in-place (OIP) task, which measures the ability to detect an object relative to its location and surrounding objects. Further, we quantified monoamine transporter levels and markers of neurotoxicity within the OIP circuitry and striatum. Male Long-Evans rats received an acute meth binge (4  4 mg/kg i.p., 2 h intervals) or self-administered meth (0.02 mg/infusion, i.v.; 7 days for 1 h/day, followed by 14 days for 6 h/day). Rats were tested for OIP recognition memory following one week of withdrawal. Subsequently, transporters for serotonin (SERT) and norepinephrine (NET) were quantified using Western blot in tissue obtained from the hippocampus, perirhinal cortex, and prefrontal cortex. In addition, striatal dopamine transporters, tyrosine hydroxylase, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were measured to assess potential neurotoxicity. Control (saline-treated) rats spent more time interacting with the objects in the changed locations. In contrast, contingent or non-contingent meth resulted in disrupted OIP performance as seen by similar amounts of time spent with all objects, regardless of location. While only acute meth binge produced signs of neurotoxicity, both meth regimens decreased SERT in the perirhinal cortex and hippocampus. Only meth self-administration resulted in a selective decrease in NET. Meth-induced changes in SERT function in the OIP circuitry may underlie memory deficits independently of overt neurotoxic effects. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
EVP-6124, (R)-7-chloro-N-quinuclidin-3-yl)benzo[b]thiophene-2-carboxamide, is a novel partial agonist of 7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that was evaluated here in vitro and in vivo. In binding and functional experiments, EVP-6124 showed selectivity for 7 nAChRs and did not activate or inhibit heteromeric 42 nAChRs. EVP-6124 had good brain penetration and an adequate exposure time. EVP-6124 (0.3 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly restored memory function in scopolamine-treated rats (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) in an object recognition task (ORT). Although donepezil at 0.1 mg/kg, p.o. or EVP-6124 at 0.03 mg/kg, p.o. did not improve memory in this task, co-administration of these sub-efficacious doses fully restored memory. In a natural forgetting test, an ORT with a 24 h retention time, EVP-6124 improved memory at 0.3 mg/kg, p.o. This improvement was blocked by the selective 7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p. or 10 g, i.c.v.). In co-application experiments of EVP-6124 with acetylcholine, sustained exposure to EVP-6124 in functional investigations in oocytes caused desensitization at concentrations greater than 3 nM, while lower concentrations (0.3-1 nM) caused an increase in the acetylcholine-evoked response. These actions were interpreted as representing a co-agonist activity of EVP-6124 with acetylcholine on 7 nAChRs. The concentrations of EVP-6124 that resulted in physiological potentiation were consistent with the free drug concentrations in brain that improved memory performance in the ORT. These data suggest that the selective partial agonist EVP-6124 improves memory performance by potentiating the acetylcholine response of 7 nAChRs and support new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of cognitive impairment. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
There is growing interest in understanding the neurobiological foundations of attention. To examine whether attentional processes in a change detection task are modulated by dopamine signalling, we investigated the influence of two polymorphisms, i.e. Val158Met (rs4680) in the catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) and a variable number of tandem repeats polymorphism (VNTR, rs28363170) in the dopamine transporter (DAT1). The COMT Met allele, which results in lower enzyme activity and therefore probably enhanced PFC dopamine signalling, was significantly associated with task-performance and modulated executive control: Homozygous Met/Met allele carriers had difficulties when performing a change detection task, particularly showing the greatest difficulties in case cognitive and behavioural flexibility was necessary and the required reaction was not part of the subject's primary task set. Contrary, no difference between the two genotype groups were evident, when an attentional conflict emerged and attentional control was needed for adequate responding. No association with variation in DAT1 was observed. The results indicate a dissociation of the prefrontal and striatal dopamine system for attentional control and behavioural flexibility in a change detection task: While prefrontal dopamine turnover seems to modulate performance, putatively via difficulties in set shifting leading to behavioural inflexibility in COMT Met allele carriers, striatal dopamine turnover seems less important in this regard. With respect to other studies examining mechanisms of attentional functions in different paradigms, the results suggest that behavioural flexibility and attentional control as two executive subprocesses are differentially influenced by genetic polymorphisms within the dopaminergic system. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Treatment with resveratrol (RSV) has been shown to protect vulnerable neurons after various brain injuries and in neurodegenerative diseases. The mechanisms for the effects of RSV in brain are not fully understood, but RSV may affect the expression of various gene products. RSV is structurally related to the synthetic estrogen, diethylstilbestrol so the effects of RSV may be gender-specific. Here we studied the role of RSV in the regulation of dopamine transporter (DAT) in the striatum using male and female mice. The basic levels of DAT in the striatum showed no sex difference, but the levels increased significantly by RSV (20 mg/kg i.p.) in female but not in male mice. Pretreatment of mice with the selective estrogen receptor (ER), ER- and ER antagonist ICI 182,780, led to a complete block of RSV effect on DAT protein levels, suggesting that ERs are involved in the up-regulation of DAT by RSV. Similar data was also obtained in culture using human MESC2.10 and mouse SN4741 dopaminergic cells after treatment with RSV. Data further showed that RSV specifically induced gene transcription of DAT in the dopaminergic cells. These results show that estrogen receptors are involved in the up-regulation of DAT by RSV in the dopaminergic neurons, demonstrating a sex-dependent effect of RSV in the brain that may be of clinical importance. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is involved in intra-cellular signal transduction in various physiological and pathological processes including substance abuse. In the present study, the role of PKC in morphine-induced rewarding memory was investigated using the conditioned place preference (CPP) model. We found a significant translocation of PKCs from cytosol to membrane component in nucleus accumbens (NAc) of morphine-conditioned rats in a dose-dependent manner. The translocation was reduced gradually with the maintenance of morphine-induced CPP. Specifically, the protein level of PKC in membrane of the NAc was increased in morphine CPP rats, and decreased during the attenuation of morphine-induced CPP, while the protein level of PKC in cytosol of the NAc showed an opposite change. Furthermore, the PKC translocation inhibitor V5-3 impaired the morphine-induced CPP when microinjected into the NAc. These findings indicated that PKC, especially the  isoform, is essential for the acquisition and maintenance of morphine-associated reward memory. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Orexin (hypocretin) neuropeptides promote wakefulness by signaling through two G-protein coupled receptors, Orexin 1 Receptor (OX(1)R) and Orexin 2 Receptor (OX(2)R). MK-6096 is an orally bioavailable potent and selective reversible antagonist of OX(1)R and OX(2)R currently in clinical development for insomnia. In radioligand binding and functional cell based assays MK-6096 demonstrated potent binding and antagonism of both human OX(1)R and OX(2)R (&lt;3 nM in binding, 11 nM in FLIPR), with no significant off-target activities against a panel of &gt;170 receptors and enzymes. MK-6096 occupies 90% of human OX(2)Rs expressed in transgenic rats at a plasma concentration of 142 nM, and dose-dependently reduced locomotor activity and significantly increased sleep in rats (3-30 mg/kg) and dogs (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg). DORA-22, an analog of MK-6096, exhibits similar sleep promoting properties that are absent OX(1/2)R double knockouts, demonstrating the mechanism of action and specificity of these effects. These findings with a novel, structurally distinct class of OxR antagonists provide further validation of the orexin pathway as an effective target to promote normal sleep. Comparative analysis of the biochemical and pharmacokinetic properties of these compounds relative to other OXR antagonists provides a basis for understanding the attributes critical for in vivo efficacy. This mechanism is distinct from current standard of care such that MK-6096 represents a novel and selective therapeutic for the treatment of insomnia. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
We have previously demonstrated that the basolateral amygdala (BLA) is a key component of a neural circuit mediating memory formation for emotionally relevant stimuli in an ethologically-based model of conditioned fear, termed conditioned defeat (CD). In this model, subjects are socially defeated by a larger, more aggressive hamster. Upon subsequent exposure to a smaller, non-aggressive intruder, the defeated animal will show high levels of submissive behaviors and fail to defend its territory. Here we examined whether the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), an area with extensive connections with the amygdala, is also a component of this circuit. Temporary inactivation of the mPFC using muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, significantly enhanced the acquisition but not expression of CD, while blockade of GABA(A) receptors in the mPFC using bicuculline, a GABA(A) antagonist, impaired acquisition of CD. Given these findings, we next sought to test whether plasticity related to the defeat experience occurs in the mPFC. We infused anisomycin, a protein synthesis inhibitor, in the mPFC but this treatment did not alter the acquisition of CD. In our final experiment, we demonstrated that bicuculline failed to alter the acquisition of CD. Together, these results demonstrate for the first time that while the mPFC is both necessary and sufficient for the acquisition of CD, it does not appear to mediate plasticity related to the defeat experience. In contrast, while plasticity underlying CD does appear to occur in the BLA, GABAergic receptor inhibition in the BLA is not sufficient to enhance CD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
It is known that NMDA receptor stimulation can activate or inhibit the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling cascade, a key pathway involved in neuronal plasticity and survival. However, the specific subtype(s) of NMDA receptor that exert bi-directional regulation of ERK signalling is under debate. Here we show that in young neurons (7-9 days in vitro, DIV), NMDA activated ERK signalling. In mature neurons (14-16 DIV), NMDA-evoked, in coincidence with a concentration-dependent increase in intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)), an increase in ERK phosphorylation at low concentrations (1-30 M) while an inhibition at high concentrations (30 M-250 M). In more mature neurons (21-23 DIV) NMDA inhibited ERK signalling. Both activation and inhibition of ERK signalling were fully reversed by the selective NR2B receptor antagonists Ro 25-6981 and ifenprodil. Thus, the NR2B subunit can be both negatively or positively coupled to ERK signalling in rat cortical neurons, depending on their stage of development. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the first choice of drugs to treat depression and anxiety during pregnancy. However, there is evidence that in utero exposure to SSRIs leads to adverse effects in offspring. Here we show that in mice, the adverse effects of the widely used antidepressant and SSRI fluoxetine are critically dependent on the 5-HT(3) receptor, the only ligand-gated ion channel in the family of serotonin receptors. In utero exposure to fluoxetine induces anxiety-like behavior in wildtype, but not in mice lacking the 5-HT(3) receptor. In addition to this behavioral phenotype, these mice show life-long abnormalities of cortical cytoarchitecture, which can be reversed in vitro by pharmacological block of 5-HT(3) receptors. Moreover, the effect of fluoxetine on the development of cortical neurons is absent in 5-HT(3) receptor knockout mice. These findings pinpoint the pivotal role of serotonergic signaling during development and provide a novel basis to investigate the adverse effects of the use of fluoxetine during pregnancy. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Serotonin receptor 7, i.e. 5-HT(7) protein coded by Htr7 gene, was discovered in supra-chiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus but is widespread in the forebrain. Studies have shown that this receptor is involved in learning/memory, regulation of mood and circadian rhythms. The modulatory effects of two novel agonists, LP-211 and LP-378, were assessed in male adult CD-1 mice with a battery of behavioral tests. Exp. 1 (Black/White Boxes, BWB: Adriani et al., 2009) and Exp. 2 (Dark/Light, D/L; Novelty-seeking, N-S) show: a) that LP-211 administration (acutely, at a 0.25 mg/kg dose i.p.) increases locomotion and BWB exploration; b) that the time spent away from an aversive, lit chamber (i.e., stress-induced anxiety) and in a new environment (i.e., novelty-induced curiosity) are both reduced. Sub-chronic LP-211 (at a 2.5 mg/kg dose i.p.) reveals a sensitization of locomotor-stimulant properties over 4-5 days. In Exp. 3 (BWB), a three- to four-fold dosage (acutely, at 0.83 mg/kg i.p.) is needed with LP-378 to increase locomotion and BWB exploration. In Exp. 4, mice under constant-light conditions reveal the expected spontaneous lengthening (1.5 h per day) of circadian rhythms. A significant phase advance is induced by LP-211 (at a 0.25 mg/kg dose i.p., administered around activity offset), with onset of activity taking place 6 h earlier than in controls. In summary, LP-211 is able to act consistently onto exploratory motivation, anxiety-related profiles, and spontaneous circadian rhythm. In the next future, agonist modulation of 5-HT(7) receptors might turn out to be beneficial for sleep and/or anxiety disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Pavlovian fear conditioning, also known as classical fear conditioning is an important model in the study of the neurobiology of normal and pathological fear. Progress in the neurobiology of Pavlovian fear also enhances our understanding of disorders such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and with developing effective treatment strategies. Here we describe how Pavlovian fear conditioning is a key tool for understanding both the neurobiology of fear and the mechanisms underlying variations in fear memory strength observed across different phenotypes. First we discuss how Pavlovian fear models aspects of PTSD. Second, we describe the neural circuits of Pavlovian fear and the molecular mechanisms within these circuits that regulate fear memory. Finally, we show how fear memory strength is heritable; and describe genes which are specifically linked to both changes in Pavlovian fear behavior and to its underlying neural circuitry. These emerging data begin to define the essential genes, cells and circuits that contribute to normal and pathological fear. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
A deficit in prepulse inhibition (PPI) can be one of the clinically observed features of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) that is seen long after the acute traumatic episode has terminated. Thus, reduced PPI may represent an enduring psychophysiological marker of this illness in some patients. PPI is an operational measure of sensorimotor gating and refers to the phenomenon in which a weak stimulus presented immediately before an intense startling stimulus inhibits the magnitude of the subsequent startle response. The effects of stress on PPI have been relatively understudied, and in particular, there is very little information on PPI effects of ethologically relevant psychological stressors. We aimed to develop a paradigm for evaluating stress-induced sensorimotor gating abnormalities by comparing the effects of a purely psychological stressor (predator exposure) to those of a nociceptive physical stressor (footshock) on PPI and baseline startle responses in rats over an extended period of time following stressor presentation. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed (within a protective cage) to ferrets for 5 min or left in their homecage and then tested for PPI immediately, 24 h, 48 h, and 9 days after the exposure. The effects of footshock were evaluated in a separate set of rats. The effects seen with stressor presentation were compared to those elicited by corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF; 0.5 and 3 g/6 l, intracerebroventricularly). Finally, the effects of these stressors and CRF administration on plasma corticosterone were measured. PPI was disrupted 24 h after ferret exposure; in contrast, footshock failed to affect PPI at any time. CRF mimicked the predator stress profile, with the lowdose producing a PPI deficit 24 h after infusion. Interestingly, the high dose also produced a PPI deficit 24 h after infusion, but with this dose, the PPI deficit was evident even 9d later. Plasma corticosterone levels were elevated acutely (before PPI deficits emerged) by both stressors and CRF, but returned to normal control levels 24 h later, when PPI deficits were present. Thus, predator exposure produces a delayed disruption of PPI, and stimulation of CRF receptors recapitulates these effects. Contemporaneous HPA axis activation is neither necessary nor sufficient for these PPI deficits. These results indicate that predator exposure, perhaps acting through CRF, may model the delayed-onset and persistent sensorimotor gating abnormalities that have been observed clinically in PTSD, and that further studies using this model may shed insight on the mechanisms of information-processing deficits in this disorder. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder'.
Improving our ability to detect conscious processing in non communicating patients remains a major goal of clinical cognitive neurosciences. In this perspective, several functional brain imaging tools are currently under development. Bedside cognitive event-related potentials (ERPs) derived from the EEG signal are a good candidate to explore consciousness in these patients because: (1) they have an optimal time resolution within the millisecond range able to monitor the stream of consciousness, (2) they are fully non-invasive and relatively cheap, (3) they can be recorded continuously on dedicated individual systems to monitor consciousness and to communicate with patients, (4) and they can be used to enrich patients' autonomy through brain-computer interfaces. We recently designed an original auditory rule extraction ERP test that evaluates cerebral responses to violations of temporal regularities that are either local in time or global across several seconds. Local violations led to an early response in auditory cortex, independent of attention or the presence of a concurrent visual task, while global violations led to a late and spatially distributed response that was only present when subjects were attentive and aware of the violations. In the present work, we report the results of this test in 65 successive recordings obtained at bedside from 49 non-communicating patients affected with various acute or chronic neurological disorders. At the individual level, we confirm the high specificity of the 'global effect': only conscious patients presented this proposed neural signature of conscious processing. Here, we also describe in details the respective neural responses elicited by violations of local and global auditory regularities, and we report two additional ERP effects related to stimuli expectancy and to task learning, and we discuss their relations to consciousness.
This study relates two behaviours, each well documented within its own literature but not previously considered together: closing-in behaviour (CIB) and the effect of visual distractors on reaching. CIB is common in typically developing children, and in adults with dementia, and classically manifests as the tendency to perform graphic copying tasks very close to, or on the top of the model. The effect of visual distractors on reaching has been studied extensively in normal adults. Distractors induce characteristic deviations of the reach, usually away from the distractor, which imply that a competing response towards the distractor is automatically primed, and actively suppressed. It is possible that CIB reflects a failure to inhibit motor distraction, such that the acting hand is attracted automatically to a salient stimulus (the model, during copying tasks). This hypothesis predicts that CIB should be associated with distractor effects during reaching, characterised by veering towards, rather than away from the distractor. We tested this prediction in groups of pre-school children with and without CIB, and in young adults, using task-relevant and task-irrelevant distractors. Both groups of children showed greater veering towards distractors than did adults, implying a lower capacity to inhibit automatic responses. Crucially, this effect was stronger in children with CIB than without CIB when a task-irrelevant distractor was presented. These findings support the idea that CIB reflects a failure to inhibit automatically primed actions towards salient stimuli.
Error processing is associated with distinct event-related potential components (ERPs), i.e. the error-related negativity (ERN) which occurs within approximately 150 ms and is typically more pronounced than the correct-response negativity (CRN), and the error positivity (Pe) emerging from about 200 to 400 ms after an erroneous response. The short latency of the ERN suggests that the internal error monitoring system acts on rapidly available central information such as an efference copy signal rather than slower peripheral feedback. The cerebellum has been linked to an internal forward-model which enables online performance monitoring by predicting the sensory consequences of actions, most probably by making use of efference copies. In the present study it was hypothesized that the cerebellum is involved in the fast evaluation of saccadic response accuracy as reflected by the ERN. Error processing on an antisaccade task was investigated in eight patients with focal vascular lesions to the cerebellum and 22 control subjects using ERPs. While error rates were comparable between groups, saccadic reaction times (SRTs) were enhanced in the patients, and the error-correct difference waveforms showed reduced amplitudes for patients relative to controls in the ERN time window. Notably, this effect was mainly driven by an increased CRN in the patients. In the later Pe time window, the difference signal yielded higher amplitudes in patients compared to controls mainly because of smaller Pe amplitudes on correct trials in patients. The altered ERN/CRN pattern suggests that the cerebellum is critically involved in fast classification of saccadic accuracy. Largely intact performance accuracy together with increased SRTs and the altered Pe pattern may indicate a compensatory mechanism presumably related to slower, more conscious aspects of error processing in the patients.
Methamphetamine is a highly addictive psychomotor stimulant yet the neurobiological consequences of methamphetamine self-administration remain under-characterized. Thus, we employed microdialysis in rats trained to self-administer intravenous (IV) infusions of methamphetamine (METH-SA) or saline (SAL) and a group of rats receiving non-contingent IV infusions of methamphetamine (METH-NC) at 1 or 21 days withdrawal to determine the dopamine and glutamate responses in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) to a 2mg/kg methamphetamine intraperitoneal challenge. Furthermore, basal NAC extracellular glutamate content was assessed employing no net-flux procedures in these three groups at both time points. At both 1- and 21-day withdrawal points, methamphetamine elicited a rise in extracellular dopamine in SAL animals and this effect was sensitized in METH-NC rats. However, METH-SA animals showed a much greater sensitized dopamine response to the drug challenge compared with the other groups. Additionally, acute methamphetamine decreased extracellular glutamate in both SAL and METH-NC animals at both time-points. In contrast, METH-SA rats exhibited a modest and delayed rise in glutamate at 1-day withdrawal and this rise was sensitized at 21 days withdrawal. Finally, no net-flux microdialysis revealed elevated basal glutamate and increased extraction fraction at both withdrawal time-points in METH-SA rats. Although METH-NC rats exhibited no change in the glutamate extraction fraction, they exhibited a time-dependent elevation in basal glutamate levels. These data illustrate for the first time that a history of methamphetamine self-administration produces enduring changes in NAC neurotransmission and that non-pharmacological factors have a critical role in the expression of these methamphetamine-induced neurochemical adaptations.
Impulsive action, the failure to withhold an inappropriate response, is treated clinically with dopamine agonists such as amphetamine. Despite the therapeutic efficacy, these drugs have inconsistent effects on impulsive action in rodents, causing improvements or disruptions in different tasks. Thus, we hypothesized that amphetamine is producing an effect by altering distinct cognitive processes in each task. To test this idea, we used the response inhibition (RI) task and trained rats to withhold responding for sucrose until a signal is presented. We then varied the duration that subjects were required to inhibit responding (short=4s; long=60s; or variable=1-60s) and examined whether this influenced the pattern of premature responses. We also tested the effects of amphetamine (0.0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0mg/kg) on each task variant. The probability of premature responding varied across the premature interval with a unique pattern of time-dependent errors emerging in each condition. Amphetamine also had distinct effects on each version: the drug promoted premature responding when subjects expected a consistent delay, regardless of its duration, but reduced premature responding when the delay was unpredictable. We propose that the ability to inhibit a motor response is controlled by a different combination of cognitive processes in the three task conditions. These include timing, conditioned avoidance, and attention, which then interact with amphetamine to increase or decrease impulsive action. The effect of amphetamine on impulsive action, therefore, is not universal, but depends on the subject's experience and expectation of the task demands.

Serotonin (5-HT) is an ancient molecule directing behavioural responses to environmental stimuli. The social environment is the most powerful environmental factor. It is well recognized that 5-HT plays a key role in shaping social responses, and that the serotonergic system itself is highly responsive to social influences. This review aims to provide an overview of a selection of representative papers that significantly contribute to a coherent view on the role of serotonin in reciprocal social interactions. The studies here reviewed, selected using the pubmed search terms &quot;social behaviour&quot; and &quot;serotonin&quot;, describe the effects of serotonergic gene variation and pharmacological manipulations in humans, monkeys, and rodents, and involve parental attachment and caregiving, social play, aggressiveness, cooperation, and sexual behaviour. We conclude that serotonin is positively correlated with sensitivity to social factors and modulates social behaviour in a 'for-better-and-for-worse' manner, depending on the nature of social factors. Simultaneously, these behavioural responses influence the serotonergic system, leading to highly complex bidirectional serotoninenvironment interaction.
A review of selected works on spatial memory in animals and humans is presented, and some ideas about the encoding of geometry and its role in evolution are presented, based on recently accumulated evidence from psychology, ethology and the neurosciences. It is argued that comparative analyses at the level of both spatial navigation behaviors and their underlying neural mechanisms may provide a solid foundation for the biological origins of organisms' spontaneous ability in dealing with geometric concepts. To this aim, the representations of space underlying memory tasks involving discrete (i.e., landmark arrays) or continuous elements (i.e., enclosed environments) are evaluated and compared as regards the impact of their geometric arrangement.
The recent demonstration of proton signaling in C. elegans muscle contraction suggests a novel mechanism for proton-based intercellular communication and has stimulated enthusiasm for exploring proton signaling in higher organisms. Emerging evidence indicates that protons are produced and regulated in localized space and time. Furthermore, identification of proton regulators and sensors in the brain leads to the speculation that proton production and regulation may be of major importance for both physiological and pathological functions ranging from nociception to learning and memory. Extracellular protons may play a role in signal transmission by not only acting on adjacent cells but also affecting the cell from which they were released. In this review, we summarize the upstream and downstream pathways of proton production and regulation in the mammalian brain, with special emphasis on the proton extruders and sensors that are critical in the homeostatic regulation of pH, and discuss their potential roles in proton signaling under normal and pathophysiological conditions.
Since the first experimental reports showing the persistence of neurogenic activity in the adult mammalian brain, this field of neurosciences has expanded significantly. It is now widely accepted that neural stem and precursor cells survive during adulthood and are able to respond to various endogenous and exogenous cues by altering their proliferation and differentiation activity. Nevertheless, the pathway to therapeutic applications still seems to be long. This review attempts to summarize and revisit the available data regarding the plasticity potential of adult neural stem cells and of their normal microenvironment, the neurogenic niche. Recent data have demonstrated that adult neural stem cells retain a high level of pluripotency and that adult neurogenic systems can switch the balance between neurogenesis and gliogenesis and can generate a range of cell types with an efficiency that was not initially expected. Moreover, adult neural stem and precursor cells seem to be able to self-regulate their interaction with the microenvironment and even to contribute to its synthesis, altogether revealing a high level of plasticity potential. The next important step will be to elucidate the factors that limit this plasticity in vivo, and such a restrictive role for the microenvironment is discussed in more details.



The potential of MRI to provide quantitative measures of neuromuscular pathology for use in therapeutic trials is being increasingly recognised. Magnetisation transfer (MT) imaging shows particular promise in this context, being sensitive to pathological changes, particularly in skeletal muscle, where measurements correlate with clinically measured muscle strength. Radiofrequency (RF) transmit field (B(1)) inhomogeneities can be particularly problematic in measurements of the MT ratio (MTR) and may obscure genuine muscle MTR changes caused by disease. In this work, we evaluate, for muscle imaging applications, a scheme previously proposed for the correction of RF inhomogeneity artefacts in cerebral MTR maps using B(1) information acquired in the same session. We demonstrate the theoretical applicability of this scheme to skeletal muscle using a two-pool model of pulsed quantitative MT. The correction scheme is evaluated practically in MTR imaging of the lower limbs of 28 healthy individuals and in two groups of patients with representative neuromuscular diseases: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A and inclusion body myositis. The correction scheme was observed to reduce both the within-subject and between-subject variability in the calf and thigh muscles of healthy subjects and patient groups in histogram- and region-of-interest-based approaches. This method of correcting for RF inhomogeneity effects in MTR maps using B(1) data may markedly improve the sensitivity of MTR mapping indices as measures of pathology in skeletal muscle.
After ischemic stroke, the ischemic damage to brain tissue evolves over time and with an uneven spatial distribution. Early irreversible changes occur in the ischemic core, whereas, in the penumbra, which receives more collateral blood flow, the damage is more mild and delayed. A better characterization of the penumbra, irreversibly damaged and healthy tissues is needed to understand the mechanisms involved in tissue death. MRSI is a powerful tool for this task if the scan time can be decreased whilst maintaining high sensitivity. Therefore, we made improvements to a (1)H MRSI protocol to study middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice. The spatial distribution of changes in the neurochemical profile was investigated, with an effective spatial resolution of 1.4L, applying the protocol on a 14.1-T magnet. The acquired maps included the difficult-to-separate glutamate and glutamine resonances and, to our knowledge, the first mapping of metabolites -aminobutyric acid and glutathione in vivo, within a metabolite measurement time of 45min. The maps were in excellent agreement with findings from single-voxel spectroscopy and offer spatial information at a scan time acceptable for most animal models. The metabolites measured differed with respect to the temporal evolution of their concentrations and the localization of these changes. Specifically, lactate and N-acetylaspartate concentration changes largely overlapped with the T(2)-hyperintense region visualized with MRI, whereas changes in cholines and glutathione affected the entire middle cerebral artery territory. Glutamine maps showed elevated levels in the ischemic striatum until 8h after reperfusion, and until 24h in cortical tissue, indicating differences in excitotoxic effects and secondary energy failure in these tissue types.
We describe a novel magnetic resonance imaging technique to directly assess the metabolic integrity of penumbral tissue following stroke. For ischemically stressed tissue to be salvageable, it has to be capable of recovering aerobic metabolism (in place of anaerobic metabolism) on reperfusion. We probed ischemic brain tissue by altering the rate of oxygen delivery using a challenge of 100% oxygen ventilation. Any change from anaerobic to aerobic metabolism should alter the rate of lactate production and hence, levels of tissue lactate. Stroke was induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. In Series 1 (n=6), changes in tissue lactate during and following 100% oxygen challenge were monitored using (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) and perfusion weighted imaging (PWI) were used to locate MRS voxels within the ischemic core, the homotopic contralateral striatum and within PWI/DWI mismatch (i.e. presumed penumbra). After 20 min of oxygen, lactate signal change was -16.18.8% (mean  SD) in PWI/DWI mismatch, +2.85.1% in the ischemic core, and -0.67.6% in the contralateral striatum. Return to air ventilation for 20 min resulted in a reversal, with lactate increasing by 4625.3% in the PWI/DWI mismatch, 6.66.2% in the ischemic core, and -511.4% in the contralateral striatum. In Series 2 (n=6), a novel form of spectroscopic imaging was used to acquire lactate change maps to spatially identify regions of lactate change within the ischemic brain. This technique has potential clinical utility by identifying tissue that displays anaerobic metabolism capable of recovering aerobic metabolism when oxygen delivery is increased, which could provide a more precise assessment of penumbra.
It is well known that Down syndrome is sometimes associated with leukemia. However, there have been only a few case reports of a relationship between Down syndrome and brain tumors. The case was that of a 35-year-old man with Down syndrome complaining of gait disturbance. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a mass lesion in the pineal and bilateral cerebello-pontine cistern and spinal cord, marked hydrocephalus. Endoscopic biopsy and third ventriculostomy was performed. Surgical specimens showed typical germinoma. The patient was treated with a combination of chemotherapy with carboplatin and etposide, and irradiation. However he finally died 35 months after these therapies. Cases of malignant tumors other than leukemia, which are associated with Down syndrome, are extremely rare. We reviewed such rare cases of Down syndrome and intracranial germ cell tumor.

Folate is essential for purine and thymidylate biosynthesis and in methyl transfer for DNA methylation. Folate deficiency alters the secretion of melatonin, a hormone involved in circadian rhythm entrainment, and causes hyperhomocysteinemia because of disruption of homocysteine metabolism. Adverse effects of homocysteine include the generation of free radicals, activation of proliferation or apoptosis, and alteration of gene expression. The liver is an important organ for folate metabolism, and its genome analysis has revealed numerous clock-regulated genes. The variations at the level of their expression during folate deficiency are not known. The aim of our study was to investigate the effects of folate deficiency on gene expression in the mouse liver. A control group receiving a synthetic diet and a folate-depleted group were housed for 4 weeks on a 12-hour/12-hour light/dark cycle. Three mice from each group were euthanized under dim red light at the beginning of the light cycle, and 3, at the beginning of the dark period. Gene expression was studied in a microarray analysis. Of the 53 genes showing modified daily expression in the controls, 52 showed a less marked or no difference after folate depletion. Only 1, lpin1, showed a more marked difference. Ten genes coding for proteins involved in lipid metabolism did not show a morning/evening difference in controls but did after folate depletion. This study shows that, in the mouse liver, dietary folate depletion leads to major changes in expression of several genes involved in fatty acid metabolism, DNA synthesis, and expression of circadian genes.
The rise in obesity in many countries has led to the emergence of nutritional information policies that aim to change people's diets. Changing an individual's diet is an ambitious goal, since numerous factors influence a person's food-choice decisions, many of which are made unconsciously. These frequently subconscious processes should not be underestimated in food-choice behavior, as they play a major role in food diet composition. In this review, research in cognitive experimental psychology and neuroscience provides the basis for a critical analysis of the role of pleasure in eating behaviors. An assessment of the main characteristics of nutritional policies is provided, followed by recent findings showing that food choices are guided primarily by automatic emotional processes. Neuroimaging and behavioral studies, which provide new insights into the relationships between emotions and food both in lean persons and in persons with eating disorders, are reported as well. Lastly, the argument is presented that future nutritional policies can be more effective if they associate healthy food with eating pleasure.


The first draft of the human malaria parasite's genome was released in 2002. Since then, the malaria scientific community has witnessed a steady embrace of new and powerful functional genomic studies. Over the years, these approaches have slowly revolutionized malaria research and enabled the comprehensive, unbiased investigation of various aspects of the parasite's biology. These genome-wide analyses delivered a refined annotation of the parasite's genome, delivered a better knowledge of its RNA, proteins and metabolite derivatives, and fostered the discovery of new vaccine and drug targets. Despite the positive impacts of these genomic studies, most research and investment still focus on protein targets, drugs and vaccine candidates that were known before the publication of the parasite genome sequence. However, recent access to next-generation sequencing technologies, along with an increased number of genome-wide applications, is expanding the impact of the parasite genome on biomedical research, contributing to a paradigm shift in research activities that may possibly lead to new optimized diagnosis and treatments. This review provides an update of Plasmodium falciparum genome sequences and an overview of the rapid development of genomics and system biology applications that have an immense potential of creating powerful tools for a successful malaria eradication campaign.



The purpose of the present study was to monitor any improvement in orienteering skills attributable to acquiring a better mental representation of space. Two groups were examined: the experimental group, who attended 6 mo. of orienteering lessons, versus the control group, who did jogging training instead. Each group, consisting of 20 children, was tested on the Corsi Block-tapping Test, run Forward and Backward, and the Star-Butterfly Test. Pre- and post-tests were administered. In the experimental group, scores increased in mean complexity from pre- to post-test on the Forward and the Backward Corsi tests, while on the Star-Butterfly Test both time and mistakes had decreased after the training. In the control group, mean complexity and Star-Butterfly Test scores were unchanged from pre- to post-test. These results showed that after continual training in orienteering techniques, the orienteering group was able to remember and repeat sequences of events with greater precision than before the training, while these skills were unchanged in the control group after training in jogging.





A computational neuroscience approach to the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder based on a stochastic neurodynamical framework is described. An increased depth in the basins of attraction of attractor neuronal network states in the brain makes each state too stable, so that it tends to remain locked in that state, and cannot easily be moved on to another state. It is suggested that the different symptoms that may be present in obsessive--compulsive disorder could be related to changes of this type in different brain regions. In integrate-and-fire network simulations, an increase in the NMDA and/or AMPA receptor conductances, which increases the depth of the attractor basins, increases the stability of attractor networks, and makes them less easily moved on to another state by a new stimulus. Increasing GABA-receptor activated currents can partly reverse this overstability. There is now some evidence for overactivity in glutamate transmitter systems in obsessive-compulsive disorder, and the hypothesis presented here shows how some of the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder could be produced by the increase in the stability of attractor networks that is produced by increased glutamatergic activity. In schizophrenia, a reduction of the firing rates of cortical neurons caused for example by reduced NMDA receptor function, present in schizophrenia, can lead to instability of the high firing rate attractor states that normally implement short-term memory and attention, contributing to the cognitive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Reduced cortical inhibition caused by a reduction of GABA neurotransmission, present in schizophrenia, can lead to instability of the spontaneous firing states of cortical networks, leading to a noise-induced jump to a high firing rate attractor state even in the absence of external inputs, contributing to the positive symptoms of schizophrenia.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the glutamatergic system plays important roles in the pathophysiology and treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Abnormalities in the glutamatergic system are definitely observed in this disorder, and certain glutamatergic agents exhibit antidepressant effects in patients with MDD. In this review, we summarize the preclinical findings suggesting the involvement of glutamate signaling in the pathophysiology and treatment of MDD. Preclinical animal models for depression are often characterized by changes in molecules related to glutamatergic signaling. Some antidepressants exert their effects by affecting glutamatergic system components in animals. Animals with genetically modified glutamatergic function exhibit depression-like behaviors or anti-depressive behavior. In addition, several types of glutamatergic agents have shown antidepressant-like effects in preclinical models for depression. Many types of glutamate receptors (NMDA, AMPA, and metabotropic glutamate receptors) or transporters appear to be involved in the etiology of depression or in the mechanisms of action of antidepressants. These functional proteins related to glutamate signal transduction are potential targets for a new generation of antidepressants with fast-onset effects, such as the NMDA antagonist ketamine.
Addiction is a chronic disorder characterised by repeated bouts of drug taking, abstinence and relapse. The addicted state may be in part due to drug-induced neuroadaptations in the mesocorticolimbic and corticostriatal pathways. Recently focus has been on the role of aberrant glutamate transmission and its contribution to the hierarchical control over these systems. This review will expand our current knowledge of the most recent advances that have been made in preclinical animal models that provide evidence that implicate metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in contributing to the neuroadaptations pertinent to addiction, as well as the role of Homer proteins in regulating these responses. The recent discovery of receptor mosaics will be discussed which add an additional dimension to the complexity of understanding the mechanism of glutamate mediated behaviours. Finally this review introduces a new area related to glutamatergic responses, namely microRNAs, that may become pivotal in directing our future understanding of how to best target intervention strategies to prevent addictive behaviours.
The potential drug-to-drug interaction between darunavir and raltegravir in the setting of HIV infection is a highly debated issue still unresolved. In the present study we have evaluated the pharmacokinetics of darunavir and ritonavir in 53 HIV-1 infected patients with or without concomitant raltegravir administration. The assessment of trough plasma drug concentrations was carried out in all subjects and the potential influence of raltegravir on darunavir and ritonavir disposition, assessed by specific pharmacokinetic evaluations in a subgroup of 25 patients. No significant differences on darunavir and ritonavir plasma trough levels were observed between patients receiving or not raltegravir. Co-administration of raltegravir was, however, associated with a 40% reduction in darunavir C(max) and estimated AUC(0-24), as well a 60% increase in the estimated darunavir clearance compared with values measured in patients not given raltegravir. Notably, this interaction was independent of the dosage of darunavir and not due to effects of raltegravir on the pharmacokinetics of ritonavir. These results should be taken into account when darunavir-based regimens are implemented in the setting of HIV, especially considering that this drug is usually administered at fixed daily dose and no therapeutic drug monitoring is performed in most centres.
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are commonly prescribed for a wide range of disorders other than epilepsy, including both neurological and psychiatric disorders. AEDs play also a role in pharmacological management of neuropathic pain. Central post-stroke pain (CPSP) is a disabling morbidity occurring in 35% of patients with stroke. The pathophysiology of CPSP is not well known but central disinhibition with increased neuronal excitability has been suggested. AEDs include many different drugs acting on pain through several mechanisms, such as reduction of neuronal hyperexcitability. To our knowledge conclusive evidence has not been published yet. The aim of this review is to delineate efficacy and safety of AEDs in CPSP.
GPCRs are a major family of homologous proteins and are key mediators of the effects of numerous endogenous neurotransmitters, hormones, cytokines, therapeutic drugs, and drugs-of-abuse. Despite the enormous amount of research on the pharmacological and biochemical properties of GPCRs, the question as to whether they exist as monomers, dimers, or higher order structures in the body is unanswered. The GPCR dimer field has been dominated by techniques involving recombinant cell lines expressing mutant receptors, often involving the solubilization of the receptors. These techniques cannot be applied in vivo or even to primary cell cultures. This review will focus on a novel approach to exploring the functional properties of homodimers. Studies of the 5-HT(7) and 5-HT(2A) serotonin receptors have revealed that binding of a pseudo-irreversible antagonist (&quot;inactivator&quot;) to one of the orthosteric sites of a homodimer abolishes all receptor activity, and subsequent binding of a competitive antagonist to the orthosteric site of the second protomer releases the inactivator, allowing the receptor to return to an active state. This approach demonstrates allosteric crosstalk between protomers of native GPCR homodimers, indicating that GPCRs do exist and function as homodimers in both recombinant cells and rat primary astrocytes. This technique can be applied universally using intact recombinant or primary cells in culture, membrane homogenate preparations and, potentially, in vivo. The data obtained using the 5-HT(7) and 5-HT(2A) receptors are strongly supportive of a GPCR homodimer structure, with little evidence of monomer involvement in the function of these receptors.
Bipolar disorder is a disease which causes major disability. The disease has both a manic and depressive component. Current standard of care consists of atypical antipsychotics for the treatment of mania, antidepressants for the treatment of depression, and mood stabilizers for the maintenance of euthymia. The molecular mechanisms which cause the disease are not well understood. Genome wide association studies have provided a set of genes which are linked to the disease. These genes show linkage to physiological and neuroanatomical alterations which are also seen in bipolar disorder.
The identification of modules in complex networks is important for the understanding of systems. Here, we propose an ensemble clustering method incorporating node groupings in various sizes and the sequential removal of weak ties between nodes which are rarely grouped together. This method successfully detects modules in various networks, such as hierarchical random networks and the American college football network, with known modular structures. Some of the results are compared with those obtained by modularity optimization and K-means clustering.
An algorithm is presented which implements a probabilistic attack on the key-exchange protocol based on permutation parity machines. Instead of imitating the synchronization of the communicating partners, the strategy consists of a Monte Carlo method to sample the space of possible weights during inner rounds and an analytic approach to convey the extracted information from one outer round to the next one. The results show that the protocol under attack fails to synchronize faster than an eavesdropper using this algorithm.
Rats selectively display conditioned gaping reactions when re-exposed to flavours previously paired with nausea-inducing treatments and drugs that reduce nausea also reduce these reactions, suggesting that they represent a model of nausea-induced behavior in rats. However, these reactions rely upon learning, they are not unconditional malaise-induced reactions. Here we compared the effectiveness of the anti-nausea drug, ondansetron (OND) to interfere with the establishment of conditioned gaping reactions and the unconditional malaise-induced reaction of lying on belly (LOB). Pretreatment with OND significantly reduced both LiCl-induced LOB and conditioned gaping reactions, without modifying conditioned taste avoidance. The frequency of gaping and duration of LOB were highly correlated. These results provide additional support for the validity of the conditioned gaping model as a rodent model of nausea-induced behavior.
The hippocampus has been linked to spatial navigation and the striatum to response learning. The current study focuses on how these brain regions continue to interact when an animal is very familiar with the task and the environment and must continuously switch between navigation strategies. Rats were trained to solve a plus maze using a place or a response strategy on different trials within a testing session. A room cue (illumination) was used to indicate which strategy should be used on a given trial. After extensive training, animals underwent dorsal hippocampus, dorsal lateral striatum or sham lesions. As expected hippocampal lesions predominantly caused impairment on place but not response trials. Striatal lesions increased errors on both place and response trials. Competition between systems was assessed by determining error type. Pre-lesion and sham animals primarily made errors to arms associated with the wrong (alternative) strategy, this was not found after lesions. The data suggest a qualitative change in the relationship between hippocampal and striatal systems as a task is well learned. During acquisition the two systems work in parallel, competing with each other. After task acquisition, the two systems become more integrated and interdependent. The fact that with extensive training (as something becomes a &quot;habit&quot;), behaviors become dependent upon the dorsal lateral striatum has been previously shown. The current findings indicate that dorsal lateral striatum involvement occurs even when the behavior is spatial and continues to require hippocampal processing.
Usher syndrome 1 (USH1) is the most common and severe form of hereditary loss of hearing and vision. Genetic, physiological, and cell biological studies, together with recent structural investigations, have not only uncovered the physiological functions of the five USH1 proteins but also provided mechanistic explanations for the hearing and visual deficiencies in humans caused by USH1 mutations. This review focuses on the structural basis of the USH1 protein complex organization.
The strength of a synapse can profoundly influence network function. How this strength is set at the molecular level is a key question in neuroscience. Here, we review a simple model of neurotransmission that serves as a convenient framework to discuss recent studies on RIM and synaptotagmin.
Mitochondrial function is required to support energetically-demanding processes in the placenta. As such, a compromise in mitochondrial function could severely impact fetal growth and development. Respirometry is a highly useful method for studying mitochondrial function, but is not possible in freeze-thawed mitochondria, which become uncoupled. We have developed a novel method that permits respiratory analysis of cryopreserved placental tissue. We studied mitochondrial function in 7 normal human placentas, analysing both fresh and cryopreserved samples. We found no impairments in respiration following cryopreservation in the delivery suite, with enhanced coupling, as indicated by higher respiratory control ratios, than in fresh placental samples transported to the laboratory on ice.
The placenta evolved to support development of the fetus, and so potentially plays a key role in the aetiology of developmental programming through its impact on nutrient transfer. Placental transport efficiency depends on a variety of parameters, including surface area for exchange, thickness of the interhaemal membrane and density of transporter proteins inserted into the trophoblast membranes. Here, we review recent studies that tested whether adaptations of placental efficiency are induced in the mouse placenta when maternal nutrient supply and fetal demand are manipulated experimentally. Naturally small placentas, and those exposed to maternal undernutrition, displayed structural changes indicative of accelerated maturation at E16, with enlargement of the labyrinth exchange zone at the expense of the endocrine junctional zone. These changes were associated with increased transport of a non-metabolisable amino acid analogue per gram of placenta, and expression of genes encoding specific System A transporters. Up-regulation of transporters was also observed when a mismatch between placental size and fetal demand was generated through genetic manipulation of the Igf2/H19 axis. Conversely, overgrowth of the placenta induced by deletion of H19 resulted in reduced transport capacity and expression of transporter genes. We conclude that under conditions when the maternal nutrient supply or placental size may be limiting for normal fetal growth, the placenta adapts so as to increase its transport capacity. Hence, it ameliorates the effects of environmental cues that would otherwise lead to more extensive developmental programming. The P0 transcript of Igf2 appears to be a strong candidate as a mediator of these adaptations in the mouse.
Following pathogen infection the hosts' nervous and immune systems react with coordinated responses to the danger. A key question is how the neuronal and immune responses to pathogens are coordinated, are there common signaling pathways used by both responses? Using C. elegans we show that infection by pathogenic strains of M. nematophilum, but not exposure to avirulent strains, triggers behavioral and immune responses both of which require a conserved Gq-RhoGEF Trio-Rho signaling pathway. Upon infection signaling by the Gq pathway within cholinergic motorneurons is necessary and sufficient to increase release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and increase locomotion rates and these behavioral changes result in C. elegans leaving lawns of M. nematophilum. In the immune response to infection signaling by the Gq pathway within rectal epithelial cells is necessary and sufficient to cause changes in cell morphology resulting in tail swelling that limits the infection. These Gq mediated behavioral and immune responses to infection are separate, act in a cell autonomous fashion and activation of this pathway in the appropriate cells can trigger these responses in the absence of infection. Within the rectal epithelium the Gq signaling pathway cooperates with a Ras signaling pathway to activate a Raf-ERK-MAPK pathway to trigger the cell morphology changes, whereas in motorneurons Gq signaling triggers behavioral responses independent of Ras signaling. Thus, a conserved Gq pathway cooperates with cell specific factors in the nervous and immune systems to produce appropriate responses to pathogen. Thus, our data suggests that ligands for Gq coupled receptors are likely to be part of the signals generated in response to M. nematophilum infection.
With the availability of improved brain imaging techniques, the high prevalence and clinical importance of cerebral small vessel disease have been increasingly recognised in recent years. As age is one of the most important risk factors for this condition, its prevalence is set to rise further as populations age. This may lead to an increase in the clinical consequences of white matter disease, namely cognitive decline, decreased mobility and increased stroke risk. Given the impact this will have on individuals and on healthcare systems, knowledge of the risk factors for small vessel disease, its prevention and its treatment is becoming more important. Although a lot of data are now available on the epidemiology, risk factors, clinical consequences and prognosis of leukoaraiosis, some of this information is conflicting. In this review, we summarise the current literature on cerebral small vessel disease, with an emphasis on its clinical aspects.

Natalizumab reduces relapse frequency, delays onset of disease progression and improves disease outcomes in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) and is a cost-effective treatment for rapidly evolving severe relapsing-remitting MS. However, it is associated with the development of progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML), a serious opportunistic brain infection caused by a neurotropic strain of the JC virus (JCV). Until May 2011, 83 300 patients had received natalizumab for MS. One hundred and twenty-four patients had developed PML, of whom 23 (19%) died. In order to maximise the benefit-risk ratio of natalizumab for MS patients it is important to develop a strategy for risk profiling and monitoring for PML. Central to this is an understanding of the biology of the JCV and the emerging clinical picture of natalizumab-associated PML. This paper reviews the evidence for managing the risk of PML in natalizumab-treated patients and the authors propose an algorithm for risk profiling and risk management. Key features of this algorithm include risk stratification based on emerging risk factors, heightened clinical vigilance for the clinical features of natalizumab-associated PML and considerations for temporary and permanent cessation of natalizumab dosing.

The current study involved an examination of the impact of a peer-led substance use intervention program on the peer leaders beyond the substance use-related goals of the intervention. Specifically, unintended consequences of an adult-sanctioned intervention on the targeted peer leader change agents were investigated, including whether their participation affected their peer status, social influence, or self perceptions. Twenty-two 7th grade peer-identified intervention leaders were compared to 22 control leaders (who did not experience the intervention) and 146 cohort peers. Three groups of measures were employed: sociometric and behavioral nominations, social cognitive mapping, and leadership self-perceptions. Results indicated that unintended consequences appear to be a legitimate concern for females. Female intervention leaders declined in perceived popularity and liked most nominations over time, whereas males increased in total leader nominations. Explanations for these results are discussed and further directions suggested.
The crustacean swimmeret system includes a distributed set of local circuits that individually control movements of one jointed limb. These modular local circuits occur in pairs in each segmental ganglion, and normally operate synchronously to produce smoothly coordinated cycles of limb movements on different body segments. The system presents exceptional opportunities for computational and experimental investigation of neural mechanisms of coordination because: (a) The system will express in vitro the periodic motor pattern that normally drives cycles of swimmeret movements during forward swimming. (b) The intersegmental neurons which encode information that is necessary and sufficient for normal coordination have been identified, and their activity can be recorded. (c) The local commissural neurons that integrate this coordinating information and tune the phase of each swimmeret are known. (d) The complete set of synaptic connections between coordinating neurons and these commissural neurons have been described. (e). The synaptic connections onto each local pattern-generating circuit through which coordinating information tunes the circuit's phase have been discovered. These factors make possible for the first time a detailed, comprehensive cellular and synaptic explanation of how this neural circuit produces an effective, behaviorally significant output. This paper is the first comprehensive review of the system's neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, its local and intersegmental circuitry, its transmitter pharmacology, its neuromodulatory control mechanisms, and its interactions with other motor systems. Each of these topics is covered in detail in an attempt to provide a complete review of the literature as a foundation for new research. The series of hypotheses that have been proposed to account for the system's properties are reviewed critically in the context of experimental tests of their validity.
A shared hallmark for many neurodegenerative disorders is the accumulation of toxic protein species which is assumed to be the cause for these diseases. Since the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) is the most important pathway for selective protein degradation it is likely that it is involved in the aetiology neurodegenerative disorders. Indeed, impairment of the UPS has been reported to occur during neurodegeneration. Although accumulation of toxic protein species (amyloid ) are in turn known to impair the UPS the relationship is not necessarily causal. We provide an overview of the most recent insights in the roles the UPS plays in protein degradation and other processes. Additionally, we discuss the role of the UPS in clearance of the toxic proteins known to accumulate in the hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases. The present paper will focus on critically reviewing the involvement of the UPS in specific neurodegenerative diseases and will discuss if UPS impairment is a cause, a consequence or both of the disease.
Proteomics has provided researchers with a sophisticated toolbox of labeling-based and label-free quantitative methods. These are now being applied in neuroscience research where they have already contributed to the elucidation of fundamental mechanisms and the discovery of candidate biomarkers. In this review, we evaluate and compare labeling-based and label-free quantitative proteomic techniques for applications in neuroscience research. We discuss the considerations required for the analysis of brain and central nervous system specimens, the experimental design of quantitative proteomic workflows as well as the feasibility, advantages, and disadvantages of the available techniques for neuroscience-oriented questions. Furthermore, we assess the use of labeled standards as internal controls for comparative studies in humans and review applications of labeling-based and label-free mass spectrometry approaches in relevant model organisms and human subjects. Providing a comprehensive guide of feasible and meaningful quantitative proteomic methodologies for neuroscience research is crucial not only for overcoming current limitations but also for gaining useful insights into brain function and translating proteomics from bench to bedside.
The monoamine systems have been suggested to play a role in the biological basis of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms. Thus, polymorphisms, for example, in the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and the serotonin transporter (5HTT) genes have been associated with ADHD-like phenotypes. Furthermore, platelet monoamine oxidase B (MAOB) activity has frequently been linked to impulsiveness-related traits. In this study, we have studied ADHD symptoms with regard to the combination of platelet MAOB activity and MAOA-variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) or 5HTT-LPR genotype. The study group consisted of 156 adolescent twin pairs, that is, 312 individuals, who participated in a previous study. ADHD symptoms were scored with a structured clinical interview of both the twins and a parent using Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children-Present and Lifetime Version. The presence of a short 5HTT-LPR or short MAOA-VNTR allele, in combination with high levels of platelet MAOB enzyme activity was associated with higher scores of ADHD-like problems (P&lt;0.001 and 0.01, respectively). This re-examination of ADHD scores in a nonclinical sample suggests that effects of MAOA-VNTR and 5HTT-LPR are moderated by platelet MAOB activity.






Loneliness has been shown to be inversely correlated with empathy in younger adults. The present study extends previous research by investigating the association between empathy and loneliness across the adult lifespan and examining the role of relevant demographic and personality factors. 110 community-dwelling adults (18 to 81 years old) completed the UCLA Loneliness Scale and the Empathy Quotient. Empathy scores were inversely associated with rated loneliness and predicted 8.7% of variance in loneliness scores after accounting for sex, age, relationship status, education, and neuroticism. The Social Skills factor of the Empathy Quotient was the strongest predictor of the association between perceived empathy and loneliness. Previous research is extended by the finding that rated loneliness was inversely associated with empathy scores across the adult lifespan. Underlying this relationship may be negative perceptions of personal social proclivity as a function of difficulty in understanding the mental states of others and high trait neuroticism.
The existence of a possible continuum of automaticity for numerosity, length and duration processing was tested with a three-dimensional Stroop-like paradigm. Participants had to compare the numerosity, the length or the duration of two successive linear arrays of sequentially flashed dots in which the three dimensions were manipulated independently to create congruent, incongruent or neutral pairs. The results show that numerosity and length both affected duration processing separately and cumulatively, whereas temporal cues did not influence judgements of numerosity or length. Moreover, length and numerosity influenced each other, with numerical cues having a stronger influence on length processing than the reverse. These findings support the idea that, in sequentially presented stimuli, numerosity, length and duration are processed with different levels of automaticity, with numerosity being processed most, and duration least automatically.
Why do some people recognize faces easily and others frequently make mistakes in recognizing faces? Classic behavioral work has shown that faces are processed in a distinctive holistic manner that is unlike the processing of objects. In the study reported here, we investigated whether individual differences in holistic face processing have a significant influence on face recognition. We found that the magnitude of face-specific recognition accuracy correlated with the extent to which participants processed faces holistically, as indexed by the composite-face effect and the whole-part effect. This association is due to face-specific processing in particular, not to a more general aspect of cognitive processing, such as general intelligence or global attention. This finding provides constraints on computational models of face recognition and may elucidate mechanisms underlying cognitive disorders, such as prosopagnosia and autism, that are associated with deficits in face recognition.
Recent studies have found that processing information according to an evolutionary relevant (i.e., survival) scenario improves its subsequent memorability, potentially as a result of fitness advantages gained in the ancestral past. So far, research has not revealed much about any proximate mechanisms that might underlie this so-called survival processing advantage in memory. Intriguingly, research has shown that the memorability of stressful situations is enhanced via the release of stress hormones acting on brain regions involved in memory. Since survival situations habitually involve some degree of stress, in the present study, we investigated whether stress serves as a proximate mechanism to promote survival processing. Participants rated words for their relevance to either a survival or a neutral (moving) scenario after they had been exposed to a psychosocial stressor or a no-stress control condition. Surprise retention tests immediately following the rating task revealed that survival processing and acute stress independently boosted memory performance. These results therefore suggest that stress does not serve as a proximate mechanism of the survival processing advantage in memory.














Enhanced sensitivity to noxious stimuli and the perception of non-noxious stimuli as painful are hallmark sensory perturbations associated with chronic pain. It is now appreciated that ATP, through its actions as an excitatory neurotransmitter, plays a prominent role in the initiation and maintenance of chronic pain states. Mechanistically, the ability of ATP to drive nociceptive sensitivity is mediated through direct interactions at neuronal P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. Extracellular ATP also activates P2X4, P2X7, and several P2Y receptors on glial cells within the spinal cord, which leads to a heightened state of neural-glial cell interaction in ongoing pain states. Following the molecular identification of the P2 receptor superfamilies, selective small molecule antagonists for several P2 receptor subtypes were identified, which have been useful for investigating the role of specific P2X receptors in preclinical chronic pain models. More recently, several P2X receptor antagonists have advanced into clinical trials for inflammation and pain. The development of orally bioavailable blockers for ion channels, including the P2X receptors, has been traditionally difficult due to the necessity of combining requirements for target potency and selectivity with suitable absorption distribution, metabolism, and elimination properties. Recent studies on the physicochemical properties of marketed orally bioavailable drugs, have identified several parameters that appear critical for increasing the probability of achieving suitable bioavailability, central nervous system exposure, and acceptable safety necessary for clinical efficacy. This review provides an overview of the antinociceptive pharmacology of P2X receptor antagonists and the chemical diversity and drug-like properties for emerging antagonists of P2X3, P2X2/3, P2X4, and P2X7 receptors.
The development of radioligands for the dopaminergic system has provided suitable imaging biomarkers for clinical research in Parkinson's disease (PD) and related movement disorders. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) has played an important role as main molecular imaging modality because of the availability of imaging tools such as dopamine transporter (DAT) radioligands for wide clinical use. At present, SPECT imaging of the DAT is the main diagnostic imaging procedure for the assessment of patients with parkinsonism. However, in the recent years positron emission tomography (PET) has become an important clinical diagnostic modality, mainly in oncology, due to the wide availability of PET/CT systems with improved imaging performance and to the use of 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose ([18F]FDG) as main diagnostic agent. In this context, further development of 18F-radioligands is of high interest for their potential utility in the clinical setting. This review will give a general overview on the development of SPECT and PET radioligands for the dopaminergic system and describe the potential advantages of developing 18F-labelled radioligands for imaging of the dopaminergic system in PD and related movement disorders.
Cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes is gaining increased clinical significance. The neurochemical and neuropathological basis in the various parkinsonian forms and even in an individual patient are not fully elucidated yet and could be heterogeneous. Loss of dopaminergic, cholinergic and noradrenergic innervation has been suggested to be the underlying neurochemical deficits for cognitive impairment and dementia in PD, but the onset of cognitive impairment and the progression to dementia may not share the same underlying neurochemical basis. Similarly, pathological evidence is also heterogeneous, ranging from subcortical pathology, limbic or cortical Lewy body type degeneration, and Alzheimer's type pathology that can be found even in the same patient with PD dementia (PDD). Typically, the prototype of early cognitive deficit in PD is a dysexecutive syndrome, but other cognitive domains are more involved when dementia develops, mainly including visuospatial, language and memory dysfunction. Functional radionuclide neuroimaging, by means of single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography, are contributing to characterize the topographic cortical pattern of cognitive impairment, as well as to define the underlying neurochemical deficit. Lastly, the advent of amyloid PET may help clarifying the meaning of amyloid load in diffuse Lewy body disease and PDD. Knowing the neurochemical and pathophysiological substrate of cognitive deficit in patients with PD or other degenerative Parkinsonisms may help the clinician in understanding the clinical condition of an individual patient in order to plan pharmacological and non-pharmacological intervention. The introduction of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for therapy of PDD is an example of information integration between clinical-neuropsychological and pathophysiological-neurochemical aspects obtained also with the key contribution of functional neuroimaging.


We present a short historical review of the major figures and institutions that contributed to make Paris a renowned centre of physiology and neurology during the xixth and the first half of the xxth century. We purposely chose to focus on the period 1800-1950, as 1800 corresponds to the actual beginning of experimental physiology of the nervous system - what is here referred to as &quot;neuroscience&quot;-and 1950 marks its exponential rise. Our presentation is divided into four chapters, matching the main disciplines which have progressed and contributed the most to the knowledge we have of the brain sciences: anatomy, physiology, neurology, and psychiatry-psychology. The present article is the second of four parts of this review which includes the chapter on neurophysiology with selected biographical sketches of Franois Magendie, Marie Jean-Pierre Flourens, Claude Bernard, Charles-douard Brown-Squard, tienne-Jules Marey, Alfred Fessard and Denise Albe-Fessard.
Paliperidone Palmitate is a long-acting intramuscular atypical antipsychotic drug indicated for the acute maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults. Its mechanism of action, like all other atypical agents, is attributed to the antagonism of brain dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. The pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, and metabolism of paliperidone palmitate are reviewed. Current studies for clinical efficacy of paliperidone palmitate for both acute and maintenance treatment and adherence in adults with schizophrenia are discussed. Studies for safety and tolerability are also reviewed.
Non-operative treatment of Achilles tendon ruptures is associated with an increased risk of rerupture. We hypothesized that this is due to inferior mechanical properties during an early phase of healing, and performed a randomized trial, using a new method to measure the mechanical properties. Tantalum markers were inserted in the tendon stumps, and tendon strain at different loadings was measured by stereo-radiography (Roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis) at 3, 7 and 19 weeks and 18 months after injury. Thirty patients were randomized to operative or non-operative treatment. The primary out-come variable was an estimate for the modulus of elasticity at 7 weeks. Strain per force, cross-sectional area and tendon elongation were also measured. The functional outcome variable was the heel-raise index after 18 months. There was no difference in the mean modulus of elasticity or other mechanical or functional variables between operative and non-operative treatments at any time-point, but strain per force at 7 and 19 weeks had a significantly larger variation in the non-operative group. This group, therefore, might contain more outliers with poor healing. The modulus of elasticity at 7 weeks correlated with the heel-raise index after 18 months in both treatment groups (r(2) =0.75; P=0.0001). This correlation is an intriguing finding.
Antipsychotic drugs (APDs) are effective in treating some of the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. APDs take time to achieve a therapeutic effect which suggests that changes in gene expression are involved in their efficacy. We hypothesized that there would be altered expression of specific genes associated with the etiology or treatment of schizophrenia in frontal cortex of rats that received chronic treatment with a typical APD (haloperidol) vs. an atypical APD (clozapine). Rats were administered clozapine, haloperidol, or sterile saline intraperitoneally daily for 21days. Frontal cortices from clozapine-, haloperidol-, and saline-treated rats were dissected and subjected to microarray analysis. We observed a significant (1.5 fold, p&lt;0.05) downregulation of 278 genes and upregulation of 73 genes in the clozapine-treated brains vs. controls and downregulation of 451 genes and upregulation of 115 genes in the haloperidol-treated brains vs. control. A total of 146 genes (130 downregulated and 16 upregulated) were significantly altered by both clozapine and haloperidol. These genes were classified by functional groups. qRT-PCR (quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction) analysis verified the direction and magnitude of change for a group of nine genes significantly altered by clozapine and 11 genes significantly altered by haloperidol. Three genes verified by qRT-PCR were altered by both drugs: Bcl2-like 1 (Bcl2l1), catechol-O-methyltransferase (Comt), and opioid-binding protein/cell adhesion molecule-like (Opcml). Our results show that clozapine and haloperidol cause changes in levels of many important genes that may be involved in etiology and treatment of schizophrenia.

The accumulation of inflammatory cells in the brain parenchyma is a critical step in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Chemokines and adhesion molecules orchestrate leukocyte transmigration across the blood-brain barrier (BBB), but the dynamics of chemokine receptor expression during leukocyte transmigration are unclear. We describe an in vitro BBB model system using human brain microvascular endothelial cells that incorporates shear forces mimicking blood flow to elucidate how chemokine receptor expression is modulated during leukocyte transmigration. In the presence of the chemokine CXCL12, we examined modulation of its receptor CXCR4 on human T cells, B cells, and monocytes transmigrating across the BBB under flow conditions. CXCL12 stimulated transmigration of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, CD19(+) B cells, and CD14(+) monocytes. Transmigration was blocked by CXCR4-neutralizing antibodies. Unexpectedly, CXCL12 selectively down-regulated CXCR4 on transmigrating monocytes, but not T cells. Monocytes underwent preferential CXCL12-mediated adhesion to the BBB in vitro compared with lymphocytes. These findings provide new insights into leukocyte-endothelial interactions at the BBB under conditions mimicking blood flow and suggest that in vitro BBB models may be useful for identifying chemokine receptors that could be modulated therapeutically to reduce neuroinflammation in diseases such as MS.
The aim of the paper is to describe parent and teacher reported behavioural outcomes and quality of life in childhood hydrocephalus, and to consider the implications for future service planning. A community sample of 235 school-aged children with hydrocephalus (5-16 years) were identified via a database of service users, held by the Scottish Spina Bifida Association. Parent and teacher reports of behaviour on the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), and parent reports of quality of life on the Paediatric Quality-of-Life Generic Core (PedsQL Core) and Paediatric Quality-of-Life Fatigue (PedsQL Fatigue) were obtained, as were reports of service use and satisfaction. In total, 35% (n = 76) of parents and 86% (n = 47) of teachers who were contacted participated in the study. Parents reported behavioural difficulties in 57% and teachers in 33% of children. Quality of life was significantly reduced in comparison to published norms. Children whose parents reported unmet needs had poorer psychosocial outcomes, but families rarely accessed appropriate specialist services. In conclusion, hydrocephalus is associated with high rates of behaviour problems and markedly reduced quality of life. It is important to increase professional awareness of psychological need in this chronic neurological condition, and to increase access to appropriate psychosocial services.

Eph receptors and their ligands ephrins comprise a complex signaling system with diverse functions that span a wide range of tissues and developmental stages. The variety of Eph receptor functions stems from their ability to mediate bidirectional signaling through trans-cellular Eph/ephrin interactions. Initially thought to act by directing repulsion between cells, Ephs have also been demonstrated to induce and maintain cell adhesive responses at excitatory synapses in the central nervous system. EphB receptors are essential to the development and maintenance of dendritic spines, which accommodate the postsynaptic sites of most glutamatergic excitatory synapses in the brain. Functions of EphB receptors are not limited to control of the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic spines, as EphB receptors are also involved in the formation of functional synaptic specializations through the regulation of glutamate receptor trafficking and functions. In addition, EphB receptors have recently been linked to the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and neuropathic pain, thus becoming promising targets for therapeutic interventions. In this review, we discuss recent findings on EphB receptor functions in synapses, as well as the mechanisms of bidirectional trans-synaptic ephrin-B/EphB receptor signaling that shape dendritic spines and influence post-synaptic differentiation.

Cyclic alternating pattern CAP is the EEG marker of unstable sleep, a concept which is poorly appreciated among the metrics of sleep physiology. Besides, duration, depth and continuity, sleep restorative properties depend on the capacity of the brain to create periods of sustained stable sleep. This issue is not confined only to the EEG activities but reverberates upon the ongoing autonomic activity and behavioral functions, which are mutually entrained in a synchronized oscillation. CAP can be identified both in adult and children sleep and therefore represents a sensitive tool for the investigation of sleep disorders across the lifespan. The present review illustrates the story of CAP in the last 25 years, the standardized scoring criteria, the basic physiological properties and how the dimension of sleep instability has provided new insight into pathophysiolology and management of sleep disorders.
A considerable body of evidence derived from terror management theory indicates that the awareness of mortality represents a potent psychological threat engendering various forms of psychological defense. However, extant research has yet to examine the neurological correlates of cognitions about one's inevitable death. The present study thus investigated in 17 male participants patterns of neural activation elicited by mortality threat. To induce mortality threat, participants answered questions arranged in trial blocks that referred to fear of death and dying. In the control condition participants answered questions about fear of dental pain. Neural responses to mortality threat were greater than to pain threat in right amygdala, left rostral anterior cingulate cortex, and right caudate nucleus. We discuss implications of these findings for stimulating further research into the neurological correlates of managing existential fear.
The amygdala is critically involved in mediating physiological and behavioral responses to threat. In particular, neuroimaging research indicates that the amygdala is highly responsive to facial signals of threat such as fearful and angry expressions. However, individuals differ substantially in both their relative sensitivity to threat and the magnitude of amygdala reactivity to facial signals of threat. Here, we report the novel finding that individual differences in trait anger are positively correlated with bilateral dorsal amygdala reactivity to angry facial expressions, but only among men with elevated trait anxiety scores. These findings add to the growing body of evidence indicating that variability in personality traits contribute to individual differences in threat-related amygdala reactivity and further suggest that heightened amygdala reactivity to angry faces may be uniquely involved in the expression of reactive aggression in men.
The adolescent brain has become a flourishing project for cognitive neuroscience. In the mid 1990s, MRI studies mapped out extended neuro-development in several cortical regions beyond childhood, and during adolescence. In the last ten years, numerous functional MRI studies have suggested that functions associated with these brain regions, such as cognitive control and social cognition undergo a period of development. These changes have been anecdotally and clinically used to account for behavioural changes during adolescence. The interpretation of these data that the &quot;teen brain&quot; is different has gained increasing visibility outside the neuroscience community, among policy makers and in the media, resonating strongly with current cultural conceptions of teenagers in Western societies. In the last two years, a new impetus has been placed on public engagement activities in science and in the popular science genre of the media that specifically attempts to educate children and teenagers about emerging models of the developing brain. In this article, we draw on data from an adolescent focus group and a questionnaire completed by 85 teenage students at a UK school, to show how teens may hold ambivalent and sometimes resistant views of cognitive neuroscience's teen brain model in terms of their own self-understandings. Our findings indicate that new &quot;neuro&quot;-identity formations are more fractured, resisted and incomplete than some of the current social science literature on neuro-subjectivities seem to suggest and that the effects of public policy and popular education initiatives in this domain will be more uneven and complex than currently imagined.
Metastasis to multiple organs is the primary cause of mortality in breast cancer patients. The poor prognosis for patients with metastatic breast cancer and toxic side effects of currently available treatments necessitate the development of effective tumor-selective therapies. Neural stem cells (NSCs) possess inherent tumor tropic properties that enable them to overcome many obstacles of drug delivery that limit effective chemotherapy strategies for breast cancer. We report that increased NSC tropism to breast tumor cell lines is strongly correlated with the invasiveness of cancer cells. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) was identified as a major cytokine mediating NSC tropism to invasive breast cancer cells. We show for the first time in a preclinical mouse model of metastatic human breast cancer that NSCs preferentially target tumor metastases in multiple organs, including liver, lung, lymph nodes, and femur, versus the primary intramammary fat pad tumor. For proof-of-concept of stem cell-mediated breast cancer therapy, NSCs were genetically modified to secrete rabbit carboxylesterase (rCE), an enzyme that activates the CPT-11 prodrug to SN-38, a potent topoisomerase I inhibitor, to effect tumor-localized chemotherapy. In vitro data demonstrate that exposure of breast cancer cells to conditioned media from rCE-secreting NSCs (NSC.rCE) increased their sensitivity to CPT-11 by 200-fold. In vivo, treatment of tumor-bearing mice with NSC.rCE cells in combination with CPT-11 resulted in reduction of metastatic tumor burden in lung and lymph nodes. These data suggest that NSC-mediated enzyme/prodrug therapy may be more effective and less toxic than currently available chemotherapy strategies for breast cancer metastases.
Endogenous stem cells in the bone marrow respond to environmental cues and contribute to tissue maintenance and repair. In type 2 diabetes, a multifaceted metabolic disease characterized by insulin resistance and hyperglycemia, major complications are seen in multiple organ systems. To evaluate the effects of this disease on the endogenous stem cell population, we used a type 2 diabetic mouse model (db/db), which recapitulates these diabetic phenotypes. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from db/db mice were characterized in vitro using flow cytometric cell population analysis, differentiation, gene expression, and proliferation assays. Diabetic MSCs were evaluated for their therapeutic potential in vivo using an excisional splint wound model in both nondiabetic wild-type and diabetic mice. Diabetic animals possessed fewer MSCs, which were proliferation and survival impaired in vitro. Examination of the recruitment response of stem and progenitor cells after wounding revealed that significantly fewer endogenous MSCs homed to the site of injury in diabetic subjects. Although direct engraftment of healthy MSCs accelerated wound closure in both healthy and diabetic subjects, diabetic MSC engraftment produced limited improvement in the diabetic subjects and could not produce the same therapeutic outcomes as in their nondiabetic counterparts in vivo. Our data reveal stem cell impairment as a major complication of type 2 diabetes in mice and suggest that the disease may stably alter endogenous MSCs. These results have implications for the efficiency of autologous therapies in diabetic patients and identify endogenous MSCs as a potential therapeutic target.






We report a novel approach in the treatment of spinal metastases with epidural disease and mechanical instability using a combined minimal access spine surgery (MASS) technique followed by spine stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). This study was performed as a retrospective review of the first ten consecutive patients treated with this combined approach. The MASS technique was based on a tubular retraction system to gain access for decompression and mechanical stabilization achieved using methyl-methacrylate (MMA) applied under direct visualization. SBRT consisted of one to five image-guided high dose per fraction treatments. Eight patients were symptomatic at baseline. Pain, disability, and quality of life (QOL) were prospectively determined using the visual analogue score (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Short-Form-36 version 2, respectively. The median follow-up was 13 months (range, 3-18). MASS successfully decompressed each patient. The median blood loss was 335 ml. Following MASS, the median time to SBRT treatment planning was 6.5 days and subsequent median time to treatment was 7 days. Local control was observed in 7 of the 10 patients. Improvements in VAS, ODI and QOL were observed post-SBRT. We report preliminary efficacy for our MASS-SBRT combined approach for patients with spinal metastases, mechanical pain and epidural disease.
A historical understanding of the virtue of consolation, as contrasted to empathy, compassion, or sympathy, is developed. Recent findings from neuroscience are presented which support and affirm this understanding. These findings are related to palliative care and its current practice in bioethics.

Human prolidase (PROL), which has structural homology to bacterial organophosphate acid anhydrolase that hydrolyze organophosphates and nerve agents has been proposed recently as a potential catalytic bioscavenger. To develop PROL as a catalytic bioscavenger, we evaluated the in vitro hydrolysis efficiency of purified recombinant human PROL against organophosphates and nerve agents. Human liver PROL was purified by chromatographic procedures, whereas recombinant human skin and kidney PROL was expressed in Trichoplusia ni larvae, affinity purified and analyzed by gel electrophoresis. The catalytic efficiency of PROL against diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) and nerve agents was evaluated by acetylcholinesterase back-titration assay. Partially purified human liver PROL hydrolyzed DFP and various nerve agents, which was abolished by specific PROL inhibitor showing the specificity of hydrolysis. Both the recombinant human skin and kidney PROL expressed in T. ni larvae showed 99% purity and efficiently hydrolyzed DFP and sarin. In contrast to human liver PROL, both skin and kidney PROL showed significantly low hydrolyzing potential against nerve agents soman, tabun and VX. In conclusion, compared to human liver PROL, recombinant human skin and kidney PROL hydrolyze only DFP and sarin showing the substrate specificity of PROL from various tissue sources.
Glucocorticoids (GC) are critical for normal development of the fetal brain, and alterations in their levels can induce neurotoxicity with detrimental consequences. Still, there is little information available on the effects of GC on human neural stem/progenitor cells (hNPC). In the present study, we have investigated the effects of the synthetic GC dexamethasone (Dex) on hNPC grown as neurospheres, with special focus on their proliferation and differentiation capacity and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Immunocytochemical stainings showed that Dex markedly decreases proliferation and neuronal differentiation while promoting glia cell formation. Analysis of pathway-specific genes revealed that Dex induces an upregulation of the Wnt-signaling antagonist DKK1. Moreover, Dex- or DKK1-treated hNPCs showed reduced transcriptional levels of the two canonical Wnt target genes cyclin D1 and inhibitor of DNA binding 2 (ID2). Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that Dex, via the glucocorticoid receptor, interacts with the DKK1 promotor. Treatment of hNPC with recombinant DKK1 or neutralizing antibodies indicated that DKK1 has a critical role in the Dex-induced inhibition of proliferation and neuronal differentiation with a concomitant increase in glial cells. Taken together, our findings show that GC reduce proliferation and interfere with differentiation of hNPCs via the canonical Wnt-signaling pathway.
Ferlins are a family of multiple C2 domain proteins with emerging roles in vesicle fusion and membrane trafficking. Ferlin mutations are associated with muscular dystrophy (dysferlin) and deafness (otoferlin) in humans, and infertility in Caenorhabditis elegans (Fer-1) and Drosophila (misfire), demonstrating their importance for normal cellular functioning. Ferlins show ancient origins in eukaryotic evolution and are detected in all eukaryotic kingdoms, including unicellular eukaryotes and apicomplexian protists, suggesting origins in a common ancestor predating eukaryotic evolutionary branching. The characteristic feature of the ferlin family is their multiple tandem cytosolic C2 domains (five to seven C2 domains), the most of any protein family, and an extremely rare feature amongst eukaryotic proteins. Ferlins also bear a unique nested DysF domain and small conserved 60-70 residue ferlin-specific sequences (Fer domains). Ferlins segregate into two subtypes based on the presence (type I ferlin) or absence (type II ferlin) of the DysF and FerA domains. Ferlins have diverse tissue-specific and developmental expression patterns, with ferlin animal models united by pathologies arising from defects in vesicle fusion. Consistent with their proposed role in vesicle trafficking, ferlin interaction partners include cytoskeletal motors, other vesicle-associated trafficking proteins and transmembrane receptors or channels. Herein we summarize the research history of the ferlins, an intriguing family of structurally conserved proteins with a preserved ancestral function as regulators of vesicle fusion and receptor trafficking.
Cognition materializes in an interpersonal space. The emergence of complex behaviors requires the coordination of actions among individuals according to a shared set of rules. Despite the central role of other individuals in shaping one's mind, most cognitive studies focus on processes that occur within a single individual. We call for a shift from a single-brain to a multi-brain frame of reference. We argue that in many cases the neural processes in one brain are coupled to the neural processes in another brain via the transmission of a signal through the environment. Brain-to-brain coupling constrains and shapes the actions of each individual in a social network, leading to complex joint behaviors that could not have emerged in isolation.
Cognitive neuroscience has started to probe cross-cultural differences in the neuronal mechanisms underlying cognitive, perceptual and social domains. Moreover, brain imaging has revealed how education changes the brain. Such research opens up a new frontier in brain plasticity research, breaking down the boundaries between neuroscience and other traditionally non-biological disciplines, resulting in many conceptual and practical implications.
Although it is well established that experience seeking behavior (ES) is positively related to cognitive functioning, the mechanisms underlying this association are not clearly understood. In a large sample of adult twins and siblings (N = 864, age range 23-75), we studied the causes of covariation between ES and general cognitive ability and we studied whether ES moderates the genetic and environmental causes of variation in general cognitive ability. Results demonstrate a phenotypic correlation of .17 (p &lt;.001) between general cognitive ability and ES, with a common genetic and common environmental background. Moreover, the extent to which genetic and environmental factors are shared between general cognitive ability and ES is increased in individuals with either lower or higher levels of ES. In addition, the extent to which genetic and environmental factors influence individual differences in general cognitive ability in adults partly depended on ES. Standardized influences of additive genetic factors on general cognitive ability ranged from 13% to 99%, with lower estimates in higher levels of ES, while standardized estimates of environmental factors ranged from almost 1% to 87%, with higher estimates in higher levels of ES. Hence, ES and cognitive ability are not only associated through common genetic and environmental factors, but also via moderating effects of genetic and environmental influences on cognitive ability by ES. These findings have implications for future studies on the association between ES and general cognitive ability, and for future research on the genetics of cognitive ability.







The aim of this paper was to review the literature concerning the relationship between suicide and substance abuse behaviours among adolescents, focusing on epidemiology, comorbidity and preventive programmes. We performed a Pubmed/Medline, Scopus, PsycLit and PsycInfo search to identify all papers and book chapters during the period between 1980 and 2011. Adolescents with substance abuse disorder who attempt or complete suicide can be characterized as having mood disorders, stressful life events, interpersonal problems, poor social support, lonely lives and feelings of hopelessness. The research supports the existence of a strong relationship between suicide and substance abuse. Preventive programmes should be based on the detection of risk factors associated with both suicide and substance abuse disorder. Management programmes should combine different therapeutic strategies such as peer-to-peer education, school-based programmes, psychotherapy and pharmacological treatment. Evidence suggests that targeted suicide prevention programmes can be delivered which reduce the burden associated with substance abuse and suicide in youths.

Predicting response to therapy in individual patients with epilepsy is not straightforward. An exploration of long-term surgical outcomes in an epilepsy cohort has identified seven patterns of remission and relapse, and the probability of each outcome has been calculated. The study provides new predictors of postoperative outcomes in epilepsy.


Intracranial recording is an important diagnostic method routinely used in a number of neurological monitoring scenarios. In recent years, advancements in such recordings have been extended to include unit activity of an ensemble of neurons. However, a detailed functional characterization of excitatory and inhibitory cells has not been attempted in human neocortex, particularly during the sleep state. Here, we report that such feature discrimination is possible from high-density recordings in the neocortex by using 2D multielectrode arrays. Successful separation of regular-spiking neurons (or bursting cells) from fast-spiking cells resulted in well-defined clusters that each showed unique intrinsic firing properties. The high density of the array, which allowed recording from a large number of cells (up to 90), helped us to identify apparent monosynaptic connections, confirming the excitatory and inhibitory nature of regular-spiking and fast-spiking cells, thus categorized as putative pyramidal cells and interneurons, respectively. Finally, we investigated the dynamics of correlations within each class. A marked exponential decay with distance was observed in the case of excitatory but not for inhibitory cells. Although the amplitude of that decline depended on the timescale at which the correlations were computed, the spatial constant did not. Furthermore, this spatial constant is compatible with the typical size of human columnar organization. These findings provide a detailed characterization of neuronal activity, functional connectivity at the microcircuit level, and the interplay of excitation and inhibition in the human neocortex.
Adolescents often respond differently than adults to the same salient motivating contexts, such as peer interactions and pleasurable stimuli. Delineating the neural processing differences of adolescents is critical to understanding this phenomenon, as well as the bases of serious behavioral and psychiatric vulnerabilities, such as drug abuse, mood disorders, and schizophrenia. We believe that age-related changes in the ways salient stimuli are processed in key brain regions could underlie the unique predilections and vulnerabilities of adolescence. Because motivated behavior is the central issue, it is critical that age-related comparisons of brain activity be undertaken during motivational contexts. We compared single-unit activity and local field potentials in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and dorsal striatum (DS) of adolescent and adult rats during a reward-motivated instrumental task. These regions are involved in motivated learning, reward processing, and action selection. We report adolescent neural processing differences in the DS, a region generally associated more with learning than reward processing in adults. Specifically, adolescents, but not adults, had a large proportion of neurons in the DS that activated in anticipation of reward. More similar response patterns were observed in NAc of the two age groups. DS single-unit activity differences were found despite similar local field potential oscillations. This study demonstrates that in adolescents, a region critically involved in learning and habit formation is highly responsive to reward. It thus suggests a mechanism for how rewards might shape adolescent behavior differently, and for their increased vulnerabilities to affective disorders.
Vertebrate Dlx genes have been implicated in the differentiation of multiple neuronal subtypes, including cortical GABAergic interneurons, and mutations in Dlx genes have been linked to clinical conditions such as epilepsy and autism. Here we show that the single Drosophila Dlx homolog, distal-less, is required both to specify chemosensory neurons and to regulate the morphologies of their axons and dendrites. We establish that distal-less is necessary for development of the mushroom body, a brain region that processes olfactory information. These are important examples of distal-less function in an invertebrate nervous system and demonstrate that the Drosophila larval olfactory system is a powerful model in which to understand distal-less functions during neurogenesis.
We describe a functional profiling strategy to identify and characterize subtypes of neurons present in a peripheral ganglion, which should be extendable to neurons in the CNS. In this study, dissociated dorsal-root ganglion neurons from mice were exposed to various pharmacological agents (challenge compounds), while at the same time the individual responses of &gt;100 neurons were simultaneously monitored by calcium imaging. Each challenge compound elicited responses in only a subset of dorsal-root ganglion neurons. Two general types of challenge compounds were used: agonists of receptors (ionotropic and metabotropic) that alter cytoplasmic calcium concentration (receptor-agonist challenges) and compounds that affect voltage-gated ion channels (membrane-potential challenges). Notably, among the latter are K-channel antagonists, which elicited unexpectedly diverse types of calcium responses in different cells (i.e., phenotypes). We used various challenge compounds to identify several putative neuronal subtypes on the basis of their shared and/or divergent functional, phenotypic profiles. Our results indicate that multiple receptor-agonist and membrane-potential challenges may be applied to a neuronal population to identify, characterize, and discriminate among neuronal subtypes. This experimental approach can uncover constellations of plasma membrane macromolecules that are functionally coupled to confer a specific phenotypic profile on each neuronal subtype. This experimental platform has the potential to bridge a gap between systems and molecular neuroscience with a cellular-focused neuropharmacology, ultimately leading to the identification and functional characterization of all neuronal subtypes at a given locus in the nervous system.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a critical region for alcohol/drug-induced negative affect and stress-induced reinstatement. NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP), has been postulated to play key roles in alcohol and drug addiction; yet, to date, little is understood regarding the mechanisms underlying LTP of the BNST, or its regulation by ethanol. Acute and chronic exposure to ethanol modulates glutamate transmission via actions on NMDARs. Despite intense investigation, tests of subunit specificity of ethanol actions on NMDARs using pharmacological approaches have produced mixed results. Thus, we use a conditional GluN2B KO mouse line to assess both basal and ethanol-dependent function of this subunit at glutamate synapses in the BNST. Deletion of GluN2B eliminated LTP, as well as actions of ethanol on NMDAR function. Further, we show that chronic ethanol exposure enhances LTP formation in the BNST. Using KO-validated pharmacological approaches with Ro25-6981 and memantine, we provide evidence suggesting that chronic ethanol exposure enhances LTP in the BNST via paradoxical extrasynaptic NMDAR involvement. These findings demonstrate that GluN2B is a key point of regulation for ethanol's actions and suggest a unique role of extrasynaptic GluN2B-containing receptors in facilitating LTP.
The past few years have seen an increase in the clinical awareness of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), one of the most disabling and least understood behavioral disorders. Although the biological bases of PTSD are poorly understood, fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) activity has been linked with arousability and aversive-memories extinction, that is, two key features of PTSD. In this study, we investigated the association between the FAAH genetic polymorphisms and PTSD development and maintenance. We assessed PTSD frequency in a group of male Vietnam war veterans who suffered combat-related penetrating traumatic brain injury, that is, a relatively homogeneous population regarding the nature of the events that led to PTSD. We showed that rs2295633, a single-nucleotide polymorphism of FAAH, was significantly associated with PTSD diagnosis in subjects without lesions in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Moreover, the presence of the C allele was associated with more severe re-experiencing of trauma and more negative reported childhood experiences. In conclusion, our data suggest that FAAH has an important role in PTSD through modulation of aversive memories and point to both a novel therapeutic target and a possible risk marker for this condition.
Objectives To assess the utility of the display standardisation of diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI) and to compare the effectiveness of DWI and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) MRI for the diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD). Design A reliability and agreement study. Setting Thirteen MRI observers comprising eight neurologists and five radiologists at two universities in Japan. Participants Data of 1.5-Tesla DWI and FLAIR were obtained from 29 patients with sCJD and 13 controls. Outcome measures Standardisation of DWI display was performed utilising b0 imaging. The observers participated in standardised DWI, variable DWI (the display adjustment was observer dependent) and FLAIR sessions. The observers independently assessed each MRI for CJD-related lesions, that is, hyperintensity in the cerebral cortex or striatum, using a continuous rating scale. Performance was evaluated by the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC). Results The mean AUC values were 0.84 (95% CI 0.81 to 0.87) for standardised DWI, 0.85 (95% CI 0.82 to 0.88) for variable DWI and 0.68 (95% CI 0.63 to 0.72) for FLAIR, demonstrating the superiority of DWI (p&lt;0.05). There was a trend for higher intraclass correlations of standardised DWI (0.74, 95% CI 0.66 to 0.83) and variable DWI (0.72, 95% CI 0.62 to 0.81) than that of FLAIR (0.63, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.74), although the differences were not statistically significant. Conclusions Standardised DWI is as reliable as variable DWI, and the two DWI displays are superior to FLAIR for the diagnosis of sCJD. The authors propose that hyperintensity in the cerebral cortex or striatum on 1.5-Tesla DWI but not FLAIR can be a reliable diagnostic marker for sCJD.
In this study we examined the effects of sustained intracerebroventricular insulin infusion on hippocampal synaptic plasticity in rats. Insulin was infused intracerebroventricularly in male Wistar rats (n=12) for 3 months using osmotic minipumps. A control group (n=12) received a sham operation. Insulin infusion led to an initial reduction in food intake and body weight gain, but these differences attenuated over 12 weeks. Insulin infusion did not affect fasting or non-fasting blood glucose levels. Field synaptic potentials recording from the hippocampus demonstrated a defect in the expression of long-term potentiation. Sharp electrode current-clamp recording showed that CA1 pyramidal cells fire action potentials in response to prolonged depolarizing current injection and those action potentials showed progressive broadening. The action potential broadening in the insulin-perfused animals were significantly longer than the control. The amplitude of slow after hyperpolarization (sAHP) was measured after manually &quot;clamping&quot; the cells at -65 mV and injecting currents to evoke a train of four APs. The sAHP amplitude was significantly longer than in the control animals. We conclude that local insulin infusion into the brain of rats had significant effects on synaptic plasticity in the absence of marked effects on systemic glucose levels. These results indicate that long-term elevation of insulin levels can have adverse effects directly on the brain.
The extent of task-related fMRI activation can vary as a function of task difficulty. Also the efficiency or capacity of the brain networks underlying task performance can change with aging. We asked whether the expression of a network underlying task performance would differ as a function of task demand in old and young individuals. 26 younger and 23 older healthy adults performed a delayed item recognition task that used the response signal method to parametrically manipulate the extrinsic difficulty of the task by imposing five different deadlines for recognition response. Both age groups showed a speed-accuracy trade-off, but the younger group achieved greater discriminability at the longer deadlines. We identified a spatial pattern of fMRI activation during the probe phase whose expression increased as the response deadline shortened and the task became more difficult. This pattern was expressed to a greater degree by the old group at the long deadlines, when the task was easiest. By contrast, this pattern was expressed to a greater degree by the younger group at the short deadlines, when the task was hardest. This suggests reduced efficiency and capacity of this network in older subjects. These findings suggest that neuroimaging studies comparing task-related activation across groups with different cognitive abilities must be interpreted in light of the relative difficulty of the task for each group.


Non-viral gene therapy systems are considered safer than viral delivery. This article reviews recent research describing novel, non-viral gene delivery to the central nervous system, with a special emphasis on receptor mediated gene delivery using antibodies (termed immunogenes) to specific receptors. By using targeting agents such as antibodies that can be retrogradely transported within neurons, non-viral gene therapies can deliver genes to specific neurons protected by the blood brain barrier. Components of effective non-viral gene therapy are described including DNA/RNA carriers, receptor-mediated endocytosis, endosomal escape and nuclear entry. In addition, stealth agents such as polyethylene glycol that can be used to improve in-vivo delivery are discussed. The value of immunogenes as therapeutic agents for fatal diseases such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis is significant but further in-vivo work to confirm efficacy is required before truly effective therapies can be achieved.
The need to infer brain states in a data driven approach is crucial for BCI applications as well as for neuroscience research. In this work we present a novel classification framework based on Regularized Linear Regression classifier constructed from time-frequency decomposition of an EEG (electro-encephalography) signal. The regression is then used to derive a model of frequency distributions that identifies brain states. The process of classifier construction, preprocessing and selection of optimal regularization parameter by means of cross-validation is presented and discussed. The framework and the feature selection technique are demonstrated on EEG data recorded from 10 healthy subjects while requested to open and close their eyes every 30 s. This paradigm is well known in inducing Alpha power modulations that differ from low power (during eyes opened) to high (during eyes closed). The classifier was trained to infer eyes opened or eyes closed states and achieved higher than 90% classification accuracy. Furthermore, our findings reveal interesting patterns of relations between experimental conditions, EEG frequencies, regularization parameters and classifier choice. This viable tool enables identification of the most contributing frequency bands to any given brain state and their optimal combination in inferring this state. These features allow for much greater detail than the standard Fourier Transform power analysis, making it an essential method for both BCI proposes and neuroimaging research.
Vivo-morpholinos are commercially available morpholino oligomers with a terminal octa-guanidinium dendrimer for enhanced cell-permeability. Existing evidence from systemically delivered vivo-morpholinos indicate that genetic suppression can last from days to weeks without evidence of cellular toxicity. However, intravenously delivered vivo-morpholinos are ineffective at protein suppression in the brain, and no evidence is available regarding whether intracranially delivered vivo-morpholinos effectively reduce target protein levels, or do so without inducing neurotoxicity. Here we report examples in which in vivo microinjection of antisense vivo-morpholinos directed against three different targets (xCT, GLT1, orexin) in two different brain regions resulted in significant suppression of protein expression without neurotoxicity. Expression was significantly suppressed at six to seven days post-administration, but returned to baseline levels within fourteen days. These results indicate that direct intracranial administration of vivo-morpholinos provides an effective means by which to suppress protein expression in the brain for one to two weeks.
Convection-enhanced delivery (CED) is a promising technique for the administration of therapeutic agents such as cytotoxics, neurotrophins and enzymes to the brain. In this study we describe the development of an implantable catheter system that is compatible with long-term intermittent CED. Catheters made from fused silica, PEEK or carbothane, and of various internal and external diameters were implanted in the striatum of rats and assessed for patency at 21 or 28 days. A high-rate of catheter blockage was observed with all fused silica and PEEK catheters. Carbothane catheters with an outer diameter of 0.6mm and an inner diameter of 0.35 mm had significantly lower rates of blockage (P0.01). Carbothane catheters were then implanted into 4 Large White/Landrace pigs and 4 NIH miniature pigs and infusions undertaken at monthly intervals to evaluate catheter patency and infusate distribution. Catheter patency was demonstrated for a maximum period of 163 days in one animal. Widespread and reproducible intraputamenal CED could be achieved with intermittent drug delivery at flow-rates as high as 5 l/min. Problems were encountered using the pig model due to catheter distortion from rapid animal growth. In conclusion, it is possible to achieve intermittent high-flow CED with a chronic implanted carbothane catheter with a low rate of catheter blockage.
A dual thermal and electrical stimulator was developed to examine the central pathways that transmit noxious stimuli for intact dentition. This system allows computer-controlled stimulation of the canines of ferrets with either noxious heat or electrical stimuli. A set of in vitro studies demonstrated that the application of thermal stimuli to an intact tooth can produce pulpal temperatures above 43 C, which is perceived as a painful stimulus in humans. In a set of in vivo studies, it was demonstrated that heating an intact tooth at temperatures of at least 40 C, excited trigeminal brainstem neurons. Only 15% of the neurons activated by electrical stimulation responded to noxious heat applied to the canine. Eight of the 23 neurons were classified as nociceptive specific neurons and responded only to noxious stimulation of their cutaneous receptive fields. Fifteen of the 23 neurons were classified as wide dynamic range neurons and responded to both noxious and non-noxious stimulation applied to their cutaneous receptive fields. This new device can accurately deliver both thermal and electrical stimuli to an intact tooth, which allows an evaluation of the central neural circuits that respond to noxious stimulation of the dentition.
Stereotaxic surgery for the implantation of cannulae into specific brain regions has for many decades been a very successful experimental technique to investigate the effects of locally manipulated neurotransmitter and signaling pathways in awake, behaving animals. Moreover, the stereotaxic implantation of electrodes for electrophysiological stimulation and recording studies has been instrumental to our current understanding of neuroplasticity and brain networks in behaving animals. Ever-increasing knowledge about optimizing surgical techniques in rodents(1-4), public awareness concerning animal welfare issues and stringent legislation (e.g., the 2010 European Union Directive on the use of laboratory animals(5)) prompted us to refine these surgical procedures, particularly with respect to implementing new procedures for oxygen supplementation and the continuous monitoring of blood oxygenation and heart rate levels during the surgery as well as introducing a standardized protocol for post-surgical care. Our observations indicate that these modifications resulted in an increased survival rate and an improvement in the general condition of the animals after surgery (e.g. less weight loss and a more active animal). This video presentation will show the general procedures involved in this type of stereotaxic surgery with special attention to our several modifications. We will illustrate these surgical procedures in rats, but it is also possible to perform this type of surgery in mice or other small laboratory animals by using special adaptors for the stereotaxic apparatus(6).
In recent years it has become evident that glucocorticoid receptor (GR) action in the nucleus is highly dynamic, characterized by a rapid exchange at the chromatin template. This stochastic mode of GR action couples perfectly with a deterministic pulsatile availability of endogenous ligand in vivo. The endogenous glucocorticoid hormone (cortisol in man and corticosterone in rodent) is secreted from the adrenal gland with an ultradian rhythm made up of pulses at approximately hourly intervals. These two components - the rapidly fluctuating ligand and the rapidly exchanging receptor - appear to have evolved to establish and maintain a system that is exquisitely responsive to the physiological demands of the organism. In this review, we discuss recent and innovative work that questions the idea of steady state, static hormone receptor responses, and replaces them with new concepts of stochastic mechanisms and oscillatory activity essential for optimal function in molecular and cellular systems.
While schizophrenia has been associated with a slight excess of winter/early spring birth, it is unclear whether there is such an association in relation to schizotypal personality traits. Season of birth has also been reported to relate to temperament and character personality dimensions and cognitive functioning. Moreover, non-clinical schizotypy has been shown to be associated with mild cognitive impairment, although its precise nature is yet to be elucidated. Here we examined the relationships between season of birth, schizotypal traits, temperament and character, and cognitive function. Four hundred and fifty-one healthy adults completed the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ). The Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) and a neuropsychological test battery consisting of full versions of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised, and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, were also administered to most of the participants. The total SPQ score of those born in winter was significantly higher than that of the remaining participants. Season of birth was not significantly associated with any of the TCI dimensions or cognitive test results. Significant but mild relationships between higher SPQ scores and lower scores on some aspects of IQ were observed. These results support the notion that schizotypy and schizophrenia are neurodevelopmental conditions on the same continuum.
Face and body perception rely on common processing mechanisms and activate similar but not identical brain networks. Patients with schizophrenia show impaired face perception, and the present study addressed for the first time body perception in this group. Seventeen patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were compared to 17 healthy controls on standardized tests assessing basic face perception skills (identity discrimination, memory for faces, recognition of facial affect). A matching-to-sample task including emotional and neutral faces, bodies and cars either in an upright or in an inverted position was administered to assess potential category-specific performance deficits and impairments of configural processing. Relative to healthy controls, schizophrenia patients showed poorer performance on the tasks assessing face perception skills. In the matching-to-sample task, they also responded more slowly and less accurately than controls, regardless of the stimulus category. Accuracy analysis showed significant inversion effects for faces and bodies across groups, reflecting configural processing mechanisms; however reaction time analysis indicated evidence of reduced inversion effects regardless of category in schizophrenia patients. The magnitude of the inversion effects was not related to clinical symptoms. Overall, the data point towards reduced configural processing, not only for faces but also for bodies and cars in individuals with schizophrenia.
For more than 60 years, the mood stabilizer lithium has been used alone or in combination for the treatment of bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, depression, and other mental illnesses. Despite this long history, the molecular mechanisms trough which lithium regulates behavior are still poorly understood. Among several targets, lithium has been shown to directly inhibit glycogen synthase kinase 3 alpha and beta (GSK3 and GSK3). However in vivo, lithium also inhibits GSK3 by regulating other mechanisms like the formation of a signaling complex comprised of beta-arrestin 2 (Arr2) and Akt. Here, we provide an overview of in vivo evidence supporting a role for inhibition of GSK3 in some behavioral effects of lithium. We also explore how regulation of GSK3 by lithium within a signaling network involving several molecular targets and cell surface receptors [e.g., G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs)] may provide cues to its relative pharmacological selectivity and its effects on disease mechanisms. A better understanding of these intricate actions of lithium at a systems level may allow the rational development of better mood stabilizer drugs with enhanced selectivity, efficacy, and lesser side effects.
To begin the process of forming neural circuits, new neurons first establish their polarity and extend their axon. Axon extension is guided and regulated by highly coordinated cytoskeletal dynamics. Here we demonstrate that in hippocampal neurons, the actin-binding protein caldesmon accumulates in distal axons, and its N-terminal interaction with myosin II enhances axon extension. In cortical neural progenitor cells, caldesmon knockdown suppresses axon extension and neuronal polarity. These results indicate that caldesmon is an important regulator of axon development.
This study was designed to investigate whether delta opioid receptor (DOR) is involved in the neuroprotective effect induced by hypoxic preconditioning (HPC) in the asphyxial cardiac arrest (CA) rat model. Twenty-four hours after the end of 7-day HPC, the rats were subjected to 8-min asphyxiation and resuscitated with a standardized method. In the asphyxial CA rat model, HPC improved the neurological deficit score (NDS), inhibited neuronal apoptosis, and increased the number of viable hippocampal CA1 neurons at 24 h, 72 h, or 7 days after restoration of spontaneous circulation (ROSC); however, the above-mentioned neuroprotection of HPC was attenuated by naltrindole (a selective DOR antagonist). The expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) and DOR, and the content of leucine enkephalin (L-ENK) in the brain were also investigated after the end of 7-day HPC. HPC upregulated the neuronal expression of HIF-1 and DOR, and synchronously elevated the content of L-ENK in the rat brain. HIF-1 siRNA was used to further elucidate the relationship between HIF-1 and DOR in the HPC-treated brain. Knockdown of HIF-1 by siRNA markedly abrogated the HPC induced upregulation of HIF-1 and DOR. The present study demonstrates that the expression of DOR in the rat brain is upregulated by HIF-1 following exposure to 7-day HPC, at the same time, HPC also increases the production of endogenous DOR ligand L-ENK in the brain. DOR activation after HPC results in prolonged neuroprotection against subsequent global cerebral ischemic injury, suggesting a new mechanism of HPC-induced neuroprotection on global cerebral ischemia following CA and resuscitation.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) is closely relative to the proliferation, survival, and differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs). This study primarily examined the mGluR5 expression of NPCs in subventricular zone (SVZ) and the effects of mGluR5 on neurogenesis to intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) rat. The experiment was designated as the following: (1) The ICH model was established by collagenase infusion into the right striatum of the rats, and the brain tissue was collected to assess the expression of mGluR5 in SVZ NPCs. (2) The rat brains were sampled for immunostaining of doublecortin (DCX) and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to examine the effects of the (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) on neurogenesis. (3) Behavioral testing was carried out to evaluate the effects of CHPG on neurofunctional recovery. The results of Western blot analysis showed that mGluR5 levels in the ipsilateral SVZ increased as early as at 3 days after ICH, peaked at 14 days. The change of mGluR5 mRNA level in the ipsilateral SVZ was generally similar to the pattern of Western blot analysis. The immunostaining also demonstrated that some nestin-positive cells were co-expressed with mGluR5. The injection of CHPG into ipsilateral ventricle increased DCX levels both in the ipsilateral striatum (STR) and the peri-lesion area of the striatum (PLA). Meanwhile, a significant difference in behavioral score was presented at 28 days after ICH between the CHPG-treated rats and the vehicle-treated or the non-treated rats. Our results demonstrated for the first time that the increased expression of mGluR5 in SVZ NPCs occurred in ICH rat. The CHPG promoted the neurogenesis and improved neurofunctional symptom induced by ICH. These results suggested that the increased expression of mGluR5 on NPCs in SVZ may play an important role in neurogenesis in ICH rat.
The airway vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs) in the external formation of the nucleus ambiguus (eNA), which include the inspiratory-activated AVPNs (IA-AVPNs) and inspiratory-inhibited AVPNs (II-AVPNs), predominate in the control of the trachea and bronchia. The AVPNs receive particularly dense inputs from terminals containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH microinjection into the nucleus ambiguus (NA) caused constriction of the tracheal smooth muscles. However, it is unknown whether TRH affects all subtypes of the AVPNs in the eNA, and as a result affects the control of all types of target tissues in the airway (smooth muscles, submucosal glands, and blood vessels). It is also unknown how TRH affects the AVPNs at neuronal and synaptic levels. In this study, the AVPNs in the eNA were retrogradely labeled from the extrathoracic trachea, the II-AVPNs were identified in rhythmically firing brainstem slices, and the effects of TRH were examined using patch-clamp. TRH (100 nmol L(-1)) enhanced both the rhythm and the intensity of the hypoglossal bursts, and caused a tonic excitatory inward current in the II-AVPNs at a holding voltage of -80 mV. The frequency of the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in the II-AVPNs, which showed no respiratory-related change in a respiratory cycle, was not significantly changed by TRH. At a holding voltage of -50 mV, the II-AVPNs showed both spontaneous and phasic inspiratory (outward) inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). TRH had no effect on the spontaneous IPSCs but significantly attenuated the phasic inspiratory outward currents, in both the amplitude and area. After focal application of strychnine, an antagonist of glycine receptors, to the II-AVPNs, the spontaneous IPSCs were extremely scarce and the phasic inspiratory inhibitory currents were abolished; and further application of TRH had no effect on these currents. Under current clamp configuration, TRH caused a depolarization and increased the firing rate of the II-AVPNs during inspiratory intervals. These results demonstrate that TRH affects the II-AVPNs both postsynaptically via a direct excitatory current and presynaptically via attenuation of the phasic glycinergic synaptic inputs.
Doublecortin (DCX) is a microtubule-associated protein that is critical for neuronal migration and the development of the cerebral cortex. In the adult, it is expressed in newborn neurons in the subventricular and subgranular zones, but not in the mature neurons of the cerebral cortex. By contrast, neurogenesis and neuronal migration of cells in the cerebellum continue into early postnatal life; migration of one class of cerebellar interneuron, unipolar brush cells (UBCs), may continue into adulthood. To explore the possibility of continued neuronal migration in the adult cerebellum, closely spaced sections through the brainstem and cerebellum of adult (3-16 months old) Sprague-Dawley rats were immunolabeled for DCX. Neurons immunoreactive (ir) to DCX were present in the granular cell layer of the vestibulocerebellum, most densely in the transition zone (tz), the region between the flocculus (FL) and ventral paraflocculus (PFL), as well as in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). These DCX-ir cells had the morphological appearance of UBCs with oval somata and a single dendrite ending in a brush. There were many examples of colocalization of DCX with Eps8 or calretinin, UBC markers. We also identified DCX-ir elements along the fourth ventricle and its lateral recess that had labeled somata but lacked the dendritic structure characteristic of UBCs. Labeled UBCs were seen in nearby white matter. These results suggest that there may be continued neurogenesis and/or migration of UBCs in the adult. Another possibility is that UBCs maintain DCX expression even after migration and maturation, reflecting a role of DCX in adult neuronal plasticity in addition to a developmental role in migration.
Simvastatin (SV), a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase and a widely prescribed treatment for hypercholesterolemia, exerts numerous positive pleiotropic effects that are thought to occur independent of its cholesterol-lowering properties. In previously published work, we have shown that chronic SV treatment rescues cognitive function in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, and enhances learning and memory in non-transgenic mice without affecting total brain cholesterol and amyloid-beta levels. More recently, we demonstrated the ability of SV to enhance long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in slices from wild-type C57BL/6 mice via a mechanism dependent upon phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt activation during LTP induction. The present study was conducted to better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying SV-induced enhancement of LTP. Specifically, it was found that inhibiting production of isoprenoid intermediates in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol triggers the downstream events leading to enhanced LTP. Interestingly, two major isoprenoid intermediates exhibit differential effects. Replenishment of farnesyl pyrophosphate, but not geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, abolished the LTP-enhancing ability of SV. In parallel to this finding, inhibiting farnesylation, but not geranylgeranylation, replicated the enhancement of LTP caused by SV. Finally, inhibiting farnesylation promotes the activation of Akt during the induction phase. Together, these results suggest that SV enhances LTP in CA1 by modulating isoprenylation-dependent molecular pathways downstream of farnesyl transferase. These findings will aid in the identification of novel therapeutic targets that modulate synaptic and cognitive function.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) plays an important role in the development and plasticity of the brain and exhibits potent neuroprotective properties. However, little information on its role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is known. The neuroprotective effect and mechanisms of NRG1 in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing the Swedish mutant form of amyloid precursor protein (Swe-APP) and primary cortical neuronal cells treated with amyloid beta peptide(1-42) (A(1-42)) were investigated in this study. NRG1 attenuated Swe-APP- or A(1-42)-induced lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in a concentration-dependent manner. The mitigating effects of NRG1 on neuronal cell death were blocked by ErbB4 inhibition, a key NRG1 receptor, which suggests a role of ErbB4 in the neuroprotective function of NRG1. Moreover, NRG1 reduced the number of Swe-APP- and A(1-42)-induced TUNEL-positive SH-SY5Y cells and primary cortical neurons, respectively. NRG1 reduced the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and attenuated Swe-APP-induced mitochondrial membrane potential loss. NRG1 also induced the upregulation of the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein, Bcl-2, and decreased caspase-3 activation. Collectively, our results demonstrate that NRG1 exerts neuroprotective effects via the ErbB4 receptor, which suggests the neuroprotective potential of NRG1 in AD.
Despite several recent studies suggesting that dysregulation of brain lipid metabolism might contribute to the mechanisms of aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD), lipid metabolism has not been evaluated extensively in the aging brain. Here, we use a lipidomic approach to demonstrate that antioxidants plus mitochondrial cofactors treatment, either alone or in combination with behavioral enrichment, attenuates lipid abnormalities in the frontal cortices of aged canine in a manner correlated with cognitive scores. Our analyses revealed that the levels of free palmitoleic acid and nervonic acid were decreased in frontal cortices of aged dogs (n=5-6/group) treated with antioxidant compared with the control group. The monounsaturated/saturated fatty acid ratio, also known as &quot;desaturation index&quot;-an ex-vivo indicator of stearoyl-CoA desaturase activity, was also reduced in the frontal cortex of dogs treated with antioxidants compared with control groups. Increased palmitoleic acid levels and desaturation index were positively correlated with increased reversal learning errors and decreased cognitive performance. In conclusion, our study indicates that the addition of antioxidants and mitochondrial cofactors to the regular diet alters the composition of free fatty acids in the aged brain. Together with data showing increased palmitoleic acid levels in AD patients, our data suggest that reducing palmitoleic acid levels and desaturation index in the brain may be associated with improved cognitive performance.
Our previous work has correlated permanent alterations in the rat neurosecretory machinery with epileptogenesis. Such findings highlighted the need for a greater understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying epilepsy so that novel therapeutic regimens can be designed. To this end, we examined kindling in transgenic mice with a defined reduction of a key element of the neurosecretory machinery: the v-SNARE (vesicle-bound SNAP [soluble NSF attachment protein] receptor), synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2). Initial analysis of biochemical markers, which previously displayed kindling-dependent alterations in rat hippocampal synaptosomes, showed similar trends in both wild-type and VAMP2(+/-) mice, demonstrating that kindled rat and mouse models are comparable. This report focuses on the effects that a ~50% reduction of synaptosomal VAMP2 has on the progression of electrical kindling and on glutamate release in hippocampal subregions. Our studies show that epileptogenesis is dramatically attenuated in VAMP2(+/-) mice, requiring both higher current and more stimulations to reach a fully kindled state (two successive Racine stage 5 seizures). Progression through the five identifiable Racine stages was slower and more variable in the VAMP2(+/-) animals compared with the almost linear progression seen in wild-type littermates. Consistent with the expected effects of reducing a major neuronal v-SNARE, glutamate-selective, microelectrode array (MEA) measurements in specific hippocampal subregions of VAMP2(+/-) mice showed significant reductions in potassium-evoked glutamate release. Taken together these studies demonstrate that manipulating the levels of the neurosecretory machinery not only affects neurotransmitter release but also mitigates kindling-induced epileptogenesis.
Recent research involving human and animals has shown that aerobic exercise of moderate intensity produces the greatest benefit on brain health and behavior. In this study we investigated the effects on cognitive function and anxiety-related behavior in rats at different ages of aerobic exercise, performed regularly throughout life. We designed an aerobic training program with the treadmill running following the basic principles of human training, and assuming that rats have the same physiological adaptations. The intensity was gradually adjusted to the fitness level and age, and maintained at 60-70% of maximum oxygen consumption (max.VO(2)). In middle age (8 months) and old age (18 months), we studied the cognitive response with the radial maze (RM), and anxiety-related behaviors with the open field (OF) and the elevated plus maze (EPM). Aerobically trained (AT) rats had a higher cognitive performance measured in the RM, showing that exercise had a cumulative and amplifier effect on memory and learning. The analysis of age and exercise revealed that the effects of aerobic exercise were modulated by age. Middle-aged AT rats were the most successful animals; however, the old AT rats met the criteria more often than the middle-aged sedentary controls (SC), indicating that exercise could reverse the negative effects of sedentary life, partially restore the cognitive function, and protect against the deleterious effects of aging. The results in the OF and EPM showed a significant decrease in key indicators of anxiety, revealing that age affected most of the analyzed variables, and that exercise had a prominent anxiolytic effect, particularly strong in old age. In conclusion, our results indicated that regular and chronic aerobic exercise has time and dose-dependent, neuroprotective and restorative effects on physiological brain aging, and reduces anxiety-related behaviors.
There is an increasing awareness that diabetes has an impact on the CNS and that diabetes is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Links between AD and diabetes point to impaired insulin signaling as a common mechanism leading to defects in the brain. However, diabetes is predominantly characterized by peripheral, rather than central, neuropathy, and despite the common central mechanisms linking AD and diabetes, little is known about the effect of AD on the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In this study, we compared indexes of peripheral neuropathy and investigated insulin signaling in the sciatic nerve of insulin-deficient mice and amyloid precursor protein (APP) overexpressing transgenic mice. Insulin-deficient and APP transgenic mice displayed similar patterns of peripheral neuropathy with decreased motor nerve conduction velocity, thermal hypoalgesia, and loss of tactile sensitivity. Phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) was similarly affected in insulin-deficient and APP transgenic mice despite significantly different blood glucose and plasma insulin levels, and nerve of both models showed accumulation of A-immunoreactive protein. Although diabetes and AD have different primary etiologies, both diseases share many abnormalities in both the brain and the PNS. Our data point to common deficits in the insulin-signaling pathway in both neurodegenerative diseases and support the idea that AD may cause disorders outside the higher CNS.
The rostral medullary raphe region is an important target of hypothalamic orexin neurons; however, little is known of the effect of orexin in this key autonomic and somatic premotor region. Here we tested the effect of orexin-A (3 and 30 pmol) microinjected in the medullary raphe, on heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), tail skin blood flow, body temperature, and behavior in freely moving, awake rats. HR, MAP, and body activity were recorded by radio-telemetry. Changes in tail skin blood flow and body temperature, as well as potential interscapular brown adipose tissue thermogenesis were recorded indirectly by infrared thermography of the skin of the tail, lumbosacral back, and interscapular back areas, respectively. Compared with saline, orexin-A (30 pmol) evoked significant and long lasting increases in HR (+99 bpm), MAP (+11 mmHg), and body activity (grooming, not locomotor activity). However, it did not reduce tail skin blood flow more than saline, and there was no significant increase in body temperature. A small, though significant, thermogenic effect was observed in the interscapular region, but this effect is more likely to have originated from activity in neck and shoulder muscles than brown adipose tissue. Thus, orexin projections to the rostral medullary raphe can mediate significant cardiovascular changes, but does not seem to affect tail skin vasomotor tone or brown adipose tissue in the awake rat. This important brainstem relay may contribute to the cardiovascular changes evoked by arousal and various forms of stress that are associated with activation of orexin neurons.
Pituitary adenylate-cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) has been implicated in the (patho)physiology of stress-adaptation. PACAP deficient (PACAP(-/-)) mice show altered anxiety levels and depression-like behavior, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms in stress-related brain areas. Therefore, we aimed at investigating PACAP(-/-) mice in light-dark box, marble burying, open field, and forced swim paradigms. We also analyzed whether the forced swim test-induced c-Fos expression would be affected by PACAP deficiency in the following stress-related brain areas: magno- and parvocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN); basolateral (BLA), medial (MeA), and central (CeA) amygdaloid nuclei; ventral (BSTv), dorsolateral (BSTdl), dorsomedial (BSTdm), and oval (BSTov) nuclei of the bed nucleus of stria terminalis; dorsal (dLS) and ventral parts (vLS) of lateral septal nucleus, central projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWcp), dorsal (dPAG) and lateral (lPAG) periaqueductal gray matter, dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). Our results revealed that PACAP(-/-) mice showed greatly reduced anxiety and increased locomotor activity compared with wildtypes. In forced swim test PACAP(-/-) mice showed increased depression-like behavior. Forced swim exposure increased c-Fos expression in all examined brain areas in wildtypes, whereas this was markedly blunted in the DR, EWcp, BSTov, BSTdl, BSTv, PVN, vLS, dPAG, and in the lPAG of PACAP(-/-) mice vs. wildtypes, strongly suggesting their involvement in the behavioral phenotype of PACAP(-/-) mice. PACAP deficiency did not influence the c-Fos response in the CeA, MeA, BSTdm, and dLS. Therefore, we propose that PACAP exerts a brain area-specific effect on stress-induced neuronal activation and it might contribute to stress-related mood disorders.
Fetal alcohol exposure is known to induce alteration in fetal brain development. In this study, we focused on neuroprotection against the effects of alcohol exposure using ADNF-9, a peptide derived from activity-dependent neurotrophic factor. We used a mouse model of fetal alcohol exposure to identify the intracellular mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective effects of ADNF-9. On embryonic day 7 (E7), weight-matched pregnant females were assigned to the following groups: (1) ethanol liquid diet (ALC) of 25% (4.49%, v/v) ethanol-derived calories; (2) pair-fed control (PF); (3) ALC combined with administration (i.p.) of ADNF-9 (ALC/ADNF-9); and (4) pair-fed combined with administration (i.p.) of ADNF-9 (PF/ADNF-9). On E13, fetal brains were collected, weighed, and apoptosis was determined using TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Bcl2 protein and phospho-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) levels were determined using Western blot and enzyme immunometric assay, respectively. ADNF-9 administration significantly prevented alcohol-induced reductions in fetal brain weight. In addition, ADNF-9 prevented an alcohol-induced increase in cell death in the primordium of the cerebral cortex and ganglionic eminence. Western blot analysis of the mitochondrial protein fractions revealed that ADNF-9 administration prevented an alcohol-induced reduction in the Bcl2 level. Moreover, an analysis of the proteins in the upstream signaling pathway revealed that ADNF-9 downregulated the phosphorylation of JNK. These data indicate that the mitochondrial Bcl2 pathway and JNK upstream signaling pathway are the intracellular targets of ADNF-9. The neuroprotective mechanism of action of ADNF-9 provides a direction for potential therapeutics against alcohol-induced neural damage involving mitochondrial dysfunction.
Calumenin is a Ca(2+)-binding protein that belongs to the CREC superfamily. It contains six EF-hand domains that exhibit a low affinity for Ca(2+) as well as an endoplasmic reticulum retention signal. Calumenin exhibits a broad and relatively high expression in various brain regions during development as demonstrated by in situ hybridization. Signal intensity of calumenin is highest during the early development and then declines over time to reach a relatively low expression in adult animals. Immunohistochemistry indicates that at the P0 stage, calumenin expression is most abundant in migrating neurons in the zones around the lateral ventricle. In the brain of adult animals, it is expressed in various glial and neuronal cell types, including immature neurons in subgranular zone of hippocampal dentate gyrus. At the subcellular level, calumenin is identified in punctuate and diffuse distribution mostly in somatic regions where it co-localizes with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and partially Golgi apparatus. Upon subcellular fractionation, calumenin is enriched in fractions containing membranes and is only weakly present in soluble fractions. This study points to a possible important role of calumenin in migration and differentiation of neurons, and/or in Ca(2+) signaling between glial cells and neurons.
We studied the pattern of expression of a protein product (c-Fos) of immediate-early gene (IEG) in the visual cortex of rats and mice. The basal expression of c-Fos was very low and visual exposure revealed a large number of c-Fos immunopositive cells in the visual cortex. We found that monocular deprivation during the sensitive period of ocular dominance (OD) plasticity significantly changed both the amount and pattern of c-Fos expression upon monocular stimulation of either eye. The number of immunopositive cells in layer IV of binocular subfields of the primary visual cortex (Oc1B) ipsilateral to the stimulated eye was found to be the most sensitive index of the effects of monocular deprivation during the sensitive period, that is, opened eye stimulation induced significantly larger numbers of c-Fos immunopositive cells, whereas closed eye stimulation induced significantly smaller numbers compared with those induced by monocular stimulation in control animals. In the lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus, the pattern of expression of c-Fos following monocular stimulation was not affected by preceding monocular deprivation. Monocular deprivation imposed after the sensitive period did not affect the pattern of induction of c-Fos. Notably, in age-matched old animals that had been raised in total darkness and then experienced monocular deprivation, the distribution and numbers of c-Fos-expressing cells in visual cortex exhibited the same alterations as found in young animals during the sensitive period. These findings suggest that the present activity mapping method using c-Fos as a molecular marker is useful for examining the activity-dependent regulation of cortical plasticity, and provides an alternative method to conventional electrophysiological recording. This method is particularly powerful when applied to knockout or transgenic mice in which sampling biases in electrophysiological recording have been considered inevitable. Furthermore, these findings suggest that c-Fos is involved in OD plasticity as an IEG that transfers neuronal activity to late gene expression.
Astrocyte activation plays important roles both in physiological and pathological process in the CNS. In the latter, the process is further aggravated by hyperglycemia, leading to diabetes complications of CNS. We report here that high glucose (HG) treatment stimulated astrocytic morphological alteration coupled with changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin expression. Additionally, HG upregulated the expression of tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF); however, its effects on transforming growth factor- (TGF-) expression were not evident. HG treatment induced increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) as well as activation of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-B) and signal transducer and activator transcription 3 (STAT 3). HG-induced expression of TNF-, IL-6, IL-1, IL-4, and VEGF was blocked by ROS scavenger and inhibitors specific for NF-B and STAT 3, respectively. The results suggest that the aforementioned multiple inflammatory cytokines and mediators that may be linked to the pathogenesis of the diabetes complications of CNS are induced by HG via the key signaling pathways.
Fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) is a mycotoxin produced by Fusarium spp. mould that contaminates maize world-wide. Although its neurodegenerative potential is well established, mechanisms and acute effects of FB(1) on neurons are still not completely understood. Our previous study on astrocytes and neuroblastoma cells demonstrated that acute FB(1) exposure inhibits mitochondrial complex I and leads to mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization and calcium deregulation. To further explore the mechanisms of FB(1) neurotoxicity, we here investigated the effects of acute FB(1) co-exposure with glutamate and in the low magnesium model of epilepsy on neuronal calcium level, mitochondrial membrane potential, and cell death in glio-neuronal cultures. FB(1) increased the glutamate-induced calcium signal in neurons and changed neuronal calcium signals to more sustained intracellular calcium rises in the low magnesium model of epilepsy that coincided with mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization. FB(1) co-exposure increased the percentage of dead neurons in low magnesium conditions dose dependently when compared with low magnesium exposure only, whereas in FB(1) and glutamate co-exposure neuronal death remained unchanged when compared with glutamate treatment only. Our results show that FB(1) makes neurons more vulnerable to glutamate-induced toxicity and epileptiform conditions, indicating that FB(1) can enhance the detrimental effect of these conditions on neurons.
Signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) are augmented by speech and repetitive motor tasks. The neurophysiological basis for this phenomenon is unknown, but may involve augmentation of  (13-30 Hz) oscillations within the subthalamic nucleus (STN). We hypothesized that speech and motor tasks increase  power in STN and propose a mechanism for clinical observations of worsening motor state during such behaviors. Subjects undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery performed tasks while STN local field potential (LFP) data were collected. Power in the  frequency range was analyzed across the entire recording to observe slow shifts related to block design and during time epochs synchronized to behavior to evaluate immediate fluctuations related to task execution. Bilaterally symmetric  event related desynchronization was observed in analysis time-locked to subject motor and speech tasks. We also observed slow shifts of  power associated with blocks of tasks. Repetitive combined speech and motor, and isolated motor blocks were associated with the highest bilateral  power state. Overt speech alone and imagined speech were associated with a low bilateral  power state. Thus, changing behavioral tasks is associated with bilateral switching of  power states. This offers a potential neurophysiologic correlate of worsened PD motor signs experienced during clinical examination with provocative tasks: switching into a high  power state may be responsible for worsening motor states in PD patients when performing unilateral repetitive motor tasks and combined speech and motor tasks. Beta state changes could be chronically measured and potentially used to control closed loop neuromodulatory devices in the future.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is neuroprotective and induces neurogenesis and angiogenesis when given early after traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, the effects of VEGF administration in the subacute phase after TBI remain unknown. Mice were subjected to TBI and treated with vehicle or VEGF beginning 7 days later for an additional 7 days. The animals were injected with BrdU to label proliferating cells and examined with a motor-sensory scale at pre-determined time points. Mice were killed 90 days post injury and immunohistochemistry was used to study cell fates. Our results demonstrate that lesion volumes did not differ between the groups confirming the lack of neuroprotective effects in this paradigm. VEGF treatment led to significant increments in cell proliferation (1.9 fold increase vs. vehicle, P&lt;0.0001) and angiogenesis in the lesioned cortex (1.7 fold increase vs. vehicle, P=0.0001) but most of the proliferating cells differentiated into glia and no mature newly-generated neurons were detected. In conclusion, VEGF induces gliogenesis and angiogenesis when given 7 days post TBI. However, treated mice had only insignificant motor improvements in this paradigm, suggesting that the bulk of the beneficial effects observed when VEGF is given early after TBI results from the neuroprotective effects.
The specific brain regions and circuits involved in the acquisition and expression of contextual fear conditioning are still a matter of debate. To address this issue, regional changes in brain metabolic capacity were mapped during the acquisition and expression of contextual fear conditioning using cytochrome oxidase (CO) quantitative histochemistry. In comparison with a group briefly exposed to a conditioning chamber, rats that received a series of randomly presented footshocks in the same conditioning chamber (fear acquisition group) showed increased CO activity in anxiety-related brain regions like the ventral periaqueductal gray, the ventral hippocampus, the lateral habenula, the mammillary bodies, and the laterodorsal thalamic nucleus. Another group received randomly presented footshocks, and it was re-exposed to the same conditioning chamber one week later (fear expression group). The conditioned group had significantly higher CO activity as compared with the matched control group in the following brain regions: the ventral periaqueductal gray, the central and lateral nuclei of the amygdala, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In addition, analysis of functional brain networks using interregional CO activity correlations revealed different patterns of functional connectivity between fear acquisition and fear expression groups. In particular, a network comprising the ventral hippocampus and amygdala nuclei was found in the fear acquisition group, whereas a closed reciprocal dorsal hippocampal network was detected in the fear expression group. These results suggest that contextual fear acquisition and expression differ as regards to the brain networks involved, although they share common brain regions involved in fear, anxiety, and defensive behavior.
Capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) are New World primates with relatively large brains for their body size. The developmental trajectories of several brain regions-including cortical white matter, frontal lobe white matter, and basal ganglia nuclei-are similar to humans. Additionally, capuchins have independently evolved several behavioral and anatomical characteristics in common with humans and chimpanzees-including complex manipulative abilities, use of tools, and the use of precision grips-making them interesting species for studies of comparative brain morphology and organization. Here, we report the first investigation into the development of the corpus callosum (CC) and its regional subdivisions in capuchins. CC development was quantified using high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images from 39 socially reared subjects (male n=22; female n=18) ranging in age from 4 days (infancy) to 20 years (middle adulthood). The total area of the CC and the subdivisions of the genu, rostral midbody, medial midbody, caudal midbody, and splenium were traced from the midsagittal section. Total CC area displayed significant differences across this time span and was best explained by quadratic growth. Sustained linear growth was observed in the subdivisions of the genu, rostral midbody, and splenium; sustained quadratic growth was seen in the subdivision of the medial midbody. Differences in growth were not detected in the subdivision of the caudal midbody. Females had a larger raw area of the total CC and of the medial midbody and caudal midbody throughout the lifespan. Our results indicate that capuchins show continued white matter development beyond adolescence in regions related to cognitive and motor development.
Both anatomical and functional brain network studies have drawn great attention recently. Previous studies have suggested the significant impacts of brain network topology on cognitive function. However, the relationship between non-task-related resting-state functional brain network topology and overall efficiency of sensorimotor processing has not been well identified. In the present study, we investigated the relationship between non-task-related resting-state functional brain network topology and reaction time (RT) in a Go/Nogo task using an electroencephalogram (EEG). After estimating the functional connectivity between each pair of electrodes, graph analysis was applied to characterize the network topology. Two fundamental measures, clustering coefficient (functional segregation) and characteristic path length (functional integration), as well as &quot;small-world-ness&quot; (the ratio between the clustering coefficient and characteristic path length) were calculated in five frequency bands. Then, the correlations between the network measures and RT were evaluated in each band separately. The present results showed that increased overall functional connectivity in alpha and gamma frequency bands was correlated with a longer RT. Furthermore, shorter RT was correlated with a shorter characteristic path length in the gamma band. This result suggested that human RTs were likely to be related to the efficiency of the brain integrating information across distributed brain regions. The results also showed that a longer RT was related to an increased gamma clustering coefficient and decreased small-world-ness. These results provided further evidence of the association between the resting-state functional brain network and cognitive function.
Local inflammation accounts for the progression of cerebral ischemic insult. Ginsenoside Rb1 (GRb1) is a natural product extracted from Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer. It has been reported to have beneficial effects in cerebral ischemia and to inhibit the inflammatory cascade in sepsis. In this study, to determine whether modulating local inflammation contributed to the neuroprotection of GRb1, male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with GRb1 or vehicle intranasally for 1 week before being subjected to temporary occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery and reperfusion. Neuroprotection of GRb1 was evaluated with a focus on the key elements of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, such as inflammatory cells, proinflammatory cytokines, and transcriptional factor. GRb1 reduced infarction volume by 57% (n=6, P&lt;0.01) and significantly alleviated the neurological deficit (n=12, modified neurological severity scores [mNSS]: 6.61.1 vs. 8.61.1, P&lt;0.05). GRb1 depressed the activation of microglia in the penumbra by 15%-27% from 24 h to 72 h after reperfusion and its further convention into phagocytic microglia/macrophages. In GRb1 group, the peak mRNA level of tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-) mRNA was decreased by 35% 12 h after reperfusion, whereas the protein level was significantly reduced by 43%-57%. Downregulation by GRb1 of both interleukin (IL)-6 gene and protein after GRb1 administration was also observed. GRb1 partially inhibited the activation of nuclear factor-B (NF-B) pathway from 6 h to 72 h after ischemia and reperfusion onset, as determined by the expression of total and phosphorylated NF-B/p65, inhibitor protein of B (IB)-, and IB-kinase complex (IKK)-. All these results indicate that suppression of local inflammation after cerebral ischemia might be one mechanism that contributes to the neuroprotection of GRb1.
Handedness in humans and paw preference (PP) in rodents have been associated with neural and physiological correlates, which frequently appear to be sex-specific. The present study examines sex differences in the effects of differential PP on post mortem measures of regional monoamine activity in adult Long-Evans rats. The effects of PP on neuroendocrine function were also assessed by measuring plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in response to a 30-min restraint stress. Most rats showed strong individual PP. Males (n=27) and females (n=26) did not differ in the direction or strength of their PP with nearly equal numbers of left and right-pawed rats. However, many SexPP interactions were noted in regional neurochemical measures, and most effects of PP were bilateral in nature and sex-specific. In males, Left PP (relative to Right PP) was associated with reduced striatal dopamine (DA) levels and amygdala DA metabolism bilaterally. In females, Left PP was associated with a bilateral upregulation of DAergic metabolism in both prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, increased amygdala serotonin metabolism, and a (right) unilateral increase in amygdala DA. As in previous studies, some correlations were also noted between PP and asymmetrical or unilateral monoamine measures. As well, rats with strong PP, independent of direction or sex, had lower basal ACTH and more robust stress responses than rats with weak PP, suggesting a possible adaptive advantage to strong lateralization. Overall, sex differences were found only regarding effects of the direction of PP, not its magnitude. The findings suggest that the direction of PP affects distinct bilateral networks of structures sex-dependently. Such fundamental influences of PP on functional brain organization have implications for a wide array of processes under monoaminergic modulation in these brain regions, and may further our understanding of the numerous human examples of gender and handedness interactions across several modalities.
Dietary polyphenols exert neuroprotective effects in ischemic injury. The protective effects of a procyanidin type A trimer (trimer 1) isolated from a water soluble cinnamon extract (CE) were investigated on key features of ischemic injury, including cell swelling, increased free radical production, increased intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)), mitochondrial dysfunction, and the reduction in glutamate uptake. Astrocyte (glial) swelling is a major component of cytotoxic brain edema in ischemia and, along with vasogenic edema, may contribute to increased intracranial pressure, brain herniation, and additional ischemic injuries. C6 glial cultures were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) for 5 h, and cell swelling was determined at 90 min after the end of OGD. OGD-induced increases in glial swelling were significantly blocked by trimer 1, but not by the major nonpolyphenol fractions of CE including cinnamaldehyde and coumarin. Increased free radical production, a contributing factor in cell swelling following ischemic injury, was also significantly reduced by trimer 1. Mitochondrial dysfunction, another key feature of ischemic injury, is hypothesized to contribute to glial swelling. Depolarization of the inner mitochondrial membrane potential ((m)) was assessed using a fluorescent dye (tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester [TMRE]), and was significantly attenuated by trimer 1 as was OGD-induced increased [Ca(2+)](i). Taken together with our previous observation that blockers of [Ca(2+)](i) reduce cell swelling, our results indicate that trimer 1 may attenuate cell swelling by regulating [Ca(2+)](i). Trimer 1 also significantly attenuated the OGD-induced decrease in glutamate uptake. In addition, cyclosporin A, a blocker of the mitochondrial permeability pore (mPT), but not FK506 (that does not block the mPT), reduced the OGD-induced decline in glutamate uptake indicating a role of the mPT in such effects. Thus, the effects of trimer 1 in attenuating the reduction in glutamate uptake are likely mediated through their action on the mitochondria.
A growing body of scientific evidence indicates that exercise has a positive impact on human health, including neurological health. Aerobic exercise, which is supposed to enhance cardiovascular functions and metabolism, also induces neurotrophic factors that affect hippocampal neurons, thereby improving spatial learning and memory. Alternatively, little is known about the effect of resistance exercise on hippocampus-dependent memory, although this type of exercise is increasingly recommended to improve muscle strength and bone density and to prevent age-related disabilities. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of resistance training on spatial memory and the signaling pathways of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), comparing these effects with those of aerobic exercise. Adult male Wistar rats underwent 8 weeks of aerobic training on a treadmill (AERO group) or resistance training on a vertical ladder (RES group). Control and sham groups were also included. After the training period, both AERO and RES groups showed improved learning and spatial memory in a similar manner. However, both groups presented distinct signaling pathways. Although the AERO group showed increased level of IGF-1, BDNF, TrkB, and -CaMKII (calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II) in the hippocampus, the RES group showed an induction of peripheral and hippocampal IGF-1 with concomitant activation of receptor for IGF-1 (IGF-1R) and AKT in the hippocampus. These distinct pathways culminated in an increase of synapsin 1 and synaptophysin expression in both groups. These findings demonstrated that both aerobic and resistance exercise can employ divergent molecular mechanisms but achieve similar results on learning and spatial memory.
The neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) is abundant in the CNS and is expressed in a subset of inhibitory interneurons, particularly in their axon terminals. The expression profile of CCK undergoes numerous changes in several models of temporal lobe epilepsy. Previous studies in the pilocarpine model of epilepsy have shown that CCK immunohistochemical labeling is substantially reduced in several regions of the hippocampal formation, consistent with decreased CCK expression as well as selective neuronal degeneration. However, in a mouse pilocarpine model of recurrent seizures, increases in CCK-labeling also occur and are especially striking in the hippocampal dendritic layers of strata oriens and radiatum. Characterizing these changes and determining the cellular basis of the increased labeling were the major goals of the current study. One possibility was that the enhanced CCK labeling could be associated with an increase in GABAergic terminals within these regions. However, in contrast to the marked increase in CCK-labeled structures, labeling of GABAergic axon terminals was decreased in the dendritic layers. Likewise, cannabinoid receptor 1-labeled axon terminals, many of which are CCK-containing GABAergic terminals, were also decreased. These findings suggested that the enhanced CCK labeling was not due to an increase in GABAergic axon terminals. The subcellular localization of CCK immunoreactivity was then examined using electron microscopy, and the identities of the structures that formed synaptic contacts were determined. In pilocarpine-treated mice, CCK was observed in dendritic spines and these were proportionally increased relative to controls, whereas the proportion of CCK-labeled terminals forming symmetric synapses was decreased. In addition, CCK-positive axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses were readily observed in these mice. Double labeling with vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and CCK revealed colocalization in numerous terminals forming asymmetric synapses, confirming the glutamatergic identity of these terminals. These data raise the possibility that expression of CCK is increased in hippocampal pyramidal cells in mice with recurrent, spontaneous seizures.
G protein-coupled receptor 17 (GPR17), the new P2Y-like receptor, is phylogenetically related to the P2Y and cysteinyl leukotriene receptors, and responds to both uracil nucleotides and cysteinyl leukotrienes. GPR17 has been proposed to be a damage sensor in ischemic stroke; however, its role in brain inflammation needs further detailed investigation. Here, we extended previous studies on the spatiotemporal profiles of GPR17 expression and localization, and their implications for brain injury after focal cerebral ischemia. We found that in the ischemic core, GPR17 mRNA and protein levels were upregulated at both 12-24 h and 7-14 days, but in the boundary zone the levels increased 7-14 days after reperfusion. The spatiotemporal pattern of GPR17 expression well matched the acute and late (subacute/chronic) responses in the ischemic brain. According to previous findings, in the acute phase, after ischemia (24 h), upregulated GPR17 was localized in injured neurons in the ischemic core and in a few microglia in the ischemic core and boundary zone. In the late phase (14 days), it was localized in microglia, especially in activated (ED1-positive) microglia in the ischemic core, but weakly in most microglia in the boundary zone. No GPR17 was detectable in astrocytes. GPR17 knockdown by a small interfering RNA attenuated the neurological dysfunction, infarction, and neuron loss at 24 h, and brain atrophy, neuron loss, and microglial activation at 14 days after reperfusion. Thus, GPR17 might mediate acute neuronal injury and late microgliosis after focal cerebral ischemia.
Neurotransmitter receptor functional regulation plays an important role in controlling the excitability and responsiveness of hippocampal neurons. Deregulation of its function is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits, and memory impairment. In the present study we investigated the changes in hippocampal cholinergic and GABA receptor binding and gene expression in insulin-induced hypoglycemic and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Expression of cholinergic enzymes; acetylcholine esterase (AChE) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) upregulated and downregulated, respectively, in diabetic group, which was further exacerbated by hypoglycemia. Total muscarinic receptor, muscarinic M1, and GABA maximal binding (B(max)) significantly decreased in hypoglycemic and diabetic rats. In hypoglycemic group, the B(max) showed further decline compared with diabetes. Muscarinic M3 receptor B(max) and gene expression upregulated in hypoglycemic and diabetic group. Alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7 nAChR) expression significantly downregulated in hypoglycemic and diabetic rats. Gene expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), GABAA1, and GABAB in hypoglycemic and diabetic rats downregulated, with more significant decrease in hypoglycemic group. Present findings show altered cholinergic, muscarinic, nicotinic receptor expression and thereby function. Decreased GABA receptor expression is associated with decline in GABAergic neurotransmission. Thus cholinergic receptor dysfunction and decreased GABAergic neuroprotective inhibitory function in the hippocampus of hypoglycemic and diabetic rats account for the increased vulnerability of hippocampus predisposing to neuronal damage, which is suggested to contribute to cognitive impairment and memory deficit reported in hypoglycemia and diabetes. Also, recurrent hypoglycemia in diabetes exacerbates the hippocampal dysfunction induced by diabetes, which has clinical significance in diabetes therapy.
A K-complex (KC) in the electroencephalographs (EEGs) indicates a moderate depth of slow-wave sleep (SWS) in humans and animals. The cortical activities are upregulated during the periods between the KCs (&quot;up state&quot;), and it is proposed that temporarily stored memories during wakeful periods will be consolidated during these periods. Although the underlying mechanism for KCs is proposed to be in the cortex itself, the involvement of the brainstem has not been explored. Here we investigate the excitability changes of the brainstem preceding, during, and after KCs in humans. We simultaneously recorded brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) with EEGs, and sequentially analyzed BAEPs around the KCs. The results showed a transient activation of the ventral brainstem preceding the KC and a sustained activation of the dorsal brainstem outlasting the KC. Thus, it is suggested that KCs are triggered by the activation of the brainstem and that the &quot;up state&quot; is maintained by the sustained activation of the brainstem.
For safe and efficient transplantation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs), it is important to reduce inflammatory and immune response by the host brain. Full activation of T cells in response to donor antigen requires the delivery of two separate but complimentary signals not only via T cell receptor following recognition of antigen, but also via antigen-nonspecific ligation of the costimulatory receptor-ligand pairs such as CD28:CD80/86. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA4), structurally related to CD28, delivers an inhibitory signal after ligation to CD80/86, resulting in the termination of T cell immune responses. To investigate the role of this pathway in the survival and differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) from mouse ESCs, we transplanted the NPCs into mouse brains with or without CTLA4 immunogloblin (CTLA4-Ig). Immunohistochemical studies revealed that accumulation of inflammatory/immune cells in and around the graft was reduced by CTLA4-Ig. In contrast, the percentage of neurons in the graft was increased. These results suggest that CTLA4-Ig may promote neuronal differentiation during the treatment of neurological diseases with cell replacement therapy.
Striatal neuropathology of Huntington's disease (HD) involves primary and progressive degeneration of the medium-sized projection neurons, with relative sparing of the local circuit interneurons. The mechanism for such a patterned cell loss in the HD striatum continues to remain unclear. Optineurin (OPTN) is one of the proteins interacting with huntingtin and plays a protective role in several neurodegenerative disorders. To determine the cellular localization pattern of OPTN in the mouse striatum, we employed a highly sensitive immunohistochemistry with the tyramide signal amplification system. In this study, we show that OPTN appeared as a cytoplasmic protein within the subsets of the striatal neurons. Of particular interest was that OPTN was abundantly expressed in the interneurons, whereas low levels of OPTN were observed in the medium projection neurons. This cell type-specific distribution of OPTN in the striatum is strikingly complementary to the pattern of neuronal loss typically observed in the striatum of patients with HD. We suggest that OPTN abundance is an important cellular factor in considering the cell type-specific vulnerability of striatal neurons in HD.
Chronic caffeine consumption has been inversely associated with the risk of developing dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Here we assessed whether chronic caffeine treatment prevents the behavioral and cognitive decline that male Wistar rats experience from young (3 months) to middle age (10 months). When animals were young they were evaluated at weekly intervals in three tests: motor activity habituation in the open field (30-min sessions at the same time on consecutive days), continuous spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze (8 min), and elevated plus-maze (5 min). Afterward, rats from the same litter were randomly assigned either to a caffeine-treated group (n=13) or a control group (n=11), which received only tap water. Caffeine treatment (5 mg/kg/day) began when animals were 4 months old, and lasted for 6 months. Behavioral tests were repeated from day 14 to day 28 after caffeine withdrawal, a time period that is far in excess for the full excretion of a caffeine dose in this species. Thirty days after caffeine discontinuation brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Compared with controls, we found that middle-aged rats that had chronically consumed low doses of caffeine (1) maintained their locomotor habituation during the second consecutive day exposure to the open field (an index of non-associative learning), (2) maintained their exploratory drive to complete the conventional minimum of nine arm visits required to calculate the alternation performance in the Y-maze in a greater proportion, (3) maintained their alternation percentage above chance level (an index of working memory), and (4) did not increase the anxiety indexes assessed by measuring the time spent in the open arms of the elevated plus maze. In addition, morphometric analysis of hippocampal neurons revealed that dendritic branching (90-140 m from the soma), length of 4th and 5th order branches, total dendritic length, and spine density in distal dendritic branches were greater in the basal but not the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons from rats chronically treated with caffeine, in comparison with their age- and littermate-matched controls. Altogether, the present findings strengthen the epidemiological observations suggesting that prolonged caffeine intake prevents the cognitive decline associated with aging, and open the possibility that this process could be mediated by promoting the growth of dendrites and spines in neurons of the adult mammalian brain.
In mammals, light entrains the central pacemaker within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) through both a direct neuronal projection from the retina and an indirect projection from the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) of the thalamus. Although light comparable in intensity to moonlight is minimally effective at resetting the phase of the circadian clock, dimly lit and completely dark nights are nevertheless perceived differentially by the circadian system, even when nighttime illumination is below putative thresholds for phase resetting. Under a variety of experimental paradigms, dim nighttime illumination exerts effects that may be characterized as enhancing the plasticity of circadian entrainment. For example, relative to completely dark nights, dimly lit nights accelerate development of photoperiodic responses of Siberian hamsters transferred from summer to winter day lengths. Here we assess the neural pathways underlying this response by testing whether IGL lesions eliminate the effects of dim nighttime illumination under short day lengths. Consistent with previous work, dimly lit nights facilitated the expansion of activity duration under short day lengths. Ablation of the IGL, moreover, did not influence photoperiodic responses in animals held under completely dark nights. However, among animals that were provided dimly lit nights, IGL lesions prevented the short-day typical expansion of activity duration as well as the seasonally appropriate gonadal regression and reduction in body weight. Thus, the present data indicate that the IGL plays a central role in mediating the facilitative effects of dim nighttime illumination under short day lengths, but in the absence of the IGL, dim light at night influences photoperiodic responses through residual photic pathways.
The polycystin family of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels form Ca(2+) regulated cation channels with distinct subcellullar localizations and functions. As part of heteromultimeric channels and multi-protein complexes, polycystins control intracellular Ca(2+) signals and more generally the translation of extracellular signals and stimuli to intracellular responses. Polycystin-2 channels have been cloned from retina, but their distribution and function in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) have not yet been established. In the present study, we determined cellular and subcellular localization as well as functional properties of polycystin-2 channels in RGCs. Polycystin-2 expression and distribution in RGCs was assessed by immunohistochemistry on vertical cryostat section of mouse retina as well as primary cultured mouse RGCs, using fluorescence microscopy. Biophysical and pharmacological properties of polycystin-2 channels isolated from primary cultured RGCs were determined using planar lipid bilayer electrophysiology. We detected polycystin-2 immunoreactivity both in the ganglion cell layer as well as in primary cultured RGCs. Subcellular analysis revealed strong cytosolic localization pattern of polycystin-2. Polycystin-2 channel current was Ca(2+) activated, had a maximum slope conductance of 114 pS, and could be blocked in a dose-dependent manner by increasing concentrations of Mg(2+). The cytosolic localization of polycystin-2 in RGCs is in accordance with its function as intracellular Ca(2+) release channel. We conclude that polycystin-2 forms functional channels in RGCs, of which biophysical and pharmacological properties are similar to polycystin-2 channels reported for other tissues and organisms. Our data suggest a potential role for polycystin-2 in RGC Ca(2+) signaling.
A group of electrically coupled basal retinal neurons (BRN) in the eye of the marine snail Bulla gouldiana generate a circadian rhythm in the frequency of compound action potentials (CAPs). CAPs are conducted to the contralateral retina via the optic nerves and the cerebral commissures to synchronize the rhythms of both eyes. CAPs can induce an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) in the contralateral BRNs that can lead to action potential generation. The pathway and mechanism of this bilateral coupling signal have not been elucidated, but the evidence suggests monosynaptic connections between the populations of pacemaker cells in both retinae. The study was designed to further characterize the coupling signal and investigate the role of glutamate as a neurotransmitter in this pathway. We found evidence supporting our hypothesis that glutamate, previously identified in BRNs by an immunocytological study, is involved in bilateral coupling. First, a combination of extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological recordings revealed that both electrically and optically evoked CAPs generate excitatory synaptic potentials and action potentials in contralateral BRNs. Application of glutamate also led to increased neuronal activity of individual BRNs both in the intact retina as well when isolated in cell culture. Lastly, glutamate-induced inward currents were characterized in cultured BRNs using perforated-patch recordings. The reversal potential was close to 0 mV, and the currents were sensitive to N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) and non-NMDA antagonists. NMDA and AMPA, as well as aspartate, also induced distinct inward currents in BRNs. We conclude that glutamate can be used by BRNs as a transmitter to influence electrical activity in the contralateral pacemaker population. We propose that glutamate is required for synchronizing of the bilaterally paired retinal clocks producing a unified circadian timing signal.
The presence of a widespread endocannabinoid (eCB) system within the nervous system, including the retina, has been demonstrated in recent years. Expression patterns of the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) and enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) are available for rodents, but data for humans and monkeys are scarce. We, therefore, thoroughly examined the distribution pattern of CB1R and FAAH throughout the retina of the vervet monkey (Chlorocebus sabeus) using confocal microscopy. Our results demonstrate that CB1R and FAAH are expressed throughout the retina, from the foveal pit to the far periphery. CB1R and FAAH are present in the photoreceptor, outer plexiform, inner nuclear, inner plexiform, and retinal ganglion cell layers (PRL, OPL, INL, IPL, and RGCL, respectively). More specifically, in PRL, CB1R and FAAH are preferentially expressed in cones of the central retina. In OPL, these two components of the eCB system are concentrated not only in the cone pedicles but also in rod spherules with, however, a less intense staining pattern. Triple-labeling immunofluorescence revealed that both cone and rod bipolar cells express CB1R and FAAH. Heavy staining is detected in RGC somas and axons. Neither CB1R nor FAAH are found in the retinal glia, the Mller cells. These data indicate that the eCB system is present throughout the primate retina and is ideally positioned to modulate central and peripheral retinal functions.
The present study aims to evaluate the applicability of the grid-walking test in rats with moderate or severe dopamine-depletion incurred by unilateral nigro-striatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. Striatum samples were analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC) after behavioral testing. In Experiment 1, 2 weeks after the injection of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle, adult Wistar rats were divided into an l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) and a vehicle treatment group and their behaviors on the grid were compared. The severely lesioned animals (mean dopamine depletion of 92%) did not exhibit behavioral asymmetry in the number of contralateral foot-slips. However, L-dopa administration selectively reduced the number of foot-slips of the contralateral forelimb when compared with the vehicle group. In Experiment 2, 6-OHDA was injected into the dorsal striatum and foot-slips on the grid were analyzed 4, 9 and 13 days following the lesion. The rats with moderate dopamine-depletion (mean depletion of 54%) exhibited more contralateral forelimb-slips on all testing days. Compared with naive rats, hemiparkinsonian rats also showed more forelimb-slips. These results suggest that the grid-walking test should be a powerful and sensitive behavioral assay for sensory-motor deficits in rat models of nigro-striatal dopamine lesions.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an autism spectrum disorder caused by mutation in the gene encoding methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2). Evidence to date suggests that these disorders display defects in synaptic organization and plasticity. A hallmark of the pathology in RTT has been identified as decreased dendritic arborization, which has been interpreted to represent abnormal dendritic formation and pruning during development. Our previous studies revealed that olfactory axons display defective pathfinding and targeting in the setting of Mecp2 mutation. In the present work, we use Mecp2 mutant mouse models and the olfactory system to investigate dendritic development. Here, we demonstrate that mitral cell dendritic development proceeds normally in mutant mice, resulting in typical dendritic morphology at early postnatal ages. We also failed to detect abnormalities in dendritic inputs at symptomatic stages when glomeruli from mutant mice appear smaller in area than the wild type (WT) (6 weeks postnatally). Collectively, these findings suggest that the initial defects in glomeruli impairment seen with Mecp2 mutation do not result from abnormal dendritic development. Our results using the olfactory system indicate that dendritic abnormalities are not an early feature in the abnormalities incurred by Mecp2 mutation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and also by a degradation of noradrenergic neurons from the locus coeruleus and serotonergic neurons from the dorsal raphe. However, the effect of these depletions on the neuronal activity of basal ganglia nuclei is still unknown. By using extracellular single-unit recordings, we have addressed this question by testing the effects of selective depletions of noradrenaline (NA) (with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4)) and serotonin (5-HT) (with 4-chloro-l-phenylalanine (pCPA)) on the neuronal activity of globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) neurons in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of PD and sham-lesioned rats. We showed that 6-OHDA-induced dopamine (DA) depletion resulted in an increased number of GP and SNr neurons discharging in a bursty and irregular manner, confirming previous studies. These pattern changes were region-dependently influenced by additional monoamine depletion. Although the number of irregular and bursty neurons in 6-OHDA rats tended to decrease in the GP after NA depletion, it did not change after pCPA treatment in both GP and SNr. Furthermore, a significant interaction between DA and 5-HT depletions was observed on the firing rate of SNr neurons. By themselves, NA depletion did not change GP or SNr neuronal activity, whereas 5-HT depletion decreased the firing rate and increased the proportion of bursty and irregular neurons in both brain regions, suggesting that 5-HT, but not NA, plays a major role in the modulation of both the firing rate and patterns of GP and SNr neurons. Finally, our data suggest that, in addition to the primary role of DA in the control of basal ganglia activity, NA and 5-HT depletion also contribute to the dysregulation of the basal ganglia in PD by changes to neuronal firing patterns.
The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease is characterized by progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra (SNpc). FLZ, a novel synthetic squamosamide derivative from a Chinese herb, has been shown to have neuroprotective effects in experimental Parkinson's disease (PD) models. However, it is still unclear whether FLZ protects against PD through regulating the function of dopaminergic system. In this study, we carried out a set of in vitro and in vivo experiments to address these questions. Oral administration of FLZ significantly improved motor dysfunction of mice challenged by MPTP. The beneficial effects of FLZ on motor behavior attributed to the elevation of dopamine level in striatum, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, and TH activity in the middle brain of mouse. Mechanism study showed that treatment of FLZ increased the phosphorylation of activating protein kinase B (Akt) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Using LY294002 to block phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway prevented the phosphorylation of mTOR and attenuated the neuroprotection of FLZ in MN9D cells challenged by MPP(+). In addition, FLZ reduced the expression of RTP801, an important protein in PD, in mice and cells intoxicated by MPTP/MPP(+). Taken together, these results revealed a novel role that FLZ elevated TH expression and activity in dopaminergic neuron through activation of Akt/mTOR survival pathway and inhibition of RTP801 in MPTP/MPP(+)-induced PD models. The data also provided evidence that FLZ had potent neuroprotecive effects and might become a new promising anti-PD drug.
The deregulation of cholinergic system and associated neuronal damage is thought to be a major contributor to the pathophysiologic sequelae of hypobaric hypoxia-induced memory impairment. Uniquely, the muscarinic receptors also play a role in zinc uptake. Despite the potential role of muscarinic receptors in the development of post hypoxia cognitive deficits, no studies to date have evaluated the mechanistic relationship between memory dysfunction and zinc homeostasis in brain. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of Ca(2)EDTA, a specific zinc chelator in the spatial working and associative memory deficits following hypobaric hypoxia. Our results demonstrate that accumulation of intracellular free chelatable zinc in the hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons is accompanied with neuronal loss and memory impairment in hypobaric hypoxic condition. Chelation of this free zinc with Ca(2)EDTA (1.25 mM/kg) ameliorated the hippocampus-dependent spatial as well as associative memory dysfunction and neuronal damage observed on exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. The zinc chelator significantly alleviated the downregulation in expression of choline acetyltransferase, muscarinic receptor 1 and 4, and acetylcholinesterase activity due to hypobaric hypoxia. Our data suggest that the free chelatable zinc released during hypobaric hypoxia might play a critical role in the neuronal damage and the alteration in cholinergic function associated with hypobaric hypoxia-induced memory impairment. We speculate that zinc chelation might be a potential therapy for hypobaric hypoxia-induced cognitive impairment.
Estradiol affects hippocampal-dependent spatial memory and underlying structural and electrical synaptic plasticity in female mice and rats. Using estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and beta knockout mice and wild-type littermates, we investigated the role of ERs in estradiol effects on multiple pathways important for hippocampal plasticity and learning. Six hours of estradiol administration increased immunoreactivity for phosphorylated Akt throughout the hippocampal formation, whereas 48 h of estradiol increased immunoreactivity for phosphorylated TrkB receptor. Estradiol effects on phosphorylated Akt and TrkB immunoreactivities were abolished in ER alpha and ER beta knockout mice. Estradiol also had distinct effects on immunoreactivity for post-synaptic density 95 (PSD-95) and brain derived-neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in ER alpha and beta knockout mice. Thus, estradiol acts through both ERs alpha and beta in several subregions of the hippocampal formation. The different effects of estradiol at 6 and 48 h indicate that several mechanisms of estrogen receptor signaling contribute to this female hormone's influence on hippocampal synaptic plasticity. By further delineating these mechanisms, we will better understand and predict the effects of endogenous and exogenous ovarian steroids on mood, cognition, and other hippocampal-dependent behaviors.
Several neuroimaging studies have revealed that the brains of schizophrenic patients exhibit abnormalities in white matter pathways. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods, such as T2-weighted imaging and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), it is possible to objectively quantify white matter structural properties in patients as well as the pharmacological effect on white matter. In the preclinical domain, these strategies, however, have been hindered by a lack of in vivo imaging assays. One preclinical approach that has been used to pharmacologically challenge the integrity of the white matter is the chronic administration of the copper chelator, cuprizone. In the present study, C57BL/6 mice were given 0.2% cuprizone in their diet for five weeks with or without the antipsychotic drug, quetiapine (10 mg/kg). In accordance with previous studies, myelin breakdown in cuprizone-exposed mice was measured by using T2-weighted MRI and DTI. Here, we demonstrate that cuprizone-induced white matter changes were attenuated by quetiapine treatment. These MRI-based results and trends were confirmed by histological and immunohistochemistry measures. This study suggests that the cuprizone-exposed C57BL/6 mouse is a potential animal model to investigate the impact of treatments on white matter abnormalities in schizophrenia.
Cranial parasympathetic outflow is mediated through the sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG). The present study was performed to examine the expression of the parasympathetic signaling transmitters and their receptors in human and rat SPG. Indirect immunofluorescence technique was used for the demonstration of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), glutamine synthetase (GS), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), VIP and PACAP common receptors (VPAC1, VPAC2), and PACAP receptor (PAC1). In addition, double labeling was carried out to reveal the co-localization of neurotransmitters. VIP-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons as well as fibers were frequently found in human SPG. Many, homogenously stained NOS-ir cells were found, but no positive fibers. In addition, PACAP-ir was observed in some of the neurons and in fibers. Co-localization was found between VIP and NOS. In rat VIP-, NOS-, and PACAP-ir were found in many neurons and fibers. Co-localization of PACAP and NOS was observed in neurons. PACAP and GS double staining revealed that the PACAP-ir was localized in/close to the cell membrane, but not in the satellite glial cells. PAC1 and VPAC1 immunoreactivity was found in the satellite glial cells of both human and rat. Western blot revealed protein expression of PAC1, VPAC1, and VPAC2 in rat SPG. The trigeminal-autonomic reflex may be active in migraine attacks. We hypothesized that VIP, PACAP, NOS, PAC1, VPAC1, and VPAC2 play a role in the activation of parasympathetic cranial outflow during migraine attacks.
Polo family kinases play important roles in cellular proliferation as well as neuronal synaptic plasticity. However, the posttranslational regulation of these kinases is not fully understood. Here, we identified several novel Plk2 phosphorylation sites stimulated by Plk2 itself. By site-directed mutagenesis, we uncovered three additional hyperactivating Plk2 mutations as well as a series of residues regulating Plk2 steady-state expression level. Because of the established role of Plk2 in homeostatic negative control of excitatory synaptic strength, these phosphorylation sites could play an important role in the rapid activation, expansion, and prolongation of Plk2 signaling in this process.
Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) and angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) have opposing effects on blood vessels, with Ang-2 being mainly induced during the endothelial barrier breakdown. It is known that spinal cord injury (SCI) induces lasting decreases in Ang-1 levels, underlying endothelial barrier disruption, but the expression of Ang-2 in spinal cord injury has not been studied. We characterized Ang-2 after SCI using a clinically relevant rat model of contusion SCI. We found that SCI induces marked and persistent upregulation of Ang-2 (up to 10 weeks after SCI), which does not reflect well-characterized temporal profile of the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) breakdown after SCI, and thus suggests other role(s) for Ang-2 in injured spinal cords. Furthermore, we also found that higher Ang-2 levels were associated with more successful locomotor recovery after SCI, both in SCI rats with markedly better spontaneous motor recovery and in SCI rats receiving a neuroprotective pharmacological intervention (amiloride), suggesting a beneficial role for Ang-2 in injured spinal cords. Immunocytochemical analyses revealed that Ang-2 was not induced in endothelial cells, but in perivascular and non-vascular cells labeled with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or with chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2). Therefore, it is unlikely that induction of Ang-2 contributes to vascular dysfunction underlying functional impairment after SCI, but rather that it contributes to the beneficial pro-angiogenic and/or gliogenic processes underlying recovery processes after SCI.
In urban areas with a predominance of early to mid-20th century housing stock, islands of children possessing blood lead levels (PbB) in excess of CDC guidelines (&gt;10g/dL) exist. Many of these children are also exposed to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). The current study examined the impact of Pb-exposure (PbB levels of 1-55g/dL) with/without concurrent ETS exposure on immune system function in 318 children aged 6-84 months from the urban area of Springfield-Greene County, MO. In this population, 36.5% of children possessed PbB levels &gt;10g/dL, 62.9% of children came from smoking homes, 51.9% of children were under 2 years of age, and the population was WIC eligible and predominantly of white, non-Hispanic ethnicity. Multiple immune function markers including cell counts, IgE levels, sCD25 (sIL2R) and IL4 concentrations, and titers to common childhood immunizations were analyzed for correlation with Pb and/or ETS exposure. Increased IgE levels (p&lt;0.01) were found in children with PbB levels within CDC Classes II-IV - this finding was primarily attributable to elevated IgE levels in the subpopulation of children with concurrent Pb and ETS exposure. A trend (0.05&lt;p&lt;0.01) of increases in % total T-cells (p=0.06) was also found in children with concurrent elevated PbB levels and ETS exposure. This trend was not found in the subset of children without ETS exposure nor was it present in the analysis of the entire population set. Conversely, alterations in median values for % lymphocytes, % granulocytes, and % activated T-cells across Pb classes were present in the subpopulation of children expose to Pb alone (without concurrent ETS exposure) though a clear trend was not evident. In the entire population set, a statistically significant correlation between ETS and PbB levels was found. This study indicates that prior reports of a correlation between elevated PbB levels and serum IgE levels may be strongly influenced by exposure to ETS. Findings from this study also indicate that Pb is an immune modulator and PbB levels may be influenced by ETS exposure.

