The G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) are best known for their role in phosphorylating and desensitising G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The GRKs also regulate signalling downstream of other families of receptors and have a number of non-receptor substrates and binding partners. Here we identify RhoAGTP and Raf1 as novel binding partners of GRK2 and report a previously unsuspected function for this kinase. GRK2 is a RhoA effector that serves as a RhoA-activated scaffold protein for the ERK MAP kinase cascade. The ability of GRK2 to bind to Raf1, MEK1 and ERK2 is dependent on RhoAGTP binding to the catalytic domain of the kinase. Exogenous GRK2 has previously been shown to increase ERK activation downstream of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Here we find that GRK2-mediated ERK activation downstream of the EGFR is Rho-dependent and that treatment with EGF promotes RhoAGTP binding and ERK scaffolding by GRK2. Depletion of GRK2 expression by RNAi reveals that GRK2 is required for EGF-induced, Rho- and ERK-dependent thymidine incorporation in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). We therefore hypothesise that Rho-dependent ERK MAPK scaffolding by GRK2 downstream of the EGFR may have an important role in the vasculature, where increased levels of both GRK2 and RhoA have been associated with hypertension.
Previous studies have shown that nitric oxide (NO) inhibits apoptosis of retinal neurons in culture through the canonical cyclic GMP/protein kinase G (PKG)-dependent pathway, but also involving multiple kinase pathways, such as phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase (PI3k) and AKT. NO and AKT exhibit survival-promoting properties and display important roles in both CNS development and plasticity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of exogenous NO, derived from the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamin (SNAP), or endogenous NO, produced from l-arginine, on AKT phosphorylation in cultured chick retinal neurons. Our results demonstrate that SNAP or l-arginine enhances AKT phosphorylation on both serine-473 and threonine-308 residues in a concentration and time-dependent manner. This effect was mediated by the activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase and PKG, since it was blocked by the respective enzyme inhibitors ODQ or LY83583 and KT5823, as well as by transduction with shRNA lentiviruses coding PKGII shRNA, and mimicked by the respective enzyme activators YC-1 and 8-Bromo cyclic GMP, and also by the cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast. In addition, LY294002 or wortmannin suppressed the SNAP effect, indicating the involvement of phosphoinositide 3' kinase. Moreover, the mTOR inhibitor KU0063794 blocked SNAP-induced AKT phosphorylation at both residues, suggesting the participation of the mTORC2 complex in the process. Glutamate and NMDA also promoted AKT phosphorylation and a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor abrogated these effects, revealing a mechanism involving the activation of NMDA receptors and NO production. We have also found that SNAP and l-arginine induced AKT translocation into the nucleus of retinal neurons as well as other neuronal cell lines. SNAP also protects retinal cells from death induced by hydrogen peroxide and this effect was blocked by the phosphoinositide 3' kinase inhibitor LY294002. We therefore conclude that NO produced from endogenous or exogenous sources promotes AKT activation and its shuttling to the nucleus, probably participating in neuronal survival pathways important during CNS development.
We have previously reported that apolipoprotein E (apoE), a protein component of very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and high-density lipoproteins and a potent plasma-borne atheroprotective factor, exerts anti-inflammatory activity in macrophages by switching the activation profile from M1 (&quot;classic&quot;) to M2 (&quot;alternative&quot;) in a process involving signaling via low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family members including the VLDL receptor (VLDLR) or apoE receptor-2 (apoER2). The present study was undertaken to investigate whether LDLR-related protein 1 (LRP-1), another member of the LDLR family and a ubiquitously expressed multifunctional cell surface receptor, modulates M1M2 conversion in murine macrophages. We investigate bone marrow or peritoneal macrophages isolated from wild-type C57/Bl6 mice or mice with conditional inactivation of the LRP-1 gene in the myeloid lineage for the expression of polarization markers. Our results suggest that the deficiency of LRP-1 down-regulates M2 marker expression in macrophages, while enhancing the macrophage response to M1 stimuli. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that LRP-1 affects macrophage polarization and promotes the development of an anti-inflammatory M2 functional phenotype.

The temporal correlation hypothesis proposes that cortical neurons engage in synchronized activity, thus configuring a general mechanism to account for a range of cognitive processes from perceptual binding to consciousness. However, most studies supporting this hypothesis have only provided correlational, but not causal evidence. Here, we used electrical microstimulation of the visual and somatosensory cortices of the rat in both hemispheres, to test whether rats could discriminate synchronous versus asynchronous patterns of stimulation applied to the same cortical sites. To disambiguate synchrony from other related parameters, our experiments independently manipulated the rate and intensity of stimulation, the spatial locations of stimulation, the exact temporal sequence of stimulation patterns, and the degree of synchrony across stimulation sites. We found that rats reliably distinguished between 2 microstimulation patterns, differing in the spatial arrangement of cortical sites stimulated synchronously. Also, their performance was proportional to the level of synchrony in the microstimulation patterns. We demonstrated that rats can recognize artificial current patterns containing precise synchronization features, thus providing the first direct evidence that artificial synchronous activity can guide behavior. Such precise temporal information can be used as feedback signals in machine interface arrangements.
Pantomimes of object use require accurate representations of movements and a selection of the most task-relevant gestures. Prominent models of praxis, corroborated by functional neuroimaging studies, predict a critical role for left parietal cortices in pantomime and advance that these areas store representations of tool use. In contrast, lesion data points to the involvement of left inferior frontal areas, suggesting that defective selection of movement features is the cause of pantomime errors. We conducted a large-scale voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping analyses with configural/spatial (CS) and body-part-as-object (BPO) pantomime errors of 150 left and right brain-damaged patients. Our results confirm the left hemisphere dominance in pantomime. Both types of error were associated with damage to left inferior frontal regions in tumor and stroke patients. While CS pantomime errors were associated with left temporoparietal lesions in both stroke and tumor patients, these errors appeared less associated with parietal areas in stroke than in tumor patients and less associated with temporal in tumor than stroke patients. BPO errors were associated with left inferior frontal lesions in both tumor and stroke patients. Collectively, our results reveal a left intrahemispheric dissociation for various aspects of pantomime, but with an unspecific role for inferior frontal regions.
The perception of a melody is invariant to the absolute properties of its constituting notes, but depends on the relation between them-the melody's relative pitch profile. In fact, a melody's &quot;Gestalt&quot; is recognized regardless of the instrument or key used to play it. Pitch processing in general is assumed to occur at the level of the auditory cortex. However, it is unknown whether early auditory regions are able to encode pitch sequences integrated over time (i.e., melodies) and whether the resulting representations are invariant to specific keys. Here, we presented participants different melodies composed of the same 4 harmonic pitches during functional magnetic resonance imaging recordings. Additionally, we played the same melodies transposed in different keys and on different instruments. We found that melodies were invariantly represented by their blood oxygen level-dependent activation patterns in primary and secondary auditory cortices across instruments, and also across keys. Our findings extend common hierarchical models of auditory processing by showing that melodies are encoded independent of absolute pitch and based on their relative pitch profile as early as the primary auditory cortex.
The medial temporal lobe (MTL) is responsible for various mnemonic functions, such as association/conjunction memory. The lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) also plays crucial roles in mnemonic functions and memory-based cognitive behaviors, for example, decision-making. Therefore, it is considered that the MTL and LPFC connect with each other and cooperate for the control of cognitive behaviors. However, there exist very weak, if any, direct inputs from the MTL to the LPFC. Employing retrograde transsynaptic transport of rabies virus, we investigated the organization of disynaptic bottom-up pathways connecting the MTL and the inferotemporal cortex to the LPFC in macaques. Three days after rabies injections into dorsal area 46, a large number of labeled neurons were observed in the MTL, such as the hippocampal formation (including the entorhinal cortex), the perirhinal cortex, and the parahippocampal cortex. In contrast, a majority of the labeled neurons were located in the inferotemporal cortex following rabies injections into ventral area 46 and lateral area 12. Rabies injections into lateral area 9/area 8B labeled only a small number of neurons in the MTL and the inferotemporal cortex. The present results indicate that, among the LPFC, dorsal area 46 is the main target of disynaptic inputs from the MTL.
A fundamental principle in memory research is that memory is a function of the similarity between encoding and retrieval operations. Consistent with this principle, many neurobiological models of declarative memory assume that memory traces are stored in cortical regions, and the hippocampus facilitates the reactivation of these traces during retrieval. The present investigation tested the novel prediction that encoding-retrieval similarity can be observed and related to memory at the level of individual items. Multivariate representational similarity analysis was applied to functional magnetic resonance imaging data collected during encoding and retrieval of emotional and neutral scenes. Memory success tracked fluctuations in encoding-retrieval similarity across frontal and posterior cortices. Importantly, memory effects in posterior regions reflected increased similarity between item-specific representations during successful recognition. Mediation analyses revealed that the hippocampus mediated the link between cortical similarity and memory success, providing crucial evidence for hippocampal-cortical interactions during retrieval. Finally, because emotional arousal is known to modulate both perceptual and memory processes, similarity effects were compared for emotional and neutral scenes. Emotional arousal was associated with enhanced similarity between encoding and retrieval patterns. These findings speak to the promise of pattern similarity measures for evaluating memory representations and hippocampal-cortical interactions.
Neocortical lamina 6B (L6B) is a largely unexplored layer with a very heterogeneous cellular composition. To date, only little is known about L6B neurons on a systematic and quantitative basis. We investigated the morphological and electrophysiological properties of excitatory L6B neurons in the rat somatosensory barrel cortex using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and simultaneous biocytin fillings. Subsequent histological processing and computer-assisted 3D reconstructions provided the basis for a classification of excitatory L6B neurons according to their structural and functional characteristics. Three distinct clusters of excitatory L6B neurons were identified: (C1) pyramidal neurons with an apical dendrite pointing towards the pial surface, (C2) neurons with a prominent, &quot;apical&quot;-like dendrite not oriented towards the pia, and (C3) multipolar spiny neurons without any preferential dendritic orientation. The second group could be further subdivided into three categories termed inverted, &quot;tangentially&quot; oriented and &quot;horizontally&quot; oriented neurons. Furthermore, based on the axonal domain two subcategories of L6B pyramidal cells were identified that had either a more barrel-column confined or an extended axonal field. The classification of excitatory L6B neurons provided here may serve as a basis for future studies on the structure, function, and synaptic connectivity of L6B neurons.
In social interactions, the perception of how risky our decisions are depends on how we anticipate other people's behaviors. We used electroencephalography to study the neurobiology of perception of social risk, in subjects playing the role of proposers in an iterated ultimatum game in pairs. Based on statistical modeling, we used the previous behaviors of both players to separate high-risk [HR] offers from low-risk [LR] offers. The HR offers present higher rejection probability and higher entropy (variability of possible outcome) than the LR offers. Rejections of LR offers elicited both a stronger mediofrontal negativity and a higher prefrontal theta activity than rejections of HR offers. Moreover, prior to feedback, HR offers generated a drop in alpha activity in an extended network. Interestingly, trial-by-trial variation in alpha activity in the medial prefrontal, posterior temporal, and inferior pariental cortex was specifically modulated by risk and, together with theta activity in the prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortex, predicted the proposer's subsequent behavior. Our results provide evidence that alpha and theta oscillations are sensitive to social risk and underlie a fine-tuning regulation of social decisions.
Friedreich's ataxia (FA) is the most common recessive ataxia in the Western world with degeneration of dorsal root ganglia neurons as its major neuropathological hallmark. The sensitivity of clinical tools commonly used for the assessment of the proprioceptive component of FA is currently unknown. We hypothesised that current clinical testing underestimates proprioceptive deficits in FA patients. Such an underestimation would hamper our understanding of the components of FA, the monitoring of disease progression, and the detection of deficits in the current advent of drug trials. We compared clinical tests for joint position sense (JPS) and vibration sense (VS) to a test of spatial position sense (SPS) that examines localisation of both hands across a horizontal 2D space. We tested 22 healthy controls to derive a cut-off for the SPS. Eleven patients with genetically confirmed FA participated in this study. All 11 FA patients were impaired in the SPS test. Two patients showed unimpaired JPS and VS. Two additional patients showed unimpaired JPS, while two other patients unimpaired VS. The SPS test was more sensitive and revealed deficits potentially earlier than clinical screening tests. Only the SPS showed a positive correlation with ataxia severity. The SPS was more sensitive than the commonly used JPS and VS. Thus, our results indicate that proprioceptive deficits in FA start earlier and are more severe than indicated by routine standard clinical testing. The contribution of proprioceptive deficits to the impairment of FA patients might therefore indeed be underestimated today.
Limited evidence to date has demonstrated changes in excitability that develops over the contralateral motor cortex after a cerebellar infarct. As such, the present study investigated changes in excitability over the contra- (contraM1) and ipsilateral motor cortices (ipsiM1), in patients with acute cerebellar infarct, to determine whether the changes may have functional relevance. Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation, combined with detailed clinical assessment, was undertaken in ten patients presenting with acute unilateral cerebellar infarct. Studies were undertaken within 1week of ictus and followed longitudinally at 3-, 6-, and 12-month periods. Comparisons were made with 15 age-matched controls. Immediately following a stroke, short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) was significantly reduced over the contraM1 in all patients (P=0.01), while reduced over the ipsiM1 in those with severe functional impairment (P=0.01). Moreover, ipsiM1 SICI correlated with impairment (r=0.69, P=0.03), such that less SICI was observed in those patients with most impairment. Cortical excitability changes persisted over the follow-up period in the context of clinical improvement. Following an acute cerebellar infarct, excitability abnormalities develop over both motor cortices, more prominently in patients with severe functional impairment. The cortical changes, particularly over the ipsilateral motor cortex, may represent a functionally relevant plastic process that may guide future therapeutic strategies to better facilitate recovery.
The involvement of the cerebellum in migraine pathophysiology is not well understood. We used a biparametric approach at high-field MRI (3T) to assess the structural integrity of the cerebellum in 15 migraineurs with aura (MWA), 23 migraineurs without aura (MWoA), and 20 healthy controls (HC). High-resolution T1 relaxation maps were acquired together with magnetization transfer images in order to probe microstructural and myelin integrity. Clusterwise analysis was performed on T1 and magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) maps of the cerebellum of MWA, MWoA, and HC using an ANOVA and a non-parametric clusterwise permutation F test, with age and gender as covariates and correction for familywise error rate. In addition, mean MTR and T1 in frontal regions known to be highly connected to the cerebellum were computed. Clusterwise comparison among groups showed a cluster of lower MTR in the right Crus I of MWoA patients vs. HC and MWA subjects (p=0.04). Univariate and bivariate analysis on T1 and MTR contrasts showed that MWoA patients had longer T1 and lower MTR in the right and left pars orbitalis compared to MWA (p&lt;0.01 and 0.05, respectively), but no differences were found with HC. Lower MTR and longer T1 point at a loss of macromolecules and/or micro-edema in Crus I and pars orbitalis in MWoA patients vs. HC and vs. MWA. The pathophysiological implications of these findings are discussed in light of recent literature.
When systematic movement errors occur, the brain responds with a systematic change in motor behavior. This type of adaptive motor learning can transfer intermanually; adaptation of movements of the right hand in response to training with a perturbed visual signal (visuomotor adaptation) may carry over to the left hand. While visuomotor adaptation has been studied extensively, it is unclear whether the cerebellum, a structure involved in adaptation, is important for intermanual transfer as well. We addressed this question with three experiments in which subjects reached with their right hands as a 30 visuomotor rotation was introduced. Subjects received anodal or sham transcranial direct current stimulation on the trained (experiment 1) or untrained (experiment 2) hemisphere of the cerebellum, or, for comparison, motor cortex (M1). After the training period, subjects reached with their left hand, without visual feedback, to assess intermanual transfer of learning aftereffects. Stimulation of the right cerebellum caused faster adaptation, but none of the stimulation sites affected transfer. To ascertain whether cerebellar stimulation would increase transfer if subjects learned faster as well as a larger amount, in experiment 3 anodal and sham cerebellar groups experienced a shortened training block such that the anodal group learned more than sham. Despite the difference in adaptation magnitude, transfer was similar across these groups, although smaller than in experiment 1. Our results suggest that intermanual transfer of visuomotor learning does not depend on cerebellar activity and that the number of movements performed at plateau is an important predictor of transfer.
The neuropathology of schizophrenia remains unclear. Some insight has come from modern neuroimaging techniques, which offer an unparalleled opportunity to explore in vivo the structure and function of the brain. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, it has been found that the large-scale resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) in schizophrenia--measured as the temporal correlations of the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal--exhibit altered network topology, with lower small-world index. The origin of these rsFC alterations and link with the underlying structural connectivity remain unclear. In this work, we used a computational model of spontaneous large-scale brain activity to explore the role of the structural connectivity in the large-scale dynamics of the brain in health and schizophrenia. The structural connectomes from 15 adolescent patients with early-onset schizophrenia and 15 age- and gender-matched controls were built from diffusion tensor imaging data to detect the white matter tracts between 90 brain areas. Brain areas, simulated using a reduced dynamic mean-field model, receive excitatory input from other areas in proportion to the number of fibre tracts between them. The simulated mean field activity was transformed into BOLD signal, and the properties of the simulated functional networks were analyzed. Our results suggest that the functional alterations observed in schizophrenia are not directly linked to alterations in the structural topology. Instead, subtly randomized and less small-world functional networks appear when the brain operates with lower global coupling, which shifts the dynamics from the optimal healthy regime.
Gamma frequency oscillations have been proposed to contribute to memory formation and retrieval. Fast-spiking basket cells (FS-BCs) are known to underlie development of gamma oscillations. Fast, high amplitude GABA synapses and gap junctions have been suggested to contribute to gamma oscillations in FS-BC networks. Recently, we identified that, apart from GABAergic synapses, FS-BCs in the hippocampal dentate gyrus have GABAergic currents mediated by extrasynaptic receptors. Our experimental studies demonstrated two specific changes in FS-BC GABA currents following experimental seizures [Yu et al., J. Neurophysiol. 109, 1746 (2013)]: increase in the magnitude of extrasynaptic (tonic) GABA currents and a depolarizing shift in GABA reversal potential (E(GABA)). Here, we use homogeneous networks of a biophysically based model of FS-BCs to examine how the presence of extrasynaptic GABA conductance (g(GABA-extra)) and experimentally identified, seizure-induced changes in g(GABA-extra) and E(GABA) influence network activity. Networks of FS-BCs interconnected by fast GABAergic synapses developed synchronous firing in the dentate gamma frequency range (40-100 Hz). Systematic investigation revealed that the biologically realistic range of 30 to 40 connections between FS-BCs resulted in greater coherence in the gamma frequency range when networks were activated by Poisson-distributed dendritic synaptic inputs rather than by homogeneous somatic current injections, which were balanced for FS-BC firing frequency in unconnected networks. Distance-dependent conduction delay enhanced coherence in networks with 30-40 FS-BC interconnections while inclusion of gap junctional conductance had a modest effect on coherence. In networks activated by somatic current injections resulting in heterogeneous FS-BC firing, increasing g(GABA-extra) reduced the frequency and coherence of FS-BC firing when E(GABA) was shunting (-74 mV), but failed to alter average FS-BC frequency when E(GABA) was depolarizing (-54 mV). When FS-BCs were activated by biologically based dendritic synaptic inputs, enhancing g(GABA-extra) reduced the frequency and coherence of FS-BC firing when E(GABA) was shunting and increased average FS-BC firing when E(GABA) was depolarizing. Shifting E(GABA) from shunting to depolarizing potentials consistently increased network frequency to and above high gamma frequencies (&gt;80 Hz). Since gamma oscillations may contribute to learning and memory processing [Fell et al., Nat. Neurosci. 4, 1259 (2001); Jutras et al., J. Neurosci. 29, 12521 (2009); Wang, Physiol. Rev. 90, 1195 (2010)], our demonstration that network oscillations are modulated by extrasynaptic inhibition in FS-BCs suggests that neuroactive compounds that act on extrasynaptic GABA receptors could impact memory formation by modulating hippocampal gamma oscillations. The simulation results indicate that the depolarized FS-BC GABA reversal, observed after experimental seizures, together with enhanced spillover extrasynaptic GABA currents are likely to promote generation of focal high frequency activity associated with epileptic networks.
There is an undisputed need and requirement for theoretical and computational studies in Neuroscience today. Furthermore, it is clear that oscillatory dynamical output from brain networks is representative of various behavioural states, and it is becoming clear that one could consider these outputs as measures of normal and pathological brain states. Although mathematical modeling of oscillatory dynamics in the context of neurological disease exists, it is a highly challenging endeavour because of the many levels of organization in the nervous system. This challenge is coupled with the increasing knowledge of cellular specificity and network dysfunction that is associated with disease. Recently, whole hippocampus in vitro preparations from control animals have been shown to spontaneously express oscillatory activities. In addition, when using preparations derived from animal models of disease, these activities show particular alterations. These preparations present an opportunity to address challenges involved with using models to gain insight because of easier access to simultaneous cellular and network measurements, and pharmacological modulations. We propose that by developing and using models with direct links to experiment at multiple levels, which at least include cellular and microcircuit, a cycling can be set up and used to help us determine critical mechanisms underlying neurological disease. We illustrate our proposal using our previously developed inhibitory network models in the context of these whole hippocampus preparations and show the importance of having direct links at multiple levels.
Small groups of interneurons, abbreviated by CPG for central pattern generators, are arranged into neural networks to generate a variety of core bursting rhythms with specific phase-locked states, on distinct time scales, which govern vital motor behaviors in invertebrates such as chewing and swimming. These movements in lower level animals mimic motions of organs in higher animals due to evolutionarily conserved mechanisms. Hence, various neurological diseases can be linked to abnormal movement of body parts that are regulated by a malfunctioning CPG. In this paper, we, being inspired by recent experimental studies of neuronal activity patterns recorded from a swimming motion CPG of the sea slug Melibe leonina, examine a mathematical model of a 4-cell network that can plausibly and stably underlie the observed bursting rhythm. We develop a dynamical systems framework for explaining the existence and robustness of phase-locked states in activity patterns produced by the modeled CPGs. The proposed tools can be used for identifying core components for other CPG networks with reliable bursting outcomes and specific phase relationships between the interneurons. Our findings can be employed for identifying or implementing the conditions for normal and pathological functioning of basic CPGs of animals and artificially intelligent prosthetics that can regulate various movements.
Children's exposure to intimate partner violence (IPV) is increasingly recognized as a type of child maltreatment that has a level of impairment similar to other types of abuse and neglect. Despite advances in the area of IPV, the safety planning strategies recommended as part of the overall response to IPV need to be examined in terms of their implications for children. This article discusses these strategies within the context of child safety, comparing IPV safety planning with approaches aimed at reducing exposure to other types of violence such as child sexual abuse, as well as general child safety strategies. Despite the emphasis on safety planning in information available on responding to IPV, the actual effectiveness of such planning in improving safety and reducing violence is unknown. Safety planning provided to children by a parent experiencing IPV, especially when IPV is ongoing and not recognized by anyone outside the home, may lead to confusing messages for children, particularly if there is an emphasis on secrecy. While awaiting evidence about the effectiveness of specific safety planning strategies for children, we suggest basic principles and general strategies that emphasize universality in terms of education about any type of violence or abuse in the home being unacceptable, as well as the need to focus on safety in general.

The papers in this section focus on public health responses and implementation considerations in addressing the challenges military families confront when parents go to war. While many military families show resilience, the challenges resulting from a decade of war with multiple deployments are detailed, as are innovative military and civilian programs designed to help service members and their families reintegrate successfully into the community. As more and more service members leave active duty, the burden of meeting military families' psychological needs will transition from the Department of Defense (DoD) and into the Veterans Administration (VA) and civilian arenas. While many strategies to support successful readjustment are offered, in this time of dwindling mental health resources and competing needs, it is unclear what priority the broader society places on meeting the needs of returning service members and their families. A growing emphasis on family-centered care in the Veterans Administration may help meet this gap.
The deployment of US military personnel to recent conflicts has been a significant stressor for their families; yet, we know relatively little about the long-term family effects of these deployments. Using data from prior military service eras, we review our current understanding of the long-term functioning and needs of military families. These data suggest that overseas deployment, exposure to combat, experiencing or participating in violence during war deployment, service member injury or disability, and combat-related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) all have profound impacts on the functioning of military families. We offer several recommendations to address these impacts such as the provision of family-centered, trauma-informed resources to families of veterans with PTSD and veterans who experienced high levels of combat and war violence. Recent efforts to address the needs of caregivers of veterans should be evaluated and expanded, as necessary. We should also help military families plan for predictable life events likely to challenge their resilience and coping capacities. Future research should focus on the following: factors that mediate the relationship between PTSD, war atrocities, caregiver burden, and family dysfunction; effective family-centered interventions that can be scaled-up to meet the needs of a dispersed population; and system-level innovations necessary to ensure adequate access to these interventions.



The efficacy of the innovative oral drug fingolimod has been proven in the largest study program in multiple sclerosis (MS) demonstrating reduced relapse and reduced disability progression in relapsing-remitting MS patients. Based on the extensive safety data of all clinical trials and the natural distribution pattern of fingolimod interacting receptors in organism, careful clinical monitoring is recommend and reviewed in this paper. Safety and tolerability data from clinical studies as well as current post-marketing experience present with high tolerability and easy-to-perform management of fingolimod. Here we present the recommended management of fingolimod in clinical practice starting with preparatory steps, first-dose application and long-term treatment period with fingolimod. This management of fingolimod in clinical practice ensure a safe treatment algorithm using fingolimod. We recommend documentation of fingolimod patients in clinical registries to generate postmarketing data on efficacy and safety of fingoilimod.
Ocular coherence tomography has revolutionised the prospects of measuring the loss of retinal ganglion cells secondary to degenerative diseases and monitoring time-dependent changes of optic disc morphology, since the resolution has been improved considerably and the time required has been reduced. Although the non-invasive technique promises a high inter-session reproducibility, the limitations of retinal imaging and the problems of segmenting of the retinal layers have to be taken into account. While the first studies were limited to single sessions in small groups, further trials will elucidate how the retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) is altered in the course of different episodic forms of multiple sclerosis. This review points out that the examination technique already provides comprehensive information, valuable in the daily care of neurological patients.






The following intraoperative MEP recommendations can be made on the basis of current evidence and expert opinion: (1) Acquisition and interpretation should be done by qualified personnel. (2) The methods are sufficiently safe using appropriate precautions. (3) MEPs are an established practice option for cortical and subcortical mapping and for monitoring during surgeries risking motor injury in the brain, brainstem, spinal cord or facial nerve. (4) Intravenous anesthesia usually consisting of propofol and opioid is optimal for muscle MEPs. (5) Interpretation should consider limitations and confounding factors. (6) D-wave warning criteria consider amplitude reduction having no confounding factor explanation: &gt;50% for intramedullary spinal cord tumor surgery, and &gt;30-40% for peri-Rolandic surgery. (7) Muscle MEP warning criteria are tailored to the type of surgery and based on deterioration clearly exceeding variability with no confounding factor explanation. Disappearance is always a major criterion. Marked amplitude reduction, acute threshold elevation or morphology simplification could be additional minor or moderate spinal cord monitoring criteria depending on the type of surgery and the program's technique and experience. Major criteria for supratentorial, brainstem or facial nerve monitoring include &gt;50% amplitude reduction when warranted by sufficient preceding response stability. Future advances could modify these recommendations.


Pathological aggregation of alpha-synuclein as Lewy-bodies and neurites is a hallmark of a group of neurodegenerative disorders named alpha-synucleinopathies. It is becoming apparent that alpha-synuclein facilitates presynaptic neuronal function in the brain, and events leading to its aggregation produce marked disruption of neurotransmitter release mechanism. We discuss here the literature related to the function of alpha-synuclein at the neuronal synapse in synucleinopathies brains and corresponding animal models.

Although not all individuals who work outside of standard daytime hours develop physical and psychiatric issues, there is a substantial portion of shift workers who develop shift work disorder. Shift work disorder is due to a misalignment between an individual's endogenous circadian rhythms and environmental stimuli, and can have potentially serious consequences to an individual's health and quality of life. This article reviews the neurobiological and genetic underpinnings of shift work disorder, and describes how desynchronization of the molecular clock may lead to both physical and psychiatric illnesses. Diagnostic tools and treatment guidelines to address the circadian misalignment, excessive sleepiness, and insomnia experienced by patients with shift work disorder are also discussed.
There are several investigational drugs in development for the treatment of depression. Some of the novel antidepressants in development target monoaminergic neurotransmission in accordance with the &quot;monoamine hypothesis of depression.&quot; However, the current conceptualization of antidepressant actions is that it is the downstream effects on protein synthesis and neuroplasticity that account for therapeutic efficacy, rather than the immediate effects on synaptic monoamine levels. Thus, a number of novel agents in development directly target components of this &quot;neuroplasticity hypothesis of depression,&quot; including hypothetically overactive glutamatergic neurotransmission and dysfunctional hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis functioning.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) is a major public health problem in the United States. It has resulted in devastating consequences for people with this condition, including psychosocial and legal problems, in addition to contraction of infectious diseases such as HIV and hepatitis B and C. Furthermore, this disease can cause fatalities from drug overdoses and drug-drug interactions. OUD shatters families and destroys relationships. Effective treatment is crucial in order to curtail the consequences of this condition. The objective of this article is to provide a review of the pharmacotherapies currently being used to treat OUD.

Functional magnetic reasonance imaging (fMRI) plays an important role in pre-surgical planning for patients with resectable brain lesions such as tumors. With appropriately designed tasks, the results of fMRI studies can guide resection, thereby preserving vital brain tissue. The mass univariate approach to fMRI data analysis consists of performing a statistical test in each voxel, which is used to classify voxels as either active or inactive-that is, related, or not, to the task of interest. In cognitive neuroscience, the focus is on controlling the rate of false positives while accounting for the severe multiple testing problem of searching the brain for activations. However, stringent control of false positives is accompanied by a risk of false negatives, which can be detrimental, particularly in clinical settings where false negatives may lead to surgical resection of vital brain tissue. Consequently, for clinical applications, we argue for a testing procedure with a stronger focus on preventing false negatives. We present a thresholding procedure that incorporates information on false positives and false negatives. We combine two measures of significance for each voxel: a classical p-value, which reflects evidence against the null hypothesis of no activation, and an alternative p-value, which reflects evidence against activation of a prespecified size. This results in a layered statistical map for the brain. One layer marks voxels exhibiting strong evidence against the traditional null hypothesis, while a second layer marks voxels where activation cannot be confidently excluded. The third layer marks voxels where the presence of activation can be rejected.
The feedback-related negativity (FRN) and the P300 have been related to the processing of one's own and other individuals' feedback during both active and observational learning. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the role of trait-empathic responding with regard to the modulation of the neural correlates of observational learning in particular. Thirty-four healthy participants completed an active and an observational learning task. On both tasks, the participants' aim was to maximize their monetary gain by choosing from two stimuli the one that showed the higher probability of reward. Participants gained insight into the stimulus-reward contingencies according to monetary feedback presented after they had made an active choice or by observing the choices of a virtual partner. Participants showed a general improvement in learning performance on both learning tasks. P200, FRN, and P300 amplitudes were larger during active, as compared with observational, learning. Furthermore, nonreward elicited a significantly more negative FRN than did reward in the active learning task, while only a trend was observed for observational learning. Distinct subcomponents of trait cognitive empathy were related to poorer performance and smaller P300 amplitudes for observational learning only. Taken together, both the learning performance and event-related potentials during observational learning are affected by different aspects of trait cognitive empathy, and certain types of observational learning may actually be disrupted by a higher tendency to understand and adopt other people's perspectives.
The impact of Parkinson's disease (PD) on rule-guided behavior has received considerable attention in cognitive neuroscience. The majority of research has used PD as a model of dysfunction in frontostriatal networks, but very few attempts have been made to investigate the possibility of adapting common experimental techniques in an effort to identify the conditions that are most likely to facilitate successful performance. The present study investigated a targeted training paradigm designed to facilitate rule learning and application using rule-based categorization as a model task. Participants received targeted training in which there was no selective-attention demand (i.e., stimuli varied along a single, relevant dimension) or nontargeted training in which there was selective-attention demand (i.e., stimuli varied along a relevant dimension as well as an irrelevant dimension). Following training, all participants were tested on a rule-based task with selective-attention demand. During the test phase, PD patients who received targeted training performed similarly to control participants and outperformed patients who did not receive targeted training. As a preliminary test of the generalizability of the benefit of targeted training, a subset of the PD patients were tested on the Wisconsin card sorting task (WCST). PD patients who received targeted training outperformed PD patients who did not receive targeted training on several WCST performance measures. These data further characterize the contribution of frontostriatal circuitry to rule-guided behavior. Importantly, these data also suggest that PD patient impairment, on selective-attention-demanding tasks of rule-guided behavior, is not inevitable and highlight the potential benefit of targeted training.
The amygdala is a key region in emotion processing. In particular, fMRI studies have demonstrated that the amygdala is active during the viewing of emotional faces. Previous research has consistently found greater amygdala responses to fearful than to neutral faces in adults, convergent with a focus in the animal literature on the amygdala's role in fear processing. Studies have shown that the amygdala also responds differentially to other facial emotion types in adults. Yet the literature regarding when this differential amygdala responsivity develops is limited and mixed. Thus, the goal of the present study was to examine amygdala responses to emotional and neutral faces in a relatively large sample of healthy school-age children (N = 52). Although the amygdala was active in response to emotional and neutral faces, the results did not support the hypothesis that the amygdala responds differentially to emotional faces in 7- to 12-year-old children. Nonetheless, amygdala activity was correlated with the severity of subclinical depression symptoms and with emotional regulation skills. Additionally, sex differences were observed in frontal, temporal, and visual regions, as well as effects of pubertal development in visual regions. These findings suggest important differences in amygdala reactivity in childhood.

We describe a patient with corticobasal syndrome in whom neuropathological examination on autopsy revealed Pick and Alzheimer diseases in comorbidity. Corticobasal degeneration is a tauopathy usually associated with asymmetric parkinsonism, parietal lobe involvement, and cognitive impairment. Corticobasal syndrome is the clinical presentation of corticobasal degeneration without neuropathological confirmation. A 66-year-old right-handed man slowly developed speech difficulties, right-hand clumsiness, and forgetfulness. His speech apraxia progressed to mutism with preserved comprehension, and his clumsiness progressed to severe apraxia involving both hands. He developed behavioral changes and severe amnesia. All of these features were consistent with corticobasal syndrome. His loss of episodic, verbal, and visuospatial memory suggested Alzheimer disease; however, beyond his frontotemporal neuropsychological profile, he had few symptoms characteristic of frontal lobe dementia. Magnetic resonance imaging scans showed worsening temporal, frontal, and parietal atrophy, predominant in the left hemisphere. Neuropathological examination at autopsy revealed abundant neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles consistent with fully developed Alzheimer disease, as well as numerous intraneuronal Pick bodies in the frontotemporal lobes. Our findings confirm the importance of clinical and neuropathological correlations in patients with atypical neurodegenerative dementias.
Recently we introduced a new version of the perceptual retouch model incorporating two interactive binding operations-binding features for objects and binding the bound feature-objects with a large scale oscillatory system that acts as a mediary for the perceptual information to reach consciousness-level representation. The relative level of synchronized firing of the neurons representing the features of an object obtained after the second-stage synchronizing modulation is used as the equivalent of conscious perception of the corresponding object. Here, this model is used for simulating interaction of two successive featured objects as a function of stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA). Model output reproduces typical results of mutual masking-with shortest and longest SOAs first and second object correct perception rate is comparable while with intermediate SOAs second object dominates over the first one. Additionally, with shortest SOAs misbinding of features to form illusory objects is simulated by the model.
How do we understand two-digit numbers such as 42? Models of multi-digit number comprehension differ widely. Some postulate that the decades and units digits are processed separately and possibly serially. Others hypothesize a holistic process which maps the entire 2-digit string onto a magnitude, represented as a position on a number line. In educated adults, the number line is thought to be linear, but the &quot;number sense&quot; hypothesis proposes that a logarithmic scale underlies our intuitions of number size, and that this compressive representation may still be dormant in the adult brain. We investigated these issues by asking adults to point to the location of two-digit numbers on a number line while their finger location was continuously monitored. Finger trajectories revealed a linear scale, yet with a transient logarithmic effect suggesting the activation of a compressive and holistic quantity representation. Units and decades digits were processed in parallel, without any difference in left-to-right vs. right-to-left readers. The late part of the trajectory was influenced by spatial reference points placed at the left end, middle, and right end of the line. Altogether, finger trajectory analysis provides a precise cognitive decomposition of the sequence of stages used in converting a number to a quantity and then a position.
Allergies and bacterial colonization are frequently found in patients with chronic rhinosinuitis with nasal polyposis (CRSwNP). The aim of this study was to identify patients with allergy and present microorganisms in ethmoid sinus among the patients with refractory CRSwNP undergoing surgical treatment at the University Hospital Centre Osijek, and to compare their life quality, defined by SNOT-20 analysis (sinonasal outcome test) to the rest of patients, and a control group consisting of patients undergoing septoplasty but free of allergy and/or CRS. An additional aim was to identify specific types and strains of microorganisms (bacteria and fungi) found in these patients, in order to compare them to other reports, and to revise the empirical antimicrobial therapy. In this paper we demonstrate a high incidence of bacterial colonization (83.3%) among CRSwNP patients. As in previous studies, gram positive aerobes were the most frequently isolated bacteria and all of them were covered by specific antibiotics given before the specimen collection. Allergy was found in only 20% of these patients, who presented with a reduced quality of life when compared to the control group and CRSwNP without allergy. Significantly more frequent dominant symptoms in these patients were cough, frustration and irritation. In the line with this finding is the objective assessment by endoscopy (Malm score) that showed more prominent nasal polyposis in allergy patients.
Because few data exist on substance abuse rates in American Indian (AI) communities, the Methamphetamine and Other Drug project was developed and implemented by five nodes within the National Institute on Drug Abuse Clinical Trials Network (NIDA CTN). This article presents findings from AI clients in a Northern Plains urban non-Native substance abuse treatment setting. Alcohol and marijuana were used earlier, longer, and by more clients, followed by stimulants and prescription opioids. Most regularly smoked tobacco. Differences in substance use patterns were associated with age of onset and victimization. Age of onset was correlated with victimization, gender, cognitive impairment, and suicidal behavior. Despite considerable health and economic disparities, most clients found support for recovery in relationships and elements of Native culture.
Sense of agency (SoA) refers to the feeling that we are in control of our own actions and, through them, events in the outside world. SoA depends partly on retrospectively matching outcomes to expectations, and partly on prospective processes occurring prior to action, notably action selection. To assess the relative contribution of these processes, we factorially varied subliminal priming of action selection and expectation of action outcomes. Both factors affected SoA, and there was also a significant interaction. Compatible action primes increased SoA more strongly for unexpected than expected outcomes. Outcome expectation had strong effects on SoA following incompatible action priming, but only weak effects following compatible action priming. Prospective and retrospective SoA may have distinct and complementary functions.
The item-specific proportion congruency (ISPC) effect is consistent with the idea that control processes can be applied rapidly in accord with previously experienced conflict for a particular category. An alternative account of this effect is that it reflects item-specific learning processes unrelated to control at the level of the category. The accounts predict the same behaviour but differ in terms of electrophysiological predictions. Two experiments examined the ISPC effect with a particular focus on neural correlates that might reveal whether, and how early in processing, high and low proportion congruent items are treated as distinct classes of stimuli. For both tasks, the proportion congruency category was distinguished prior to the congruence of the specific stimulus, as early as 100 ms post-stimulus onset for the global/local identification task (Experiment 1) and 150 ms for the Stroop task (Experiment 2). The results support an on-line control account of ISPC effects.
Previous studies [Marcel, A. J. (1983). Conscious and unconscious perception: Experiments on visual masking and word recognition. Cognitive Psychology, 15(2), 197-237; Wentura, D., &amp; Frings, C. (2005). Repeated masked category primes interfere with related exemplars: New evidence for negative semantic priming. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 31(1), 108-120] suggested that repeatedly presenting a masked stimulus improves priming without increasing perceptual awareness. However, neural theories of consciousness predict the opposite: Increasing bottom-up strength in such a paradigm should also result in increasing availability to awareness. Here, we tested this prediction by manipulating the number of repetitions of a strongly masked digit. Our results do not replicate the dissociation observed in previous studies and are instead suggestive that repeating an unconscious and attended masked stimulus enables the progressive emergence of perceptual awareness.
Following a hypnotic amnesia suggestion, highly hypnotically suggestible subjects may experience amnesia for events. Is there a failure to retrieve the material concerned from autobiographical (episodic) memory, or is it retrieved but blocked from consciousness? Highly hypnotically suggestible subjects produced free-associates to a list of concrete nouns. They were then given an amnesia suggestion for that episode followed by another free association list, which included 15 critical words that had been previously presented. If episodic retrieval for the first trial had been blocked, the responses on the second trial should still have been at least as fast as for the first trial. With semantic priming, they should be faster. In fact, they were on average half a second slower. This suggests that the material had been retrieved but blocked from consciousness. A goal-oriented information processing framework is outlined to interpret these and related data.
Recent research on bodily self-consciousness has assumed that it consists of three distinct components: the experience of owning a body (body ownership); the experience of being a body with a given location within the environment (self-location); and the experience of taking a first-person, body-centered, perspective on that environment (perspective). Here we review recent neuroimaging studies suggesting that at least two of these components-body ownership and self-location-are implemented in rather distinct neural substrates, located, respectively, in the premotor cortex and in the temporo-parietal junction. We examine these results and consider them in relation to clinical evidence from patients with altered body perception and work on a variety of multisensory, body-related illusions, such as the rubber hand illusion, the full body illusion, the body swap illusion and the enfacement illusion. We conclude by providing a preliminary synthesis of the data on bodily self-consciousness and its neural correlates.
The subjective feeling of free choice is an important feature of human experience. Experimental tasks have typically studied free choice by contrasting free and instructed selection of response alternatives. These tasks have been criticised, and it remains unclear how they relate to the subjective feeling of freely choosing. We replicated previous findings of the fMRI correlates of free choice, defined objectively. We introduced a novel task in which participants could experience and report a graded sense of free choice. BOLD responses for conditions subjectively experienced as free identified a postcentral area distinct from the areas typically considered to be involved in free action. Thus, the brain correlates of subjective feeling of free action were not directly related to any established brain correlates of objectively-defined free action. Our results call into question traditional assumptions about the relation between subjective experience of choosing and activity in the brain's so-called voluntary motor areas.
Intentional inhibition refers to stopping oneself from performing an action at the last moment, a vital component of self-control. It has been suggested that intentional inhibition is associated with negative hedonic value, perhaps due to the frustration of cancelling an intended action. Here we investigate hedonic implications of the free choice to act or inhibit. Participants gave aesthetic ratings of arbitrary visual stimuli that immediately followed voluntary decisions to act or to inhibit action. We found that participants for whom decisions to act produced a strong positive hedonic value for the immediately following visual stimulus made more choices to act than those with weaker hedonic value for action. This finding is consistent with reinforcement learning of action decisions. However, participants who experienced inhibition as generating more positive hedonic value did not choose to inhibit more than other participants. Thus, voluntary inhibition of action did not act as reinforcement for future inhibitory behaviour. Our finding that inhibition of action lacks motivational capacity may explain why self-control is both difficult and limited.
Psychology distinguishes between a bodily and a narrative self. Within neuroscience, models of the bodily self are based on exteroceptive sensorimotor processes or on the integration of interoceptive sensations. Recent research has revealed interactions between interoceptive and exteroceptive processing of self-related information, for example that mirror self-observation can improve interoceptive awareness. Using heartbeat perception, we measured the effect on interoceptive awareness of two experimental manipulations, designed to heighten attention to bodily and narrative aspects of the self. Participants gazed at a photograph of their own face or at self-relevant words. In both experimental conditions interoceptive awareness was significantly increased, compared to baseline. Results show that attention to narrative aspects of self, previously regarded as relying on higher-order processes, has an effect similar to self-face stimuli in improving interoceptive awareness. Our findings extend the previously observed interaction between the bodily self and interoception to more abstract amodal representations of the self.



Cancer treatment and its side effects may cause muscle wasting. Physical exercise has the potential to increase muscle mass and strength and to improve physical function in cancer patients undergoing treatment. A systematic review was conducted to study the effect of physical exercise (aerobic, resistance or a combination of both) on muscle mass and strength in cancer patients with different type and stage of cancer disease. Electronic searches were performed up to January 11th 2012, identifying 16 randomised controlled trials for final data synthesis. The studies demonstrated that aerobic and resistance exercise improves upper and lower body muscle strength more than usual care. Few studies have assessed the effect of exercise on muscle mass. Most studies were performed in patients with early stage breast or prostate cancer. Evidence on the effect of physical exercise on muscle strength and mass in cancer patients with advanced disease is lacking. More exercise studies in patients with advanced cancer and at risk of cancer cachexia are warranted.

Patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) often display deficits in episodic memory. Amnestic MCI is now recognized as a prodromal form of Alzheimer's disease. Various aMCI clinical subtypes have been identified as ingle-domain (SD) or multi-domain (MD). The various subtypes represent heterogeneous syndrome indicating the probability of progression to AD, impaired cognitive domains and so on. To examine the characteristics of brain regions of aMCI subtypes is likely to be important for early diagnosis and prediction to AD. This study investigated brain functional activation and hippocampal atrophy during a visually complex scene encoding in 20 individuals with aMCI-SD, 14 individuals with aMCI-MD and 25 healthy controls. During the encoding task, aMCI-MD patients had reduced activation in right superior medial frontal, right inferior and middle temporal, right middle occipital and left inferior frontal regions compared to controls. The different active brain regions between aMCI-MD and aMCI-SD patients are the right middle occipital and left middle cingulum regions. The aMCI-MD group had significantly lower left hippocampus volumes compared to the aMCI-SD group and controls, but there was no difference between aMCI-SD patients and the control group in terms of left hippocampus atrophy. The findings provide evidence that aMCI may represent a heterogeneous group. The aMCI-MD patients displayed more severe hippocampcal atrophy and fMRI activation changes than aMCI-SD. The aMCIMD may represent a more advanced prodromal stage of AD.
The majority of humans have been infected with Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1 (HSV-1) and harbor its viral DNA in the latent form within neurons for lifetime. This, combined with the absence of serious adverse effects due to HSV-1 derived vectors in clinical trials so far, highlight the potential to use this virus to develop neuronal gene transfer vectors which are transparent to the host, allowing the effects of the transgene to act without interference from the transfer system eg., for functional genomics in basic neuroscience or gene therapy of neurological disorders. On the other hand, other HSV-1 derived vectors which also have a promising perspective in the clinic, are designed to have enhanced cytotoxicity in certain cell types, as in the case of oncolytic vectors. Understanding virus-host interactions is fundamental not only to the success of these gene therapy vectors but also with respect to identifying and minimizing biohazards associated with their use. In this review we discuss characteristics of HSV-1 and gene therapy vectors derived from this virus which are useful to consider in the context of biosafety risk assessment and risk management.
Intensive research over the last 15 years has led to the identification of several autosomal recessive and dominant genes that cause familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Importantly, the functional characterization of these genes has shed considerable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the etiology and pathogenesis of PD. Collectively; these studies implicate aberrant protein and mitochondrial homeostasis as key contributors to the development of PD, with oxidative stress likely acting as an important nexus between the two pathogenic events. Interestingly, recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed variations in at least two of the identified familial PD genes (i.e. -synuclein and LRRK2) as significant risk factors for the development of sporadic PD. At the same time, the studies also uncovered variability in novel alleles that is associated with increased risk for the disease. Additionally, in-silico meta-analyses of GWAS data have allowed major steps into the investigation of the roles of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in sporadic PD. The emergent picture from the progress made thus far is that the etiology of sporadic PD is multi-factorial and presumably involves a complex interplay between a multitude of gene networks and the environment. Nonetheless, the biochemical pathways underlying familial and sporadic forms of PD are likely to be shared.
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) comprises a group of brain iron deposition syndromes that lead to mixed extrapyramidal features and progressive dementia. Historically, there has not been a clearly identifiable molecular cause for many patients with clinical and radiologic features of NBIA. Recent discoveries have shown that mutations in C19orf12 or WDR45 can lead to NBIA. C19orf12 mutations are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, and lead to a syndrome similar to that caused by mutations in PANK2 or PLA2G6. In contrast, WDR45 mutations lead to a distinct form of NBIA characterized by spasticity and intellectual disability in childhood followed by the subacute onset of dystonia-parkinsonism in adulthood. WDR45 mutations act in an X-linked dominant manner. Although the function of C19orf12 is largely unknown, WDR45 plays a key role in autophagy. Each of these new forms of NBIA thus leads to a distinct clinical syndrome, and together they implicate new cellular pathways in the pathogenesis of these disorders.
Chronic pain affects billions of lives globally and is a major public health problem in the United States. However, pain management is still a challenging task due to a lack of understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of pain. In the past decades transient receptor potential (TRP) channels have been identified as molecular sensors of tissue damage and inflammation. Activation/sensitization of TRP channels in peripheral nociceptors produces neurogenic inflammation and contributes to both somatic and visceral pain. Pharmacological and genetic studies have affirmed the role of TRP channels in multiple forms of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Thus pain-evoking TRP channels emerge as promising therapeutic targets for a wide variety of pain and inflammatory conditions.

The process of cell division is highly complex. The DNA of the genome must be accurately replicated and segregated into two precisely equal portions; the cytoskeleton must be actively rearranged; and the cellular motor forces that allow the separation of the replicated chromosomes and the splitting of the mother cell into two daughters must be kept under strict spatial and temporal regulation. Not surprisingly for a process of this complexity, there is a wide range of proteins whose location and activity must be accurately controlled to ensure both efficiency and precision. Although the demands placed on these cell cycle proteins are high, once cells such as neurons differentiate they enter a long non-mitotic phase where evolution has conspired to repurpose many of these proteins, leading them to assume new and often unrelated cellular tasks. In neurons there is a wide range of non-cycling functions for these 'cell cycle' proteins and this review covers some of the best-known examples. There is little apparent logic to the second use, but the sheer number of examples suggests that there must be a significant evolutionary advantage to this repurposing strategy.

Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles that mediate intercellular signaling in the brain without requiring direct contact between cells. Although exosomes have been shown to play a role in neurological diseases and in response to nerve trauma, a role for exosome-mediated signaling in brain development and function has not yet been demonstrated. Here we review data building a case for exosome function in the brain.
A remarkable feature of nervous system development is the ability of axons emerging from newly formed neurons to traverse, by cellular scale, colossal distances to appropriate targets. The earliest axons achieve this in an essentially axon-free environment, but the vast majority of axons eventually grow along a scaffold of nerve tracts created by earlier extending axons. Signal exchange between sequentially or simultaneously extending axons may well represent the predominant mode of axonal navigation, but proportionally few efforts have so far been directed at deciphering the underlying mechanisms. This review intends to provide a conceptual update on the cellular and molecular principles driving axon-axon interactions, with emphasis on those contributing to the fidelity of axonal navigation, sorting and connectivity during nerve and circuit assembly.
Proper circuit connectivity is critical for nervous system function. Connectivity derives from the interaction of two interdependent modules: synaptic specificity and synaptic assembly. Specificity involves both targeting of neurons to specific laminar regions and the formation of synapses onto defined subcellular areas. In this review, we focus discussion on recently elucidated molecular mechanisms that control synaptic specificity and link them to synapse assembly. We use these molecular pathways to underscore fundamental cell biological concepts that underpin, and help explain, the rules governing synaptic specificity.
Over the past decade, developmental neuroscience has been transformed by the widespread application of confocal and two-photon fluorescence microscopy. Even greater progress is imminent, as recent innovations in microscopy now enable imaging with increased depth, speed, and spatial resolution; reduced phototoxicity; and in some cases without external fluorescent probes. We discuss these new techniques and emphasize their dramatic impact on neurobiology, including the ability to image neurons at depths exceeding 1mm, to observe neurodevelopment noninvasively throughout embryogenesis, and to visualize neuronal processes or structures that were previously too small or too difficult to target with conventional microscopy.
In the mammalian central nervous system, astrocytes are the most abundant cell type and play crucial roles in brain development and function. Astrocytes are known to be produced from multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs) at the late gestational stage during brain development, and accumulating evidence indicates that this stage-dependent generation of astrocytes from NSCs is achieved by systematic cooperation between environmental cues and cell-intrinsic programs. Exemplifying the former is cytokine signaling through the gp130-Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 pathway, and exemplifying the latter is epigenetic modification of astrocyte-specific genes. Here, we introduce recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that coordinate astrocytogenesis from NSCs by modulating signaling pathways and epigenetic programs, with a particular focus on the developing mammalian forebrain.









The GI-tract is profoundly involved in the control of metabolism through peptide hormones secreted from enteroendocrine cells scattered throughout the gut mucosa. A large number of recently generated transgenic reporter mice have allowed for direct characterization of biochemical and cell biological properties of these previously highly elusive enteroendocrine cells. In particular the surprisingly broad co-expression of six functionally related hormones in the intestinal enteroendocrine cells indicates that it should be possible to control not only the hormone secretion but also the type and number of enteroendocrine cells. However, this will require a more deep understanding of the factors controlling differentiation, gene expression and specification of the enteroendocrine cells during their weekly renewal from progenitor cells in the crypts of the mucosa.
A number of appetite-regulating gut hormones alter behaviors linked to reward, anxiety/mood, memory and cognitive function, although for some of these (notably GLP-1 and CCK) the endogenous signal may be CNS-derived. From a physiological perspective it seems likely that these hormones, whose secretion is altered by nutritional status and by bariatric weight loss surgery, orchestrate neurobiological effects that are integrated and linked to feeding/metabolic control. Consistent with a role in hunger and meal initiation, ghrelin increases motivated behavior for food and, when food is not readily available, decreases behaviors in anxiety tests that would otherwise hinder the animal from finding food. Of the many anorexigenic signals, GLP-1 and PYY have been linked to a suppressed reward function and CCK (and possibly GLP-1) to increased anxiety-like behavior.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is both a peripherally expressed incretin and a centrally active neuropeptide. Brain derived GLP-1, produced in preproglucagon (PPG) neurons located in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and projecting to numerous brain regions, is ideally placed to activate central GLP-1 receptors in a range of autonomic control areas. In vivo analysis of central GLP-1 using GLP-1 receptor antagonists has demonstrated the control of a range of feeding responses mediated by GLP-1 receptor activation. Recent advances enabling identification and targeting of the neurons in the NTS has specifically implicated PPG neurons at the core of GLP-1 dependent central and peripheral control for short-term and long-term energy balance.
Over the last decade, the increasingly significant problem of osteoporosis in men has begun to receive much more attention than in the past. In particular, recent observations from large scale population studies in males led to an advance in the understanding of morphologic basis of growth, maintenance and loss of bone in men, as well as new insights about the pathophysiology and treatment of this disorder. While fracture risk consistently increases after age 65 in men (with up to 50% of cases due to secondary etiologies), osteoporosis and fractures may also occur in young or middle aged males in the absence of an identifiable etiology. For this category (so called idiopathic osteoporosis), there are still major gaps in knowledge, particularly concerning the etiology and the clinical management. This article provides a summary of recent developments in the acquisition and maintenance of bone strength in men, as well as new insights about the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of idiopathic osteoporosis.

There are well-established sex differences in the prevalence of certain mental disorders. Work in animal models has provided us with an emerging understanding of the role that epigenetic factors play in establishing sex differences in the brain during development. Similarly, work in animal models, and a more limited but growing literature based on human studies, has demonstrated that DNA methylation (DNAm) changes occur in response to environmental stress, with some of these occurring in a sex-specific manner. In this review, we explore whether DNAm plays a role in contributing to the observed sex differences in prevalence of mental disorders in which stress contributes significantly to their etiologies, specifically posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression. We propose that investigating sex differences in DNAm among genes known to influence brain development may help to shed light on the sexually dimorphic risk for, or resilience to, developing PTSD and depression.





The developing brain is particularly sensitive to exposures to environmental contaminants. In contrast to the adult, the developing brain contains large numbers of dividing neuronal precursors, suggesting that they may be vulnerable targets. The postnatal day 7 (P7) rat hippocampus has populations of both mature neurons in the CA1-3 region as well as neural stem cells (NSC) in the dentate gyrus (DG) hilus, which actively produce new neurons that migrate to the granule cell layer (GCL). Using this well-characterized NSC population, we examined the impact of low levels of methylmercury (MeHg) on proliferation, neurogenesis, and subsequent adolescent learning and memory behavior. Assessing a range of exposures, we found that a single subcutaneous injection of 0.6 g/g MeHg in P7 rats induced caspase activation in proliferating NSC of the hilus and GCL. This acute NSC death had lasting impact on the DG at P21, reducing cell numbers in the hilus by 22% and the GCL by 27%, as well as reductions in neural precursor proliferation by 25%. In contrast, non-proliferative CA1-3 pyramidal neuron cell number was unchanged. Furthermore, animals exposed to P7 MeHg exhibited an adolescent spatial memory deficit as assessed by Morris water maze. These results suggest that environmentally relevant levels of MeHg exposure may decrease NSC populations and, despite ongoing neurogenesis, the brain may not restore the hippocampal cell deficits, which may contribute to hippocampal-dependent memory deficits during adolescence.
The spinal cord of rats contains the sexually dimorphic motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). In males, SNB dendrites fail to grow after castration, but androgen or estrogen treatment supports dendritic growth in castrated males. Estrogenic support of SNB dendrite growth is mediated by estrogen receptors (ER) in the target muscle. ER expression in cells lacking a basal lamina (referred to as &quot;extra-muscle fiber cells&quot;) of the SNB target musculature coincides with the period of estrogen-dependent SNB dendrite growth. In the SNB target muscle, extra-muscle fiber ER expression declines with age and is typically absent after postnatal (P) day 21 (P21). Given that estradiol downregulates ER in skeletal muscle, we tested the hypothesis that depleting gonadal hormones would prevent the postnatal decline in ER expression in the SNB target musculature. We castrated male rats at P7 and assessed ER immunolabeling at P21; ER expression was significantly greater in castrated males compared with normal animals. Because ER expression in SNB target muscles mediates estrogen-dependent SNB dendrogenesis, we further hypothesized that the castration-induced increase in muscle ER would heighten the estrogen sensitivity of SNB dendrites. Male rats were castrated at P7 and treated with estradiol from P21 to P28; estradiol treatment in castrates resulted in dendritic hypertrophy in SNB motoneurons compared with normal males. We conclude that early castration results in an increase in ER expression in the SNB target muscle, and this upregulation of ER supports estrogen sensitivity of SNB dendrites, allowing for hypermasculinization of SNB dendritic arbors.
The tyrosine kinase receptor cKit and its ligand stem cell factor (SCF) are well known mediators in proliferation, survival, and positive chemotaxis of different cell types in the hematopoietic system. However, and in spite of previous reports showing robust expression of cKit and SCF in the brain during development, their possible function in the cerebral cortex has not been clarified. In this study, embryonic knockdown expression of cKit in the rat cortex by in utero electroporation of specific RNAi resulted in delayed radial migration of cortical neurons. In conditional Nestin-cKit KO homozygous mutants, radial migration in the cortex was also delayed. The opposite phenotype was observed after overexpressing cKit in the cortex: radial migration was accelerated. Callosal fibers electroporated with cKit RNAi were also delayed in their extension within the contralateral cortex and eventually failed to innervate their target area. In vitro experiments showed that, whereas SCF was able to promote migration of cortical neurons, it had no effect on cortical neurite outgrowth. In summary, our results demonstrate that (1) cKit is necessary for radial migration of cortical neurons, probably through SCF binding and (2) cKit is necessary for the correct formation of the callosal projection, most likely by a mechanism not involving SCF.
The variation in hand use as a function of task and developmental age poses a problem for understanding how and when &quot;handedness,&quot; preferred use of one hand, develops. The present cross-section study is the first to contrast hand preference use for the natural and frequently used reach-to-eat movement with a constructional task that requires a very similar reach-to-grasp movement. Thirty children between the ages of 1 and 3 years completed an eating task, in which they grasped small food items (Cheerios or Froot Loops) that they brought to the mouth for eating. Thirty children between the ages of 3 and 5 years completed the construction task, in which they grasped LEGO pieces to construct 3D models. Hand use preference for grasping in the eating and construction tasks was calculated by comparing the percentage of grasps made by the right hand and by the left hand. There were two main findings: First, right hand preference for grasping in the eating task is present as early as 1 year of age, whereas right hand preference for grasping in the construction task does not develop until 4 years of age. Second, right hand preference for grasping is greater in the eating than in the construction task. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that a consideration for task constraints (e.g., unimanual vs. bimanual; eating vs. construction; natural vs. praxic) should be incorporated into the experimental design when measuring hand use in children.
Maternal care influences the development of sexual behavior in pair mating rats, under laboratory conditions. This study examined the effect of variations in maternal care in a group-mating condition. Groups of two low and two high licking/grooming (LG) female offspring mated with two males in a large pacing chamber for 36 hr. Sexual behaviors were scored for the first 15 vaginal-cervical stimulations (VCS) and the entire 36 hr. Low LG females spent more time mating, required more time to receive an intromission after entering the male compartment. They also received more ejaculations compared to high LG females during the first 15 VCS. This difference disappeared as mating continued. Males were more responsive to high than low females. No pregnancy rate difference was seen between the two female phenotypes, demonstrating that variation in maternal care received results in two mating strategies that are both reproductively successful under group-mating conditions.
Terminally differentiated post-mitotic cells are generally considered irreversibly developmentally locked, i.e. incapable of being reprogrammed in vivo into entirely different cell types. We found that brief expression of a single transcription factor, the ELT-7 GATA factor, can convert the identity of fully differentiated, highly specialized non-endodermal cells of the pharynx into fully differentiated intestinal cells in intact larvae and adult Caenorhabditis elegans. Stable expression of intestine-specific molecular markers parallels loss of markers for the original differentiated pharynx state; hence, there is no apparent requirement for a dedifferentiated intermediate during the transdifferentiation process. Based on high-resolution morphological characteristics, the transdifferentiated cells become remodeled to resemble typical intestinal cells at the level of both the cell surface and internal organelles. Thus, post-mitotic cells, though terminally differentiated, remain plastic to transdifferentiation across germ layer lineage boundaries and can be remodeled to adopt the characteristics of a new cell identity without removal of inhibitory factors. Our findings establish a simple model to investigate how cell context influences forced transdifferentiation of mature cells.
Perfusion CT or MRI have been extensively developed over the last years and are accessible on most imaging machines. Perfusion CT has taken a major place in the assessment of a stroke. Its role has to be specified for the diagnosis and treatment of the vasospasm, complicating a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Perfusion MRI should be included in the assessment of any brain tumor, both at the time of the diagnosis as well as in the post-treatment monitoring. It is included in the multimodal approach required for the optimum treatment of this disease. The applications in epilepsy and the neurodegenerative diseases are in the evaluation process.
T2*-weighted perfusion MRI is based on the so-called &quot;first passage&quot; approach: the modifications in the T2-weighted MRI signal are followed during the first passage of a bolus of contrast agent. The pixel-by-pixel analysis of the curves is used to obtain parametric maps (time of arrival, time of the peak, mean transit time, relative volume and blood flow). Further analysis, with deconvolution by arterial input function (concentration of contrast agent in the blood), helps improve the quantification. It is possible to pre-inject a small dose of contrast agent to limit the impact of the extravasation of the contrast agent.
This review aims to demonstrate how an understanding of the brain mechanisms involved in memory provides a basis for; (i) reconceptualizing some mental disorders; (ii) refining existing therapeutic tools; and (iii) designing new ones for targeting processes that maintain these disorders. First, some of the stages which a memory undergoes are defined, and the clinical relevance of an understanding of memory processing by the brain is discussed. This is followed by a brief review of some of the clinical studies that have targeted memory processes. Finally, some new insights provided by the field of neuroscience with implications for conceptualizing mental disorders are presented.
DESPITE THE IMPORTANCE OF NUMEROUS PSYCHOSOCIAL FACTORS, AT ITS CORE, DRUG ADDICTION INVOLVES A BIOLOGICAL PROCESS: the ability of repeated exposure to a drug of abuse to induce changes in a vulnerable brain that drive the compulsive seeking and taking of drugs, and loss of control over drug use, that define a state of addiction. Here, we review the types of molecular and cellular adaptations that occur in specific brain regions to mediate addiction-associated behavioral abnormalities. These include alterations in gene expression achieved in part via epigenetic mechanisms, plasticity in the neurophysiological functioning of neurons and synapses, and associated plasticity in neuronal and synaptic morphology mediated in part by altered neurotrophic factor signaling. Each of these types of drug-induced modifications can be viewed as a form of &quot;cellular or molecular memory.&quot; Moreover, it is striking that most addiction-related forms of plasticity are very similar to the types of plasticity that have been associated with more classic forms of &quot;behavioral memory,&quot; perhaps reflecting the finite repertoire of adaptive mechanisms available to neurons when faced with environmental challenges. Finally, addiction-related molecular and cellular adaptations involve most of the same brain regions that mediate more classic forms of memory, consistent with the view that abnormal memories are important drivers of addiction syndromes. The goal of these studies which aim to explicate the molecular and cellular basis of drug addiction is to eventually develop biologically based diagnostic tests, as well as more effective treatments for addiction disorders.
Deficits in brain networks that support cognitive regulatory functions are prevalent in many psychiatric disorders. Findings across neuropsychology and neuroimaging point to broad-based impairments that cross traditional diagnostic boundaries. These dysfunctions are largely separate from the classical symptoms of the disorders, and manifest in regulatory problems in both traditional cognitive and emotional domains. As such, they relate to the capacity of patients to engage effectively in their daily lives and activity, often persist even in the face of symptomatically effective treatment, and are poorly targeted by current treatments. Advances in cognitive neuroscience now allow us to ground an understanding of these cognitive regulatory deficits in the function and interaction of key brain networks. This emerging neurobiological understanding furthermore points to several promising routes for novel neuroscience-informed treatments targeted more specifically at improving cognitive function in a range of psychiatric disorders.
Memory is an important capacity needed for survival in a changing environment, and its principles are shared across species. These principles have been studied since the inception of behavioral science, and more recently neuroscience has helped understand brain systems and mechanisms responsible for enabling aspects of memory. Here we outline the history of work on memory and its neural underpinning, and describe the major dimensions of memory processing that have been evaluated by cognitive neuroscience, focusing on episodic memory. We present evidence in healthy populations for sex differences-females outperforming in verbal and face memory, and age effects-slowed memory processes with age. We then describe deficits associated with schizophrenia. Impairment in schizophrenia is more severe in patients with negative symptoms-especially flat affect-who also show deficits in measures of social cognition. This evidence implicates medial temporal and frontal regions in schizophrenia.



Allosteric modulation of AMPA, NR2B, mGlu2, mGlu5 and M1, targeting glutamatergic dysfunction, represents a significant area of research for the treatment of schizophrenia. Of these targets, clinical promise has been demonstrated using muscarinic activators for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and schizophrenia. These diseases have inspired researchers to determine the effects of modulating cholinergic transmission in the forebrain, which is primarily regulated by one of five subtypes of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR), a subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Of these five subtypes, M1 is highly expressed in brain regions responsible for learning, cognition and memory. Xanomeline, an orthosteric muscarinic agonist with modest selectivity, was one of the first compounds that displayed improvements in behavioral disturbances in AD patients and efficacy in schizophrenics. Since these initial clinical results, many scientists, including those in our laboratories, have strived to elucidate the role of M1 with compounds that display improved selectivity for this receptor by targeting allosteric modes of receptor activation. A survey of selected compounds in this area will be presented.
With antiobesity agents, weight loss can emerge from an array of metabolic, cognitive and behavioural changes that translate into weight change over time. In early drug development, characterising these changes can actually be more informative than simply measuring weight loss. Biomarkers for these mechanisms can be used to determine whether potential compounds are worth developing further by providing proof of mechanistic action and detecting early signs of neuropsychiatric adverse effects. In this review, we examine potential biomarkers for effects on metabolism and satiety, hedonics and motivation, and eating behaviour. We also review biomarkers for early detection of neuropsychiatric adverse effects.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder among older people. However, no cure or disease-modifying treatments are currently available, and the molecular and cellular mechanisms responsible for the etiology of AD remain under debate. Recent studies suggest that the immune system has a crucial role in AD pathogenesis and, thus, immunotherapy might be a promising new treatment. Here, we review the roles of the immune system in AD pathogenesis as well as recent developments in immunotherapy for AD. Furthermore, we hypothesize that age-related immune dysregulation, which might be a consequence of the age-associated chronic inflammation known as 'inflammaging', significantly contributes to AD pathogenesis. Finally, we propose various immunological mechanisms for the development of safe and effective therapies for AD.
Allosteric modulation of G protein-coupled receptors has gained considerable attention in the drug discovery arena because it opens avenues to achieve greater selectivity over orthosteric ligands. We recently identified a series of positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu(5)) for the treatment of schizophrenia that exhibited robust heterotropic activation of CYP3A4 enzymatic activity. The prototypical compound from this series, 5-(4-fluorobenzyl)-2-((3-fluorophenoxy)methyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydropyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrazine (VU0448187), was found to activate CYP3A4 to &gt;100% of its baseline intrinsic midazolam (MDZ) hydroxylase activity in vitro; activation was CYP3A substrate specific and mGlu(5) PAM dependent. Additional studies revealed the concentration-dependence of CYP3A activation by VU0448187 in multispecies hepatic and intestinal microsomes and hepatocytes, as well as a diminished effect observed in the presence of ketoconazole. Kinetic analyses of the effect of VU0448187 on MDZ metabolism in recombinant P450 or human liver microsomes resulted in a significant increase in V(max) (minimal change in K(m)) and required the presence of cytochrome b5. The atypical kinetics translated in vivo, as rats receiving an intraperitoneal administration of VU0448187 prior to MDZ treatment demonstrated a significant increase in circulating 1- and 4-hydroxy- midazolam (1-OH-MDZ, 4-OH-MDZ) levels compared with rats administered MDZ alone. The discovery of a potent substrate-selective activator of rodent CYP3A with an in vitro to in vivo translation serves to illuminate the impact of increasing intrinsic enzymatic activity of hepatic and extrahepatic CYP3A in rodents, and presents the basis to build models capable of framing the clinical relevance of substrate-dependent heterotropic activation.
In this study, new glibenclamide analogues (5a-d) with substituted pharmacological triethoxysilyl propan, allyl and ethoxyphenyl groups for cyclohexyl moiety have been synthesized by condensing sulfonamide (4) with related isocyanate or isothiocyanate's compounds. The newly synthesized drugs were evaluated for their antihyperglycemic and antihyperlipidemic activities with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. All showed hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic activities compared to the control animals but 5c and 5d exhibited more and significant lowering blood activities similar to glibenclamide. This was concerned with identical affinities to bind with SUR1 receptor. Moreover, the new drugs displayed high efficiency for reducing serum LDL level which resulted in a high HDL/LDL ratio as a good lipid profile compared to other groups.

Epidemiological studies of major depressive episodes (MDE) highlighted the frequent association of symptoms or signs of mania or hypomania with depressive syndrome. Beyond the strict definition of DSM-IV, epidemiological recognition of a subset of MDE characterized by the presence of symptoms or signs of the opposite polarity is clinically important because it is associated with pejorative prognosis and therapeutic response compared to the subgroup of &quot;typical MDE&quot;. The development of DSM-5 took into account the epidemiological data. DSM-5 opted for a more dimensional perspective in implementing the concept of &quot;mixed features&quot; from an &quot;episode&quot; to a &quot;specification&quot; of mood disorder. As outlined in the DSM-5: &quot;Mixed features associated with a major depressive episode have been found to be a significant risk factor for the development of bipolar I and II disorder. As a result, it is clinically useful to note the presence of this specifier for treatment planning and monitoring of response to therapeutic&quot;. However, the mixed features are sometimes difficult to identify, and neurophysiological biomarkers would be useful to make a more specific diagnosis. Two neurophysiological models make it possible to better understand MDE with mixed features : i) the emotional regulation model that highlights a tendency to hyper-reactive and unstable emotion response, and ii) the vigilance regulation model that highlights, through EEG recording, a tendency to unstable vigilance. Further research is required to better understand relationships between these two models. These models provide the opportunity of a neurophysiological framework to better understand the mixed features associated with MDE and to identify potential neurophysiological biomarkers to guide therapeutic strategies.
The notion of mixed states is classically associated with descriptions and categories inherited from Kraepelin. However, simultaneous descriptions of depressive and manic manifestations can be traced back to ancient times. Semiology and definitions of these clinical associations have evolved across the times. We provide here a short insight on four distinct periods: Greek authors from ancient times, pre-Kraepelinian psychiatry (18th and 19th centuries), Kraepelin's conceptualization, and contemporary psychiatry (20th and 21st centuries).
Switching antipsychotics is more and more common in our clinical practice. Several reasons can explain this observation. We have more and more antipsychotics available on the market with different receptor binding profiles and also different tolerability issues. Usually, the reasons of the switch are the following: insufficient efficacy or problems of tolerance (weight gain, metabolic disorders, extrapyramidal symptoms, hyperprolactinemia, sedation, sexual dysfunction). So that the switch takes place without complications, it is essential for the clinician to have full knowledge of both the receptor binding profiles of the antipsychotics in question and their half-life. The clinician has to expect a dopaminergic rebound when the introduced antipsychotic has a lesser affinity for the dopaminergic D2 receptor than that which is withdrawn or if it is a partial agonist with a particularly long half-life. On the other hand, a histaminergic or cholinergic rebound can be expected if the new antipsychotic has a lesser affinity for these two receptors. In all these scenarios, a &quot;plateau&quot; switch will often be recommended. Now, if a faster switch is imperative, various medication strategies exist to try to decrease the impact of the rebound effects.

It is debated whether the use of herbal supplements in endurance sports, in order to have a better performance, is correct or not, from the perspective of both as safety and as effectiveness. In this review we try to find out if the most common herbal supplements (Echinacea, Rhodiola, Ginseng) are effective in the improvement of performance or in the modulation of the immune system. According to the results of our review, the prevalent effect is adaptogenic rather than ergogenic, with a better tolerance of the exercise induced stress, related to enhancement of the whole immune system and decrease of the oxidative damage.
Using the retrogradely transported immunotoxin, antidopamine -hydroxylase-saporin (DSAP), we showed previously that hindbrain catecholamine neurons innervating corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus are required for glucoprivation-induced corticosterone secretion. Here, we examine the metabolic consequences of the DSAP lesion in male rats using indirect calorimetry. Rats injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus with DSAP or saporin (SAP) control did not differ in energy expenditure or locomotor activity under any test condition. However, DSAP rats had a persistently higher respiratory exchange ratio (RER) than SAPs under basal conditions. Systemic 2-deoxy-D-glucose did not alter RER in DSAP rats but rapidly decreased RER in SAP controls, indicating that this DSAP lesion impairs the ability to switch rapidly from carbohydrate to fat metabolism in response to glucoprivic challenge. In SAP controls, 2-deoxy-D-glucose-induced decrease in RER was abolished by adrenalectomy but not adrenal denervation. Furthermore, dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, decreased RER in both SAP and DSAP rats. Thus, rapid switching of metabolic substrate use during glucoprivation appears to be due to impairment of the catecholamine-mediated increase in corticosterone secretion. Sustained elevation of basal RER in DSAP rats indicates that catecholamine neurons also influence metabolic functions that conserve glucose under basal conditions.
This brief review encompasses the key findings of structural Magnetic Resonance Imaging (sMRI) research on amygdala volume in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). We also highlight the possible correlation between the autistic behavioural phenotype and amygdala alteration.
The management of epilepsy is an essential clinical issue in many patients with brain tumors. Tumoral epilepsy is often drug resistant and is associated with poor quality of life. Surgery represents a key therapeutic option in the management of patients with refractory tumoral epilepsy, with high rates of postoperative seizure freedom, especially when gross total resection can be performed. The selection of surgical candidates first requires extrapolation of the presumed underlying pathology and its potential for malignant transformation from clinical and imaging data, especially MRI characteristics. These data determine the decision for surgery, as well as its timing and technical aspects in relation to the risk of postoperative deficit. In glioneuronal tumors, where seizures are often drug-resistant and risk of malignant transformation is very low, epilepsy surgery is usually recommended to alleviate disabling seizures and side effects of antiepileptic drugs. However, the risk of postoperative deficit may outweigh potential benefits of surgery in tumors located within eloquent cortex. This issue is particularly relevant for glioneuronal tumors located within the dominant mesial temporal structures in patients in whom seizure control might require additional hippocampectomy, associated with a high risk of memory decline. In contrast, in patients with low-grade gliomas or aggressive brain neoplasms, both the decision to perform surgery and selection of the best surgical approach primarily rely on the oncologic imperative rather than epileptologic considerations. In these patients, the extent of tumor resection correlates with improved survival, progression-free survival, as well as with the chances of postoperative seizure control.
Epilepsy surgery represents the main treatment option for epileptogenic brain tumors. Scalp video-electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may suffice for defining lesional area and seizure-onset zone in discrete, surgically resectable lesions. The choice of timing for surgery requires a multidisciplinary evaluation, especially in children, when a &quot;wait and see&quot; approach is chosen. Discordant electroclinical and neuroimaging data and an ill-defined epileptogenic lesion require invasive investigations. A multimodal integrated approach may maximize the extent of resection while preserving cerebral function in the eloquent cortex. Radical removal of the tumor is the most important predictor of seizure freedom. Additional predictors include histopathology, age at surgery, duration of epilepsy, and seizure type. Patients with brain tumors are highly vulnerable in relation to the frequent drug-resistance of seizures, the potential interactions between antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and chemotherapeutic agents (CMTs), and the risk of AED-related cognitive adverse events (24% higher than in the rest of the epilepsy population), in addition to brain damage resulting from tumor itself, surgery, and radiotherapy. No robust, randomized, controlled evidence supports the choice of AEDs for the treatment of seizures in patients with brain tumors. Newer AEDs have limited or no enzyme-inducing profile, prevalent renal excretion, lower plasma protein binding and, consequently, fewer interactions with CMTs. Enzyme-inducing AEDs can lower serum levels of concomitantly administered CMTs. Class I evidence suggests that in patients with brain tumors who do not have a history of seizures, prophylactic use of AEDs is neutral or ineffective.
In nontumoral epilepsy surgery, the main goal for all preoperative investigation is to first determine the epileptogenic zone, and then to analyze its relation to eloquent cortex, in order to control seizures while avoiding adverse postoperative neurologic outcome. To this end, in addition to neuropsychological assessment, functional neuroimaging and scalp electroencephalography, extraoperative recording, and electrical mapping, especially using subdural strip- or grid-electrodes, has been reported extensively. Nonetheless, in tumoral epilepsy surgery, the rationale is different. Indeed, the first aim is rather to maximize the extent of tumor resection while minimizing postsurgical morbidity, in order to increase the median survival as well as to preserve quality of life. As a consequence, as frequently seen in infiltrating tumors such as gliomas, where these lesions not only grow but also migrate along white matter tracts, the resection should be performed according to functional boundaries both at cortical and subcortical levels. With this in mind, extraoperative mapping by strips/grids is often not sufficient in tumoral surgery, since in essence, it allows study of the cortex but cannot map subcortical pathways. Therefore, intraoperative electrostimulation mapping, especially in awake patients, is more appropriate in tumor surgery, because this technique allows real-time detection of areas crucial for cerebral functions--eloquent cortex and fibers--throughout the resection. In summary, rather than choosing one or the other of different mapping techniques, methodology should be adapted to each pathology, that is, extraoperative mapping in nontumoral epilepsy surgery and intraoperative mapping in tumoral surgery.

Nearly one third of patients with epilepsy become medically intractable, and the likelihood of achieving seizure freedom decreases with each additional medication trial. For appropriately chosen patients, epilepsy surgery affords the opportunity to achieve seizure freedom and potentially wean off medications. Epilepsy surgery, as with medical management, is not without adverse effects; to counsel patients wisely, practitioners need to understand the advantages and disadvantages of both. Randomized controlled trials in temporal lobe epilepsy reveal that epilepsy surgery achieves superior outcome compared to continued medical management. Although seizure freedom is the ultimate goal of any therapy, it represents a single outcome measure among a variety of other domains that affect patient welfare. It is imperative that providers understand the patient variables that affect these outcome measures and how these measures impact each other. Because the data comparing surgical therapy versus medical management for refractory epilepsy are limited, we review the available evidence comparing outcomes beyond seizure freedom including quality of life, cognition, psychosocial function, mortality, and financial costs.

Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is typically described as a neurologic disorder affecting a cerebral network comprising the hippocampus proper and several anatomically related extrahippocampal regions. A new level of complexity was recently added to the study of this disorder by the evidence that TLE also appears to chronically alter the activity of several brain-wide neural networks involved in the control of higher order brain functions and not traditionally linked to epilepsy. Recently developed brain imaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) analysis of resting state connectivity, have greatly contributed to these observations by allowing the precise characterization of several brain networks with distinct functional signatures in the resting brain, and therefore also known as &quot;resting state networks.&quot; These significant advances in imaging represent an opportunity to investigate the still elusive origins of the disabling cognitive and psychiatric manifestations of TLE, and could have important implications for its pathophysiology and, perhaps, its therapy. Herein we review recent studies in this field by focusing on resting state networks that have been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders and cognitive impairment in patients with epilepsy: the default mode network, the attention network, and the reward/emotion network.
Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are increasingly used in epilepsy. Epilepsy-specific instruments enable clinicians to gain insight into patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL) but do not allow comparison between conditions and do not reflect subjective well-being (SWB). Using the World Health Organization Quality-of-Life Questionnaire - Brief (WHOQOL-Bref), a short generic PROM, we compared the HRQoL in a cohort of men with epilepsy (MWE) recruited from the epilepsy clinic and via the website of a large UK epilepsy charity, with seven other groups with chronic diseases. Multiple linear regression showed that mood was the most important independent predictor of the WHOQOL-Bref score. The sample, however, rated their global quality of life as highly as the UK control group, and 38% reported life 'very' or 'extremely' meaningful, and 4% enjoyed life 'very much' or 'extremely'. Because of its structure, the WHOQOL-Bref gives clinicians an indication not only of HRQoL but also of SWB, a broader construct. Our study suggests that the narrow focus of epilepsy-specific HRQoL questionnaires may give only a partial picture of a patient's quality of life. In addition, by concentrating on the negative aspects of life with epilepsy, these instruments may distract both the patient and the clinician from what is good about life, denying the patient the benefits of 'positive psychology' and the clinician the opportunity to build the patient's resilience.
Studies in the literature data have shown that the prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in children with epilepsy is high and that treatment for OSA leads to a reduction in the number of seizures; by contrast, few studies have demonstrated an increased prevalence of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) or epilepsy in children with sleep-disordered breathing (SDB). The aim of the present study was to confirm the high prevalence of IEDs or epilepsy in a large sample of children with SDB and to collect follow-up data. Children were recruited prospectively and underwent their first video-polysomnography (video-PSG) for SDB in a teaching hospital sleep center. Of the 298 children who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for sleep-disordered breathing, 48 (16.1%) children were found to have IEDs, three of these 48 children were also found to have nocturnal seizures (two females diagnosed with rolandic epilepsy and a male diagnosed with frontal lobe epilepsy). Only 11 subjects underwent a second video-PSG after 6months; at the second video-PSG, the IEDs had disappeared in six subjects, who also displayed a reduced AHI and an increased mean overnight saturation. Thirty-eight of the 250 children without IEDs underwent a second video-PSG after 6months. Of these 250 children, four, who did not display any improvement in the respiratory parameters and were found to experience numerous stereotyped movements during sleep, were diagnosed with nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. Our study confirms the high prevalence of IEDs in children with SDB. Follow-up data indicate that they may recede over time, accompanied by an improvement of sleep respiratory parameters.

People living with a disability in sub-Saharan Africa have poorer health outcomes, lower educational successes, less economic participation, and higher levels of poverty than people without disability. Disability-inclusive development promotes the involvement of people with disabilities in programs that reduce these inequalities. This requires a good understanding of how individuals with disability perceive their condition. In this study, we identified cultural beliefs among 31 individuals with epilepsy or physical impairment, known to a community-based rehabilitation service in Guinea-Bissau, using face-to-face interviews. We related these beliefs to religious background and type of disability. We found poor knowledge of and attitudes towards disability among persons with epilepsy and physical impairment. Cultural beliefs were significantly shaped by religious background. Islamic respondents were more positive about their disability as compared to Christians and traditional believers. A better understanding of cultural beliefs among people with disabilities may help to launch and adapt disability-inclusive community-based rehabilitation services.

The 6-Hz psychomotor seizure model in mice is increasingly been used as a model for differentiation of anticonvulsant activity during development of new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). It was previously proposed as a useful model of AED-resistant seizures, but more recent data have cast doubt on this proposal. The aim of the present study was to determine whether performing the 6-Hz test not in normal but epileptic mice renders the 6-Hz test more resistant to AEDs. Furthermore, thresholds for induction of 6-Hz seizures, maximal electroshock seizures (MES) and pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizures were compared in normal and epileptic mice, using the pilocarpine model. Epileptic mice had a significantly lower threshold for induction of 6-Hz seizures and were more susceptible to PTZ, whereas the MES threshold was not altered. Unexpectedly, 6-Hz seizures were not more resistant to AEDs in epileptic vs. nonepileptic mice, but instead showed an increased sensitivity to the anticonvulsant effects of some AEDs, particularly levetiracetam. The anticonvulsant ED50 of levetiracetam in the 6-Hz test (using a 32mA stimulus) was 17.6mg/kg in nonepileptic mice, but only 1.5mg/kg in epileptic mice. The data indicate that the complex pathophysiological and functional alterations associated with epilepsy in mice may strikingly alter the sensitivity of acutely induced seizures to an AED.
Early-onset absence epilepsy refers to patients with absence seizures beginning before age 4 and comprises a heterogeneous group of epilepsies. Onset of absence seizures in the first year of life is very rare. We report a boy with absence seizures with onset at age 11 months, whose seizures increased in frequency after the introduction of valproic acid (VPA) treatment and substantially improved upon cessation of treatment. The mechanism of seizure worsening did not involve VPA toxicity, encephalopathy, Glut-1 deficiency or overdosage, and the reason for absence seizure aggravation remained unclear. The patient showed complete control of absence seizures with levetiracetam treatment and the course was benign, both in terms of seizure control and neuropsychological aspects. The similar overall electroclinical picture and outcome between children with early-onset absences and those with CAE support the view that these conditions are a continuum within the wide spectrum of IGE. [Published with video sequences].
Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common type of epilepsy in adults with medically intractable, localisation-related epilepsy, amenable to surgery. Together with clinical and neuroimaging data, presurgical ictal scalp-EEG findings are often sufficient to define the epileptogenic zone. It is widely believed that ictal scalp-EEG findings in temporal lobe epilepsy are represented by 5-9-Hz lateralised rhythmic theta activity or 2-5-Hz lateralised rhythmic delta activity. On the basis of experimental models and experience with intra-cerebral EEG recordings, the pattern of low-voltage fast activity is considered to be the electrophysiological hallmark of the epileptogenic zone. We reviewed the ictal scalp-EEG data relating to 111 seizures in 47 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent video-EEG recordings during presurgical work-up. We found that 35 patients (74.4%) showed flattening, low-voltage fast activity or fast activity as the initial EEG pattern. When visible, the rhythmic delta or theta activity followed the fast activity. Low-voltage fast activity, flattening or fast activity occurs in the majority of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and represents the main ictal EEG pattern. Low-voltage fast activity (or similar) is also identifiable as the initial ictal EEG pattern in scalp-EEG recordings.

Concurring with the shift from linking functions to specific brain areas towards studying network integration, resting state FMRI (R-FMRI) has become an important tool for delineating the functional network architecture of the brain. Fueled by straightforward data collection, R-FMRI analysis methods as well as studies reporting on R-FMRI have flourished, and already impact research on child- and adolescent psychiatric disorders. Here, we review R-FMRI analysis techniques and outline current methodological debates. Furthermore, we provide an overview of the main R-FMRI findings related to child- and adolescent psychiatric disorders. R-FMRI research has contributed significantly to our understanding of brain function in child and adolescent psychiatry: existing hypotheses based on task-based FMRI were confirmed and new insights into the brain's functional architecture of disorders were established. However, results were not always consistent. While resting state networks are robust and reproducible, neuroimaging research in psychiatric disorders is especially complicated by tremendous phenotypic heterogeneity. It is imperative that we overcome this heterogeneity when integrating neuroimaging into the diagnostic and treatment process. As R-FMRI allows investigating the richness of the human functional connectome and can be easily collected and aggregated into large-scale datasets, it is clear that R-FMRI can be a powerful tool in our quest to understand psychiatric pathology.
Neuroimaging techniques are increasingly being explored as potential tools for clinical prediction in psychiatry. There are a wide range of approaches which can be applied to make individual predictions for various aspects of disorders such as diagnostic status, symptom severity scores, identification of patients at risk of developing disorders and estimation of the likelihood of response to treatment. This selective review highlights a popular group of pattern recognition techniques, support vector machines (SVMs) for use with structural magnetic resonance imaging scans. First, however, we outline various practical issues, limitations and techniques which need to be considered before SVM's can be applied. We begin with a discussion on the practicalities of scanning children and adolescent participants and the importance of acquiring high quality images. Scan processing required for inter-subject comparisons is then discussed. We then briefly discuss feature selection and other considerations when applying pattern recognition techniques. Finally, SVMs are described and various studies highlighted to indicate the potential of these techniques for child and adolescent psychiatric research.
The developmental cognitive neuroscience literature has grown exponentially over the last decade. This paper reviews the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) literature on brain function development of typically late developing functions of cognitive and motivation control, timing and attention as well as of resting state neural networks. Evidence shows that between childhood and adulthood, concomitant with cognitive maturation, there is progressively increased functional activation in task-relevant lateral and medial frontal, striatal and parieto-temporal brain regions that mediate these higher level control functions. This is accompanied by progressively stronger functional inter-regional connectivity within task-relevant fronto-striatal and fronto-parieto-temporal networks. Negative age associations are observed in earlier developing posterior and limbic regions, suggesting a shift with age from the recruitment of &quot;bottom-up&quot; processing regions towards &quot;top-down&quot; fronto-cortical and fronto-subcortical connections, leading to a more mature, supervised cognition. The resting state fMRI literature further complements this evidence by showing progressively stronger deactivation with age in anti-correlated task-negative resting state networks, which is associated with better task performance. Furthermore, connectivity analyses during the resting state show that with development increasingly stronger long-range connections are being formed, for example, between fronto-parietal and fronto-cerebellar connections, in both task-positive networks and in task-negative default mode networks, together with progressively lesser short-range connections, suggesting progressive functional integration and segregation with age. Overall, evidence suggests that throughout development between childhood and adulthood, there is progressive refinement and integration of both task-positive fronto-cortical and fronto-subcortical activation and task-negative deactivation, leading to a more mature and controlled cognition.


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) may appear to be familial or sporadic, with recognised dominant and recessive inheritance in a proportion of cases. Sporadic ALS may be caused by rare homozygous recessive mutations. We studied patients and controls from the UK and a multinational pooled analysis of GWAS data on homozygosity in ALS to determine any potential recessive variant leading to the disease. Six-hundred and twenty ALS and 5169 controls were studied in the UK cohort. A total of 7646 homozygosity segments with length &gt;2Mb were identified, and 3568 rare segments remained after filtering 'common' segments. The mean total of the autosomal genome with homozygosity segments was longer in ALS than in controls (unfiltered segments, P=0.05). Two-thousand and seventeen ALS and 6918 controls were studied in the pooled analysis. There were more regions of homozygosity segments per case (P=1  10(-5)), a greater proportion of cases harboured homozygosity (P=2  10(-5)), a longer average length of segment (P=1  10(-5)), a longer total genome coverage (P=1  10(-5)), and a higher rate of these segments overlapped with RefSeq gene regions (P=1  10(-5)), in ALS patients than controls. Positive associations were found in three regions. The most significant was in the chromosome 21 SOD1 region, and also chromosome 1 2.9-4.8Mb, and chromosome 5 in the 65Mb region. There are more than twenty potential genes in these regions. These findings point to further possible rare recessive genetic causes of ALS, which are not identified as common variants in GWAS.
Some novel coumarin-3-carboxamide derivatives linked to N-benzylpiperidine scaffold were synthesized and evaluated as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibitors. The screening results showed that most of compounds exhibited potent anti-AChE activity in the range of nM concentrations. Among them, compound 10c bearing an N-ethylcarboxamide linker and a 6-nitro substituent showed the most potent activity (IC = 0.3 nM) and the highest selectivity (SI = 26,300). Compound 10c was 46-fold more potent than standard drug donepezil against AChE. The kinetic study revealed that compound 10c exhibited mixed-type inhibition against AChE. Protein-ligand docking study demonstrated that the target compounds have dual binding site interaction mode and these results are in agreement with kinetic study.
In recent years, increasing attention has centred on pain in Parkinson's disease (PD). Pain in PD is heterogeneous in quality and body distribution. To clarify how the various pain types relate to PD and to propose plausible treatment strategies, in this paper we reviewed psychophysical, neurophysiological and imaging data reported in parkinsonian patients with and without pain. Most available evidence supports abnormal central nociceptive input processing that probably reflects an impairment in the lateral and medial pain pathways. Changes in central pain processing probably underlie all the different pain types and also intervene in patients with PD without pain. Thus, altered pain processing might predispose patients with PD to spontaneous pain that is variable in quality. These background pain-processing abnormalities may interact with additional factors (such as contractures secondary to marked rigidity/bradykinesia, dystonia and medical conditions associated with painful symptoms), thus causing pain to manifest itself clinically in various ways and providing candidate targets for pain treatment in PD.
Skilled motor control is regulated by the convergence of somatic sensory and motor signals in brain and spinal motor circuits. Cervical deafferentation is known to diminish forelimb somatic sensory representations rapidly and to impair forelimb movements. Our focus was to determine what effect deafferentation has on the motor representations in motor cortex, knowledge of which could provide new insights into the locus of impairment following somatic sensory loss, such as after spinal cord injury or stroke. We hypothesized that somatic sensory information is important for cortical motor map topography. To investigate this we unilaterally transected the dorsal rootlets in adult rats from C4 to C8 and mapped the forelimb motor representations using intracortical microstimulation, immediately after rhizotomy and following a 2-week recovery period. Immediately after deafferentation we found that the size of the distal representation was reduced. However, despite this loss of input there were no changes in motor threshold. Two weeks after deafferentation, animals showed a further distal representation reduction, an expansion of the elbow representation, and a small elevation in distal movement threshold. These changes were specific to the forelimb map in the hemisphere contralateral to deafferentation; there were no changes in the hindlimb or intact-side forelimb representations. Degradation of the contralateral distal forelimb representation probably contributes to the motor control deficits after deafferentation. We propose that somatic sensory inputs are essential for the maintenance of the forelimb motor map in motor cortex and should be considered when rehabilitating patients with peripheral or spinal cord injuries or after stroke.
Previous results point towards a lateralization of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) function in risky decision making. While the right hemisphere seems involved in inhibitory cognitive control of affective impulses, the left DLPFC is crucial in the deliberative processing of information relevant for the decision. However, a lack of empirical evidence precludes definitive conclusions. The aim of our study was to determine whether anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the right DLPFC with cathodal tDCS over the lDLPFC (anodal right/cathodal left) or vice versa (anodal left/cathodal right) differentially modulates risk-taking in a task [the Columbia Card Task (CCT)] specifically engaging affect-charged (Hot CCT) vs. deliberative (Cold CCT) decision making. The facilitating effect of the anodal stimulation on neuronal activity was emphasized by the use of a small anode and a big cathode. To investigate the role of individual differences in risk-taking, participants were either smokers or non-smokers. Anodal left/cathodal right stimulation decreased risk-taking in the 'cold' cognition version of the task, in both groups, probably by modulating deliberative processing. In the 'hot' version, anodal right/cathodal left stimulation led to opposite effects in smokers and non-smokers, which might be explained by the engagement of the same inhibitory control mechanism: in smokers, improved controllability of risk-seeking impulsivity led to more conservative decisions, while inhibition of risk-aversion in non-smokers resulted in riskier choices. These results provide evidence for a hemispheric asymmetry and personality-dependent tDCS effects in risky decision making, and may be important for clinical research on addiction and depression.
Visual processing takes place in both retinotopic and spatiotopic frames of reference. Whereas visual perceptual learning is usually specific to the trained retinotopic location, our recent study has shown spatiotopic specificity of learning in motion direction discrimination. To explore the mechanisms underlying spatiotopic processing and learning, and to examine whether similar mechanisms also exist in visual form processing, we trained human subjects to discriminate an orientation difference between two successively displayed stimuli, with a gaze shift in between to manipulate their positional relation in the spatiotopic frame of reference without changing their retinal locations. Training resulted in better orientation discriminability for the trained than for the untrained spatial relation of the two stimuli. This learning-induced spatiotopic preference was seen only at the trained retinal location and orientation, suggesting experience-dependent spatiotopic form processing directly based on a retinotopic map. Moreover, a similar but weaker learning-induced spatiotopic preference was still present even if the first stimulus was rendered irrelevant to the orientation discrimination task by having the subjects judge the orientation of the second stimulus relative to its mean orientation in a block of trials. However, if the first stimulus was absent, and thus no attention was captured before the gaze shift, the learning produced no significant spatiotopic preference, suggesting an important role of attentional remapping in spatiotopic processing and learning. Taken together, our results suggest that spatiotopic visual representation can be mediated by interactions between retinotopic processing and attentional remapping, and can be modified by perceptual training.


The aim was to investigate clinical predictors of adherence to antipsychotics. Medication use was electronically monitored with a Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS()) for 12 months in 112 outpatients with schizophrenia and schizophrenia-like psychosis according to DSM-IV. Symptom burden, insight, psychosocial function (PSP) and side effects were rated at baseline. A comprehensive neuropsychological test battery was administered and a global composite score was calculated. The Drug Attitude Inventory (DAI-10) was filled in. A slightly modified DAI-10 version for informants was distributed as a postal questionnaire. Non-adherence (MEMS() adherence 0.80) was observed in 27%. In univariate regression models low scores on DAI-10 and DAI-10 informant, higher positive symptom burden, poor function, psychiatric side effects and lack of insight predicted non-adherence. No association was observed with global cognitive function. In multivariate regression models, low patient-rated DAI-10 and PSP scores emerged as predictors of non-adherence. A ROC analysis showed that DAI-10 had a moderate ability to correctly identify non-adherent patients (AUC=0.73, p&lt;0.001). At the most &quot;optimal&quot; cut-off of 4, one-third of the adherent would falsely be identified as non-adherent. A somewhat larger AUC (0.78, p&lt;0.001) was observed when the ROC procedure was applied to the final regression model including DAI-10 and PSP. For the subgroup with informant data, the AUC for the DAI-10 informant version was 0.68 (p=0.021). Non-adherence cannot be properly predicted in the clinical setting on the basis of these instruments alone. The DAI-10 informant questionnaire needs further testing.
Various psychiatric disorders such as major depression are associated with abnormalities in emotional processing. Evidence indicating involvement of the endocannabinoid system in emotional processing, and thus potentially in related abnormalities, is increasing. In the present study, we examined the role of the endocannabinoid system in processing of stimuli with a positive and negative emotional content in healthy volunteers. A pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was conducted with a placebo-controlled, cross-over design, investigating effects of the endocannabinoid agonist 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on brain function related to emotional processing in 11 healthy subjects. Performance and brain activity during matching of stimuli with a negative ('fearful faces') or a positive content ('happy faces') were assessed after placebo and THC administration. After THC administration, performance accuracy was decreased for stimuli with a negative but not for stimuli with a positive emotional content. Our task activated a network of brain regions including amygdala, orbital frontal gyrus, hippocampus, parietal gyrus, prefrontal cortex, and regions in the occipital cortex. THC interacted with emotional content, as activity in this network was reduced for negative content, while activity for positive content was increased. These results indicate that THC administration reduces the negative bias in emotional processing. This adds human evidence to support the hypothesis that the endocannabinoid system is involved in modulation of emotional processing. Our findings also suggest a possible role for the endocannabinoid system in abnormal emotional processing, and may thus be relevant for psychiatric disorders such as major depression.
There is growing evidence that inflammatory mediators play a critical role in the pathophysiology of both major depression and suicidal behavior. Immunological differences have been reported in both major affective disorders and suicidal behavior. Specifically, increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines have been shown to correlate with the severity of depression and various cytokines have been identified as potentially important in understanding the pathophysiology of major affective disorders/suicidality. We aimed to conduct a systematic review of the current literature to investigate the association between inflammatory cytokines and suicidal behavior. Only articles from peer-reviewed journals were selected for inclusion in the present review. Most studies documented the association between suicidality and IL2, IL-6, IL-8, TNF- and VEGF levels that have been found altered in suicidal behavior. The presence of major depressive disorder (MDD) with suicidal ideation/attempts was associated with differences in inflammatory cytokine profile when compared to that without suicidal ideation/attempts. Most suicide attempters or subjects with suicidal ideation showed an imbalance of the immune system but this does not imply the existence of a causal link. Also, not all studies demonstrated a positive correlation between inflammatory cytokines and suicidal behavior. Further additional studies should elucidate the molecular mechanisms of the immune activation pathways underlying suicidality.
Convergent data showed that ethanol exposure during adolescence can alter durably ethanol-related behaviour at adulthood. However, the consequences of juvenile ethanol exposure on the reinforcing effects of other drugs of abuse remain unclear. In the present work, we evaluated in adult male DBA/2J mice the effects of early ethanol exposure on the sensitivity to the incentive effects of cocaine and morphine, and on extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation in response to cocaine. Juvenile male mice received intragastric administration of ethanol (22.5g/kg/day) or water for 5 days starting on postnatal day 28. When reaching adult age (10 week-old), animals were subjected to an unbiased procedure to assess conditioned place preference (CPP) to cocaine or morphine. In addition, activation of ERK in response to an acute injection of cocaine was investigated using immunoblotting in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. Mice that have been subjected to early ethanol exposure developed CPP to doses of cocaine (5mg/kg) or morphine (10mg/kg) below the threshold doses to induce CPP in water pre-exposed mice. In addition, early ethanol administration significantly increased striatal ERK phosphorylation normally induced by acute cocaine (10 and 20mg/kg) in adult mice. These results show that, in DBA/2J mice, early exposure to ethanol enhanced the perception of the incentive effects of cocaine and morphine. Ethanol pre-exposure also induced a positive modulation of striatal ERK signalling, in line with the inference that juvenile ethanol intake may contribute to the development of addictive behaviour at adult age.
The maternal diet during gestation and lactation affects the long-term health of the offspring. We sought to determine whether maternal and postweaning crossover isocaloric diets based on fish or meat affect the geometry, mineral density, and biomechanical properties of bone in mouse offspring in adulthood. During gestation and lactation, C57BL/6 dams were fed a herring- or beef-based diet. After weaning, half of the pups in each group were fed the same diet as their dams, and half were fed the other diet. Areal bone mineral density (aBMD) and bone mineral content (BMC) of the whole body and lumbar spine were measured in the offspring by dual X-ray absorptiometry at 9 and 21 weeks of age. At 22-26 weeks, tibia bone geometry (length, cortical volumetric (v) BMD, BMC, area and thickness) was analyzed by peripheral quantitative computed tomography, and the biomechanical properties of the tibia were analyzed by the three-point bending test. Plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 was analyzed at 12 weeks. In comparison to the maternal herring diet, the maternal beef diet increased aBMD and BMC in the whole body and lumbar spine of adult offspring, as well as cortical vBMD, BMC, bone area, and thickness at the mid-diaphyseal region of the tibia and the biomechanical properties of tibia strength. In contrast, a postweaning beef diet decreased aBMD in the lumbar spine and BMC in the whole body and lumbar spine compared with a postweaning herring diet, which instead increased plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 levels. The change from a maternal beef diet before weaning to a herring diet after weaning decreased body weight and increased the cortical area, vBMD, BMC, thickness, and strength of the tibia. These significant crossover effects indicate that a preweaning maternal beef diet and a postweaning herring diet are optimal for increasing BMC and bone strength in offspring in adulthood.
Behavioral measures of impulsivity are widely used in substance abuse research, yet relatively little attention has been devoted to establishing their psychometric properties, especially their reliability over repeated administration. The current study examined the test-retest reliability of a battery of standardized behavioral impulsivity tasks, including measures of impulsive choice (i.e., delay discounting, probability discounting, and the Balloon Analogue Risk Task), impulsive action (i.e., the stop signal task, the go/no-go task, and commission errors on the continuous performance task), and inattention (i.e., attention lapses on a simple reaction time task and omission errors on the continuous performance task). Healthy adults (n = 128) performed the battery on two separate occasions. Reliability estimates for the individual tasks ranged from moderate to high, with Pearson correlations within the specific impulsivity domains as follows: impulsive choice (r range: .76-.89, ps &lt; .001); impulsive action (r range: .65-.73, ps &lt; .001); and inattention (r range: .38-.42, ps &lt; .001). Additionally, the influence of day-to-day fluctuations in mood, as measured by the Profile of Mood States, was assessed in relation to variability in performance on each of the behavioral tasks. Change in performance on the delay discounting task was significantly associated with change in positive mood and arousal. No other behavioral measures were significantly associated with mood. In sum, the current analysis demonstrates that behavioral measures of impulsivity are reliable measures and thus can be confidently used to assess various facets of impulsivity as intermediate phenotypes for drug abuse.
The identification of inflammatory mediators in the tear fluid have been extensively used in ocular allergy to find either a 'disease marker', to better understand the immune mechanisms involved in the ocular surface inflammation, or to identify potential targets for therapeutic interventions. While the clinical characteristics allow a relatively convincing diagnosis of ocular allergic diseases, in the initial, non active phases, or in the chronic stages, the diagnosis may not be clear. Although not highly specific, total tear IgE can be measured with local tests by inserting a paper strip in the lower meniscus. The measurement of tear specific inflammatory markers, such as histamine, tryptase, ECP, IL-4, IL-5 and eotaxin, may be useful for the diagnosis or monitoring ocular allergy. New technologies such as multiplex bead assays, membrane-bound antibody array and proteomic techniques can characterize the distribution of a wide range of bioactive trace proteins in tears. Dozens of mediators, cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, angiogenic modulators, enzymes and inhibitors were thus identified in small tear samples using these techniques, providing the possible identification of specific biomarker for either specific disease or disease activity. However, to date, there is no a single specific laboratory test suitable for the diagnosis and monitoring of allergic conjunctivitis.
To examine the association between dietary habits, cognitive functioning and brain volumes in older individuals, data from 194 cognitively healthy individuals who participated in the Prospective Investigation of the Vasculature in Uppsala Seniors cohort were used. At age 70, participants kept diaries of their food intake for 1week. These records were used to calculate a Mediterranean diet (MeDi) score (comprising dietary habits traditionally found in Mediterranean countries, e.g. high intake of fruits and low intake of meat), with higher scores indicating more pronounced MeDi-like dietary habits. Five years later, participants' cognitive capabilities were examined by the seven minute screening (7MS) (a cognitive test battery used by clinicians to screen for dementia), and their brain volumes were measured by volumetric magnetic resonance imaging. Multivariate linear regression analyses were constructed to examine the association between the total MeDi score and cognitive functioning and brain volumes. In addition, possible associations between MeDi's eight dietary features and cognitive functioning and brain volumes were investigated. From the eight dietary features included in the MeDi score, pertaining to a low consumption of meat and meat products was linked to a better performance on the 7MS test (P=0.001) and greater total brain volume (i.e. the sum of white and gray matter, P=0.03) when controlling for potential confounders (e.g. BMI) in the analysis. Integrating all dietary features into the total MeDi score explained less variance in cognitive functioning and brain volumes than its single dietary component meat intake. These observational findings suggest that keeping to a low meat intake could prove to be an impact-driven public health policy to support healthy cognitive aging, when confirmed by longitudinal studies. Further, they suggest that the MeDi score is a construct that may mask possible associations of single MeDi features with brain health domains in elderly populations.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignant proliferative disorder in which leukemic cells fail to terminally differentiate and accumulate in the blood and bone marrow. Standard AML therapy requires intensive chemotherapy with a low rate of durable remission and is associated with significant treatment-related toxicity, especially in elderly patients. Therefore, new therapeutic options for the treatment of AML are urgently needed. We previously reported that the novel angiogenic inhibitor, angiocidin, induces differentiation of monocytes to macrophages. Here we investigate the effects of angiocidin on AML cells lines and primary AML cells. Differentiation was assessed by flow cytometry measuring the increase in expression of cell surface marker characteristic of normal macrophages. Four AML cell lines (THP-1, Mono-mac-1, HL-60 and MV4-11) and 5 of 10 primary human AML samples showed evidence of differentiation when cultured in vitro for 24 h with 10 g/mL angiocidin. Additionally, we found that angiocidin promoted secretion of a number of cytokines from the cell lines as well as patient cells. We next evaluated the effect of angiocidin on a xenotransplanted primary human AML sample engrafted in NSG mice. We found angiocidin monotherapy reduced the human AML burden in bone marrow by 63% relative to untreated control. Interestingly, angiocidin+cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) combination therapy reduced human AML in bone marrow by 79%. We believe the combination of in vitro data supporting the capacity of angiocidin to drive differentiation in multiple AML cell lines and primary human AML samples and its activity in a xenotransplantation model that reproduces the human disease is significant. These observations support the continued evaluation and development of angiocidin as a potential novel, non-toxic therapy for AML.
The sibling relationship and its potential impact on neurodevelopment and mental health are important areas of neuroscientific research. Validation of the tools assessing the quality of the sibling relationship would be the first essential step for conducting neurobiological and psychosocial studies related to the sibling relationship. However, to the best of our knowledge, no sibling relationship assessment tools have been empirically validated in Korean. We aimed to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Korean version of the Lifespan Sibling Relationship Scale (LSRS), which is one of the most commonly used self-report questionnaires to assess the quality of the sibling relationship. A total of 109 adults completed a series of self-report questionnaires including the LSRS, the mental health subscale of the Medical Outcomes Study-Short Form 36 version 2 (SF36v2), the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SLS), and the Marlowe-Crowne Social Desirability Scale (MC-SDS). The internal consistency, subscale intercorrelations, one-week test-retest reliability, convergent validity, divergent validity, and the construct validity were assessed. All six subscale scores and the total score of the LSRS demonstrated good internal consistency (Cronbach's =0.85-0.94) and good test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient=0.77-0.92). Correlations of the LSRS with the SF36v2 mental health score (r=0.32, p=0.01) and with the SLS (r=0.27, p=0.04) supported the good convergent validity. The divergent validity was shown by the non-significant correlation of the LSRS with the MC-SDS (r=0.15, p=0.26). Two factors were extracted through factor analysis, which explained 78.63% of the total variance. The three Adult subscales loaded on the first factor and the three Child subscales loaded on the second factor. Results suggest that the Korean version of the LSRS is a reliable and valid tool for examining the sibling relationship.
Although secondary delayed neuronal death has been considered as a therapeutic target to minimize brain damage induced by several injuries, delayed neuronal death does not occur always. In this study, we investigated possible mechanisms that prevent delayed neuronal death in the ATP-injected substantia nigra (SN) and cortex, where delayed neuronal death does not occur. In both the SN and cortex, ATP rapidly induced death of the neurons and astrocytes in the injection core area within 3 h, and the astrocytes in the penumbra region became hypertropic and rapidly surrounded the damaged areas. It was observed that the neurons survived for up to 1-3 months in the area where the astrocytes became hypertropic. The damaged areas of astrocytes gradually reduced at 3 days, 7 days, and 1-3 months. Astrocyte proliferation was detectable at 3-7 days, and vimentin was expressed in astrocytes that surrounded and/or protruded into the damaged sites. The NeuN-positive cells also reappeared in the injury sites where astrocytes reappeared. Taken together, these results suggest that astroycte survival and/or gliosis in the injured brain may be critical for neuronal survival and may prevent delayed neuronal death in the injured brain.

Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is common in preterm infants, but currently no curative therapy is available. Cell-based therapy has a great potential in the treatment of hypoxic-ischemic preterm brain injury. Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is known to mobilize endogenous hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and promotes proliferation of endogenous neural stem cells. On these grounds, we hypothesized that systemic G-CSF would be neuroprotective in a large translational animal model of hypoxic-ischemic injury in the preterm brain. Global hypoxia-ischemia (HI) was induced by transient umbilical cord occlusion in instrumented preterm sheep. G-CSF treatment (100g/kg intravenously, during five consecutive days) was started one day before the global HI insult to ascertain mobilization of endogenous stem cells within the acute phase after global HI. Mobilization of HSC and neutrophils was studied by flow cytometry. Brain sections were stained for microglia (IBA-1), myelin basic protein (MBP) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) to study microglial proliferation, white matter injury and neutrophil invasion respectively. Electrographic seizure activity was analyzed using amplitude-integrated electroencephalogram (aEEG). G-CSF effectively mobilized CD34-positive HSC in the preterm sheep. In addition, G-CSF caused marked mobilization of neutrophils, but did not influence enhanced invasion of neutrophils into the preterm brain after global HI. Microglial proliferation and hypomyelination following global HI were reduced as a result of G-CSF treatment. G-CSF did not cause a reduction of the electrographic seizure activity after global HI. In conclusion, G-CSF induced mobilization of endogenous stem cells which was associated with modulation of the cerebral inflammatory response and reduced white matter injury in an ovine model of preterm brain injury after global HI. G-CSF treatment did not improve neuronal function as shown by seizure analysis. Our study shows that G-CSF treatment has neuroprotective potential following hypoxic-ischemic injury in the preterm brain.
Transforming growth factor- (TGF-) signaling is involved in pathological processes following brain injury. TGF- signaling through Smad3 contributes significantly to the immune response and glial scar formation after brain injury. However, TGF- is also neuroprotective, suggesting that Smad3 signaling may also be involved in neuroprotection after injury. We found expression of the TGF- type II receptor (TRII) and Smad3 protein to be strongly and rapidly induced in neurons in the ipsilateral cortex and CA1 region of the hippocampus after stab wound injury. In contrast, astrocytic expression of TRII and Smad3 was induced more slowly. Comparison of the response of wild-type and Smad3 null mice to cortical stab wound injury showed a more pronounced loss of neuronal viability in Smad3 null mice. Neuronal density was more strongly reduced in Smad3 null mice than in wild-type mice at 1 and 3days post lesion in both the ipsilateral cortex and hippocampal CA1 region. Fluoro-Jade B, TUNEL staining, and cleaved caspase-3 staining also demonstrated increased neuronal degeneration at early time points after injury in the ipsilateral hemisphere in Smad3 null mice. Taken together, our results suggest that TGF- cytokine family signaling through Smad3 protects neurons in the damaged cortex and hippocampus at early time points after injury.
Tremor represents one of the most prominent examples of aberrant synchronisation within the human motor system, and Essential Tremor (ET) is by far the most common tremor disorder. Yet, even within ET there is considerable variation, and patients may have contrasting amounts of postural and intention tremor. Recently, Pedrosa et al. (2013) challenged tremor circuits in a cohort of patients presenting with ET, by applying low-frequency deep brain stimulation within thalamus. This interventional approach provided strong evidence that distinct (yet possibly overlapping) neural substrates are responsible for postural and intention tremor in ET. Intention tremor, and not postural tremor, was exacerbated by low frequency stimulation, and the effect was localised in the region of the ventrolateral thalamus in such a way as to implicate cerebello-thalamic pathways. These results, taken in conjunction with the contemporary literature, reveal that pathological changes exaggerate oscillatory synchrony in selective components of an extensive and distributed motor network, and that synchronisation within these networks is further regulated according to motor state. Through a combination of pathological and more dynamic physiological factors, activity then spills out into the periphery in the form of tremor. The findings of Pedrosa et al. (2013) are timely as they coincide with an emerging notion that tremor may result through selective dysregulation within a broader tremorgenic network.
An inflammatory reaction in the brain is primarily characterized by activation of parenchymal microglial cells. Microglia regulate several aspects of adult neurogenesis, i.e. the continuous production of new neurons in the adult brain. Hippocampal neurogenesis is thought to be important for memory formation, but its role in brain diseases is not clear. We have previously shown that brain inflammation modulates the functional integration of newly formed hippocampal neurons. Here, we explored whether there is a defined time period during synaptic development when new neurons are susceptible to brain inflammation. Newly formed hippocampal neurons, born in an intact environment in the adult mouse brain, were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation during either early or late phases of excitatory and inhibitory synaptogenesis. We used intra-hippocampal injections of GFP-retroviral vector (RV-GFP) to label the new neurons and ipsilateral LPS injection at either 1 or 4weeks post-RV-GFP injection. A single intra-hippocampal LPS injection induced an inflammatory response for at least 3weeks, including an acute transient pro-inflammatory cytokine release as well as a sub-acute and sustained change in microglial morphology. The general cytoarchitecture of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, including granule cell layer (GCL) volume, and astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein expression was not different compared to vehicle controls, and no Fluoro-Jade-positive cell death was observed. New neurons encountering this inflammatory environment exhibited no changes in their gross morphology. However, when inflammation occurred during early stages of synapse formation, we found a region-specific increase in the number of thin dendritic spines and post-synaptic density-95 (PSD-95) cluster formation on spines, suggesting an enhanced excitatory synaptic connectivity in the newborn neurons. No changes were observed in the expression of N-cadherin, an adhesion molecule primarily associated with excitatory synapses. At the inhibitory synapses, alterations due to inflammation were also evident during early but not later stages of synaptic development. Gephyrin, an inhibitory scaffolding protein, was down-regulated in the somatic region, while the adhesion molecules neuroligin-2 (NL-2) and neurofascin were increased in the somatic region and/or on the dendrites. The GABAA receptor-2 subunit (GABAAR-2) was increased, while pre/peri-synaptic GABA clustering remained unaltered. The disproportional changes in post-synaptic adhesion molecules and GABAA receptor compared to scaffolding protein expression at the inhibitory synapses during brain inflammation are likely to cause an imbalance in GABAergic transmission. These changes were specific for the newborn neurons and were not observed when estimating the overall expression of gephyrin, NL-2, and GABAAR-2 in the hippocampal GCL. The expression of interleukin-1-type 1 receptor (IL-1R1) on preferentially the somatic region of new neurons, often in close apposition to NL-2 clusters, may indicate a direct interaction between brain inflammation and synaptic proteins on newborn neurons. In summary, this study provides evidence that adult-born hippocampal neurons alter their inhibitory and excitatory synaptic integration when encountering an LPS-induced brain inflammation during the initial stages of synapse formation. Changes at this critical developmental period are likely to interfere with the physiological functions of new neurons within the hippocampus.



Studies with functional MRI (fMRI) of the motor, visual and cognitive networks have consistently demonstrated functional cortical changes in the major multiple sclerosis (MS) clinical phenotypes. Compared with healthy subjects, these fMRI modifications are characterized by an altered recruitment of regions normally devoted to the performance of a given task, recruitment of additional areas, different resting state activity and disrupted connectivity. Studies that applied fMRI longitudinally have shown that such abnormalities vary over the course of the disease, not only after an acute relapse but also in clinically stable patients. fMRI and structural MRI abnormalities of the MS brain are correlated. Movement- and cognitive-associated fMRI changes were found to correlate with the amount of damage to brain normal-appearing white and gray matter and to the spinal cord. This suggests that, at least in some phases of the disease, increased recruitment of 'critical' central nervous system regions might contribute to limiting the functional impact of MS-related injury. fMRI has recently been applied to the assessment of functional modifications in the cervical cord of patients with MS. Evidence to date shows that cervical cord fMRI can reliably identify regions involved with tactile and proprioceptive stimulation in MS patients and different clinical phenotypes. As shown in brain studies, these investigations have detected increased recruitment in MS patients compared with healthy controls. At present, fMRI is a useful research tool, and reliable analysis and display methods have been developed. Future perspectives include development of fMRI paradigms for patients with MS-related disability and application of this technique in longitudinal studies to define the temporal evolution of functional cortical changes in different MS phenotypes as well as the effects of various therapeutic approaches on central nervous system plasticity.

It has been hypothesized that the peripheral taste system may be modulated in the context of an animal's metabolic state. One purported mechanism for this phenomenon is that circulating gastrointestinal peptides modulate the functioning of the peripheral gustatory system. Recent evidence suggests endocrine signaling in the oral cavity can influence food intake (FI) and satiety. We hypothesized that these hormones may be affecting FI by influencing taste perception. We used immunohistochemistry along with genetic knockout models and the specific reconstitution of peptide YY (PYY) in saliva using gene therapy protocols to identify a role for PYY signaling in taste. We show that PYY is expressed in subsets of taste cells in murine taste buds. We also show, using brief-access testing with PYY knockouts, that PYY signaling modulates responsiveness to bitter-tasting stimuli, as well as to lipid emulsions. We show that salivary PYY augmentation, via viral vector therapy, rescues behavioral responsiveness to a lipid emulsion but not to bitter stimuli and that this response is likely mediated via activation of Y2 receptors localized apically in taste cells. Our findings suggest distinct functions for PYY produced locally in taste cells vs. that circulating systemically.
Agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, exerts beneficial effects in various experimental disease models. Clinical trials indicate the safety and effectiveness of short-term (up to 21 days) high dose regimens of oral agmatine sulfate, but longer term studies are lacking. This pilot study undertook to assess the safety of a longer term high dosage oral agmatine sulfate in laboratory rats. Adult Wistar rats consumed 5.3 g/l agmatine sulfate in their drinking water for 95 days, a regimen estimated to result in a daily dosage of absorbed agmatine of about 100mg/kg. Animals' body weight, water consumption and blood pressure were periodically measured, and general cage behavior, fur appearance, urination and feces appearance monitored. These parameters were also determined at 20 days after treatment cessation (day 115). On days 95 and 115, animals were euthanized for gross necropsy assessment. Agmatine-treated rats showed slight, but significant reductions in body weight and blood pressure, and reduced water consumption during treatment, which recovered completely within 20 days after treatment cessation. Otherwise, no abnormal behaviors or organ pathologies were observed. These findings are first to suggest apparent safety of sub-chronic high dosage dietary agmatine sulfate in laboratory rats, thus lending further support to the therapeutic applications of agmatine.
The present study reports the chemical composition, antifungal, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties as well as the cytotoxicity of Oenanthe crocata essential oil and one of its main compounds. The essential oil was obtained from the aerial parts of the plant by hydrodistillation and analysed by GC and GC/MS. The oil was predominantly composed of monoterpene hydrocarbons (85.8%), being the main compounds trans--ocimene (31.3%), sabinene (29.0%) and cis--ocimene (12.3%). For the antifungal activity, the minimal inhibitory and minimal lethal concentrations (MICs and MLCs) were determined. The oil was particularly active against dermatophytes and Cryptococcus neoformans, with MIC values ranging from 0.08 to 0.16 L/mL. Regarding the anti-inflammatory activity, both the oil and sabinene demonstrated strong anti-inflammatory activity through nitric oxide (NO) production inhibition in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon gamma (IFN-)-triggered macrophages. Furthermore, the essential oil showed a potent NO scavenging effect and inhibited inducible NO synthase expression. Interestingly, and although we detected a cytotoxic effect in macrophages and keratinocytes for the highest concentrations tested of the oil and sabinene, we also disclosed bioactive and safe concentrations to be further explored for therapeutic proposes. Taking together, these results support the use of the oil and sabinene for the management of dermatophytosis and/or inflammatory-related diseases.
Living cells maintain a balance between oxidation and reduction, and perturbations of this redox balance are thought to contribute to various diseases. Recent attempts to regulate redox state have focused on electrophiles (EPs), which activate potent cellular defense systems against oxidative stress. One example of this approach is exemplified by carnosic acid (CA) and carnosol (CS), compounds that are found in the herb rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis). Importantly, CA and CS themselves are not electrophilic, but in response to oxidation, become electrophilic, and then activate the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE (antioxidant-response element) transcription pathway to synthesize endogenous antioxidant &quot;phase 2&quot;enzymes. As a result of our efforts to develop these compounds as therapeutics for brain health, we have formulated two innovative criteria for drug development: the first concept is the use of pro-electrophilic drugs (PEDs) that are innocuous in and of themselves; and the second concept involves the use of compounds that are pathologically activated therapeutics (PATs);i.e., these small molecules are chemically converted to their active form by the very oxidative stress that they are designed to then combat. The chemical basis for PED and PAT drugs is embodied in the ortho- and para-hydroquinone electrophilic cores of the molecules, which are oxidized by the Cu(2+)/Cu(+) cycling system (or potentially by other transition metals). Importantly, this cycling pathway is under stringent regulation by the cell redox state. We propose that redox-dependent quinone formation is the predominant mechanism for formation of PED and PAT drugs from their precursor compounds. In fact, redox-dependent generation of the active form of drug from the &quot;pro-form&quot; distinguishes this therapeutic approach from traditional EPs such as curcumin, and results in a decrease in clinical side effects at therapeutic concentrations, e.g., lack of reaction with other thiols such as glutathione (GSH), which can result in lowering GSH and inducing oxidative stress in normal cells. We consider this pro-drug quality of PED/PAT compoundsto be a key factor for generating drugs to be used to combat neurodegenerative diseases that will be clinically tolerated. Given the contribution of oxidative stress to the pathology of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE pathway represents a promising drug target for these PED/PAT agents.
It is important to assess drug abuse liability in 'real life' using different surveillance systems. Some are based on specific population surveys, such as individuals with drug abuse or dependence, or under opiate maintenance treatment, because this population is very familiar with drugs and is more likely to divert or abuse them. In France, an original surveillance system based on this specific population and called 'Observation of illegal drugs and misuse of psychotropic medications (OPPIDUM) survey' was set up in 1990 as the first of its kind. The aim of this article is to describe this precursor of French drug abuse surveillance using different examples, to demonstrate its ability to effectively give health authorities and physicians interesting data on drug abuse. OPPIDUM is an annual, cross-sectional survey that anonymously collects information on abuse and dependence observed in patients recruited in specialized care centers dedicated to drug dependence. From 1990 to 2010, a total of 50,734 patients were included with descriptions of 102,631 psychoactive substance consumptions. These data have outlined emergent behaviors such as the misuse of buprenorphine by intravenous or nasal administration. It has contributed to assess abuse liability of emergent drugs such as clonazepam or methylphenidate. This surveillance system was also able to detect the decrease of flunitrazepam abuse following implementation of regulatory measures. OPPIDUM's twenty years of experience clearly demonstrate that collection of valid and useful data on drug abuse is possible and can provide helpful information for physicians and health authorities.
Clarin-1 (CLRN1) is the causative gene in Usher syndrome type 3A, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive vision and hearing loss. CLRN1 encodes Clarin-1, a glycoprotein with homology to the tetraspanin family of proteins. Previous cell culture studies suggest that Clarin-1 localizes to the plasma membrane and interacts with the cytoskeleton. Mouse models demonstrate a role for the protein in mechanosensory hair bundle integrity, but the function of Clarin-1 in hearing remains unclear. Even less is known of its role in vision, because the Clrn1 knockout mouse does not exhibit a retinal phenotype and expression studies in murine retinas have provided conflicting results. Here, we describe cloning and expression analysis of the zebrafish clrn1 gene, and report protein localization of Clarin-1 in auditory and visual cells from embryonic through adult stages. We detect clrn1 transcripts as early as 24h post-fertilization, and expression is maintained through adulthood. In situ hybridization experiments show clrn1 transcripts enriched in mechanosensory hair cells and supporting cells of the inner ear and lateral line organ, photoreceptors, and cells of the inner retina. In mechanosensory hair cells, Clarin-1 is polarized to the apical cell body and the synapses. In the retina, Clarin-1 localizes to lateral cell contacts between photoreceptors and is associated with the outer limiting membrane and subapical processes emanating from Mller glial cells. We also find Clarin-1 protein in the outer plexiform, inner nuclear and ganglion cell layers of the retina. Given the importance of Clarin-1 function in the human retina, it is imperative to find an animal model with a comparable requirement. Our data provide a foundation for exploring the role of Clarin-1 in retinal cell function and survival in a diurnal, cone-dominant species.
Vasotocin/vasopressin is a neuropeptide that regulates social and reproductive behaviors in a variety of animals including fish. Arginine vasotocin (AVT) is expressed by cells in the ventral hypothalamic and preoptic areas in the diencephalon during embryogenesis in zebrafish suggesting that vasotocin might mediate other functions within the CNS prior to the development of social and reproductive behaviors. In order to examine potential early roles for vasotocin we cloned two zebrafish vasotocin receptors homologous to AVPR1a. The receptors are expressed primarily in the CNS in similar but generally non-overlapping patterns. Both receptors are expressed in the forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain by larval stage. Of note, AVTR1a-expressing neurons in the hindbrain appear to be contacted by the axons of preoptic neurons in the forebrain that include avt+ neurons and sensory axons in the lateral longitudinal fasciculus (LLF). Furthermore, AVTR1a-expressing hindbrain neurons extend axons into the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) that contains axons of many neurons thought to be involved in locomotor responses to sensory stimulation. One hypothesis consistent with this anatomy is that AVT signaling mediates or gates sensory input to motor circuits in the hindbrain and spinal cord.
Contrast agents are commonly used in combination with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to monitor the distribution of molecules in the brain. Recent experiments conducted in our laboratory have shown that co-infusion of recombinant Adeno-associated virus serotype 5 (rAAV5) and the MRI contrast agent gadoteridol (Gd) enhances vector transduction in the rat striatum. The goal of this study was to determine whether gadoteridol may also be used as a tool to enhance transduction efficiency of rAAV1 and rAAV5 within the rat hippocampus. We show that Gd/rAAV1-GFP but not Gd/rAAV5-GFP co-infusion results in significantly higher distribution of the transgene both in the injected hemisphere as well as in the contralateral side and adjacent areas of cortex along the injection track. We also show that Gd/rAAV1-GFP co-infusion has no deleterious effect on hippocampal function as assessed by two tests of spatial memory formation. This work indicates that Gd can be exploited as a method to increase transduction efficiency of AAV1 in the hippocampus for animal studies.
Understanding the mechanism(s) by which dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons are eroded in Parkinson's disease (PD) is critical for effective therapeutic strategies. By using the binary tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-Gal4/UAS-X RNAi Drosophila melanogaster system, we report that Dmp53, basket and drICE gene knockdown in dopaminergic neurons prolong life span (p &lt; 0.05; log-rank test) and locomotor activity (p &lt; 0.05; (2) test) in D. melanogaster lines chronically exposed to (1 mM) paraquat (PQ, oxidative stress (OS) generator) compared to untreated transgenic fly lines. Likewise, knockdown flies displayed higher climbing performance than control flies. Amazingly, gallic acid (GA) significantly protected DAergic neurons, ameliorated life span, and climbing abilities in knockdown fly lines treated with PQ compared to flies treated with PQ only. Therefore, silencing specific gene(s) involved in neuronal death might constitute an excellent tool to study the response of DAergic neurons to OS stimuli. We propose that a therapy with antioxidants and selectively &quot;switching off&quot; death genes in DAergic neurons could provide a means for pre-clinical PD individuals to significantly ameliorate their disease condition.
Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are present in more than eighty percent of patients, resulting in a significant decrease of quality of life of patients and caregivers. To provide the most appropriate and early response to behavioral disorders, a specific care pathway, unique in France, has been created within the Memory Center at the Hospices Civils of Lyon. It includes a consultation &quot;Behavior&quot; aimed to intervention and guidance, a Cognitive-Behavioral Unit for pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions in a comprehensive care of the patient during 3 to 4 weeks, and an Alzheimer's disease mobile team, which can assess the BPSD in the patient's living environment at home or in nursing homes, appraise drug treatments and environment, and give training for caregivers. This care pathway is aimed to provide individualized and early care for behavioral crises secondary prevention, taking into account the psychological, neuropsychological and somatic context of the behavioral disorders occurrence.

We have examined satellite glial cell (SGC) proliferation in trigeminal ganglia following chronic constriction injury of the infraorbital nerve. Using BrdU labeling combined with immunohistochemistry for SGC specific proteins we positively confirmed proliferating cells to be SGCs. Proliferation peaks at approximately 4 days after injury and dividing SGCs are preferentially located around neurons that are immunopositive for ATF-3, a marker of nerve injury. After nerve injury there is an increase GFAP expression in SGCs associated with both ATF-3 immunopositive and immunonegative neurons throughout the ganglia. SGCs also express the non-glial proteins, CD45 and CD163, which label resident macrophages and circulating leukocytes, respectively. In addition to SGCs, we found some Schwann cells, endothelial cells, resident macrophages, and circulating leukocytes were BrdU immunopositive.
Schwann cells (SCs) are integral to peripheral nerve biology, contributing to saltatory conduction along axons, nerve and axon development, and axonal regeneration. SCs also provide a microenvironment favoring neural regeneration partially due to production of several neurotrophic factors. Dysfunction of SCs may also play an important role in the pathogenesis of peripheral nerve diseases such as diabetic peripheral neuropathy where hyperglycemia is often considered pathogenic. In order to study the impact of diabetes mellitus (DM) upon the regenerative capacity of adult SCs, we investigated the differential production of the neurotrophic factors nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) by SCs harvested from the sciatic nerves of murine models of type 1 DM (streptozotocin treated C57BL/6J mice) and type 2 DM (LepR(-/-) or db/db mice) or non-diabetic cohorts. In vitro, SCs from diabetic and control mice were maintained under similar hyperglycemic and euglycemic conditions respectively. Mature SCs from diabetic mice produced lower levels of NGF and NT3 under hyperglycemic conditions when compared to SCs in euglycemia. In addition, SCs from both DM and non-DM mice appear to be incapable of insulin production, but responded to exogenous insulin with greater proliferation and heightened myelination potentiation. Moreover, SCs from diabetic animals showed poorer association with co-cultured axons. Hyperglycemia had significant impact upon SCs, potentially contributing to the pathogenesis of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) originate from restricted regions of the brain and migrate into the developing white matter, where they differentiate into oligodendrocytes and myelinate axons in the central nervous system (CNS). The molecular mechanisms that orchestrate these long distance trips of OPCs to populate throughout the CNS are poorly understood. Emerging evidence has argued the expression of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) in oligodendrocyte lineage cells in vivo, but their physiological function remains elusive. We have previously demonstrated the expression and function of NMDARs in OPC differentiation and myelination/remyelination. Here, we show that NMDARs stimulation promotes OPC migration both by chemotaxis and chemokinesis as demonstrated by various cell migration systems including Boyden transwell, single cell, matrix-gel cell mass, and SVZ tissue explants assays. The pro-migration effect of NMDAR can be abolished by either pharmacological inhibition or shRNA knock down of the T lymphoma invasion and metastasis 1 (Tiam1), a Rac1 guanine nucleotide exchange factor (Rac1-GEF) which is coexpressed and interacts with NMDAR in OPCs. Moreover, NMDAR stimulation evokes cascade activation of the Tiam1/Rac1/ERK signaling pathway which mediates its effect on OPC migration. We also show that glutamate released from cultured cortical neuron promotes OPCs migration via NMDAR, and that antagonism of NMDAR or inhibition of Tiam1 blocks the endogenous glutamate-induced OPCs migration from SVZ to cortical plate in the embryonic brain slice culture. Thus, our result suggests a critical role of NMDAR in regulation of OPCs migration during CNS development by coupling to and activating the Tiam1/Rac1 pathway.
Astrocyte activation is a hallmark of central nervous system injuries resulting in glial scar formation (astrogliosis). The activation of astrocytes involves metabolic and morphological changes with complex underlying mechanisms, which should be defined to provide targets for astrogliosis intervention. Astrogliosis is usually accompanied by an upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Using an in vitro scratch injury model, we scratched primary cultures of cerebral cortical astrocytes and observed an influx of calcium in the form of waves spreading away from the wound through gap junctions. Using the calcium blocker BAPTA-AM and the JNK inhibitor SP600125, we demonstrated that the calcium wave triggered the activation of JNK, which then phosphorylated the transcription factor c-Jun to facilitate the binding of AP-1 to the GFAP gene promoter to switch on GFAP upregulation. Blocking calcium mobilization with BAPTA-AM in an in vivo stab wound model reduced GFAP expression and glial scar formation, showing that the calcium signal, and the subsequent regulation of downstream signaling molecules, plays an essential role in brain injury response. Our findings demonstrated that traumatic scratch injury to astrocytes triggered a calcium influx from the extracellular compartment and activated the JNK/c-Jun/AP-1 pathway to switch on GFAP expression, identifying a previously unreported signaling cascade that is important in astrogliosis and the physiological response following brain injury.
Schwann cell (SC) migration is an important step preceding myelination and remyelination in the peripheral nervous system, and can be promoted by peptide factors like neuregulins. Here we present evidence that a lipid factor, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), influences both SC migration and peripheral myelination through its cognate G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) known as LPA1 . Ultrastructural analyses of peripheral nerves in mouse null-mutants for LPA1 showed delayed SC-to-axon segregation, polyaxonal myelination by single SCs, and thinner myelin sheaths. In primary cultures, LPA promoted SC migration through LPA1 , while analysis of conditioned media from purified dorsal root ganglia neurons using HPLC/MS supported the production of LPA by these neurons. The heterotrimeric G-alpha protein, Gi , and the small GTPase, Rac1, were identified as important downstream signaling components of LPA1 . These results identify receptor mediated LPA signaling between neurons and SCs that promote SC migration and contribute to the normal development of peripheral nerves through effects on SC-axon segregation and myelination.
Study DesignRetrospective clinical study. ObjectivesRecent biomechanical studies have shown no differences in stiffness or range of motion following minimally invasive (MIS) transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) between unilateral pedicle and contralateral facet screw (UPFS) and bilateral pedicle screw (BPS) constructs. No studies have compared these two constructs based upon clinical outcomes. MethodsTwenty-six consecutive patients who had single-level MIS TLIF were retrospectively reviewed. Outcome measures collected for patients with BPS were compared with those with UPFS. ResultsNo associations were found between construct and length of stay (p=0.5), operative time (p=0.2), or Odom's criteria (p=0.7); 79% of patients in the UPFS group as compared with 71.5% in the BPS group had good or excellent outcomes. Mean follow-up was 17.7 months for the UPFS group and 20.2 months for the BPS group. There was one complication in each group, including a seroma in the BPS group and a revision operation in the UPFS group. Implant costs for the BPS group were 35% greater than the UPFS group. ConclusionsThe present study is the first to demonstrate that patients undergoing MIS TLIF with BPS as compared with UPFS for single-level degenerative lumbar disease had similar clinical outcomes.
The amyloid beta (A) peptides (mainly A40 and A42), which are derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), can oligomerize into antibody A11-positive, neurotoxic species, believed to be involved in Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly, APP binds strongly to the heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycan (PG) glypican-1 (Gpc-1) in vitro and both proteins are colocalized inside cells. In endosomes, APP is proteolytically processed to yield A peptides. The HS chains of S-nitrosylated (SNO) Gpc-1 PG are cleaved into anhydromannose (anMan)-containing di- and oligosaccharides by an NO-dependent reaction in the same compartments. Here, we have studied the toxicity of oligomers/aggregates of A40 and A42, as well as A40/42 mixtures that were formed in the presence of immobilized Gpc-1 PG or immobilized HS oligosaccharides. Afterwards, A was displaced from the matrices, analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and assayed for A11 immunoreactivity, for effects on growth of mouse N2a neuroblastoma cells and for membrane leakage in rat cortical neurons. HS generally promoted and accelerated A multimerization into oligomers as well as larger aggregates that were mostly A11 positive and showed toxic effects. However, non-toxic A was formed in the presence of Gpc-1 PG or when anMan-containing HS degradation products were simultaneously generated. Both toxic and non-toxic A peptides were taken up by the cells but toxic forms appeared to enter the nuclei to a larger extent. The protection afforded by the presence of HS degradation products may reflect a normal intracellular function for the A peptides.
This study shows the effect of a 1 year treatment with an estradiol valerate/dienogest pill in 36 women suffering from polycystic ovaries and mild or moderate acne. At beginning of the study, 24 patients (66.7%) had grade 1-2 (mild) acne and 12 patients (33.3%) had grade 3 (moderate) acne. After 12 cycles of therapy, we found an improvement of acne in 19 (52.8%) patients and a worsening of acne in 3 (8.4%) patients. The percentage of patients recovered was statistically significant (p&lt;0.01). SHBG levels were significantly higher after 6 and 12 months of therapy (p&lt;0.001), while total testosterone levels were lower in all patients at 6 and 12 months although this trend did not reach statistical significance. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the E2V/DNG pill could exert a positive influence on acne and hyperandrogenism. Since this is an observational study on a very limited population number, additional randomized controlled studies on larger populations are needed also to determine the effects of this contraceptive over longer periods of use.
Neural correlates of spatial representation can be found in the activity of the hippocampal place cells. These neurons are characterized by firing whenever the animal is located in a particular area of the space, the place field. Place fields are modulated by sensory cues, such as visual, auditory, or olfactory cues, being the influence of visual inputs the most thoroughly studied. Tactile information gathered by the whiskers has a prominent representation in the rat cerebral cortex. However, the influence of whisker-detected tactile cues on place fields remains an open question. Here we studied place fields in an enriched tactile environment where the remaining sensory cues were occluded. First, place cells were recorded before and after blockade of tactile transmission by means of lidocaine applied on the whisker pad. Following tactile deprivation, the majority of place cells decreased their firing rate and their place fields expanded. We next rotated the tactile cues and 90% of place fields rotated with them. Our results demonstrate that tactile information is integrated into place cells at least in a tactile-enriched arena and when other sensory cues are not available.

The lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) provides one of the two major input pathways to the hippocampus and has been suggested to process the nonspatial contextual details of episodic memory. Combined with spatial information from the medial entorhinal cortex it is hypothesised that this contextual information is used to form an integrated spatially selective, context-specific response in the hippocampus that underlies episodic memory. Recently, we reported that the LEC is required for recognition of objects that have been experienced in a specific context (Wilson et al. (2013) Hippocampus 23:352-366). Here, we sought to extend this work to assess the role of the LEC in recognition of all associative combinations of objects, places and contexts within an episode. Unlike controls, rats with excitotoxic lesions of the LEC showed no evidence of recognizing familiar combinations of object in place, place in context, or object in place and context. However, LEC lesioned rats showed normal recognition of objects and places independently from each other (nonassociative recognition). Together with our previous findings, these data suggest that the LEC is critical for associative recognition memory and may bind together information relating to objects, places, and contexts needed for episodic memory formation.
The transitive inference (TI) paradigm has been widely used to examine the role of the hippocampus in generalization. Here we consider a surprising feature of experimental findings in this task: the relatively poor transitivity performance and levels of hierarchy knowledge achieved by adult human subjects. We focused on the influence of the task instructions on participants' subsequent performance--a single-word framing manipulation which either specified the relation between items as transitive (i.e., OLD-FRAME: choose which item is &quot;older&quot;) or left it ambiguous (i.e., NO-FRAME: choose which item is &quot;correct&quot;). We show a marked but highly specific effect of manipulating prior knowledge through instruction: transitivity performance and levels of relational hierarchy knowledge were enhanced, but premise performance unchanged. Further, we show that hierarchy recall accuracy, but not conventional awareness scores, was a significant predictor of inferential performance across the entire group of participants. The current study has four main implications: first, our findings establish the importance of the task instructions, and prior knowledge, in the TI paradigm--suggesting that they influence the size of the overall hypothesis space (e.g., to favor a linear hierarchical structure over other possibilities in the OLD-FRAME). Second, the dissociable effects of the instructional frame on premise and inference performance provide evidence for the operation of distinct underlying mechanisms (i.e., an associative mechanism vs. relational hierarchy knowledge). Third, our findings suggest that a detailed measurement of hierarchy recall accuracy may be a more sensitive index of relational hierarchy knowledge, than conventional awareness score--and should be used in future studies investigating links between awareness and inferential performance. Finally, our study motivates an experimental setting that ensures robust hierarchy learning across participants--therefore facilitating study of the neural mechanisms underlying the learning and representation of linear hierarchies.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) upregulation in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and the correlation of its expression with features of hippocampal sclerosis (HS) remains unclear. Here we characterized mGluR5 immunoreactivity in hippocampus, entorhinal cortex (EC), and subiculum of TLE specimens with confirmed HS, with neocortical TLE (non-HS) and necropsy controls. We correlated mGluR5 immunoreactivity with neuronal density, mossy fiber sprouting, astrogliosis (GFAP), and dendritic alterations (MAP2). TLE specimens showed increased mGluR5 expression, which was most pronounced in the EC, subiculum, CA2, and dentate gyrus outer molecular layer. Increased mGluR5 expression was seen in hippocampal head and body segments and was independent of neuronal density, astrogliosis, or dendritic alterations. Positive correlation between mGluR5 expression with mossy fiber sprouting and with MAP2 in CA3 and CA1 was found only in HS specimens. Negative correlation between mGluR5 expression with seizure frequency and epilepsy duration was found only in non-HS cases. Specimens from HS patients without previous history of febrile seizure (FS) showed higher mGluR5 and MAP2 expression in CA2. Our study suggests that mGluR5 upregulation is part of a repertoire of post-synaptic adaptations that might control overexcitation and excessive glutamate release rather than a dysfunction that leads to seizure facilitation. That would explain why non-HS cases, on which seizures are likely to originate outside the hippocampal formation, also exhibit upregulated mGluR5. On the other hand, lower mGluR5 expression was related to increased seizure frequency. In addition to its role in hyperexcitability, mGluR5 upregulation could play a role in counterbalance mechanisms along the hyperexcitable circuitry uniquely altered in sclerotic hippocampal formation. Inefficient post-synaptic compensatory morphological (dendritic branching) and glutamatergic (mGluR5 expression) mechanisms in CA2 subfield could potentially underlie the association of FS with HS and TLE.
The cytokine transforming growth factor 1 (TGF1) is chronically upregulated in several neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and multiple sclerosis, and following stroke. Although previous studies have shown that TGF1 may be neuroprotective, chronic exposure to elevated levels of this cytokine may contribute to disease pathology on its own. In order to study the effects of chronic exposure to TGF1 in isolation, we used transgenic mice that over-express a constitutively active porcine TGF1 in astrocytes. We found that TGF1 over-expression altered brain structure, with the most pronounced volumetric increases localized to the hippocampus. Within the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus, increases in granule cell number and astrocyte size were responsible for volumetric expansion, with the increased granule cell number primarily related to a marked reduction in death of new granule cells generated in adulthood. Finally, these cumulative changes in DG microstructure and macrostructure were associated with the age-dependent emergence of spatial learning deficits in TGF1 over-expressing mice. Together, our data indicate that chronic upregulation of TGF1 negatively impacts hippocampal structure and, even in the absence of disease, impairs hippocampus-dependent learning.
Recent advances in social neuroscience research have unveiled the neurophysiological correlates of race and intergroup processing. However, little is known about the neural mechanisms underlying intergroup empathy. Combining event-related fMRI with measurements of pupil dilation as an index of autonomic reactivity, we explored how race and group membership affect empathy-related responses. White and Black subjects were presented with video clips depicting white, black, and unfamiliar violet-skinned hands being either painfully penetrated by a syringe or being touched by a Q-tip. Both hemodynamic activity within areas known to be involved in the processing of first and third-person emotional experiences of pain, i.e., bilateral anterior insula, and autonomic reactivity were greater for the pain experienced by own-race compared to that of other-race and violet models. Interestingly, greater implicit racial bias predicted increased activity within the left anterior insula during the observation of own-race pain relative to other-race pain. Our findings highlight the close link between group-based segregation and empathic processing. Moreover, they demonstrate the relative influence of culturally acquired implicit attitudes and perceived similarity/familiarity with the target in shaping emotional responses to others' physical pain.
To investigate whether personality traits affect the rate of decline of gray matter volume, we analyzed the relationships between personality traits and the annual rate of changes of gray matter volume in 274 healthy community dwelling subjects with a large age range by applying a longitudinal design over 6 years, using brain magnetic resonance images (MRI) and the Revised NEO Personality Inventory (NEO-PI-R) at baseline. Brain MRI data were processed using voxel-based morphometry with a custom template by applying the DARTEL diffeomorphic registration tool. For each subject, we used NEO-PI-R to evaluate the five major personality traits, including neuroticism, extraversion, openness, agreeableness, and conscientiousness. The results show that the annual rate of change in regional gray matter volume in the right inferior parietal lobule was correlated significantly and negatively with a personality of openness, which is known to be related to intellect, intellectual curiosity, and creativity adjusting for age, gender, and intracranial volume. This result indicates that subjects with a personality trait of less openness have an accelerated loss of gray matter volume in the right inferior parietal lobule, compared with subjects with a personality trait of more openness. Because the right inferior parietal lobule is involved in higher cognitive function such as working memory and creativity, a personality trait of openness is thought to be important for preserving gray matter volume and cognitive function of the right inferior parietal lobule in healthy adults.
Advancing age results in altered cognitive and neuroimaging-derived markers of neural integrity. Whether cognitive changes are the result of variations in brain measures remains unclear and relating the two across the lifespan poses a unique set of problems. It must be determined whether statistical associations between cognitive and brain measures truly exist and are not epiphenomenal due solely to their shared relationships with age. The purpose of this study was to determine whether cerebral blood flow (CBF) and gray matter volume (GMV) measures make unique and better predictions of cognition than age alone. Multivariate analyses identified brain-wide covariance patterns from 35 healthy young and 23 healthy older adults using MRI-derived measures of CBF and GMV related to three cognitive composite scores (i.e., memory, fluid ability, and speed/attention). These brain-cognitive relationships were consistent across the age range, and not the result of epiphenomenal associations with age and each imaging modality provided its own unique information. The CBF and GMV patterns each accounted for unique aspects of cognition and accounted for nearly all the age-related variance in the cognitive composite scores. The findings suggest that measures derived from multiple imaging modalities explain larger amounts of variance in cognition providing a more complete understanding of the aging brain.
Although the amygdala complex is a brain area critical for human behavior, knowledge of its subspecialization is primarily derived from experiments in animals. We here employed methods for large-scale data mining to perform a connectivity-derived parcellation of the human amygdala based on whole-brain coactivation patterns computed for each seed voxel. Voxels within the histologically defined human amygdala were clustered into distinct groups based on their brain-wide coactivation maps. Using this approach, connectivity-based parcellation divided the amygdala into three distinct clusters that are highly consistent with earlier microstructural distinctions. Meta-analytic connectivity modelling then revealed the derived clusters' brain-wide connectivity patterns, while meta-data profiling allowed their functional characterization. These analyses revealed that the amygdala's laterobasal nuclei group was associated with coordinating high-level sensory input, whereas its centromedial nuclei group was linked to mediating attentional, vegetative, and motor responses. The often-neglected superficial nuclei group emerged as particularly sensitive to olfactory and probably social information processing. The results of this model-free approach support the concordance of structural, connectional, and functional organization in the human amygdala and point to the importance of acknowledging the heterogeneity of this region in neuroimaging research.
Although resting-state brain activity has been demonstrated to correspond with task-evoked brain activation, the relationship between intrinsic and evoked brain activity has not been fully characterized. For example, it is unclear whether intrinsic activity can also predict task-evoked deactivation and whether the rest-task relationship is dependent on task load. In this study, we addressed these issues on 40 healthy control subjects using resting-state and task-driven [N-back working memory (WM) task] functional magnetic resonance imaging data collected in the same session. Using amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) as an index of intrinsic resting-state activity, we found that ALFF in the middle frontal gyrus and inferior/superior parietal lobules was positively correlated with WM task-evoked activation, while ALFF in the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, superior frontal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus, and fusiform gyrus was negatively correlated with WM task-evoked deactivation. Further, the relationship between the intrinsic resting-state activity and task-evoked activation in lateral/superior frontal gyri, inferior/superior parietal lobules, superior temporal gyrus, and midline regions was stronger at higher WM task loads. In addition, both resting-state activity and the task-evoked activation in the superior parietal lobule/precuneus were significantly correlated with the WM task behavioral performance, explaining similar portions of intersubject performance variance. Together, these findings suggest that intrinsic resting-state activity facilitates or is permissive of specific brain circuit engagement to perform a cognitive task, and that resting activity can predict subsequent task-evoked brain responses and behavioral performance.
Lentiviral vectors deliver transgenes efficiently to a wide range of neuronal cell types in the mammalian central nervous system. To drive gene expression, internal promoters are essential; however, the in vivo properties of promoters, such as their cell type specificity and gene expression activity, are not well known, especially in the nonhuman primate brain. Here, the properties of five ubiquitous promoters (murine stem cell virus [MSCV], cytomegalovirus [CMV], CMV early enhancer/chicken -actin [CAG], human elongation factor-1 [EF-1], and Rous sarcoma virus [RSV]) and two cell type-specific promoters (rat synapsin I and mouse -calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II [CaMKII]) in rat and monkey motor cortices in vivo were characterized. Vesicular stomatitis virus G (VSV-G)-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the various promoters were prepared and injected into rat and monkey motor cortices. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that all of the VSV-G-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors had strong endogenous neuronal tropisms in rat and monkey brains. Among the seven promoters, the CMV promoter showed modest expression in glial cells (9.4%) of the rat brain, whereas the five ubiquitous promoters (MSCV, CMV, CAG, EF-1, and RSV) showed expression in glial cells (7.0-14.7%) in the monkey brain. Cell type-specific synapsin I and CaMKII promoters showed excitatory neuron-specific expression in the monkey brain (synapsin I, 99.7%; CaMKII, 100.0%), but their specificities for excitatory neurons were significantly lower in the rat brain (synapsin I, 94.6%; CaMKII, 93.7%). These findings could be useful in basic and clinical neuroscience research for the design of vectors that efficiently deliver and express transgenes into rat and monkey brains.
The present study examined the association between plantar flexion torque variability during isolated isometric contractions and during quiet bipedal standing. For plantar flexion torque measurements in quiet stance (QS), subjects stood still over a force plate. The mean plantar flexion torque level exerted by each subject in QS (divided by 2 to give the torque due to a single leg) served as the target torque level for right leg force-matching tasks in extended knee (KE) and flexed knee (KF) conditions. Muscle activation levels (EMG amplitudes) of the triceps surae and mean, standard deviation and coefficient of variation of plantar flexion torque were computed from signals acquired during periods with and without visual feedback. No significant correlations were found between EMG amplitudes and torque variability, regardless of the condition and muscle being analyzed. A significant correlation was found between torque variability in QS and KE, whereas no significant correlation was found between torque variability in QS and KF, regardless of vision availability. Therefore, torque variability measured in a controlled extended knee plantar flexion contraction is a predictor of torque variability in the anterior-posterior direction when the subjects are in quiet standing. In other words, larger plantar flexion torque variability in KE (but not in KF) implies less stable balance. The mechanisms underlying the findings above are probably associated with the similar proprioceptive feedback from the triceps surae in QS and KE and poorer proprioceptive feedback from the triceps surae in KF due to the slackening of the gastrocnemii. An additional putative mechanism includes the different torque contributions of each component of the triceps surae in the two knee angles. From a clinical and research standpoint, it would be advantageous to be able to estimate changes in balance ability by means of simple measurements of torque variability in a force matching task.



This paper presents ConnectomeExplorer, an application for the interactive exploration and query-guided visual analysis of large volumetric electron microscopy (EM) data sets in connectomics research. Our system incorporates a knowledge-based query algebra that supports the interactive specification of dynamically evaluated queries, which enable neuroscientists to pose and answer domain-specific questions in an intuitive manner. Queries are built step by step in a visual query builder, building more complex queries from combinations of simpler queries. Our application is based on a scalable volume visualization framework that scales to multiple volumes of several teravoxels each, enabling the concurrent visualization and querying of the original EM volume, additional segmentation volumes, neuronal connectivity, and additional meta data comprising a variety of neuronal data attributes. We evaluate our application on a data set of roughly one terabyte of EM data and 750 GB of segmentation data, containing over 4,000 segmented structures and 1,000 synapses. We demonstrate typical use-case scenarios of our collaborators in neuroscience, where our system has enabled them to answer specific scientific questions using interactive querying and analysis on the full-size data for the first time.
The Cry11Aa protein produced in Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis, a bacterial strain used worldwide for the control of Aedes aegypti larvae, binds midgut brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) with an apparent K(d) of 29.8 nM. Previously an aminopeptidase N (APN), named AaeAPN2, was identified as a putative Cry11Aa toxin binding protein by pull-down assays using biotinylated Cry11Aa toxin (Chen et al., 2009. Insect Biochem. Mol. Biol. 39, 688-696). Here we show this protein localizes to the apical membrane of epithelial cells in proximal and distal regions of larval caeca. The AaeAPN2 protein binds Cry11Aa with high affinity, 8.6 nM. The full-length and fragments of AaeAPN2 were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The toxin-binding region was identified and further competitive assays demonstrated that Cry11Aa binding to BBMV was efficiently competed by the full-length AaeAPN2 and the fragments of AaeAPN2b and AaeAPN2e. In bioassays against Ae. aegypti larvae, the presence of full-length and a partial fragment (AaeAPN2b) of AaeAPN2 enhanced Cry11Aa larval mortality. Taken together, we conclude that AaeAPN2 is a binding protein and plays a role in Cry11Aa toxicity.

Closed traumatic brain injury (CTBI) leads to increase mortality rates in developing countries. However, a sustainable therapeutic approach has not been established yet. Therefore, the present study was designed to evaluate the impact of normabaric hyperoxia treatment (NBOT) on striatum associated Locomotor Activity (LA) in IntelliCage after Fluid-Percussion Injury (FPI). Animals were divided in four groups: Group I control (n=24), Group II sham (n=24), Group III FPI (n=24) and Group IV FPI with NBOT (n=24). Animals were habituated in IntelliCage for 4 days following transponder implanted in mice neck region on day 5. Then the LA of all groups was assessed 6hr daily for 5 days before inducing FPI. On day 6, cannula was implanted on the striatum, on day 7 FPI was performed in Group III (kept in normal environment) and IV (immediately exposed to NBOT for 3 hr). LA (in terms of number of visits in all four corners) was assessed 6 hr at days 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28 following FPI. After the animals were sacrificed to study the neuronal damage, dopamine receptors and transporters expression in striatum. The results suggested that the LA of FPI impaired mice as compared to the control and sham showed less number of visits in all four corners in IntelliCage. Morphological results revealed that FPI induced neuronal damage as compared to sham and control. Dopamine receptors and transporters were down regulated in the FPI group as compared to the control. Immediate exposure to NBOT improved LA in terms of increased number of visits in all four corners, reduced number of cell death and improved receptor expression as compared to FPI. In conclusion, NBOT exposure could improve the LA of mice following FPI through prevention of neuronal damage, improved dopamine receptors and transporters.




The mechanism of action of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) for pharmacoresistant epilepsy is unknown and the therapeutic outcome is highly variable. We investigated stimulation-induced vagus nerve electrophysiological responses in rats using various stimulation parameters. Conduction velocity, I(50), rheobase and chronaxie were calculated. We identified an early and late component corresponding to an afferent compound action potential (CAP) and a remote laryngeal motor-evoked potential (LMEP), respectively. The conduction velocity (CAP: 26.2  1.4 m/s; LMEP: 32.4  2.4 m/s) and I(50) (CAP: 2.4  0.3 mA; LMEP: 1.80.2 mA) were significantly different for both components, the rheobase (CAP: 14030 A; LMEP: 11026 A) and chronaxie (CAP: 667 s; LMEP: 739 s) were not. Using a pulse of 10 s, the CAP saturated between 4-5 mA. Our method can be used to record VNS-induced electrophysiological responses in rats and provides an objective biomarker for electrical stimulation with various parameters in an experimental set-up. Our findings are potentially useful for clinical purposes in the sense that combination of VNS and recording of vagal nerve CAPs may help clinicians to determine the individual optimal intensity required to fully activate fast-conducting afferent fibers.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the degeneration and regeneration of a sensory nerve and a motor nerve at the histological level after a crush injury. Twenty-five female Wistar rats had their mental nerve and the buccal branch of their facial nerve compressed unilaterally against a glass rod for 30s. Specimens of the compressed nerves and the corresponding control nerves were dissected at 3, 7, and 19 days after surgery. Nerve cross-sections were stained with osmium tetroxide and toluidine blue and analysed using two-dimensional stereology. We found differences between the two nerves both in the normal anatomy and in the regenerative pattern. The mental nerve had a larger cross-sectional area including all tissue components. The mental nerve had a larger volume fraction of myelinated axons and a correspondingly smaller volume fraction of endoneurium. No differences were observed in the degenerative pattern; however, at day 19 the buccal branch had regenerated to the normal number of axons, whereas the mental nerve had only regained 50% of the normal number of axons. We conclude that the regenerative process is faster and/or more complete in the facial nerve (motor function) than it is in the mental nerve (somatosensory function).

Disseminated mucormycosis is a rare entity most frequently seen in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies, post transplants or in patients on deferoxamine therapy. We report a 64-year-old immunocompetent male with an acute pneumonia and a generalized jaundice who died within 24 h. In the autopsy, extensive perforations of spleen and multiple hemorrhage foci on the pancreas were two significant findings. Histopathological study of tissue sections revealed typical zygomycetes hyphae in the left lung, pancreas, spleen and brain. Involvement of pancreas in this patient was one of the rare features of mucormycosis reported occasionally in the literature. Our case implies an unusual clinical presentation of disseminated mucormycosis and highlights that disseminated mucormycosis should be regarded even in the immunocompetent patients.

Across various animal taxa not only the secondary sex ratio but also the primary sex ratio (at conception) shows significant deviations from the expected equal proportions of sons and daughters. Birds are especially intriguing to study this phenomenon as avian females are the heterogametic sex (ZW); therefore sex determination might be under direct control of the mother. Avian sex ratios vary in relation to environmental or maternal condition, which can also affect the production of maternal steroids that in turn are involved in reproduction and accumulate in the developing follicle before meiosis. As the proximate mechanisms underlying biased primary sex ratio are largely elusive, we explored how, and to what extent, maternal steroid hormones may be involved in affecting primary or secondary sex ratio in clutches of various species of pigeons. First we demonstrated a clear case of seasonal change in sex ratio in first eggs both in the Rock Pigeon (Columba livia) and in a related species, the Wood Pigeon (Columba palumbus), both producing clutches of two eggs. In the Homing Pigeon (Columba livia domestica), domesticated from the Rock Pigeon, testosterone treatment of breeding females induced a clear male bias, while corticosterone induced a female bias in first eggs and we argue that this is in line with sex allocation theory. We next analyzed treatment effects on follicle formation, yolk mass, and yolk hormones, the latter both pre- and post-ovulatory, in order to test a diversity of potential mechanisms related to both primary and secondary sex ratio manipulation. We conclude that maternal plasma hormone levels may affect several pre-ovulatory mechanisms affecting primary sex ratio, whereas egg hormones are probably involved in secondary sex ratio manipulation only.


Interventional Neuroradiology (INR) is not bound by the classical limits of a speciality, and is not restricted by standard formats of teaching and education. Open and naturally linked towards neurosciences, INR has become a unique source of novel ideas for research, development and progress allowing new and improved approaches to challenging pathologies resulting in better anatomo-clinical results. Opening INR to Neurosciences is the best way to keep it alive and growing. Anchored in Neuroradiology, at the crossroad of neurosciences, INR will further participate to progress and innovation as it has often been in the past.

The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a key subcellular compartment involved in the folding and maturation of around one-third of the total proteome. Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER lumen engages a signal transduction pathway known as unfolded protein response (UPR) that feedback to recover ER homeostasis or to trigger apoptosis of irreversible damaged cells. The UPR is initiated by three main stress sensors including protein kinase RNA-like ER kinase (PERK), activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), and inositol-requiring protein 1 (IRE1), which reprogram the genome through the control of downstream transcription factors. In this article, the authors have reviewed most relevant studies uncovering the physiological function of the UPR in different organs and tissues based on the phenotypes observed after genetic manipulation of the pathway in vivo. Biomedical applications of targeting the UPR on a disease context are also discussed.
The present study investigated the relationship between personality and Subjective Well-Being in a sample of 135 Salvadorian adolescents and young adults (age mean = 21.88 sd. = 4.70). Personality was assessed through self-reports using the Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised. Subjective Well-Being was also self-reported using the Positive Affect Negative Affect Schedule and the Satisfaction With Life Scale. Structural equation modeling was used to determine relationships between personality and Subjective Well-Being. Regarding temperament dimensions, Harm Avoidance was positively associated to negative affect and negatively associated to positive affect, while Persistence was positively associated to positive affect. Regarding character dimensions, only Self-directedness was related to Subjective Well-Being: positively related to life satisfaction and positive affect. The results presented here mirror findings using the temperament and character model of personality among European and North American adolescents.



To maintain a stable, upright posture, the central nervous system (CNS) must integrate sensory information from multiple sources and subsequently generate corrective torque about the ankle joint. Although proprioceptive information from the muscles that cross this joint has been shown to be vital in this process, the specific source of this information remains questionable. Recent research has been focused on the potential role of tibialis anterior (TA) muscle during standing, largely due to the lack of modulation of its activity throughout the sway cycle. Ten young, healthy subjects were asked to stand normally under varying conditions, for periods of 60 s. During these trials, intramuscular electromyographic (EMG) activity and the fascicle length of three distinct anatomical regions of TA were sampled synchronously with kinematic data regarding sway position. In the quiet standing conditions, TA muscle activity was unmodulated and fascicle length changes in each region were tightly coupled with changes in sway position. In the active sway condition, more EMG activity was observed in TA and the fascicle length changes were decoupled from sway position. No regional specific differences in correlation values were observed, contrasting previous observations. The ability of the fascicles to follow sway position builds upon the suggestion that TA is well placed to provide accurate, straightforward sensory information to the CNS. As previously suggested, through reciprocal inhibition, afferent information from TA could help to regulate plantar flexor torque at relevant phases of the sway cycle. The proprioceptive role of TA appears to become complicated during more challenging conditions.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of gold (Au) and silver (Ag) nanoparticles (NPs) at different concentrations on cultured human osteoarthritic chondrocytes. Cell viability and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression were evaluated by light microscopy. Using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and field emission gun-based scanning transmission electron microscopy/energy dispersive spectroscopy (FEG-STEM/EDS) allowed us to localize NPs. Gene expression of matrix metalloproteinases 1, 3 and 13 and A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs -4 and -5 were carried out by real-time polymerase chain reaction. A cell viability test indicated a significant dose-dependent cytotoxic effect of both NPs. At concentrations of 160 and 250 M NP light microscopy showed chondrocytes with signs of apoptosis and an increased presence of inducible nitric oxide synthase. Au-NPs were characterized by FEG-STEM/EDS and TEM analysis localized NPs in cytoplasm and in endocytotic vesicles. On the contrary, the Ag-NPs were undetectable by FEG-STEM/EDS and TEM. Increased gene expression, particularly in matrix metalloproteinase-3, was observed for both NPs (160 M), but at a concentration of 250 M the expression of the evaluated genes became lower. Our in vitro studies, although preliminary, suggest that engineered Au and Ag-NPs appear to be harmful for human osteoarthritic chondrocytes in high concentrations (160-250 M).
The objective of this study is to investigate whether parentally-reported gastro-intestinal (GI) symptoms are increased in a population-derived sample of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) compared to controls. Participants included 132 children with ASD and 81 with special educational needs (SEN) but no ASD, aged 10-14years plus 82 typically developing (TD) children. Data were collected on GI symptoms, diet, cognitive abilities, and developmental histories. Nearly half (weighted rate 46.5%) of children with ASD had at least one individual lifetime GI symptom compared with 21.8% of TD children and 29.2% of those with SEN. Children with ASD had more past and current GI symptoms than TD or SEN groups although fewer current symptoms were reported in all groups compared with the past. The ASD group had significantly increased past vomiting and diarrhoea compared with the TD group and more abdominal pain than the SEN group. The ASD group had more current constipation (when defined as bowel movement less than three times per week) and soiling than either the TD or SEN groups. No association was found between GI symptoms and intellectual ability, ASD severity, ASD regression or limited or faddy diet. Parents report more GI symptoms in children with ASD than children with either SEN or TD children but the frequency of reported symptoms is greater in the past than currently in all groups.

It is well known that Ca(2+) influx through cation channels induces peripheral pain in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Melastatin-like transient receptor potential 2 (TRPM2) channel is a oxidative redox sensitive Ca(2+)-permeable cation channel. There is scarce report on block of the channels. Since the mechanisms that lead to TRPM2 inhibition in response to oxidative stress and protein kinase C (PKC) activation are not understood, we investigated effects of the antioxidants on the inhibition of TRPM2 channel currents in the DRG neurons of rats. The DRG peripheral neurons were freshly isolated from rats and the neurons were incubated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) which leads to activation of PKC and cause oxidative stress. In whole-cell patch clamp experiments, TRPM2 currents in the DRG incubated with PMA were stimulated by H2O2. In addition, the PMA-induced activation of TRPM2 channels were blocked by nonspecific TRPM2 channels inhibitors [2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate (2-APB) and N-(p-amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid (ACA)]. The currents in the neurons are also totally blocked by vitamin E incubation. However, administration of catalase and vitamin C with/without the vitamin E incubation did not block the currents. In conclusion, we indicated that vitamin E modulated oxidative stress-induced TRPM2 channel activation in the DRG neurons. The results may be useful modulation of oxidative stress-induced peripheral pain in sensory neurons.
Depending on their concentrations, both nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) take part either in myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury or in protection by ischemic and pharmacological preconditioning (Ipre) and postconditioning (Ipost). At the beginning of reperfusion, a transient release of NO is promptly scavenged by ROS to form the highly toxic peroxynitrite, which is responsible for a further increase of ROS through endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling. The protective role of NO has suggested the use of NO donors to mimic Ipre and Ipost. However, NO donors have not always given the expected protection, possibly because they are responsible for the production of different amounts of ROS that depend on the amount of released NO. This review is focused on the role of the balance of NO and ROS in myocardial injury and its prevention by Ipre and Ipost and after the use of NO donors given with or without antioxidant compounds to mimic Ipre and Ipost.
Patients affected by critical limb ischemia (CLI) represent a complex and high risk clinical problem, and a multidisciplinary approach is often demanded. The amputation rate in patients affected by CLI is still high. Introduction of endovascular procedure shook up the CLI concept of treatment. The increasing experience of Vascular Surgeons in endovascular technique forced these specialist to match classic surgical skills and endovascular tools in order to achieve the best treatment for each patients. The combination of the two techniques identifies the hybrid procedure. Aim of this paper is to define indication, necessity and results of the hybrid procedure in patients suffering from CLI.
The treatment of the critical limb ischemia (CLI) and diabetic foot (DB) is still object of discussion and the gold standard for revascularization has not yet been identified. In these two decades the introduction of endovascular procedures had a large impact on the surgical revascularization and were added to the practice of vascular surgeons in patients who cannot be candidates for a bypass. This may be due to significant comorbidities, a reduced life expectancy, infection or gangrene in the possible sites of distal anastomoses, the unavailability of suitable veins, or the absence of an adequate &quot;landing zone&quot; for the distal part of the bypass. Various studies have evaluated the role of PTA in DF and CLI that resulted favourable in terms of feasibility, technical efficacy, the reduced number of complications, and limb salvage rates. Anyway, long-term patency is better after bypass surgery than after angioplasty, which is burdened by a high restenosis rate. In our experience we tried to practice endovascular approach as a first choice. If the procedure cannot be concluded safely, we continue the intervention surgically or use a hybrid approach. The endovascular-first strategy seems to be the future regardless of comorbidity of the patient and the degree of pathology. The vascular surgeon remains the only specialist that can decide the correct intervention without pressure or been forced and, last but not least, the only one who can independently perform hybrid interventions.

The mortality after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is 50%, and most survivors suffer severe functional and cognitive deficits. Half of SAH patients deteriorate 5 to 14 days after the initial bleeding, so-called delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI). Although often attributed to vasospasms, DCI may develop in the absence of angiographic vasospasms, and therapeutic reversal of angiographic vasospasms fails to improve patient outcome. The etiology of chronic neurodegenerative changes after SAH remains poorly understood. Brain oxygenation depends on both cerebral blood flow (CBF) and its microscopic distribution, the so-called capillary transit time heterogeneity (CTH). In theory, increased CTH can therefore lead to tissue hypoxia in the absence of severe CBF reductions, whereas reductions in CBF, paradoxically, improve brain oxygenation if CTH is critically elevated. We review potential sources of elevated CTH after SAH. Pericyte constrictions in relation to the initial ischemic episode and subsequent oxidative stress, nitric oxide depletion during the pericapillary clearance of oxyhemoglobin, vasogenic edema, leukocytosis, and astrocytic endfeet swelling are identified as potential sources of elevated CTH, and hence of metabolic derangement, after SAH. Irreversible changes in capillary morphology and function are predicted to contribute to long-term relative tissue hypoxia, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. We discuss diagnostic and therapeutic implications of these predictions.
Stroke induces inflammation that can aggravate brain damage. This work examines whether interleukin-10 (IL-10) deficiency exacerbates inflammation and worsens the outcome of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Expression of IL-10 and IL-10 receptor (IL-10R) increased after ischemia. From day 4, reactive astrocytes showed strong IL-10R immunoreactivity. Interleukin-10 knockout (IL-10 KO) mice kept in conventional housing showed more mortality after pMCAO than the wild type (WT). This effect was associated with the presence of signs of colitis in the IL-10 KO mice, suggesting that ongoing systemic inflammation was a confounding factor. In a pathogen-free environment, IL-10 deficiency slightly increased infarct volume and neurologic deficits. Induction of proinflammatory molecules in the IL-10 KO brain was similar to that in the WT 6hours after ischemia, but was higher at day 4, while differences decreased at day 7. Deficiency of IL-10 promoted the presence of more mature phagocytic cells in the ischemic tissue, and enhanced the expression of M2 markers and the T-cell inhibitory molecule CTLA-4. These findings agree with a role of IL-10 in attenuating local inflammatory reactions, but do not support an essential function of IL-10 in lesion resolution. Upregulation of alternative immunosuppressive molecules after brain ischemia can compensate, at least in part, the absence of IL-10.
Damage of oligodendrocytes after ischemia has negative impact on white matter integrity and neuronal function. In this work, we explore whether Netrin-1 (NT-1) overexpression facilitates white matter repairing and remodeling. Adult CD-1 mice received stereotactic injection of adeno-associated virus carrying NT-1 gene (AAV-NT-1). One week after gene transfer, mice underwent 60minutes of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The effect of NT-1 on neural function was evaluated by neurobehavioral tests. Proliferated oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), newly matured oligodendrocytes, and remyelination were semi-quantified by immunohistochemistry. The role of NT-1 in oligodendrogenesis was further explored by examining specific NT-1 receptors and their function. Netrin-1 overexpression was detected in neurons and astrocytes 2 weeks after AAV-NT-1 gene transfer and significantly improved the neurobehavioral outcomes compared with the control (P&lt;0.05). In comparison with the control, proliferated OPCs, newly matured oligodendrocytes, and remyelination were greatly increased in the ipsilateral hemisphere of AAV-NT-1-transduced mice. Furthermore, both NT-1 receptors deleted in colorectal carcinoma and UNC5H2 were expressed on OPCs whereas only UNC5H2 was expressed in myelinated axons. Our study indicated that NT-1 promoted OPC proliferation, differentiation, and increased remyelination, suggesting that NT-1 is a promising factor for white matter repairing and remodeling after ischemia.
Vessel size imaging (VSI) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique that aims to provide quantitative measurements of tissue microvasculature. An emerging variation of this technique uses the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) effect as the source of the imaging contrast. Gas challenges have the advantage over contrast injection techniques in that they are noninvasive and easily repeatable because of the fast washout of the contrast. However, initial results from BOLD-VSI studies are somewhat contradictory, with substantially different estimates of the mean vessel radius. Owing to BOLD-VSI being an emerging technique, there is not yet a standard processing methodology, and different techniques have been used to calculate the mean vessel radius and reject uncertain estimates. In addition, the acquisition methodology and signal modeling vary from group to group. Owing to these differences, it is difficult to determine the source of this variation. Here we use computer modeling to assess the impact of noise on the accuracy and precision of different BOLD-VSI calculations. Our results show both potential overestimates and underestimates of the mean vessel radius, which is confirmed with a validation study at 3T.
The primary site of urocortin 1 (Ucn1) expression in the brain is the centrally projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus. The EWcp is innervated by dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). To investigate whether activity of EWcp is regulated by the VTA, we investigated the effects of local pharmacological inhibition of VTA activity on the induction of Fos immunoreactivity in the EWcp of male C57BL/6J mice. A unilateral intracranial administration of the GABA agonist muscimol aimed at the VTA resulted in increased number of Fos-positive cells in the EWcp. This induction was lower than that produced by an intraperitoneal injection of 2.5 g/kg of ethanol. To investigate whether inhibition of dopaminergic neurons was responsible for induction of Fos, a second experiment was performed where the dopamine agonist quinpirole was unilaterally injected targeting the VTA. Injections of quinpirole also significantly induced Fos in the EWcp neurons. The induction occurred only on the side of the EWcp ipsilateral to the VTA injection. These results indicate that activity of EWcp is inhibited by tonic activity of dopaminergic VTA neurons, and that unilateral projections of VTA onto Ucn1-containing EWcp neurons provide a link between systems regulating approach and avoidance behaviors.
The studies reviewed in this article certainly do not constitute the entire body of research conducted by Wylie Vale's group and his collaborators, they might constitute turning points in CRF research. In addition, the studies reviewed here show that, over the course of 31 years (from 1981 to 2012), Wylie tirelessly pursued the answers to fundamental questions regarding CRF. He was a man whose drive never seemed to falter.
There is a high incidence of autism in tuberous sclerosis complex. Given the evidence of impaired face processing in autism, the authors sought to investigate electrophysiological markers of face processing in children with tuberous sclerosis complex. The authors studied 19 children with tuberous sclerosis complex under age 4, and 20 age-matched controls, using a familiar-unfamiliar faces paradigm. Of the children, 6 with tuberous sclerosis complex (32%) had autism. Children with tuberous sclerosis complex showed a longer N290 latency than controls (276 ms vs 259 ms, P = .05) and also failed to show the expected hemispheric differences in face processing. The longest N290 latency was seen in (1) children with autism and tuberous sclerosis complex and (2) children with temporal lobe tubers. This study is the first to quantify atypical face processing in children with tuberous sclerosis complex. This functional impairment may provide insight into a mechanism underlying a pathway to autism in tuberous sclerosis complex.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 is a genetic disorder with autosomal dominant pattern. It can manifest as intracranial, spinal, ocular and cutaneous lesions. The lesions can extend to all the systems. We present an anaesthetic management of a paediatric patient with neurofibromatosis 2 for multiple spinal and thoracic tumour decompression.
Intraneural perineuriomas are rare tumors of the peripheral nerves with unique immunohistochemical findings. In this report, we highlight the clinical and imaging findings of an adolescent male with histologically proven intraneural perineurioma involving multiple nerves. The salient features included a clinically progressive course, imaging evidence of involvement of long segments of multiple nerves, enlargement of individual fascicles within the affected nerves, and intense contrast enhancement of the enlarged fascicles. The identification of enlarged fascicles with intense contrast enhancement within the affected and distended nerve segments may aid in distinguishing intraneural perineurioma from other tumors affecting the peripheral nerves.
A 23-year-old woman, who underwent a percutaneous transluminal mitral commissurotomy for a tight mitral stenosis, developed an acute ischemic stroke involving the proximal right middle cerebral artery territory. She had a dense left hemiplegia with a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of 12. She was emergently treated within 1 hour with intra-arterial tenecteplase and made a dramatic recovery. Intra-arterial tenecteplase is an attractive option for treating acute ischemic stroke with proximal or major vessel occlusion.
A small body of literature suggests that clomipramine may usefully augment selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients who do not respond to SSRI monotherapy. The combination, however, is associated with the risk of clinically significant drug interactions. Clomipramine can raise the blood levels and hence the adverse effects of most SSRIs, and many SSRIs can raise the blood levels and hence the adverse effects of clomipramine. The latter situation is more important because certain dose-dependent adverse effects of clomipramine, such as seizures, can be life-threatening. This article presents an evidence-based discussion of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic adverse effects of the SSRI-clomipramine combination along with suggestions for dosing and monitoring when the combination is used in OCD.


Acutely ill, schizophrenic patients frequently require management of agitation. This study was conducted to compare the efficacy of oral zotepine and risperidone in hospitalized, acutely ill schizophrenic patients with symptoms of agitation.This was a 6-week, multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-group, flexible dosing study. Thirty-nine patients with schizophrenia (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) who met the criteria of a Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score of greater than or equal to 60 points, PANSS-excitement component (EC) score of greater than or equal to 14 points, and at least 1 PANSS-EC score of greater than or equal to 4 were randomly assigned to either the zotepine or risperidone group. The primary outcome was a comparison of the change in the PANSS-EC total score from baseline to the end of the study between groups.There was no significant between-group difference in dropout rates (zotepine, 15.8% [3/19]; risperidone, 20.0% [4/20]). The mean (SD) daily dose of zotepine from baseline to study end point ranged from 127.6 (62.3) to 236.8 (74.2) mg/d; the corresponding values for risperidone ranged from 3.3 (1.6) to 4.8 (1.7) mg/d. There were no statistically significant differences in patient characteristics, PANSS total score, and PANSS-EC total score between the zotepine and risperidone groups at baseline. Both groups showed significant reductions in the PANSS-EC total scores (zotepine, -10.1 [4.7], P &lt; 0.001; risperidone, -8.0 [5.3], P &lt; 0.001) and PANSS total scores (zotepine, -34.7 [15.8], P &lt; 0.001; risperidone, -28.6 [14.3], P &lt; 0.001). However, there were no significant differences in PANSS-EC total score (P = 0.265) and PANSS total score (P = 0.125) changes from baseline to study end point between the 2 treatment groups. Serum uric acid and prolactin decreased more in the zotepine group than the risperidone group (P &lt; 0.001 and P = 0.018, respectively).Zotepine seemed to be as effective as risperidone in treating hospitalized, acutely ill, schizophrenic patients with agitation, and had the advantages of lowering hyperuricemia and hyperprolactinemia. Double-blind, fixed dose studies with a larger sample size of acutely ill, schizophrenic patients with agitation are needed to confirm the study results.

Vasopressin (AVP) is both a neuroendocrine hormone located in magnocellular neurosecretory neurons of the hypothalamus of mammals but also a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in the parvocellular suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The SCN is the endogenous clock of the brain and exhibits a prominent circadian AVP rhythm. We have in this study of the brown 129sv mouse and the visual blind cone-rod homeobox gene knock out mouse (Crx(-/-) ) with degeneration of the retinal rods and cones, but a preserved non-image forming optic system, studied the temporal Avp expression in both the neurosecretory magnocellular and parvocellular vasopressinergic systems in both genotypes. We here present a detailed mapping of all classical hypothalamopituitary and accessory magnocellular nuclei and neurons in the hypothalamus by use of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization in both genotypes. Semiquantitative in situ hybridization revealed a very high expression of Avp mRNA in all the magnocellular nuclei compared with a much lower level in the parvocellular suprachiasmatic nucleus. In a series of mice killed every 4 hours, the Avp mRNA expression in the SCN showed a significant daily rhythm with a zenith at late day time and nadir during the dark in both the Crx(-/-) and the wild type mouse. None of the magnocellular neurosecretory neurons exhibited a diurnal vasopressin expression. Light stimulation of both genotypes during the dark period did not change the Avp expression in the SCN. This shows that Avp expression in the mouse SCN is independent of Crx-regulated photoreceptor systems.
In area CA1 of the mature hippocampus, synaptogenesis occurs within 30 minutes after the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP); however, by 2 hours many small dendritic spines are lost, and those remaining have larger synapses. Little is known, however, about associated changes in presynaptic vesicles and axonal boutons. Axons in CA1 stratum radiatum were evaluated with 3D reconstructions from serial section electron microscopy at 30 minutes and 2 hours after induction of LTP by theta-burst stimulation (TBS). The frequency of axonal boutons with a single postsynaptic partner was decreased by 33% at 2 hours, corresponding perfectly to the 33% loss specifically of small dendritic spines (head diameters &lt;0.45 m). Docked vesicles were reduced at 30 minutes and then returned to control levels by 2 hours following induction of LTP. By 2 hours there were fewer small synaptic vesicles overall in the presynaptic vesicle pool. Clathrin-mediated endocytosis was used as a marker of local activity, and axonal boutons containing clathrin-coated pits showed a more pronounced decrease in presynaptic vesicles at both 30 minutes and 2 hours after induction of LTP relative to control values. Putative transport packets, identified as a cluster of less than 10 axonal vesicles occurring between synaptic boutons, were stable at 30 minutes but markedly reduced by 2 hours after the induction of LTP. APV blocked these effects, suggesting that the loss of axonal boutons and presynaptic vesicles was dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor activation during LTP. These findings show that specific presynaptic ultrastructural changes complement postsynaptic ultrastructural plasticity during LTP.
The current experiment is one of a series of comparative studies in our laboratory designed to determine the network of somatosensory areas that are present in the neocortex of the mammalian common ancestor. Such knowledge is critical for appreciating the basic functional circuitry that all mammals possess and how this circuitry was modified to generate species-specific, sensory-mediated behavior. Our animal model, the gray short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica), is a marsupial that is proposed to represent this ancestral state more closely than most other marsupials and, to some extent, even monotremes. We injected neuroanatomical tracers into the primary somatosensory area (S1), rostral and caudal somatosensory fields (SR and SC, respectively), and multimodal cortex (MM) and determined their connections with other architectonically defined cortical fields. Our results show that S1 has dense intrinsic connections, dense projections from the frontal myelinated area (FM), and moderate projections from S2 and SC. SR has strong projections from several areas, including S1, SR, FM, and piriform cortex. SC has dense projections from S1, moderate to strong projections from other somatosensory areas, FM, along with connectivity from the primary (V1) and second visual areas. Finally, MM had dense intrinsic connections, dense projections from SC and V1, and moderate projections from S1. These data support the proposition that ancestral mammals likely had at least four specifically interconnected somatosensory areas, along with at least one multimodal area. We discuss the possibility that these additional somatosensory areas (SC and SR) are homologous to somatosensory areas in eutherian mammals.
Microglia are the brain-resident macrophages tasked with the defense and maintenance of the central nervous system (CNS). The hematopoietic origin of microglia has warranted a therapeutic potential for the hematopoietic system in treating diseases of the CNS. However, migration of bone marrow-derived cells (BMDC) into the CNS is a marginal event under normal, healthy conditions. A busulfan-based chemotherapy regimen was used for bone marrow transplantation in wild-type mice before subjecting them to a hypoxic-ischemic brain injury or in APP/PS1 mice prior to the formation of amyloid plaques. The cells were tracked and analyzed throughout the development of the pathology. The efficacy of a preventive macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) treatment was also studied to highlight the effects of circulating monocytes in hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Such an injury induces a strong migration of BMDC into the CNS, without the need for irradiation. These migrating cells do not replace the entire microglial pool but rather are confined to the sites of injury for several weeks, suggesting that they could perform specific functions. M-CSF showed neuroprotective effects as a preventive treatment. In APP/PS1 mice, the formation of amyloid plaques was sufficient to induce the entry of cells into the parenchyma, though in low numbers. This study confirms that BMDC infiltrate the CNS in animal models for stroke and Alzheimer's disease and that peripheral cells can be targeted to treat affected regions of the CNS.
The reliability and precision of the timing of spikes in a spike train is an important aspect of neuronal coding. We investigated reliability in thalamocortical relay (TCR) cells in the acute slice and also in a Morris-Lecar model with several extensions. A frozen Gaussian noise current, superimposed on a DC current, was injected into the TCR cell soma. The neuron responded with spike trains that showed trial-to-trial variability, due to amongst others slow changes in its internal state and the experimental setup. The DC current allowed to bring the neuron in different states, characterized by a well defined membrane voltage (between -80 and -50 mV) and by a specific firing regime that on depolarization gradually shifted from a predominantly bursting regime to a tonic spiking regime. The filtered frozen white noise generated a spike pattern output with a broad spike interval distribution. The coincidence factor and the Hunter and Milton measure were used as reliability measures of the output spike train. In the experimental TCR cell as well as the Morris-Lecar model cell the reliability depends on the shape (steepness) of the current input versus spike frequency output curve. The model also allowed to study the contribution of three relevant ionic membrane currents to reliability: a T-type calcium current, a cation selective h-current and a calcium dependent potassium current in order to allow bursting, investigate the consequences of a more complex current-frequency relation and produce realistic firing rates. The reliability of the output of the TCR cell increases with depolarization. In hyperpolarized states bursts are more reliable than single spikes. The analytically derived relations were capable to predict several of the experimentally recorded spike features.
One key problem in computational neuroscience and neural engineering is the identification and modeling of functional connectivity in the brain using spike train data. To reduce model complexity, alleviate overfitting, and thus facilitate model interpretation, sparse representation and estimation of functional connectivity is needed. Sparsities include global sparsity, which captures the sparse connectivities between neurons, and local sparsity, which reflects the active temporal ranges of the input-output dynamical interactions. In this paper, we formulate a generalized functional additive model (GFAM) and develop the associated penalized likelihood estimation methods for such a modeling problem. A GFAM consists of a set of basis functions convolving the input signals, and a link function generating the firing probability of the output neuron from the summation of the convolutions weighted by the sought model coefficients. Model sparsities are achieved by using various penalized likelihood estimations and basis functions. Specifically, we introduce two variations of the GFAM using a global basis (e.g., Laguerre basis) and group LASSO estimation, and a local basis (e.g., B-spline basis) and group bridge estimation, respectively. We further develop an optimization method based on quadratic approximation of the likelihood function for the estimation of these models. Simulation and experimental results show that both group-LASSO-Laguerre and group-bridge-B-spline can capture faithfully the global sparsities, while the latter can replicate accurately and simultaneously both global and local sparsities. The sparse models outperform the full models estimated with the standard maximum likelihood method in out-of-sample predictions.

Treatment-resistant psychiatric illness poses a clinical challenge to psychiatrists in both inpatient and outpatient settings. Although electroconvulsive therapy is a relatively safe option for the treatment of these patients, initiation of this treatment requires a conscientious discussion of the risks and benefits of the procedure to obtain informed consent. The 2 cases presented here describe transient anosmia, a seldom reported but potentially significant adverse effect of electroconvulsive therapy.

The elastic properties of the human Achilles tendon are important for locomotion; however, in vitro tests suggest that repeated cyclic contractions lead to tendon fatigue - an increase in length in response to stress applied. In vivo experiments have not, however, demonstrated mechanical fatigue in the Achilles tendon, possibly due to the limitations of using two-dimensional ultrasound imaging to assess tendon strain. This study used freehand three-dimensional ultrasound (3DUS) to determine whether the free Achilles tendon (calcaneus to soleus) or the gastrocnemius tendon (calcaneus to gastrocnemius) demonstrated tendon fatigue after running exercise. Participants (N=9) underwent 3DUS scans of the Achilles tendon during isometric contractions at four ankle torque levels (passive, and 14, 42 and 70 N m) before and after a 5 km run at a self-selected pace (10-14 km h(-1)). Running had a significant main effect on the length of the free Achilles tendon (P&lt;0.01) with a small increase in length across the torque range. However, the mean lengthening effect was small (&lt;1%) and was not accompanied by a change in free tendon stiffness. There was no significant change in the length of the gastrocnemius tendon or the free tendon cross-sectional area. While the free tendon was shown to lengthen, the lack of change in stiffness suggests the tendon exhibited mechanical creep rather than fatigue. These effects were much smaller than those predicted from in vitro experiments, possibly due to the different loading profile encountered and the ability of the tendon to repair in vivo.
Many factors influence visual search, including how much targets stand out (i.e., their visual salience) and whether they are currently relevant (i.e., Are they in working memory?). Although these are two known influences on search performance, it is unclear how they interact to guide attention. The present study explored this interplay by having participants hold an item in memory for a subsequent test while simultaneously conducting a multiple-target visual search. Importantly, the memory item could match one or neither of two targets from the search. In Experiment 1, when the memory item did not match either target, participants found a high-salience target first, demonstrating a baseline salience effect. This effect was exaggerated when a high-salience target was in working memory and completely reversed when a low-salience target was in memory, demonstrating a powerful influence of working memory guidance. Experiment 2 amplified the salience effect by including very high-salience, &quot;pop-out&quot;-like targets. Yet this salience effect was still attenuated when the memory item matched a less salient target. Experiment 3 confirmed these were memory-based effects and not priming. Collectively, these findings illustrate the influential role of working memory in guiding visual attention, even in the face of competing bottom-up salience cues.

Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-regulated cation (HCN) channels generate the hyperpolarization-activated cation current Ih present in many neurons. These channels are directly regulated by the binding of cAMP, which both shifts the voltage dependence of HCN channel opening to more positive potentials and increases maximal Ih at extreme negative voltages where voltage gating is complete. Here we report that the HCN channel brain-specific auxiliary subunit TRIP8b produces opposing actions on these two effects of cAMP. In the first action, TRIP8b inhibits the effect of cAMP to shift voltage gating, decreasing both the sensitivity of the channel to cAMP (K1/2) and the efficacy of cAMP (maximal voltage shift); conversely, cAMP binding inhibits these actions of TRIP8b. These mutually antagonistic actions are well described by a cyclic allosteric mechanism in which TRIP8b binding reduces the affinity of the channel for cAMP, with the affinity of the open state for cAMP being reduced to a greater extent than the cAMP affinity of the closed state. In a second apparently independent action, TRIP8b enhances the action of cAMP to increase maximal Ih. This latter effect cannot be explained by the cyclic allosteric model but results from a previously uncharacterized action of TRIP8b to reduce maximal current through the channel in the absence of cAMP. Because the binding of cAMP also antagonizes this second effect of TRIP8b, application of cAMP produces a larger increase in maximal Ih in the presence of TRIP8b than in its absence. These findings may provide a mechanistic explanation for the wide variability in the effects of modulatory transmitters on the voltage gating and maximal amplitude of Ih reported for different neurons in the brain.

In this paper I examine the issues related to the robot with mind. To create a robot with mind aims to recreate neuro function by engineering. The robot with mind is expected not only to process external information by the built-in program and behave accordingly, but also to gain the consciousness activity responding multiple conditions and flexible and interactive communication skills coping with unknown situation. That prospect is based on the development of artificial intelligence in which self-organizing and self-emergent functions have been available in recent years. To date, controllable aspects in robotics have been restricted to data making and programming of cognitive abilities, while consciousness activities and communication skills have been regarded as uncontrollable aspects due to their contingency and uncertainty. However, some researchers of robotics claim that every activity of the mind can be recreated by engineering and is therefore controllable. Based on the development of the cognitive abilities of children and the findings of neuroscience, researchers have attempted to produce the latest artificial intelligence with autonomous learning systems. I conclude that controllability is inconsistent with autonomy in the genuine sense and autonomous robots recreated by engineering cannot be autonomous partners of humans.

Although embolism and hypoperfusion may well occur concurrently in a non-negligible proportion of cerebral infarction patients, there is currently lack of proof, especially in the posterior circulation. Here, we are reporting on a case of multiple cerebral infarctions in a patient with neurofibromatosis type 1, multiple vascular abnormalities of the posterior cerebral circulation and intracranial artery occlusion. We hypothesize that cerebral blood flow impairment may have affected the clearance and destination of embolic particles.


In the present study, we analyze the influence of chronic undernutrition on protein expression, muscle fiber type composition, and fatigue resistance of the fast extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle of male juvenile rats (45  3 days of life; n = 25 and 31 rats for control and undernourished groups, respectively). Using 2D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry, we identified in undernourished muscles 12 proteins up-regulated (8 proteins of the electron transport chain and the glycolytic pathway, 2 cross-bridge proteins, chaperone and signaling proteins that are related to the stress response). In contrast, one down-regulated protein related to the fast muscle contractile system and two other proteins with no changes in expression were used as charge controls. By means of COX and alkaline ATPase histochemical techniques and low-frequency fatigue protocols we determined that undernourished muscles showed a larger proportion (15% increase) of Type IIa/IId fibers (oxidative-glycolytic) at the expense of Type IIb (glycolytic) fibers (15.5% decrease) and increased fatigue resistance (55.3%). In addition, all fiber types showed a significant reduction in their cross-sectional area (slow: 64.4%; intermediate: 63.9% and fast: 61.2%). These results indicate that undernourished EDL muscles exhibit an increased expression of energy metabolic and myofibrillar proteins which are associated with the predominance of oxidative and Type IIa/IId fibers and to a higher resistance to fatigue. We propose that such alterations may act as protective and/or adaptive mechanisms that counterbalance the effect of chronic undernourishment.


There is increasing interest in the possibility that mitochondrial impairment may play an important role in bipolar disorder (BD). The Krebs cycle is the central point of oxidative metabolism, providing carbon for biosynthesis and reducing agents for generation of ATP. Recently, studies have suggested that histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors may have antimanic effects. The present study aims to investigate the effects of sodium butyrate (SB), a HDAC inhibitor, on Krebs cycle enzymes activity in the brain of rats subjected to an animal model of mania induced by D-amphetamine (D-AMPH). Wistar rats were first given D-AMPH or saline (Sal) for 14days, and then, between days 8 and 14, rats were treated with SB or Sal. The citrate synthase (CS), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) were evaluated in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of rats. The D-AMPH administration inhibited Krebs cycle enzymes activity in all analyzed brain structures and SB reversed D-AMPH-induced dysfunction analyzed in all brain regions. These findings suggest that Krebs cycle enzymes' inhibition can be an important link for the mitochondrial dysfunction seen in BD and SB exerts protective effects against the D-AMPH-induced Krebs cycle enzymes' dysfunction.
Copper (Cu), an essential trace element present throughout the mammalian nervous system, is crucial for normal synaptic function. Neuronal handling of Cu is poorly understood. We studied the localization and expression of Atp7a, the major intracellular Cu transporter in the brain, and its relation to peptidylglycine -amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an essential cuproenzyme and regulator of Cu homeostasis in neuroendocrine cells. Based on biochemical fractionation and immunostaining of dissociated neurons, Atp7a was enriched in post-synaptic vesicular fractions. Cu followed a similar pattern, with ~ 20% of total Cu in synaptosomes. A mouse model heterozygous for the Pam gene (PAM+/) was selectively Cu deficient in the amygdala. As in cortex and hippocampus, Atp7a and PAM expression overlap in the amygdala, with highest expression in interneurons. Messenger RNA levels of Atox-1 and Atp7a, which deliver Cu to the secretory pathway, were reduced in the amygdala but not in the hippocampus in PAM+/ mice, GABAB receptor mRNA levels were similarly affected. Consistent with Cu deficiency, dopamine -monooxygenase function was impaired as evidenced by elevated dopamine metabolites in the amygdala, but not in the hippocampus, of PAM+/ mice. These alterations in Cu delivery to the secretory pathway in the PAM+/ amygdala may contribute to the physiological and behavioral deficits observed. Atp7a, a Cu-transporting P-type ATPase, is localized to the trans-Golgi network and to vesicles distributed throughout the dendritic arbor. Tissue-specific alterations in Atp7a expression were found in mice heterozygous for peptidylglycine -amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an essential neuropeptide-synthesizing cuproenzyme. Atp7a and PAM are highly expressed in amygdalar interneurons. Reduced amygdalar expression of Atox-1 and Atp7a in PAM heterozygous mice may lead to reduced synaptic Cu levels, contributing to the behavioral and neurochemical alterations seen in these mice.
While multiple molecular mechanisms contribute to midbrain nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD), the mechanism of damage in non-dopaminergic sites within the central nervous system, including the spinal cord, is not well-understood. Thus, to understand the comprehensive pathophysiology underlying this devastating disease, postmortem spinal cord tissue samples (cervical, thoracic, and lumbar segments) from patients with PD were analyzed compared to age-matched normal subjects or Alzheimer's disease for selective molecular markers of neurodegeneration and inflammation. Distal axonal degeneration, relative abundance of both sensory and motor neuron death, selective loss of ChAT(+) motoneurons, reactive astrogliosis, microgliosis, increased cycloxygenase-2 (Cox-2) expression, and infiltration of T cells were observed in spinal cord of PD patients compared to normal subjects. Biochemical analyses of spinal cord tissues revealed associated inflammatory and proteolytic events (elevated levels of Cox-2, expression and activity of - and m-calpain, degradation of axonal neurofilament protein, and concomitantly low levels of endogenous inhibitor - calpastatin) in spinal cord of PD patients. Thus, pathologically upregulated calpain activity in spinal cords of patients with PD may contribute to inflammatory response-mediated neuronal death, leading to motor dysfunction. We proposed calpain over-activation and calpain-calpastatin dysregulation driving in a cascade of inflammatory responses (microglial activation and T cell infiltration) and degenerative pathways culminating in axonal degeneration and neuronal death in spinal cord of Parkinson's disease patients. This may be one of the crucial mechanisms in the degenerative process.
The uricosuric agent probenecid is co-administered with the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPTP to produce a chronic mouse model of Parkinson's disease. It has been proposed that probenecid serves to elevate concentrations of MPTP in the brain by reducing renal elimination of the toxin. However, this mechanism has never been formally demonstrated to date and is questioned by our previous data showing that intracerebral concentrations of MPP(+), the active metabolite of MPTP, are not modified by co-injection of probenecid. In this study, we investigated the potentiating effects of probenecid in vivo and in vitro arguing against the possibility of altered metabolism or impaired renal elimination of MPTP. We find that probenecid (i) is toxic in itself to several neuronal populations apart from dopaminergic neurons, and (ii) that it also potentiates the effects of other mitochondrial complex I inhibitors such as rotenone. On a mechanistic level, we show that probenecid is able to lower intracellular ATP concentrations and that its toxic action on neuronal cells can be reversed by extracellular ATP. Probenecid can potentiate the effect of mitochondrial toxins due to its impact on ATP metabolism and could therefore be useful to model atypical parkinsonian syndromes.
Oxytocin is a major neuropeptide that modulates the brain functions involved in social behaviour and interaction. Despite of the importance of oxytocin for the neural control of social behaviour, little is known about the molecular mechanism(s) by which oxytocin secretion in the brain is regulated. Pro-oxytocin is synthesised in the cell bodies of hypothalamic neurones in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and processed to a 9-amino-acid mature form during post-Golgi transport to the secretion sites at the axon terminals and somatodendritic regions. Oxytocin secreted from the somatodendritic regions diffuses throughout the hypothalamus and its neighbouring brain regions. Some oxytocin-positive axons innervate and secrete oxytocin to the brain regions distal to the hypothalamus. Brain oxytocin binds to its receptors in the brain regions involved in social behaviour. Oxytocin is also secreted from the axon terminal at the posterior pituitary gland into the blood circulation. We have discovered a new molecular complex consisting of annexin A1 (ANXA1), A-kinase anchor protein 150 (AKAP150) and microtubule motor that controls the distribution of oxytocin vesicles between the axon and the cell body in a protein kinase A (PKA)- and protein kinase C (PKC)-sensitive manner. ANXA1 showed significant co-localisation with oxytocin vesicles. Activation of PKA enhanced the association of kinesin-2 with ANXA1, thus increasing the axon-localisation of oxytocin vesicles. Conversely, activation of PKC decreased the binding of kinesin-2 to ANXA1, thus attenuating the axon-localisation of oxytocin vesicles. The result of the present study suggest that ANXA1 complex coordinates the actions of PKA and PKC to control the distribution of oxytocin vesicles between the axon and the cell body.


JC virus (JCV) is a ubiquitous human polyomavirus that causes the demyelinating disease Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML). JCV replicates in limited cell types in culture, predominantly in human glial cells. Following introduction of a replication defective SV40 mutant that expressed large T protein into a heterogeneous culture of human fetal brain cells, multiple phenotypes became immortalized (SVG cells). A subset of SVG cells could support JCV replication. In the current study, clonal cell lines were selected from the original SVG cell culture. The 5F4 clone showed low levels of viral growth. The 10B1 clone was highly permissive for JCV DNA replication and gene expression and supported persistent and stable JCV infection over months in culture. Microarray analysis revealed that viral infection did not significantly change gene expression in these cells. More resistant 5F4 cells expressed high levels of transcription factors known to inhibit JCV transcription. Interestingly, 5F4 cells expressed high levels of RNA of markers of radial glia and 10B1 cells had high expression of markers of immature glial cells and activation of transcription regulators important for stem/progenitor cell self-renewal. These SVG-derived clonal cell lines provide a biologically relevant model to investigate cell type differences in JCV host range and pathogenesis, as well as neural development. Several transcription regulators were identified which may be targets for therapeutic modulation of expression to abrogate JCV replication in PML patients. Additionally, these clonal cell lines can provide a consistent culture platform for testing therapies against JCV infection of the central nervous system.
Metabolites are biomarkers for a broad range of central nervous system disorders serving as molecular drivers and byproducts of disease pathobiology. However, despite their importance, routine measures of brain tissue metabolomics are not readily available based on the requirements of rapid tissue preservation. They require preservation by microwave irradiation, rapid freezing or other methods designed to reduce post mortem metabolism. Our research on human immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection has highlighted immediate needs to better link histology to neural metabolites. To this end, we investigated such needs in well-studied rodent models. First, the dynamics of brain metabolism during ex vivo tissue preparation was shown by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in normal mice. Second, tissue preservation methodologies were assessed using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and immunohistology to measure metabolites and neural antigens. Third, these methods were applied to two animal models. In the first, immunodeficient mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood lymphocytes then acutely infected with HIV-1. In the second, NOD scid IL2 receptor gamma chain knockout mice were humanized with CD34+ human hematopoietic stem cells and chronically infected with HIV-1. Replicate infected animals were treated with nanoformulated antiretroviral therapy (nanoART). Results from chronic infection showed that microgliosis was associated with increased myoinostitol, choline, phosphocholine concentrations and with decreased creatine concentrations. These changes were partially reversed with nanoART. Metabolite responses were contingent on the animal model. Taken together, these studies integrate brain metabolomics with histopathology towards uncovering putative biomarkers for neuroAIDS.
The diagnosis of a neurological disease of the central nervous system (CNS) is often associated with the anticipation of an irreversible and untreatable disability. This is the case also of multiple sclerosis (MS) where approved treatments effectively modulate the autoimmune attack to myelin antigens, but poorly affect neurodegeneration and do not promote tissue repair. Thus, stem cell-based therapies are increasingly being considered a possible strategy for diseases of the CNS. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), the safety of which has been demonstrated in the last 20years through clinical trials and case studies, are of particular interest in view not only of their neuroprotective, but also of their immunomodulatory properties. Here, we review the therapeutic features of MSC that make them relevant in the treatment of CNS illnesses and discuss the pioneer clinical experience with MSC-based therapy in neurological diseases.

This paper presents the clinical features, investigation results and response to treatment of four cases of primary optic neuropathy in Behet's syndrome, with a comprehensive literature search for all other published cases. A total of 20 cases has been identified; the clinical syndrome is a unilateral or bilateral optic neuropathy of inflammatory type in which pain arises in 20 % and optic disc swelling seen in 45 % of cases. The condition was relapsing in four cases, and a progressive optic neuropathy was seen in one case. All but the progressive case responded to steroids with or without additional immunosuppression. The nadir visual acuity was the only determinant of visual outcome. 67 % of cases reported a return to normal acuity following treatment.




Intracranial fungal infections are unusual and typically described in immunocompromised hosts. The authors describe a rare case of an immunocompetent white man presenting with blindness after Aspergillus fumigatus infection of the ethmoidal air sinus with spread to the orbital apex and the frontal lobe. This was successfully treated by surgical drainage via a frontal craniotomy and long-term antifungal therapy with voriconazole.

Central nervous system spread from prostate cancer is typically associated with raised prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels. The authors describe a unique case of a &quot;collision tumor&quot; of a prostatic metastasis to the pituitary, juxtaposed to a suprasellar meningioma, with normal PSA levels. This case also emphasizes the need to consider prostatic metastasis in the differential diagnosis of a pituitary mass in patients with a known prostatic cancer, despite the normal PSA levels.
Choroid plexus papilloma is a rare benign tumor accounting for 0.5% of all intracranial tumors. The majority of choroid plexus papillomas occur during the first 2 years of life in the ventricular system. Moreover, dense calcification of the tumor is uncommon. We report an adult case of densely calcified, atypical choroid plexus papilloma that originated from the cerebellopontine angle without connection to the forth ventricle. Because the case involves a rare combination of four features-adult, dense calcification, atypical form, and cerebellopontine angle-each characteristic associated with the choroid plexus papilloma was discussed. The finding of calcification at the cerebellopontine angle in an adult should suggest the possible presence of choroid plexus papilloma.
Internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) is a rare disorder of conjugate lateral gaze that has been described in a number of neurologic conditions including multiple sclerosis, stroke and less commonly brain tumors. We describe a series of 3 boys (11, 12, 15 years) diagnosed with primary central nervous system tumors (pilomyxoid variant astrocytoma, anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, gliomatosis cerebri) who developed bilateral INO as a manifestation of progressive disease. Time from diagnosis to development of bilateral INO ranged from 13-36 months. All children died of their disease 1-9 months following diagnosis of bilateral INO and had significant dorsal pontine invasion on magnetic resonance imaging at progression. Only one child had brainstem involvement at diagnosis. Our case series highlights this rare ophthalmologic syndrome of bilateral INO in association with tumor progression and provides a literature review of brain tumor associations with INO.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been implicated in tumorigenesis. Biomolecules which can block EV binding and uptake into recipient cells may be of therapeutic value as well as enhance understanding of EV biology. Here, we show that heparin interacts with uptake of tumor-derived as well as non-tumor-derived EVs into recipient cells. Incubation of glioma cell-derived EVs with heparin resulted in micron-sized structures observed by transmission electron microscopy, with EVs clearly visible within these structures. Inclusion of heparin greatly diminished transfer of labeled EVs from donor to recipient tumor cells. We also show a direct interaction between heparin and EVs using confocal microscopy. We found that the block in EV uptake was at the level of cell binding and not internalization. Finally, incubation of glioma-derived EVs containing EGFRvIII mRNA with heparin reduced transfer of this message to recipient cells. The effect of heparin on EVs uptake may provide a unique tool to study EV function. It may also foster research of heparin or its derivatives as a therapeutic for disease in which EVs play a role.

Truncated tau protein at Asp(421) is associated with neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer disease (AD); however, little is known about its presence in the form of nonfibrillary aggregates. Here, we report immunohistochemical staining of the Tau-C3 antibody, which recognizes Asp(421)-truncated tau, in a group of AD cases with different extents of cognitive impairment. In the hippocampus, we found distinct nonfibrillary aggregates of Asp(421)-truncated tau. Unlike Asp(421)-composed neurofibrillary tangles, however, these nonfibrillary pathologies did not increase significantly with respect to the Braak staging and, therefore, make no significant contribution to cognitive impairment. On the other hand, despite in vitro evidence that caspase-3 cleaves monomeric tau at Asp(421), to date, this truncation has not been demonstrated to be executed by this protease in polymeric tau entities. We determined that Asp(421) truncation can be produced by caspase-3 in oligomeric and multimeric complexes of recombinant full-length tau in isolated native tau filaments in vitro and in situ in neurofibrillary tangles analyzed in fresh brain slices from AD cases. Our data suggest that generation of this pathologic Asp(421) truncation of tau in long-lasting fibrillary structures may produce further permanent toxicity for neurons in the brains of patients with AD.
Traumatic brain injury frequently causes traumatic axonal injury (TAI) in white matter tracts. Experimental TAI in the corpus callosum of adult mice was used to examine the effects on oligodendrocyte lineage cells and myelin in conjunction with neuroimaging. The injury targeted the corpus callosum over the subventricular zone, a source of neural stem/progenitor cells. Traumatic axonal injury was produced in the rostral body of the corpus callosum by impact onto the skull at the bregma. During the first week after injury, magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging showed that axial diffusivity decreased in the corpus callosum and that corresponding regions exhibited significant axon damage accompanied by hypertrophic microglia and reactive astrocytes. Oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation increased in the subventricular zone and corpus callosum. Oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum shifted toward upregulation of myelin gene transcription. Plp/CreER(T):R26IAP reporter mice showed normal reporter labeling of myelin sheaths 0 to 2 days after injury but labeling was increased between 2 and 7 days after injury. Electron microscopy revealed axon degeneration, demyelination, and redundant myelin figures. These findings expand the cell types and responses to white matter injuries that inform diffusion tensor imaging evaluation and identify pivotal white matter changes after TAI that may affect axon vulnerability vs. recovery after brain injury.
In Huntington disease (HD), hypothalamic neuropeptidergic systems are not equally affected at the peptide and mRNA levels. Because prohormone convertases (PCs) are critically involved in the conversion of propeptides into their active forms, we postulated that a decrease in PC expression may underlie these discrepancies. Therefore, we assessed the expression of PC1/3 and PC2 in the hypothalamic infundibular, suprachiasmatic, and paraventricular nuclei in postmortem tissues of HD patients and controls (n = 9, each) using immunocytochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. We also assessed PC1/3 and PC2 mRNA expression in the inferior frontal gyrus and colocalization of both PCs with corticotropin-releasing hormone and -melanocyte-stimulating hormone. In HD patients, PC1/3 and PC2 expression was decreased in the hypothalamic infundibular (both p = 0.046) and paraventricular nuclei (p = 0.031 and p = 0.019). In the suprachiasmatic nucleus, PC1/3 and PC2 expressions were not different between HD and control cases; PC1/3 and PC2 mRNA levels in the inferior frontal gyrus were also not different. None of the PCs was colocalized with corticotropin-releasing hormone, whereas -melanocyte-stimulating hormone showed colocalization with PC1/3 and PC2. These data suggest that defects in the processing of hypothalamic neuropeptides in HD may partially arise from decreased PC1/3 and PC2 expressions. These changes might contribute to selective neuropathology underlying various clinical manifestations and may provide novel therapeutic targets in HD patients.
There is a cholinergic deficit in Parkinson disease (PD) and in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) that plays a role in a variety of clinical symptoms, including visual hallucinations (VH). The aim of this study was to assess cholinergic neuronal loss and PD and Alzheimer disease pathology in the pedunculopontine nucleus pars compacta (PPNc) of PD and DLB patients with VH. Postmortem brainstem tissue samples of 9 clinically diagnosed and pathologically confirmed PD patients with VH, 9 DLB patients with VH, and 9 age- and sex-matched nondemented controls were obtained from the Netherlands Brain Bank. Using a morphometric approach, we estimated the density of cholinergic neurons in the PPNc and determined the local load of -synuclein-immunoreactive Lewy pathology, neurofibrillary tangles, and -amyloid plaques. Cholinergic cell density in the PPNc was significantly lower in PD compared with DLB patients with VH (-39%, p &lt; 0.001) and controls (-41%, p &lt; 0.001). Alpha-synuclein load was higher in PD, whereas -amyloid plaque pathology was more pronounced in DLB patients. The mean cell density in DLB patients was not significantly reduced compared with that in controls. These results may indicate different patterns of degeneration of cholinergic output structures in PD and DLB.
Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) by phosphorylation is thought to mediate anti-inflammatory responses to CNS injury. Several studies have reported an increase in phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3) in peripheral T cells and monocytes from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) during relapses, suggesting that pSTAT3 might represent an inflammatory marker. Here, we examined immunoreactivity for pSTAT3 in brain tissue samples from MS patients and controls. Phosphorylated STAT3 immunoreactivity was sparse within lesions, with no difference between active and inactive lesions. It was, however, significantly greater in white matter (WM) adjacent to active and inactive lesions; moreover, it was significantly greater in WM adjacent to active versus inactive lesions. Phosphorylated STAT3-positive cells were identified as astrocytes and macrophages/microglia. Phosphorylated STAT3 expression was also detected by Western blotting in WM of patients with MS. In comparison, pSTAT3 immunoreactivity was either rare or found focally in brain tissue samples from patients with other neurologic diseases. Our findings show that pSTAT3 does not correlate with inflammatory activity in MS lesions, but that it may play an important role in regulating reactive changes proximal to MS lesions.
D-serine is present in the vertebrate retina and serves as a coagonist for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors of ganglion cells. Although the enzyme D-amino acid oxidase (DAO) has been implicated as a pathway for d-serine degradation, its role in the retina has not been established. In this study, we investigated the role of DAO in regulating D-serine levels using a mutant mouse line deficient in DAO (ddY/DAO(-)) and compared these results with their wild-type counterparts (ddY/DAO(+)). Our results show that DAO is functionally present in the mouse retina and normally serves to reduce the background levels of D-serine. The enzymatic activity of DAO was restricted to the inner plexiform layer as determined by histochemical analysis. Using capillary electrophoresis, we showed that mutant mice had much higher levels of D-serine. Whole cell recordings from identified retinal ganglion cells demonstrated that DAO-deficient animals had light-evoked synaptic activity strongly biased toward a high NMDA-to-AMPA receptor ratio. In contrast, recordings from wild-type ganglion cells showed a more balanced ratio between the two receptor subclasses. Immunostaining for AMPA and NMDA receptors was carried out to compare the two receptor ratios by quantitative immunofluorescence. These studies revealed that the mutant mouse had a significantly higher representation of NMDA receptors compared with the wild-type controls. We conclude that 1) DAO is an important regulatory enzyme and normally functions to reduce D-serine levels in the retina, and 2) D-serine levels play a role in the expression of NMDA receptors and the NMDA-to-AMPA receptor ratio.
Presbycusis (age-related hearing loss) is a prevalent disability associated with aging that impairs spectrotemporal processing, but the mechanisms of such changes remain unclear. The goal of this study was to quantify cortical responses to frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps in a mouse model of presbycusis. Previous studies showed that cortical neurons in young mice are selective for the rate of frequency change in FM sweeps. Here single-unit data on cortical selectivity and response variability to FM sweeps of either direction and different rates (0.08-20 kHz/ms) were compared across young (1-3 mo), middle-aged (6-8 mo), and old (14-20 mo) groups. Three main findings are reported. First, there is a reduction in FM rate selectivity in the old group. Second, there is a slowing of the sweep rates at which neurons likely provide best detection and discrimination of sweep rates. Third, there is an increase in trial-to-trial variability in the magnitude and timing of spikes in response to sweeps. These changes were only observed in neurons that were selective for the fast or intermediate range of sweep rates and not in neurons that preferred slow sweeps or were nonselective. Increased variability of response magnitude, but not changes in temporal fidelity or selectivity, was seen even in the middle-aged group. The results show that spectrotemporal processing becomes slow and noisy with presbycusis in specific types of neurons, suggesting receptive field mechanisms that are altered. These data suggest neural correlates of presbycusis-related reduction in the ability of humans to process rapid spectrotemporal changes.
In animals, sodium- and calcium-mediated persistent inward currents (PICs), which produce long-lasting periods of depolarization under conditions of low synaptic drive, can be activated in trigeminal motoneurons following the application of the monoamine serotonin. Here we examined if PICs are activated in human trigeminal motoneurons during voluntary contractions and under physiological levels of monoaminergic drive (e.g., serotonin and norepinephrine) using a paired motor unit analysis technique. We also examined if PICs activated during voluntary contractions are larger in participants who demonstrate involuntary chewing during sleep (bruxism), which is accompanied by periods of high monoaminergic drive. In control participants, during a slowly increasing and then decreasing isometric contraction, the firing rate of an earlier-recruited masseter motor unit, which served as a measure of synaptic input to a later-recruited test unit, was consistently lower during derecruitment of the test unit compared with at recruitment (F = 4.6  1.5 imp/s). The F, therefore, is a measure of the reduction in synaptic input needed to counteract the depolarization from the PIC to provide an indirect estimate of PIC amplitude. The range of F values measured in the bruxer participants during similar voluntary contractions was the same as in controls, suggesting that abnormally high levels of monoaminergic drive are not continually present in the absence of involuntary motor activity. We also observed a consistent &quot;onion skin effect&quot; during the moderately sized contractions (&lt;20% of maximal), whereby the firing rate of higher threshold motor units discharged at slower rates (by 4-7 imp/s) compared with motor units with relatively lower thresholds. The presence of lower firing rates in the more fatigue-prone, higher threshold trigeminal motoneurons, in addition to the activation of PICs, likely facilitates the activation of the masseter muscle during motor activities such as eating, nonnutritive chewing, clenching, and yawning.
Anesthesia is widely used in medicine and research to achieve altered states of consciousness and cognition. Whereas changes to macroscopic cortical activity patterns by anesthesia measured at the spatial resolution of electroencephalography have been widely studied, modulation of mesoscopic and microscopic network dynamics by anesthesia remain poorly understood. To address this gap in knowledge, we recorded spontaneous mesoscopic (local field potential) and microscopic (multiunit activity) network dynamics in primary visual cortex (V1) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of awake and isoflurane anesthetized ferrets (Mustela putoris furo). This approach allowed for examination of activity as a function of cortical area, cortical layer, and anesthetic depth with much higher spatial and temporal resolution than in previous studies. We hypothesized that a primary sensory area and an association cortical area would exhibit different patterns of network modulation by anesthesia due to their different functional roles. Indeed, we found effects specific to cortical area and cortical layer. V1 exhibited minimal changes in rhythmic structure with anesthesia but differential modulation of input layer IV. In contrast, anesthesia profoundly altered spectral power in PFC, with more uniform modulation across cortical layers. Our results demonstrate that anesthesia modulates spontaneous cortical activity in an area- and layer-specific manner. These finding provide the basis for 1) refining anesthesia monitoring algorithms, 2) reevaluating the large number of systems neuroscience studies performed in anesthetized animals, and 3) increasing our understanding of differential dynamics across cortical layers and areas.
Nervous systems are thought to encode information as patterns of electrical activity distributed sparsely through networks of neurons. These networks then process information by transforming one pattern of electrical activity into another. To store information as a pattern, a neural network must strengthen synapses between designated neurons so that activation of some of these neurons corresponding to some features of an object can spread to activate the larger group representing the complete object. This operation of pattern completion endows a neural network with autoassociative memory. Pattern completion by neural networks has been modeled extensively with computers and invoked in behavioral studies, but experiments have yet to demonstrate pattern completion in an intact neural circuit. In the present study, imaging with voltage-sensitive dye in the CA3 region of a hippocampal slice revealed different spatial patterns of activity elicited by electrical stimulation of different sites. Stimulation of two separate sites individually, or both sites simultaneously, evoked &quot;partial&quot; or &quot;complete&quot; patterns, respectively. A complete pattern was then stored by applying theta burst stimulation to both sites simultaneously to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses between CA3 pyramidal cells. Subsequent stimulation of only one site then activated an extended pattern. Quantitative comparisons between response maps showed that the post-LTP single-site patterns more closely resembled the complete dual-site pattern. Thus, LTP induction enabled the CA3 region to complete a dual-site pattern upon stimulation of only one site. This experiment demonstrated that LTP induction can store information in the CA3 region of the hippocampus for subsequent retrieval.
Tonic inhibition is thought to dampen the excitability of principal neurons; however, little is known about the role of tonic GABAergic inhibition in interneurons and the impact on principal neuron excitability. In many brain regions, tonic GABAergic inhibition is mediated by extrasynaptic, -subunit-containing GABAA receptors (GABAARs). In the present study we demonstrate the importance of GABAAR -subunit-mediated tonic inhibition in interneurons. Selective elimination of the GABAAR -subunit from interneurons was achieved by crossing a novel floxed Gabrd mouse model with GAD65-Cre mice (Gabrd/Gad mice). Deficits in GABAAR -subunit expression in GAD65-positive neurons result in a decrease in tonic GABAergic inhibition and increased excitability of both molecular layer (ML) and stratum radiatum (SR) interneurons. Disinhibition of interneurons results in robust alterations in the neuronal excitability of principal neurons and decreased seizure susceptibility. Gabrd/Gad mice have enhanced tonic and phasic GABAergic inhibition in both CA1 pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus granule cells (DGGCs). Consistent with alterations in hippocampal excitability, CA1 pyramidal neurons and DGGCs from Gabrd/Gad mice exhibit a shift in the input-output relationship toward decreased excitability compared with those from Cre(-/-) littermates. Furthermore, seizure susceptibility, in response to 20 mg/kg kainic acid, is significantly decreased in Gabrd/Gad mice compared with Cre(-/-) controls. These data demonstrate a critical role for GABAAR -subunit-mediated tonic GABAergic inhibition of interneurons on principal neuronal excitability and seizure susceptibility.

It has been shown that amyloid  (A) secretion regulates cholesterol efflux from cells and that the E693 (Osaka) mutation in amyloid precursor protein (APP) promotes intracellular accumulation of A and thus reduces its secretion. These findings led us to speculate that APP with the Osaka mutation (APPOSK ) might have a defect in cholesterol efflux and thus cause cellular malfunction. We therefore examined the effects of this mutation on intracellular cholesterol transport and efflux in cultured cells. Upon cholesterol loading, APPOSK -expressing cells exhibited higher levels of cellular cholesterol than wild-type APP-expressing cells, suggesting impaired cholesterol efflux. It is known that, after its internalization, cholesterol is transported from the endosomes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus and then to the plasma membrane. In APPOSK -expressing cells, cholesterol accumulated with A in the ER and Golgi apparatus and alone in endosomes/lysosomes. These results imply that the mutation-induced disturbance of A trafficking from the ER to the plasma membrane affects cholesterol transport to cause cholesterol accumulation in the ER and Golgi apparatus and, consequently, in endosomes. Furthermore, we detected an enhanced mitochondrial accumulation of A and cholesterol in APPOSK -expressing cells, and this was accompanied by an increase in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The present findings suggest that A trafficking is important for intracellular cholesterol transport and efflux and that the Osaka mutation potentiates cholesterol-dependent exacerbation of intracellular A toxicity, i.e. A-induced ROS generation, by disturbing A-mediated cholesterol efflux from the cell.
The transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) channel is well known as a sensor to environmental irritant compounds, cold, and endogenous proalgesic agents. TRPA1 is expressed on sensory neurons and is involved in pain modulation. Etodolac is a cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor that belongs to the class of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). A recent study indicates that etodolac inhibits allyl isothiocyanate (AITC)-induced calcium influx in heterologous HEK293 cells and sensory neurons. To examine whether and how etodolac modulates the TRPA1 channels, we applied etodolac to TRPA1-transfected HEK293 cells or rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and recorded the currents using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. We found that etodolac at higher doses could activate and then desensitize TRPA1 channels in heterologous expressing HEK293 cells as well as in DRG neurons. The etodolac-induced currents were significantly attenuated in cysteine residues mutated human TRPA1-transfected HEK293 cells. Interestingly, application of etodolac at drug plasma levels in clinical usage did not induce significant TRPA1 currents but reduced the subsequent AITC-induced currents to 25% in HEK293 cells expressing TRPA1. Moreover, no modulatory effect of etodolac on TRPA1 was detected in the cysteine mutant cells. These data indicate a novel mechanism of the anti-inflammatory and analgesic clinical effects of etodolac, which may be involved with its direct activation and the subsequent desensitization of TRPA1 through the covalent modification of cysteine residues.
Ascorbate (vitamin C) is a nonenzymatic antioxidant highly concentrated in the brain. In addition to mediating redox balance, ascorbate is linked to glutamate neurotransmission in the striatum, where it renders neuroprotection against excessive glutamate stimulation. Oxidative stress and glutamatergic overactivity are key biochemical features accompanying the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra that characterizes Parkinson's disease (PD). At present, it is not clear whether antiglutamate agents and ascorbate might be neuroprotective agents for PD. Thus, we tested whether ascorbate can prevent cell death from prolonged exposure to glutamate using dopaminergic neurons of human origin. To this purpose, dopamine-like neurons were obtained by differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells and then cultured for 4 days without antioxidant (antiaging) protection to evaluate glutamate toxicity and ascorbate protection as a model system of potential factors contributing to dopaminergic neuron death in PD. Glutamate dose dependently induced toxicity in dopaminergic cells largely by the stimulation of AMPA and metabotropic receptors and to a lesser extent by N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate receptors. At relatively physiological levels of extracellular concentration, ascorbate protected cells against glutamate excitotoxicity. This neuroprotection apparently relies on the inhibition of oxidative stress, because ascorbate prevented the pro-oxidant action of the scavenging molecule quercetin, which occurred over the course of prolonged exposure, as is also seen with glutamate. Our findings show the relevance of ascorbate as a neuroprotective agent and emphasize an often underappreciated role of oxidative stress in glutamate excitotoxicity. Occurrence of a glutamate-ascorbate link in dopaminergic neurons may explain previous contradictions regarding their putative role in PD.




The clinical manifestations that occur after traumatic brain injury (TBI) include a wide range of cognitive, emotional, and behavioral deficits. The loss of excitatory synapses could potentially explain why such diverse symptoms occur after TBI, and a recent preclinical study has demonstrated a loss of dendritic spines, the postsynaptic site of the excitatory synapse, after fluid percussion injury. The objective of this study was to determine if controlled cortical impact (CCI) also resulted in dendritic spine retraction and to probe the underlying mechanisms of this spine loss. We used a unilateral CCI and visualized neurons and dendtritic spines at 24 h post-injury using Golgi stain. We found that TBI caused a 32% reduction of dendritic spines in layer II/III of the ipsilateral cortex and a 20% reduction in the dendritic spines of the ipsilateral dentate gyrus. Spine loss was not restricted to the ipsilateral hemisphere, however, with similar reductions in spine numbers recorded in the contralateral cortex (25% reduction) and hippocampus (23% reduction). Amyloid- (A), a neurotoxic peptide commonly associated with Alzheimer disease, accumulates rapidly after TBI and is also known to cause synaptic loss. To determine if A contributes to spine loss after brain injury, we administered a -secretase inhibitor LY450139 after TBI. We found that while LY450139 administration could attenuate the TBI-induced increase in A, it had no effect on dendritic spine loss after TBI. We conclude that the acute, global loss of dendritic spines after TBI is independent of -secretase activity or TBI-induced A accumulation.
Acute seizures frequently occur following severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and have been associated with poor patient prognosis. Silent or nonconvulsive seizures (NCS) manifest in the absence of motor convulsion, can only be detected via continuous electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings, and are often unidentified and untreated. Identification of effective anti-epileptic drugs (AED) against post-traumatic NCS remains crucial to improve neurological outcome. Here, we assessed the anti-seizure profile of ethosuximide (ETX, 12.5-187.5 mg/kg) and phenytoin (PHT, 5-30 mg/kg) in a spontaneously occurring NCS model associated with penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI). Rats were divided between two drug cohorts, PHT or ETX, and randomly assigned to one of four doses or vehicle within each cohort. Following PBBI, NCS were detected by continuous EEG monitoring for 72 h post-injury. Drug efficacy was evaluated on NCS parameters of incidence, frequency, episode duration, total duration, and onset latency. Both PHT and ETX attenuated NCS in a dose-dependent manner. In vehicle-treated animals, 69-73% experienced NCS (averaging 9-10 episodes/rat) with average onset of NCS occurring at 30 h post-injury. Compared with control treatment, the two highest PHT and ETX doses significantly reduced NCS incidence to 13-40%, reduced NCS frequency (1.8-6.2 episodes/rat), and delayed seizure onset: &lt;20% of treated animals exhibited NCS within the first 48 h. NCS durations were also dose-dependently mitigated. For the first time, we demonstrate that ETX and PHT are effective against spontaneously occurring NCS following PBBI, and suggest that these AEDs may be effective at treating post-traumatic NCS.
The complement system plays an important role in the inflammatory response activated by many central nervous system disorders. However, its significance in traumatic diffuse traumatic axonal injury (TAI) is not fully known. Here we analyze the complement activity in two rat models of traumatic brain injury (TBI); a focal penetration injury (pen-TBI) and a rotational acceleration injury (rot-TBI) that leads to a mild TAI. We used in situ hybridization to examine the distribution of mRNA for C1q and C3 and immunohistochemistry to examine the presence of the C3 protein and C5b-9 complex at 1-5 days after injury. We found a time-dependent complement activity in both models. However, the responses caused by the two models were different. We detected C5b-9 surrounding the cavity in pen-TBI, but C5b-9 was not found in the rot-TBI. Our findings suggest that the terminal complement pathway is progressed to the formation of the C5b-9 membrane attack complex only in the penetrating TBI but not in isolated TAI model. This indicates that the complement activation does not lead to membrane-damaging effects and a subsequent secondary axotomy in TAI by the terminal complex C5b-9. The role of complement activation in TAI is unclear, but might indicate an alternative function following rot-TBI, such as opsonizing the synapses for elimination.
The introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy significantly reduced the prevalence of the most severe form of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). Despite this decline, 35-70 % of HIV-infected patients continue to develop mild motor and cognitive impairments. Although neuropsychological studies have shown that HAND affects a wide array of cognitive functions, a formal diagnosis is still based on the exclusion of opportunistic infections and other common ailments, as no specific tests or biomarkers are currently available. In this study, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to measure neural activity during the resting-state in 15 HIV-infected older patients and a demographically matched group of 15 uninfected controls. MEG is a noninvasive and direct measure of neural activity with excellent spatiotemporal resolution. All MEG data were coregistered to structural magnetic resonance images, corrected for head motion, fitted to a regional-level source model, and subjected to spectral analyses to quantify population-level neural oscillatory activity. We found that HIV-infected persons exhibited decreased beta oscillations in the supplementary motor area bilaterally, paracentral lobule, posterior cingulate, and bilateral regions of the superior parietal lobule relative to healthy controls. Beta oscillations in the posterior cingulate, a critical component of the default mode network, were also positively correlated with patient scores on the memory recall aspect of the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised. These results demonstrate that chronic HIV infection does not uniformly disturb cortical function, and that neuronal populations in dorsomedial motor and parietal cortices are especially affected. These findings also suggest that resting-state MEG recordings may hold significant promise as a functional biomarker for identifying HAND and monitoring disease progression.

Abstract available from the publisher.



The role of carpal tunnel decompression surgery for patients that have hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsy (HNPP) is currently unknown. Since recovery from carpal tunnel compression is often associated with remyelination or nodal reconstruction rather than axonal regeneration, it is uncertain whether the PMP22 deletion associated with HNPP interrupts myelin or nodal reconstitution. We describe two patients with genetically confirmed HNPP and symptomatic carpal tunnel syndrome that had clinical and electrophysiological improvement after surgical decompression. The findings indicate a capacity for conduction repair in HNPP. They also suggest a need for further investigation and discussion around whether to offer carpal tunnel decompression to symptomatic HNPP patients.
Psychotherapy is a complex, multilayered process with the potential to bring about changes at multiple levels of functioning, from the neurobiology of the brain to the individual's role in the social world. Although studies of the mechanisms by which psychotherapy leads to change continue to appear, there remains much to be learned about how psychological interventions work. To guide explorations of how and for whom particular treatment approaches lead to change, researchers can rely on theory to identify potential loci for change and on translational research methods to integrate basic behavioral science and neuroscience with clinical science. In this article, we describe research linking individual differences in the self-regulation of personal goal pursuit with the etiology and treatment of mood disorders. The research draws upon regulatory focus theory as a model of self-regulation and on microintervention designs-controlled laboratory investigations of a specific therapeutic technique-to generate and test hypotheses about how psychological interventions can help to reverse maladaptive self-regulatory processes.
Twenty-two neuroleptic drugs were studied for interaction with the behavior induced by intravenous injection of apomorphine in rats. All compounds dose-dependently shortened the duration of the apomorphine-induced agitation and-with the exception of clozapine-shortened the onset of the de-arousal grooming that typically occurs immediately after the agitation phase has been terminated. Progressively higher doses were required to antagonize higher levels of apomorphine at earlier time intervals after the intravenous injection. The compounds also decreased palpebral opening, and most of them suppressed grooming behavior at higher doses. Compounds differed considerably in dose increments required for: 1) suppression of grooming, from 0.33 for clozapine to &gt;600 for remoxipride, raclopride, and droperidol; 2) blockade of agitation at 5 minutes after apomorphine, from 2.6 for pimozide to 165 for chlorprothixene and 254 for remoxipride; 3) mild decrease of palpebral opening, from 0.21 for sertindole to 191 for remoxipride; and 4) pronounced decrease of palpebral opening, from 10 for melperone to &gt;820 for raclopride. Only four compounds were able to advance grooming to 15 minutes postapomorphine, but again dose increments varied considerably: droperidol (3.4), pimozide (9.1), raclopride (42), and remoxipride (383). Based on these results obtained in a single animal model, compounds were differentiated in terms of behavioral specificity, incisiveness (the power to counteract the effects of progressively higher apomorphine concentrations), and sedative side-effect liability. Possible explanations for the observed differences and clinical relevance are discussed.
Inhibitors of dopamine -hydroxylase (DBH), the enzyme that converts dopamine (DA) to norepinephrine (NE) in noradrenergic cells, have shown promise for the treatment of cocaine abuse disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of these compounds have not been fully elucidated. We used the drug discrimination paradigm to determine the impact of DBH inhibitors on the interoceptive stimulus properties of cocaine. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to discriminate cocaine (5.6 mg/kg) from saline using a multicomponent, food-reinforced discrimination procedure. On test days, subjects were pretreated with the nonselective DBH inhibitor disulfiram (0-100.0 mg/kg i.p.) or the selective DBH inhibitor nepicastat (0-56.0 mg/kg i.p.) 2 hours prior to a test session either alone or in combination with cumulatively administered cocaine (0-5.6 mg/kg i.p.). Neither disulfiram nor nepicastat substituted for the cocaine stimulus when tested up to doses that nonspecifically reduced responding. However, in combination studies, pretreatment with either disulfiram or nepicastat produced leftward shifts in the cocaine dose-response function and also conferred cocaine-like stimulus effects to the selective NE transporter inhibitor, reboxetine (0.3-5.6 mg/kg i.p.). These results indicate that pharmacological inhibition of DBH does not produce cocaine-like interoceptive stimulus effects alone, but functionally enhances the interoceptive stimulus effects of cocaine, possibly due to facilitated increases in DA released from noradrenergic terminals. These findings suggest that DBH inhibitors have low abuse liability and provide support to clinical reports that some subjective effects produced by cocaine, particularly aversive effects, are enhanced after DBH inhibition.
Nicotine metabolism is believed to affect not only nicotine's pharmacological effects but also nicotine addiction. As a key step toward testing this hypothesis, we have studied nicotine metabolism and nicotine's pharmacological and behavioral effects in a novel knockout mouse model [named Cyp2a(4/5)bgs-null] lacking a number of cytochrome P450 genes known to be or possibly involved in nicotine metabolism, including two Cyp2a and all Cyp2b genes. We found that, compared with wild-type mice, the Cyp2a(4/5)bgs-null mice showed &gt;90% decreases in hepatic microsomal nicotine oxidase activity in vitro, and in rates of systemic nicotine clearance in vivo. Further comparisons of nicotine metabolism between Cyp2a(4/5)bgs-null and Cyp2a5-null mice revealed significant roles of both CYP2A5 and CYP2B enzymes in nicotine clearance. Compared with the behavioral responses in wild-type mice, the decreases in nicotine metabolism in the Cyp2a(4/5)bgs-null mice led to prolonged nicotine-induced acute pharmacological effects, in that null mice showed enhanced nicotine hypothermia and antinociception. Furthermore, we found that the Cyp2a(4/5)bgs-null mice developed a preference for nicotine in a conditioned place preference test, a commonly used test of nicotine's rewarding effects, at a nicotine dose that was 4-fold lower than what was required by wild-type mice. Thus, CYP2A/2B-catalyzed nicotine clearance affects nicotine's behavioral response as well as its acute pharmacological effects in mice. This result provides direct experimental support of the findings of pharmacogenetic studies that suggest linkage between rates of nicotine metabolism and smoking behavior in humans.
Spinal administration of opioid and 2-adrenergic receptor (2AR) agonists produces analgesia, and agonists interact synergistically when coadministered. The molecular mechanism underlying this synergy is largely unknown. Pharmacological studies have identified both the delta and the mu-opioid receptors (DOR and MOR) as candidate receptors capable of interacting synergistically with 2AR agonists. However, recent studies attribute the antinociceptive effect of DOR agonists to actions at the MOR, calling the role of DOR in opioid-adrenergic synergy into question. Other studies suggesting that DOR is implicated in morphine antinociception raise the possibility that DOR is nonetheless required for morphine synergy with 2AR agonists. This study aimed to determine whether DOR activation is sufficient and necessary to mediate opioid-adrenergic synergistic interactions in the spinal cord. The antinociceptive effects of clonidine, [D-Ala(2)]-deltorphin II (DeltII), morphine, and [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO) were evaluated using the substance P (SP) behavioral assay in wild type (WT) and DOR-knockout (KO) mice. Opioid-adrenergic drug interactions were evaluated after spinal coadministration of clonidine with DeltII, morphine, or DAMGO. Isobolographic analyses of dose-response curves determined whether interactions were synergistic or additive. The absence of DeltII antinociceptive efficacy in DOR-KO confirmed its selectivity in the SP assay. Although DeltII+clonidine interacted synergistically in WT mice, no interaction with clonidine was observed in DOR-KO mice. Clonidine was synergistic with morphine in both mouse strains. DAMGO did not synergize with clonidine in either strain. These findings confirm that although other opioid receptors can interact synergistically with 2AR agonists, DOR is sufficient for spinal opioid-adrenergic interactions.
The glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptors (AMPARs) are critically involved in the excitatory synaptic transmission, and blocking AMPARs at the spinal level reverses neuropathic pain. However, little is known about changes in the composition of synaptic AMPARs in the spinal dorsal horn after peripheral nerve injury. AMPARs lacking the GluA2 subunit are permeable to Ca(2+), and their currents show unique inward rectification. We found that AMPAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (AMPAR-EPSCs) of spinal dorsal horn neurons exhibited a linear current-voltage relationship in control rats, whereas AMPAR-EPSCs of dorsal horn neurons displayed inward rectification in rats with spinal nerve injury. In nerve-injured rats, compared with control rats, the GluA2 protein level was significantly less in the plasma membrane but was greater in the cytosolic vesicle fraction in the dorsal spinal cord. However, the GluA1 protein levels in these fractions did not differ significantly between nerve-injured and control rats. Blocking N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) abolished inward rectification of AMPAR-EPSCs of dorsal horn neurons in nerve-injured rats. Furthermore, inhibition of calpain or calcineurin, but not protein kinase C, completely blocked nerve injury-induced inward rectification of AMPAR-EPSCs of dorsal horn neurons. In addition, blocking GluA2-lacking AMPARs at the spinal cord level reduced nerve injury-induced pain hypersensitivity. Our study suggests that nerve injury increases GluA2 internalization and the prevalence of GluA2-lacking AMPARs in the spinal dorsal horn to maintain chronic neuropathic pain. Increased prevalence of spinal GluA2-lacking AMPARs in neuropathic pain is mediated by NMDARs and subsequent stimulation of calpain and calcineurin signaling.
The major source of serotonin (5-HT) in the body is the enterochromaffin (EC) cells lining the intestinal mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract. Despite the fact that EC cells synthesise 95% of total body 5-HT, and that this 5-HT has important paracrine and endocrine roles, no studies have investigated the mechanisms of 5-HT release from single primary EC cells. We have developed a rapid primary culture of guinea-pig and human EC cells, allowing analysis of single EC cell function using electrophysiology, electrochemistry, Ca(2+) imaging, immunocytochemistry and 3D modelling. Ca(2+) enters EC cells upon stimulation and triggers quantal 5-HT release via L-type Ca(2+) channels. Real time amperometric techniques reveal that EC cells release 5-HT at rest and this release increases upon stimulation. Surprisingly for an endocrine cell storing 5-HT in large dense core vesicles (LDCVs), EC cells release 70 times less 5-HT per fusion event than catecholamine released from similarly sized LDCVs in endocrine chromaffin cells, and the vesicle release kinetics instead resembles that observed in mammalian synapses. Furthermore, we measured EC cell density along the gastrointestinal tract to create three-dimensional (3D) simulations of 5-HT diffusion using the minimal number of variables required to understand the physiological relevance of single cell 5-HT release in the whole-tissue milieu. These models indicate that local 5-HT levels are likely to be maintained around the activation threshold for mucosal 5-HT receptors and that this is dependent upon stimulation and location within the gastrointestinal tract. This is the first study demonstrating single cell 5-HT release in primary EC cells. The mode of 5-HT release may represent a unique mode of exocytosis amongst endocrine cells and is functionally relevant to gastrointestinal sensory and motor function.
Recent studies have suggested that centrally generated motor commands contribute to the perception of position and movement at the wrist, but not at the elbow. Because the wrist and elbow experiments used different methods, this study was designed to resolve the discrepancy. Two methods were used to test both the elbow and wrist (20 subjects each). For the wrist, subjects sat with their right arm strapped to a device that restricted movement to the wrist. Before each test, voluntary contraction of wrist flexor or extensor muscles controlled for muscle spindle thixotropy. After relaxation, the wrist was moved to a test angle. Position was indicated either with a pointer, or by matching with the contralateral wrist, under two conditions: when the reference wrist was relaxed or when its muscles were contracted isometrically (30% maximum). The elbow experiment used the same design to measure position sense in the passive elbow and with elbow muscles contracting (30% maximum). At the wrist when using a pointer, muscle contraction altered significantly the perceived wrist angle in the direction of contraction by 7 deg [3 deg, 12 deg] (mean [95% confidence interval]) with a flexor contraction and 8 deg [4 deg, 12 deg] with an extensor contraction. Similarly, in the wrist matching task, there was a change of 13 deg [9 deg, 16 deg] with a flexor contraction and 4 deg [1 deg, 8 deg] with an extensor contraction. In contrast, contraction of elbow flexors or extensors did not alter significantly the perceived position of the elbow, compared with rest. The contribution of central commands to position sense differs between the elbow and the wrist.
The role of prefrontal dopamine D1 receptors in prefrontal cortex (PFC) functions, including working memory, is widely investigated. However, human (healthy volunteers and schizophrenia patients) positron emission tomography (PET) studies about the relationship between prefrontal D1 receptors and PFC functions are somewhat inconsistent. We argued that several factors including an inverted U-shaped relationship between prefrontal D1 receptors and PFC functions might be responsible for these inconsistencies. In contrast to D1 receptors, relatively less attention has been paid to the role of D2 receptors in PFC functions. Several animal and human pharmacological studies have reported that the systemic administration of D2 receptor agonist/antagonist modulates PFC functions, although those studies do not tell us which region(s) is responsible for the effect. Furthermore, while prefrontal D1 receptors are primarily involved in working memory, other PFC functions such as set-shifting seem to be differentially modulated by dopamine. PET studies of extrastriatal D2 receptors including ours suggested that orchestration of prefrontal dopamine transmission and hippocampal dopamine transmission might be necessary for a broad range of normal PFC functions. In order to understand the complex effects of dopamine signaling on PFC functions, measuring a single index related to basic dopamine tone is not sufficient. For a better understanding of the meanings of PET indices related to neurotransmitters, comprehensive information (presynaptic, postsynaptic, and beyond receptor signaling) will be required. Still, an interdisciplinary approach combining molecular imaging techniques with cognitive neuroscience and clinical psychiatry will provide new perspectives for understanding the neurobiology of neuropsychiatric disorders and their innovative drug developments.
Microelectrode recordings of cortical activity in primates performing working memory tasks reveal some cortical neurons exhibiting sustained or graded persistent elevations in firing rate during the period in which sensory information is actively maintained in short-term memory. These neurons are called &quot;memory cells&quot;. Imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies indicate that memory cells may arise from distributed cortical networks. Depending on the sensory modality of the memorandum in working memory tasks, neurons exhibiting memory-correlated patterns of firing have been detected in different association cortices including prefrontal cortex, and primary sensory cortices as well. Here we elaborate on neurophysiological experiments that lead to our understanding of the neuromechanisms of working memory, and mainly discuss findings on widely distributed cortical networks involved in tactile working memory.
Native speakers of languages with transparent gender systems can use gender cues to anticipate upcoming words. To examine whether this also holds true for a non-transparent two-way gender system, i.e. Dutch, eye movements were monitored as participants followed spoken instructions to click on one of four displayed items on a screen (e.g., Klik op [Formula: see text] rode appel [Formula: see text], 'Click on the[Formula: see text] red apple[Formula: see text]'). The items contained the target, a colour- and/or gender-matching competitor, and two unrelated distractors. A mixed-effects regression analysis revealed that the presence of a colour-matching and/or gender-matching competitor significantly slowed the process of finding the target. The gender effect, however, was only observed for common nouns, reflecting the fact that neuter gender-marking cannot disambiguate as all Dutch nouns become neuter when used as diminutives. The gender effect for common nouns occurred before noun onset, suggesting that gender information is, at least partially, activated automatically before encountering the noun.
The purpose of this study was to explore possible cerebral asymmetries in the processing of decomposable and nondecomposable idioms by fluent nonnative speakers of English. In the study, native language (Polish) and foreign language (English) decomposable and nondecomposable idioms were embedded in ambiguous (neutral) and unambiguous (biasing figurative meaning) context and presented centrally, followed by laterally presented target words related to the figurative meaning of the idiom or literal meaning of the last word of the idiom. The target appeared either immediately at sentence offset (Experiment 1), or 400 ms (Experiment 2) after sentence offset. Results are inconsistent with the Idiom Decomposition Hypothesis (Gibbs et al. in Mem Cogn 17:58-68, 1989a; J Mem Lang 28:576-593, 1989b) and only partially consistent with the idea of the differential cerebral involvement in processing (non)decomposable idioms [the Fine/Coarse Coding Theory, Beeman (Right hemisphere language comprehension: perspectives from cognitive neuroscience, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, 1998)]. A number of factors, rather than compositionality per se, emerge as crucial in determining idiom processing, such as language status (native vs. nonnative), salience, or context.
In this brief reflection I outline how Fred Graeff and I came to integrate our ideas and findings concerning the behavioural functions of serotonin (5-HT) over 20 years ago in '5-HT and mechanisms of defence', reproduced in this volume (pp. 000-000). The principal insight was that different 5-HT pathways mediate distinct adaptive responses to aversive events of different types. It emerged from a number of strands in neuropsychopharmacology: the functional implications of the still-fresh images of monoamine neuroanatomy of the 1970s; the ethological differentiation of behavioural responses to proximal and distal threats; and the seemingly contradictory effects of 5-HT drugs in unconditioned, Pavlovian and instrumental paradigms of reward and aversion. The article has been cited over 600 times and continues to be cited. The evidence was mainly from the animal literature but included some experimental psychopharmacological tests in humans. Some more recent and notable human corroborations are highlighted in this perspective.
Over 20 years ago, Deakin and Graeff hypothesized about the role of different serotonergic pathways in controlling the behavioral and physiologic responses to aversive stimuli, and how compromise of these pathways could lead to specific symptoms of anxiety and affective disorders. A growing body of evidence suggests these serotonergic pathways arise from topographically organized subpopulations of serotonergic neurons located in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. We argue that serotonergic neurons in the dorsal/caudal parts of the dorsal raphe nucleus project to forebrain limbic regions involved in stress/conflict anxiety-related processes, which may be relevant for anxiety and affective disorders. Serotonergic neurons in the &quot;lateral wings&quot; of the dorsal raphe nucleus provide inhibitory control over structures controlling fight-or-flight responses. Dysfunction of this pathway could be relevant for panic disorder. Finally, serotonergic neurons in the median raphe nucleus, and the developmentally and functionally-related interfascicular part of the dorsal raphe nucleus, give rise to forebrain limbic projections that are involved in tolerance and coping with aversive stimuli, which could be important for affective disorders like depression. Elucidating the mechanisms through which stress activates these topographically and functionally distinct serotonergic pathways, and how dysfunction of these pathways leads to symptoms of neuropsychiatric disorders, may lead to the development of novel approaches to both the prevention and treatment of anxiety and affective disorders.
This study measured the effects of the preferential 5-HT1D/1B receptor agonist sumatriptan in healthy volunteers who performed the Simulated Public Speaking Test (SPST), which recruits the neural network involved in panic disorder and social anxiety disorder. In a double-blind, randomised experiment, 36 males received placebo (12), 50 mg (12) or 100 mg (12) of sumatriptan 2 h before the SPST. Subjective, physiological and hormonal measures were taken before, during and after the test. The dose of 100 mg of sumatriptan increased speech-induced fear more than either a 50mg dose of the drug or placebo. The largest dose of sumatriptan also enhanced vigilance more than placebo, without any change in blood pressure, heart rate or electrical skin conductance. Sumatriptan decreased plasma levels of prolactin. A significant but moderate increase in plasma cortisol after SPST occurred, independent of treatment. Because sumatriptan decreases 5-HT release into the extracellular space, the potentiation of SPST-induced fear caused by the drug supports the hypothesis that 5-HT attenuates this emotional state. As acute administration of antidepressants has also been shown to enhance speaking fear and increase plasma prolactin, in contrast to sumatriptan, the 5-HT regulation of stress-hormone release is likely to be different from that of emotion.

This study examined the social cognitions of outsiders and defenders about intervening in situations of victimization by bullying. Do outsiders and defenders behave differently in victimization situations because of differences in competence beliefs, or because of a selectivity effect in intervening? These issues were examined in a sample of 102 outsiders and 107 defenders who were classified into these bullying roles through a peer-nomination procedure out of a total sample of 761 10- to 14-year-old Dutch children. These children were presented with imaginary victimization events. They answered questions about their cognitions and self-efficacy beliefs about intervening in victimization situations and about handling such situations. Outsiders, compared to defenders, claimed to intervene indirectly in victimization situations rather than directly. Defenders, compared to outsiders, claimed to intervene directly in victimization situations rather than indirectly. Both outsiders and defenders claimed to be more likely to intervene when a friend was being victimized than when a neutral classmate was being victimized. Outsiders and defenders did not differ in their self-efficacy for indirect intervention, but only defenders claimed a high self-efficacy for direct intervention. Both outsiders and defenders claimed to benefit from direct help when they themselves are victimized, but only outsiders also reported to need indirect help. The results suggest that outsiders and defenders behave differently in victimization situations because of differences in competence beliefs rather than because of a selectivity effect. More generally, the results suggest that not only defenders but also outsiders have the intention to help children who are being bullied. However, outsiders' anti-bullying attempts are likely to be indirect and less firm than those of defenders.

Sleep unbinds memories from their emotional learning context, protecting them from emotional interference due to a change of mood between learning and recall. According to the 'sleep to forget and sleep to remember' model, emotional unbinding takes place during rapid eye movement sleep. To test this hypothesis, we investigated emotional contextual interference effects after early versus late post-learning sleep periods, in which slow wave and rapid eye movement sleep, respectively, predominate. Participants learned a list of neutral word pairs after induction of a happy or a sad mood, then slept immediately afterwards for 3h of early or late sleep under polysomnographic recording, in a within-subject counterbalanced design. They slept for 3h before learning in the late sleep condition. Polysomnographic data confirmed more rapid eye movement sleep in the late than in the early sleep condition. After awakening, half the list was recalled after induction of a similar mood than during the encoding session (non-interference condition), and the other half of the list was recalled after induction of a different mood (interference condition). The results disclosed an emotional interference effect on recall both in the early and late sleep conditions, which does not corroborate the hypothesis of a rapid eye movement sleep-related protection of recent memories from emotional contextual interference. Alternatively, the contextual demodulation process initiated during the first post-learning night might need several consecutive nights of sleep to be achieved.













Network-based analysis of structural and functional connections has provided a new technique to study the brains of healthy people and patients with neurological and psychiatric disorders. Graph theory provides a powerful method to quantitatively describe the topological organisation of brain connectivity. With such a framework, the brain can be depicted as a set of nodes connected by edges. Distinct modifications of network topological organisation in the brain have been identified during development and normal ageing, whereas disrupted functional and structural connectivities have been associated with several neurological and psychiatric disorders, including dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and schizophrenia. These assessments have improved understanding of the clinical manifestations noted in these patients, including disability and cognitive impairment. Future network-based research might enable indentification of different stages of disorders, subtypes for cognitive impairment, and connectivity profiles associated with different clinical outcomes.


The single diffusion tensor model is inadequate for the reconstruction of fiber pathways in brain regions with multiple fiber orientations. To overcome this limitation, constrained spherical deconvolution has been proposed. A high reliability of constrained spherical deconvolution is, however, a pre-requisite for its use in clinical applications. Reliability of reconstructed fiber pathways can be assessed in terms of architectural (addressing their spatial configuration) and microstructural (addressing diffusion-derived measures along the fibers) reproducibility. We assess the reliability for two clinically relevant fiber pathways: the corticospinal tract and arcuate fasciculus. The fiber pathways were reconstructed using constrained spherical deconvolution in 11 healthy subjects who were scanned on three occasions. Coefficients of variations of diffusion-derived measures were used to assess the microstructural reproducibility. Image correlation and fiber overlap were used to assess the architectural reproducibility. The mean correlation between sessions was 72% for both the corticospinal tract and arcuate fasciculus. The mean overlap between sessions was 63% for the corticospinal tract and 58% for the arcuate fasciculus. Coefficients of variations of diffusion-derived measures showed very low variation (all measures &lt;3.1%). These results are comparable with reliability results based on the diffusion tensor model, which is commonly used in clinical settings. The reliability results found here are, therefore, promising to further investigate the use of constrained spherical deconvolution in clinical practice.

The brain is a functionally complex organ, the patterning and development of which are key to adult health. To help elucidate the genetic networks underlying mammalian brain patterning, we conducted detailed transcriptional profiling during embryonic development of the mouse brain. A total of 2,400 genes were identified as showing differential expression between three developmental stages. Analysis of the data identified nine gene clusters to demonstrate analogous expression profiles. A significant group of novel genes of as yet undiscovered biological function were detected as being potentially relevant to brain development and function, in addition to genes that have previously identified roles in the brain. Furthermore, analysis for genes that display asymmetric expression between the left and right brain hemispheres during development revealed 35 genes as putatively asymmetric from a combined data set. Our data constitute a valuable new resource for neuroscience and neurodevelopment, exposing possible functional associations between genes, including novel loci, and encouraging their further investigation in human neurological and behavioural disorders.
The diagnosis of entrapment neuropathies can be difficult because symptoms and signs often do not follow textbook descriptions and vary significantly between patients with the same diagnosis. Signs and symptoms which spread outside of the innervation territory of the affected nerve or nerve root are common. This Masterclass provides insight into relevant mechanisms that may account for this extraterritorial spread in patients with entrapment neuropathies, with an emphasis on neuroinflammation at the level of the dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord, as well as changes in subcortical and cortical regions. Furthermore, we describe how clinical tests and technical investigations may identify these mechanisms if interpreted in the context of gain or loss of function. The management of neuropathies also remains challenging. Common treatment strategies such as joint mobilisation, neurodynamic exercises, education, and medications are discussed in terms of their potential to influence certain mechanisms at the site of nerve injury or in the central nervous system. The mechanism-oriented approach for this Masterclass seems warranted given the limitations in the current evidence for the diagnosis and management of entrapment neuropathies.
The epidemiological dimension of mental health problems in childhood and its impact warrant new studies. Knowledge about the predictors of mental health in children is scant in developing countries. The present study estimated the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in Brazilian school-age children based on a community sample from primary health care services, with the aim of verifying the predictive value of biological, social, and familial risk factors in children's mental health. The study was performed with 120 children of both genders identified through their mothers. The children's mental health was evaluated by sociodemographic factors and a diagnostic interview conducted with parents. Biological, social, and familial risk factors were evaluated by the Supplemental Questionnaire and Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition. Of the 120 children, 45.8 % were diagnosed with at least one mental health disorder. Children with diagnoses of depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder presented evidence of greater exposure to risk factors compared with children without these psychiatric diagnoses. Children with more risk factors throughout their lifetime had greater comorbidities compared with children with a lower number of risk factors. The identification of groups exposed to interconnected risk factors represents a priority when planning mental health practices. The strong role of chronic familial risk factors needs to be emphasized because they are a possible target for the prevention of depressive and anxiety disorders.
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a lifelong and recurrent illness, such that many individuals require multiple courses of antidepressant medication treatment. While some patients respond completely to each course of treatment, many do not, and with each unsuccessful antidepressant trial the likelihood that a patient will respond decreases. This raises the possibility that neurophysiologic response in subsequent antidepressant treatment may be influenced by learning processes including sensitization, habituation, and/or classical conditioning. Classical conditioning would entail the association of cues such as pill-taking (conditioned stimuli; CS) with the effects of active medication (unconditioned stimulus; US), such that later presentation of the CS alone would come to elicit a conditioned response (CR). Such effects could be revealed by blinded administration of placebo following a period of treatment with active medication. Habituation effects (tolerance), or sensitization effects (increased response), which require only repeated exposure to a stimulus, might be evidenced after repeated courses of antidepressant treatment. Knowledge of how learning processes impact neurophysiologic response to successive courses of antidepressant treatment would have relevance for clinical populations. Specific hypotheses, however, may be tested in healthy non-clinical samples to avoid potential confounding factors related to severity or chronicity of illness. Learning theories would suggest two hypotheses: (1) neurophysiologic response to placebo will differ between subjects who were previously treated with antidepressant treatment as compared to placebo (classical conditioning hypothesis); and (2) neurophysiologic response to an initial course of antidepressant treatment will differ from response to a repeated course of antidepressant treatment. Pilot data addressed these hypotheses in healthy never-depressed women who had previously received four weeks of venlafaxine IR, 150 mg (antidepressant-experienced subjects; n=2) or matching placebo (antidepressant-naive subjects; n=4) under double-blind conditions. Six-and-a-half years later, we treated these six women with placebo for one week, followed by four weeks of double-blind treatment with venlafaxine IR, 150 mg. Brain functional changes over the course of treatment were assessed using quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) to compare prefrontal neurophysiologic responses between subjects who had, versus had not, previously been exposed to venlafaxine. Antidepressant-experienced versus antidepressant-naive subjects showed greater decreases in prefrontal cordance (PFC) during venlafaxine administration (sensitization hypothesis) but did not show significantly different PFC changes during treatment with placebo in this small pilot sample (classical conditioning hypothesis). Data suggest that brief treatment with antidepressant medication may have an enduring impact on neurophysiologic responses to a subsequent course of antidepressant treatment. Hypotheses should be tested in larger samples.
Angiographic methods can provide valuable information on vessel morphology and hemodynamics, but are often qualitative in nature, somewhat limiting their ability for comparison across arteries and subjects. In this work we present a method for quantifying absolute blood volume flow rates within large vessels using dynamic angiographic data. First, a kinetic model incorporating relative blood volume, bolus dispersion and signal attenuation is fitted to the data. A self-calibration method is also described for both 2D and 3D data sets to convert the relative blood volume parameter into absolute units. The parameter values are then used to simulate the signal arising from a very short bolus, in the absence of signal attenuation, which can be readily encompassed within a vessel mask of interest. The volume flow rate can then be determined by calculating the resultant blood volume within the vessel mask divided by the simulated bolus duration. This method is applied to non-contrast magnetic resonance imaging data from a flow phantom and also to the cerebral arteries of healthy volunteers acquired using a 2D vessel-encoded pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling pulse sequence. This allows the quantitative flow contribution in downstream vessels to be determined from each major brain-feeding artery. Excellent agreement was found between the actual and estimated flow rates in the phantom, particularly below 4.5 ml/s, typical of the cerebral vasculature. Flow rates measured in healthy volunteers were generally consistent with values found in the literature. This method is likely to be of use in patients with a variety of cerebrovascular diseases, such as the assessment of collateral flow in patients with steno-occlusive disease or the evaluation of arteriovenous malformations.
I will problematize medical performances at the end of life, confronting them with the responses of Portuguese Criminal Law. By starting from a review of literature, both in Portugal and abroad, I will cross the criminal doctrine with a broader, interdisciplinary approach, including the reconsideration of medicine ethical tradition (notably the Hippocratic Writings) and the present developments in neurosciences. The frame of homeostasis (neurobiology of emotions) by Damisio, with compassion in the top, helps to clarify to which extent medical act according to legesart is becomes the centre of the problem. Indeed, it is within the medical act, understood as the meeting of two autonomies--patient's and doctor's autonomies--that the compassion takes place as a result of the agreement/compromise between the patient's will of ceasing her/his life in a situation of unbearable suffering and the doctor's duty to relieve that suffering. Compassion arises here as a &quot;homeostasis instrument&quot;, that is, an emotion which is important in the regulation of life, even when we are speaking about end(ing) of life. This new perspective allows us to guess a shift of paradigm on the ethical and social levels. On the other hand, in so far as we have passed from the compassionate response in medical setting to its discussion, successively, in medical ethics, in the courts, and as a normative instrument, I claim that we are before the &quot;transition from an automatic homeostasis to a deliberate homeostasis&quot; (Damisio). Therefore, 1 seek for a balance between the spontaneous and the planned, concerning the issue of praxis. Indeed, what increasingly happens in medical praxis should be brought together with theory, whereby medical law has a word to say.



Metals often determine the chemical reactivity of the proteins to which they are bound. Each cell in the body tightly maintains a unique metalloproteomic profile, mostly dependent on function. This paper describes an analytical online flow injection quantitative size exclusion chromatography-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (SEC-ICP-MS) method, which was applied to profiling the metal-binding proteins found in primary cultures of neurons and astrocytes. This method can be conducted using similar amounts of sample to those used for Western blotting (20-150 g protein), and has a turnaround time of &lt;15 minutes. Metalloprotein standards for Fe (as ferritin), Cu and Zn (as superoxide dismutase-1) were used to construct multi-point calibration curves for online quantification of metalloproteins by SEC-ICP-MS. Homogenates of primary neuron and astrocyte cultures were analysed by SEC-ICP-MS. Online quantification by external calibration with metalloprotein standards determined the mass of metal eluting from the column relative to time (as pg s(-1)). Total on-column Fe, Cu and Zn detection limits ranged from 0.825  0.005 ng to 13.6  0.7 pg. Neurons and astrocytes exhibited distinct metalloprotein profiles, featuring both ubiquitous and unique metalloprotein species. Separation and detection by SEC-ICP-MS allows appraisal of these metalloproteins in their native state, and online quantification was achieved using this relatively simple external calibration process.
Isoprenoid lipid carriers are essential in protein glycosylation and bacterial cell envelope biosynthesis. The enzymes involved in their metabolism (synthases, kinases and phosphatases) are therefore critical to cell viability. In this review, we focus on two broad groups of isoprenoid pyrophosphate phosphatases. One group, containing phosphatidic acid phosphatase motifs, includes the eukaryotic dolichyl pyrophosphate phosphatases and proposed recycling bacterial undecaprenol pyrophosphate phosphatases, PgpB, YbjB and YeiU/LpxT. The second group comprises the bacterial undecaprenol pyrophosphate phosphatase, BacA/UppP, responsible for initial formation of undecaprenyl phosphate, which we predict contains a tyrosine phosphate phosphatase motif resembling that of the tumour suppressor, phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN). Based on protein sequence alignments across species and 2D structure predictions, we propose catalytic and lipid recognition motifs unique to BacA/UppP enzymes. The verification of our proposed active-site residues would provide new strategies for the development of substrate-specific inhibitors which mimic both the lipid and pyrophosphate moieties, leading to the development of novel antimicrobial agents.

Cell polarization is essential for many biological processes, including directed cell migration, and loss of polarity contributes to pathological conditions such as cancer. The Par complex (Par3, Par6, and PKC) controls cell polarity in part by recruiting the Rac-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor T-lymphoma invasion and metastasis 1 (Tiam1) to specialized cellular sites, where Tiam1 promotes local Rac1 activation and cytoskeletal remodeling. However, the mechanisms that restrict Par-Tiam1 complex activity to the leading edge to maintain cell polarity during migration remain unclear. We identify the Rac-specific GTPase-activating protein (GAP) breakpoint cluster region protein (Bcr) as a novel regulator of the Par-Tiam1 complex. We show that Bcr interacts with members of the Par complex and inhibits both Rac1 and PKC signaling. Loss of Bcr results in faster, more random migration and striking polarity defects in astrocytes. These polarity defects are rescued by reducing PKC activity or by expressing full-length Bcr, but not an N-terminal deletion mutant or the homologous Rac-GAP, Abr, both of which fail to associate with the Par complex. These results demonstrate that Bcr is an integral member of the Par-Tiam1 complex that controls polarized cell migration by locally restricting both Rac1 and PKC function.
Trimethylated histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) and H3K27 generally mark transcriptionally active and repressive chromatins, respectively. In most cell types, these two modifications are mutually exclusive, and this segregation is crucial for the regulation of gene expression. However, how this anticorrelation is achieved has not been fully understood. Here, we show that removal of the H3K27 trimethyl mark facilitates recruitment of SET1-like H3K4 methyltransferase complexes to their target genes by eliciting a novel interaction between histone H3 and two common subunits, WDR5 and RBBP5, of SET1-like complexes. Consistent with this result, H3K27 trimethylation destabilizes interactions of H3 with SET1-like complexes and antagonizes their ability to carry out H3K4 trimethylation of peptide (H3 residues 1 to 36), histone octamer, and mononucleosome substrates. Altogether, our studies reveal that H3K27 trimethylation of histone H3 represses a previously unrecognized interaction between H3 and SET1-like complexes. This provides an important mechanism that directs the anticorrelation between H3K4 and H3K27 trimethylation.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is involved in mediating important higher-order cognitive processes such as decision making, prompting thereby our actions. At the same time, PFC activation is strongly influenced by emotional reactions through its functional interaction with the amygdala and the striatal circuitry, areas involved in emotion and reward processing. The PFC, however, is able to modulate amygdala reactivity via a feedback loop to this area. A role for serotonin in adjusting for this circuitry of cognitive regulation of emotion has long been suggested based primarily on the positive pharmacological effect of elevating serotonin levels in anxiety regulation. Recent animal and human functional magnetic resonance studies have pointed to a specific involvement of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2A serotonin receptor in the PFC feedback regulatory projection onto the amygdala. This receptor is highly expressed in the prefrontal cortex areas, playing an important role in modulating cortical activity and neural oscillations (brain waves). This makes it an interesting potential pharmacological target for the treatment of neuropsychiatric modes characterized by lack of inhibitory control of emotion-based actions, such as addiction and other impulse-related behaviors. In this review, we give an overview of the 5-HT2A receptor distribution (neuronal, intracellular, and anatomical) along with its functional and physiological effect on PFC activation, and how that relates to more recent findings of a regulatory effect of the PFC on the emotional control of our actions.
Phosphorylation of -synuclein (aSyn) on serine 129 is one of the major post-translation modifications found in Lewy bodies, the typical pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease. Here, we found that both PLK2 and PLK3 phosphorylate aSyn on serine 129 in yeast. However, only PLK2 increased aSyn cytotoxicity and the percentage of cells presenting cytoplasmic foci. Consistently, in mammalian cells, PLK2 induced aSyn phosphorylation on serine 129 and induced an increase in the size of the inclusions. Our study supports a role for PLK2 in the generation of aSyn inclusions by a mechanism that does not depend directly on serine 129 phosphorylation.
Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is driven by the fusion protein Bcr-Abl, a constitutively active tyrosine kinase playing a crucial role in initiation and maintenance of CML phenotype. Despite the great efficacy of the Bcr-Abl-specific inhibitor imatinib, resistance to this drug is recognized as a major problem in CML treatment. We found that in LAMA84 cells, characterized by imatinib-resistance caused by BCR-ABL1 gene amplification, the pro-survival protein kinase CK2 is up-regulated as compared to the sensitive cells. CK2 exhibits a higher protein-level and a parallel enhancement of catalytic activity. Consistently, CK2-catalysed phosphorylation of Akt-Ser129 is increased. CK2 co-localizes with Bcr-Abl in the cytoplasmic fraction as judged by subcellular fractionation and fluorescence immunolocalization. CK2 and Bcr-Abl are members of the same multi-protein complex(es) in imatinib-resistant cells as demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation and co-sedimentation in glycerol gradients. Cell treatment with CX-4945, a CK2 inhibitor currently in clinical trials, counteracts CK2/Bcr-Abl interaction and causes cell death by apoptosis. Interestingly, combination of CX-4945 with imatinib displays a synergistic effect in reducing cell viability. Consistently, knockdown of CK2 expression by siRNA restores the sensitivity of resistant LAMA84 cells to low imatinib concentrations. Remarkably, the CK2/Bcr-Abl interaction and the sensitization towards imatinib obtained by CK2-inhibition in LAMA84 is observable also in other imatinib-resistant CML cell lines. These results demonstrate that CK2 contributes to strengthen the imatinib-resistance phenotype of CML cells conferring survival advantage against imatinib. We suggest that CK2 inhibition might be a promising tool for combined strategies in CML therapy.
Memantine and ketamine, voltage- and activation-dependent channel blockers of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs), have enjoyed a recent resurgence in clinical interest. Steady-state pharmacodynamic differences between these blockers have been reported, but it is unclear whether the compounds differentially affect dynamic physiologic signaling. In this study, we explored nonequilibrium conditions relevant to synaptic transmission in hippocampal networks in dissociated culture and hippocampal slices. Equimolar memantine and ketamine had indistinguishable effects on the following measures: steady-state NMDA currents, NMDAR excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) decay kinetics, progressive EPSC inhibition during repetitive stimulation, and extrasynaptic NMDAR inhibition. Therapeutic drug efficacy and tolerability of memantine have been attributed to fast kinetics and strong voltage dependence. However, pulse depolarization in drug presence revealed a surprisingly slow and similar time course of equilibration for the two compounds, although memantine produced a more prominent fast component (62% versus 48%) of re-equilibration. Simulations predicted that low gating efficacy underlies the slow voltage-dependent relief from block. This prediction was empirically supported by faster voltage-dependent blocker re-equilibration with several experimental manipulations of gating efficacy. Excitatory postsynaptic potential-like voltage commands produced drug differences only with large, prolonged depolarizations unlikely to be attained physiologically. In fact, we found no difference between drugs on measures of spontaneous network activity or acute effects on plasticity in hippocampal slices. Despite indistinguishable synaptic pharmacodynamics, ketamine provided significantly greater neuroprotection from damage induced by oxygen glucose deprivation, consistent with the idea that under extreme depolarizing conditions, the biophysical difference between drugs becomes detectable. We conclude that despite subtle differences in voltage dependence, during physiologic activity, blocker pharmacodynamics are largely indistinguishable and largely voltage independent.

De novo genetic variation is an important class of risk factors for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Recently, whole-exome sequencing of ASD families has identified a novel de novo missense mutation in the human dopamine (DA) transporter (hDAT) gene, which results in a Thr to Met substitution at site 356 (hDAT T356M). The dopamine transporter (DAT) is a presynaptic membrane protein that regulates dopaminergic tone in the central nervous system by mediating the high-affinity reuptake of synaptically released DA, making it a crucial regulator of DA homeostasis. Here, we report the first functional, structural and behavioral characterization of an ASD-associated de novo mutation in the hDAT. We demonstrate that the hDAT T356M displays anomalous function, characterized as a persistent reverse transport of DA (substrate efflux). Importantly, in the bacterial homolog leucine transporter, substitution of A289 (the homologous site to T356) with a Met promotes an outward-facing conformation upon substrate binding. In the substrate-bound state, an outward-facing transporter conformation is required for substrate efflux. In Drosophila melanogaster, the expression of hDAT T356M in DA neurons-lacking Drosophila DAT leads to hyperlocomotion, a trait associated with DA dysfunction and ASD. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that alterations in DA homeostasis, mediated by aberrant DAT function, may confer risk for ASD and related neuropsychiatric conditions.

Candidate gene and genome-wide association studies have not identified common variants, which are reliably associated with depression. The recent identification of obesity predisposing genes that are highly expressed in the brain raises the possibility of their genetic contribution to depression. As variation in the intron 1 of the fat mass- and obesity-associated (FTO) gene contributes to polygenic obesity, we assessed the possibility that FTO gene may contribute to depression in a cross-sectional multi-ethnic sample of 6561 depression cases and 21,932 controls selected from the EpiDREAM, INTERHEART, DeCC (depression case-control study) and Cohorte Lausannoise (CoLaus) studies. Major depression was defined according to DSM IV diagnostic criteria. Association analyses were performed under the additive genetic model. A meta-analysis of the four studies showed a significant inverse association between the obesity risk FTO rs9939609 A variant and depression (odds ratio=0.92 (0.89, 0.97), P=3  10(-4)) adjusted for age, sex, ethnicity/population structure and body-mass index (BMI) with no significant between-study heterogeneity (I(2)=0%, P=0.63). The FTO rs9939609 A variant was also associated with increased BMI in the four studies ( 0.30 (0.08, 0.51), P=0.0064) adjusted for age, sex and ethnicity/population structure. In conclusion, we provide the first evidence that the FTO rs9939609 A variant may be associated with a lower risk of depression independently of its effect on BMI. This study highlights the potential importance of obesity predisposing genes on depression.
The opioid system is implicated in the hedonic and motivational processing of food, and in binge eating, a behaviour strongly linked to obesity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of 4 weeks of treatment with the mu-opioid receptor antagonist GSK1521498 on eating behaviour in binge-eating obese subjects. Adults with body mass index  30 kg m(-2) and binge eating scale scores  19 received 1-week single-blind placebo run-in, and were then randomized to 28 days with either 2 mg day(-1) GSK1521498, 5 mg day(-1) GSK1521498 or placebo (N=21 per arm) in a double-blind parallel group design. The outcome measures were body weight, fat mass, hedonic and consummatory eating behaviour during inpatient food challenges, safety and pharmacokinetics. The primary analysis was the comparison of change scores in the higher-dose treatment group versus placebo using analysis of covariance at each relevant time point. GSK1521498 (2 mg and 5 mg) was not different from placebo in its effects on weight, fat mass and binge eating scores. However, compared with placebo, GSK1521498 5 mg day(-1) caused a significant reduction in hedonic responses to sweetened dairy products and reduced calorific intake, particularly of high-fat foods during ad libitum buffet meals, with some of these effects correlating with systemic exposure of GSK1521498. There were no significant effects of GSK1521498 2 mg day(-1) on eating behaviour, indicating dose dependency of pharmacodynamics. GSK1521498 was generally well tolerated and no previously unidentified safety signals were detected. The potential for these findings to translate into clinically significant effects in the context of binge eating and weight regain prevention requires further investigation.
Reduced hippocampal volume has been reported in depression and may be involved in the aetiology of depressive symptoms and vulnerability to depressive relapse. Neuroplasticity following antidepressant drug treatment in the hippocampus has been demonstrated in animal models but adaptive changes after such treatment have not been shown in humans. In this study, we determined whether grey matter loss in the hippocampus in depression (1) is present in medication-free depressed (2) changes in response to antidepressant treatment and (3) is present as a stable trait in medication-free remitted patients. Sixty-four medication-free unipolar depressed patients: 39 currently depressed and 25 in remission, and 66 healthy controls (HC) underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging in a cross-sectional and longitudinal design. Thirty-two currently depressed participants were then treated with the antidepressant citalopram for 8 weeks. Adherence to treatment was evaluated by measuring plasma citalopram concentration. We measured regional variation in grey matter concentration by using voxel-based morphometry-Diffeomorphic Anatomical Registration Through Exponentiated Lie algebra. Patients with current depression had bilaterally reduced grey matter in the hippocampus compared with HC and untreated patients in stable remission with the latter groups not differing. An increase in grey matter was observed in the hippocampus following treatment with citalopram in currently depressed patients. Grey matter reduction in the hippocampus appears specific to the depressed state and is a potential biomarker for a depressive episode.
Obesity is a global problem with often strong neurobiological underpinnings. The cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) was put forward as a promising drug target for antiobesity medication. However, the first marketed CB1R antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant was discontinued, as its use was occasionally associated with negative affect and suicidality. In artificial cell systems, CB1Rs can become constitutively active in the absence of ligands. Here, we show that such constitutive CB1R activity also regulates GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission in the ventral tegmental area and basolateral amygdala, regions which regulate motivation and emotions. We show that CB1R inverse agonists like rimonabant suppress the constitutive CB1R activity in such regions, and cause anxiety and reduced motivation for reward. The neutral CB1R antagonist NESS0327 does not suppress constitutive activity and lacks these negative effects. Importantly, however, both rimonabant and NESS0327 equally reduce weight gain and food intake. Together, these findings suggest that neutral CB1R antagonists can treat obesity efficiently and more safely than inverse agonists.
Early life exposure to specific environmental factors can increase risk for developing psychopathology including major depression in adulthood. However, the molecular pathways and epigenetic mechanisms that mediate the effects of early environments on adult mood remain poorly understood. We examined the effects of different gestational and rearing conditions on adult anxiety- and depression-like behavior using a combined reciprocal outcrossing and cross-fostering design in Balb/cJ (cJ) and C57BL/6J (B6) mouse strains. First filial (F1) hybrid offspring, which were gestated by B6 or cJ dams and then reared by either strain, were evaluated for behavior and whole-genome hippocampal gene expression during adulthood. Adult hybrid mice gestated by B6 dams showed increased depression-like behavior in the forced swim and sucrose preference tests, increased hippocampal expression of alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) transcripts, and decreased methylation of the CGRP promoter compared with those gestated by cJ dams. Differential expression of CGRP in adulthood did not result from genomic imprinting, and differences between B6 and cJ mitochondrial DNA were not responsible for behavioral phenotypes observed. Finally, central administration of CGRP to adult hybrid mice increased depression-like behavior, whereas the CGRP1 receptor antagonist CGRP8-37 reduced depression-like behavior in the forced swim test. Our findings suggest that gestational factors influence adult depression-like behavior through methylation of the CGRP gene.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are linked to familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) resulting in progressive motor neuron death through one or more acquired toxicities. Involvement of wild-type SOD1 has been linked to sporadic ALS, as misfolded SOD1 has been reported in affected tissues of sporadic patients and toxicity of astrocytes derived from sporadic ALS patients to motor neurons has been reported to be reduced by lowering the synthesis of SOD1. We now report slowed disease onset and progression in two mouse models following therapeutic delivery using a single peripheral injection of an adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) encoding an shRNA to reduce the synthesis of ALS-causing human SOD1 mutants. Delivery to young mice that develop aggressive, fatal paralysis extended survival by delaying both disease onset and slowing progression. In a later-onset model, AAV9 delivery after onset markedly slowed disease progression and significantly extended survival. Moreover, AAV9 delivered intrathecally to nonhuman primates is demonstrated to yield robust SOD1 suppression in motor neurons and glia throughout the spinal cord and therefore, setting the stage for AAV9-mediated therapy in human clinical trials.



This first article of this review deals with neuroscientific aspects of immune-mediated demyelinating neuropathies. It describes the anatomy and physiology of normal myelinated axons, methods of studying peripheral nerve physiology, pathophysiological consequences of demyelination or damage at the node of Ranvier, and the mechanisms that may lead to impaired axonal membrane dysfunction or axonal degeneration. This article (part I) will be followed by a second (part II) dealing with clinical aspects of these neuropathies.


Actin's polymerization properties are markedly altered by oxidation of its conserved Met44 residue. Mediating this effect is a specific oxidation-reduction (redox) enzyme, Mical, that works with Semaphorin repulsive guidance cues and selectively oxidizes Met44. We now find that this actin-regulatory process is reversible. Employing a genetic approach, we identified a specific methionine sulfoxide reductase (MsrB) enzyme SelR that opposes Mical redox activity and Semaphorin-Plexin repulsion to direct multiple actin-dependent cellular behaviours in vivo. SelR specifically catalyses the reduction of the Risomer of methionine sulfoxide (methionine-R-sulfoxide) to methionine, and we found that SelR directly reduced Mical-oxidized actin, restoring its normal polymerization properties. These results indicate that Mical oxidizes actin stereospecifically to generate actin Met-44-R-sulfoxide (actin(Met(R)O-44)), and also implicate the interconversion of specific Met/Met(R)O residues as a precise means to modulate protein function. Our results therefore uncover a specific reversible redox actin regulatory system that controls cell and developmental biology.
The simple addition of vitamin C to cell culture medium can induce extensive remodeling of the cellular epigenome and facilitates reprogramming of somatic cells to pluripotency. A new study shows that the activity of the enzyme TET1 can inhibit or enhance reprogramming efficiency, dependent on the presence or absence of vitamin C.
The interface between the blood circulation and the neural tissue features unique characteristics that are encompassed by the term 'blood-brain barrier' (BBB). The main functions of this barrier, namely maintenance of brain homeostasis, regulation of influx and efflux transport, and protection from harm, are determined by its specialized multicellular structure. Every constituent cell type makes an indispensable contribution to the BBB's integrity. But if one member of the BBB fails, and as a result the barrier breaks down, there can be dramatic consequences and neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration can occur. In this Review, we highlight recently gained mechanistic insights into the development and maintenance of the BBB. We then discuss how BBB disruption can cause or contribute to neurological disease. Finally, we examine how this knowledge can be used to explore new possibilities for BBB repair.

Computational theories propose that attention modulates the topographical landscape of spatial 'priority' maps in regions of the visual cortex so that the location of an important object is associated with higher activation levels. Although studies of single-unit recordings have demonstrated attention-related increases in the gain of neural responses and changes in the size of spatial receptive fields, the net effect of these modulations on the topography of region-level priority maps has not been investigated. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and a multivariate encoding model to reconstruct spatial representations of attended and ignored stimuli using activation patterns across entire visual areas. These reconstructed spatial representations reveal the influence of attention on the amplitude and size of stimulus representations within putative priority maps across the visual hierarchy. Our results suggest that attention increases the amplitude of stimulus representations in these spatial maps, particularly in higher visual areas, but does not substantively change their size.
Using immunohistology, electron microscopy, electrophysiology and optogenetics, we found that proliferating adult mouse hippocampal neural precursors received immature GABAergic synaptic inputs from parvalbumin-expressing interneurons. Recently shown to suppress adult quiescent neural stem cell activation, parvalbumin interneuron activation promoted newborn neuronal progeny survival and development. Our results suggest a niche mechanism involving parvalbumin interneurons that couples local circuit activity to the diametric regulation of two critical early phases of adult hippocampal neurogenesis.
Timing is a crucial aspect of synaptic integration. For pyramidal neurons that integrate thousands of synaptic inputs spread across hundreds of microns, it is thus a challenge to maintain the timing of incoming inputs at the axo-somatic integration site. Here we show that pyramidal neurons in the rodent hippocampus use a gradient of inductance in the form of hyperpolarization-activated cation-nonselective (HCN) channels as an active mechanism to counteract location-dependent temporal differences of dendritic inputs at the soma. Using simultaneous multi-site whole-cell recordings complemented by computational modeling, we find that this intrinsic biophysical mechanism produces temporal synchrony of rhythmic inputs in the theta and gamma frequency ranges across wide regions of the dendritic tree. While gamma and theta oscillations are known to synchronize activity across space in neuronal networks, our results identify a new mechanism by which this synchrony extends to activity within single pyramidal neurons with complex dendritic arbors.
Electrical coupling of inhibitory interneurons can synchronize activity across multiple neurons, thereby enhancing the reliability of inhibition onto principal cell targets. It is unclear whether downstream activity in principal cells controls the excitability of such inhibitory networks. Using paired patch-clamp recordings, we show that excitatory projection neurons (fusiform cells) and inhibitory stellate interneurons of the dorsal cochlear nucleus form an electrically coupled network through gap junctions containing connexin36 (Cxc36, also called Gjd2). Remarkably, stellate cells were more strongly coupled to fusiform cells than to other stellate cells. This heterologous coupling was functionally asymmetric, biasing electrical transmission from the principal cell to the interneuron. Optogenetically activated populations of fusiform cells reliably enhanced interneuron excitability and generated GABAergic inhibition onto the postsynaptic targets of stellate cells, whereas deep afterhyperpolarizations following fusiform cell spike trains potently inhibited stellate cells over several hundred milliseconds. Thus, the excitability of an interneuron network is bidirectionally controlled by distinct epochs of activity in principal cells.
The molecular mechanisms that mediate genetic variability in response to alcohol are unclear. We found that alcohol had opposite actions (enhancement or suppression) on GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) inhibition in granule cells from the cerebellum of behaviorally sensitive, low alcohol-consuming Sprague-Dawley rats and DBA/2 mice and behaviorally insensitive, high alcohol-consuming C57BL/6 mice, respectively. The effect of alcohol on granule cell GABA(A)R inhibition was determined by a balance between two opposing effects: enhanced presynaptic vesicular release of GABA via alcohol inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and a direct suppression of the activity of postsynaptic GABA(A)Rs. The balance of these two processes was determined by differential expression of neuronal NOS (nNOS) and postsynaptic PKC activity, both of which varied across the rodent genotypes. These findings identify opposing molecular processes that differentially control the magnitude and polarity of GABA(A)R responses to alcohol across rodent genotypes.
Immune molecules, including complement proteins C1q and C3, have emerged as critical mediators of synaptic refinement and plasticity. Complement localizes to synapses and refines the developing visual system through C3-dependent microglial phagocytosis of synapses. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) express C1q, the initiating protein of the classical complement cascade, during retinogeniculate refinement; however, the signals controlling C1q expression and function remain elusive. Previous work implicated an astrocyte-derived factor in regulating neuronal C1q expression. Here we identify retinal transforming growth factor (TGF)- as a key regulator of neuronal C1q expression and synaptic pruning in the developing visual system. Mice lacking TGF- receptor II (TGFRII) in retinal neurons had reduced C1q expression in RGCs and reduced synaptic localization of complement, and phenocopied refinement defects observed in complement-deficient mice, including reduced eye-specific segregation and microglial engulfment of RGC inputs. These data implicate TGF- in regulating neuronal C1q expression to initiate complement- and microglia-mediated synaptic pruning.
The basal forebrain provides the primary source of cholinergic input to the cortex, and it has a crucial function in promoting wakefulness and arousal. However, whether rapid changes in basal forebrain neuron spiking in awake animals can dynamically influence sensory perception is unclear. Here we show that basal forebrain cholinergic neurons rapidly regulate cortical activity and visual perception in awake, behaving mice. Optogenetic activation of the cholinergic neurons or their V1 axon terminals improved performance of a visual discrimination task on a trial-by-trial basis. In V1, basal forebrain activation enhanced visual responses and desynchronized neuronal spiking; these changes could partly account for the behavioral improvement. Conversely, optogenetic basal forebrain inactivation decreased behavioral performance, synchronized cortical activity and impaired visual responses, indicating the importance of cholinergic activity in normal visual processing. These results underscore the causal role of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in fast, bidirectional modulation of cortical processing and sensory perception.
The symptoms of ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) include a progressive neurodegeneration caused by ATM protein deficiency. We previously found that nuclear accumulation of histone deacetylase-4, HDAC4, contributes to this degeneration; we now report that increased trimethylation of histone H3 on Lys27 (H3K27me3) mediated by polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) is also important in the A-T phenotype. Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), a core catalytic component of PRC2, is a new ATM kinase target, and ATM-mediated phosphorylation of EZH2 on Ser734 reduces protein stability. Thus, PRC2 formation is elevated along with H3K27me3 in ATM deficiency. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and sequencing showed an increase in H3K27me3 'marks' and a dramatic shift in their location. The change of H3K27me3 chromatin-binding pattern is directly related to cell cycle reentry and cell death of ATM-deficient neurons. Lentiviral knockdown of EZH2 rescued Purkinje cell degeneration and behavioral abnormalities in Atm(-/-) mice, demonstrating that EZH2 hyperactivity is another key factor in A-T neurodegeneration.
Visual-object processing culminates in inferior temporal cortex (IT). To assess the organization of IT, we measured functional magnetic resonance imaging responses in alert monkeys to achromatic images (faces, fruit, bodies and places) and colored gratings. IT contained multiple color-biased regions, which were typically ventral to face patches and yoked to them, spaced regularly at four locations predicted by known anatomy. Color and face selectivity increased for more anterior regions, indicative of a broad hierarchical arrangement. Responses to non-face shapes were found across IT, but were stronger outside color-biased regions and face patches, consistent with multiple parallel streams. IT also contained multiple coarse eccentricity maps: face patches overlapped central representations, color-biased regions spanned mid-peripheral representations and place-biased regions overlapped peripheral representations. These results show that IT comprises parallel, multi-stage processing networks subject to one organizing principle.
The rise of optogenetics provides unique opportunities to advance materials and biomedical engineering, as well as fundamental understanding in neuroscience. This protocol describes the fabrication of optoelectronic devices for studying intact neural systems. Unlike optogenetic approaches that rely on rigid fiber optics tethered to external light sources, these novel devices carry wirelessly powered microscale, inorganic light-emitting diodes (-ILEDs) and multimodal sensors inside the brain. We describe the technical procedures for construction of these devices, their corresponding radiofrequency power scavengers and their implementation in vivo for experimental application. In total, the timeline of the procedure, including device fabrication, implantation and preparation to begin in vivo experimentation, can be completed in ~3-8 weeks. Implementation of these devices allows for chronic (tested for up to 6 months) wireless optogenetic manipulation of neural circuitry in animals navigating complex natural or home-cage environments, interacting socially, and experiencing other freely moving behaviors.
The gastrointestinal tract presents the largest and most vulnerable surface to the outside world. Simultaneously, it must be accessible and permeable to nutrients and must defend against pathogens and potentially injurious chemicals. Integrated responses to these challenges require the gut to sense its environment, which it does through a range of detection systems for specific chemical entities, pathogenic organisms and their products (including toxins), as well as physicochemical properties of its contents. Sensory information is then communicated to four major effector systems: the enteroendocrine hormonal signalling system; the innervation of the gut, both intrinsic and extrinsic; the gut immune system; and the local tissue defence system. Extensive endocrine-neuro-immune-organ-defence interactions are demonstrable, but under-investigated. A major challenge is to develop a comprehensive understanding of the integrated responses of the gut to the sensory information it receives. A major therapeutic opportunity exists to develop agents that target the receptors facing the gut lumen.
Synapses are constantly generated at a high rate in the developing, prepubescent brain. Newly generated glutamatergic synapses lack functional AMPA receptor-mediated transmission. Most of these 'AMPA-silent' synapses are eliminated during the developmental period, but some are specifically selected for AMPA unsilencing by correlated pre-and postsynaptic activity as the first step in a process that leads to stabilization of the synapse. Premature, or delayed, unsilencing of AMPA-silent synapses has been implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders, and abnormal generation of AMPA-silent synapses is associated with brain trauma, addiction and neurodegenerative disorders, further highlighting the importance of AMPA-silent synapses in brain pathology.
Humour is a vital component of human socio-affective and cognitive functioning. Recent advances in neuroscience have enabled researchers to explore this human attribute in children and adults. Humour seems to engage a core network of cortical and subcortical structures, including temporo-occipito-parietal areas involved in detecting and resolving incongruity (mismatch between expected and presented stimuli); and the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system and the amygdala, key structures for reward and salience processing. Examining personality effects and sex differences in the neural correlates of humour may aid in understanding typical human behaviour and the neural mechanisms underlying neuropsychiatric disorders, which can have dramatic effects on the capacity to experience social reward.




The matching law constitutes a quantitative description of choice behavior that is often observed in foraging tasks. According to the matching law, organisms distribute their behavior across available response alternatives in the same proportion that reinforcers are distributed across those alternatives. Recently a few biophysically plausible neural network models have been proposed to explain the matching behavior observed in the experiments. Here we study systematically the learning dynamics of these networks while performing a matching task on the concurrent variable interval (VI) schedule. We found that the model neural network can operate in one of three qualitatively different regimes depending on the parameters that characterize the synaptic dynamics and the reward schedule: (1) a matching behavior regime, in which the probability of choosing an option is roughly proportional to the baiting fractional probability of that option; (2) a perseverative regime, in which the network tends to make always the same decision; and (3) a tristable regime, in which the network can either perseverate or choose the two targets randomly approximately with the same probability. Different parameters of the synaptic dynamics lead to different types of deviations from the matching law, some of which have been observed experimentally. We show that the performance of the network depends on the number of stable states of each synapse and that bistable synapses perform close to optimal when the proper learning rate is chosen. Because our model provides a link between synaptic dynamics and qualitatively different behaviors, this work provides us with insight into the effects of neuromodulators on adaptive behaviors and psychiatric disorders.

-Synuclein (AS) plays a crucial role in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. AS is normally secreted from neuronal cells and can thus exert paracrine effects. We have previously demonstrated that naturally secreted AS species, derived from SH-SY5Y cells inducibly overexpressing human wild type AS, can be toxic to recipient neuronal cells. In the current study, we show that application of secreted AS alters membrane fluidity and increases calcium (Ca2+) entry. This influx is reduced on pharmacological inhibition of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels. Although no change in free cytosolic Ca2+ levels is observed, a significantly increased mitochondrial Ca2+ sequestration is found in recipient cells. Application of voltage-operated Ca2+ channel blockers or Ca2+ chelators abolishes AS-mediated toxicity. AS-treated cells exhibit increased calpain activation, and calpain inhibition greatly alleviates the observed toxicity. Collectively, our data suggest that secreted AS exerts toxicity through engagement, at least in part, of the Ca2+ homeostatic machinery. Therefore, manipulating Ca2+ signaling pathways might represent a potential therapeutic strategy for Parkinson's disease.
Computational anatomy with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is well established as a noninvasive biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, there is less certainty about its dependency on the staging of AD. We use classical group analyses and automated machine learning classification of standard structural MRI scans to investigate AD diagnostic accuracy from the preclinical phase to clinical dementia. Longitudinal data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative were stratified into 4 groups according to the clinical status-(1) AD patients; (2) mild cognitive impairment (MCI) converters; (3) MCI nonconverters; and (4) healthy controls-and submitted to a support vector machine. The obtained classifier was significantly above the chance level (62%) for detecting AD already 4 years before conversion from MCI. Voxel-based univariate tests confirmed the plausibility of our findings detecting a distributed network of hippocampal-temporoparietal atrophy in AD patients. We also identified a subgroup of control subjects with brain structure and cognitive changes highly similar to those observed in AD. Our results indicate that computational anatomy can detect AD substantially earlier than suggested by current models. The demonstrated differential spatial pattern of atrophy between correctly and incorrectly classified AD patients challenges the assumption of a uniform pathophysiological process underlying clinically identified AD.
Microglia develop an inflammatory phenotype during normal aging. The mechanism by which this occurs is not well understood, but might be related to impairments in several key immunoregulatory systems. Here we show that micro-RNA (miR)-29a and miR-29b, 2 immunoregulatory micro-RNAs, were increased in the brain of aged BALB/c mice compared with adults. Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and fractalkine ligand (CX3CL1) are negative modulators of microglial activation and were identified as targets of miR-29a and miR-29b using luciferase assay and primary microglia transfection. Indeed, higher expression of miR-29b in the brain of aged mice was associated with reduced messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of IGF-1 and CX3CL1. Parallel to these results in mice, miR-29a and miR-29b were also markedly increased in cortical brain tissue of older individuals (mean, 77 years) compared with middle-aged adults (mean, 45 years). Moreover, increased expression of miR-29b in human cortical tissue was negatively correlated with IGF-1 and CX3CL1 expression. Collectively, these data indicate that an age-associated increase in miR-29 corresponded with the reduction of 2 important regulators of microglia, IGF-1 and CX3CL1.
Compensatory eye movements (CEMs) stabilize the field of view enabling visual sharpness despite self-induced motion or environmental perturbations. The vestibulocerebellum makes it possible to adapt these reflex behaviors to perform optimally under novel circumstances that are sustained over time. Because of this and the fact that the eye is relatively insensitive to fatigue and musculoskeletal aging effects, CEMs form an ideal motor system to assess aging effects on cerebellar motor learning. In the present study, we performed an extensive behavioral examination of the impact of aging on both basic CEMs and oculomotor-based learning paradigms spanning multiple days. Our data show that healthy aging has little to no effect on basic CEM performance despite sensory deterioration, suggesting a central compensatory mechanism. Young mice are capable of adapting their oculomotor output to novel conditions rapidly and accurately, even to the point of reversing the direction of the reflex entirely. However, oculomotor learning and consolidation capabilities show a progressive decay as age increases.
Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) homozygous mutations cause Nasu-Hakola disease, an early-onset recessive form of dementia preceded by bone cysts and fractures. The same type of mutations has recently been shown to cause frontotemporal dementia (FTD) without the presence of any bone phenotype. Here, we further confirm the association of TREM2 mutations with FTD-like phenotypes by reporting the first compound heterozygous mutation in a Turkish family.
Cerebral white matter hyperintensities (WMH) reflect accumulating white matter damage with aging and impair cognition. The role of childhood intelligence is rarely considered in associations between cognitive impairment and WMH. We studied community-dwelling older people all born in 1936, in whom IQ had been assessed at age 11 years. We assessed medical histories, current cognitive ability and quantified WMH on MR imaging. Among 634 participants, mean age 72.7 (SD 0.7), age 11 IQ was the strongest predictor of late life cognitive ability. After accounting for age 11 IQ, greater WMH load was significantly associated with lower late life general cognitive ability (=-0.14, p &lt; 0.01) and processing speed (=-0.19, p &lt; 0.001). WMH were also associated independently with lower age 11 IQ (=-0.08, p &lt; 0.05) and hypertension. In conclusion, having more WMH is significantly associated with lower cognitive ability, after accounting for prior ability, age 11IQ. Early-life IQ also influenced WMH in later life. Determining how lower IQ in youth leads to increasing brain damage with aging is important for future successful cognitive aging.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutation is the most common cause of genetic-related parkinsonism and is usually associated with Lewy body pathology; however, tau, -synuclein, and ubiquitin pathologies have also been reported. We report the case of a patient carrying the LRRK2 G2019S mutation and a novel heterozygous variant c.370C&gt;G, p.Q124E in exon 4 of the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT). The patient developed parkinsonism with good levodopa response in her 70s. Neuropathological analysis revealed nigral degeneration and Alzheimer-type tau pathology without Lewy bodies. Immunohistochemical staining using phospho-TDP-43 antibodies identified occasional TDP-43 pathology in the hippocampus, temporal neocortex, striatum, and substantia nigra. However, TDP-43 pathology was not identified in another 4 archival LRRK2 G2019S cases with Lewy body pathology available in the Queen Square Brain Bank. Among other published cases of patients carrying LRRK2 G2019S mutation, only 3 were reportedly evaluated for TDP-43 pathology, and the results were negative. The role of the MAPT variant in the clinical and pathological manifestation in LRRK2 cases remains to be determined.
Neuropathic pain is pain arising as a direct consequence of a lesion or disease affecting the somatosensory system. It is usually chronic and challenging to treat. Some antidepressants are first-line pharmacological treatments for neuropathic pain. The noradrenaline that is recruited by the action of the antidepressants on reuptake transporters has been proposed to act through 2-adrenoceptors (2-ARs) to lead to the observed therapeutic effect. However, the complex downstream mechanism mediating this action remained to be identified. In this study, we demonstrate in a mouse model of neuropathic pain that an antidepressant's effect on neuropathic allodynia involves the peripheral nervous system and the inhibition of cytokine tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) production. The antiallodynic action of nortriptyline is indeed lost after peripheral sympathectomy, but not after lesion of central descending noradrenergic pathways. More particularly, we report that antidepressant-recruited noradrenaline acts, within dorsal root ganglia, on 2-ARs expressed by non-neuronal satellite cells. This stimulation of 2-ARs decreases the neuropathy-induced production of membrane-bound TNF, resulting in relief of neuropathic allodynia. This indirect anti-TNF action was observed with the tricyclic antidepressant nortriptyline, the selective serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine and the 2-AR agonist terbutaline. Our data revealed an original therapeutic mechanism that may open novel research avenues for the management of painful peripheral neuropathies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder caused by the death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Importantly, altered astrocyte and microglial functions could contribute to neuronal death in PD. In this study, we demonstrate a novel mechanism by which DJ-1 (PARK7), an early onset autosomal-recessive PD gene, negatively regulates inflammatory responses of astrocytes and microglia by facilitating the interaction between STAT1 and its phosphatase, SHP-1 (Src-homology 2-domain containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1). Astrocytes and microglia cultured from DJ-1-knockout (KO) mice exhibited increased expression of inflammatory mediators and phosphorylation levels of STAT1 (p-STAT1) in response to interferon-gamma (IFN-) compared to cells from wild-type (WT) mice. DJ-1 deficiency also attenuated IFN--induced interactions of SHP-1 with p-STAT1 and STAT1, measured 1 and 12h after IFN- treatment, respectively. Subsequent experiments showed that DJ-1 directly interacts with SHP-1, p-STAT1, and STAT1. Notably, DJ-1 bound to SHP-1 independently of IFN-, whereas the interactions of DJ-1 with p-STAT1 and STAT1 were dependent on IFN-. Similar results were obtained in brain slice cultures, where IFN- induced much stronger STAT1 phosphorylation and inflammatory responses in KO slices than in WT slices. Moreover, IFN- treatment induced neuronal damage in KO slices. Collectively, these findings suggest that DJ-1 may function as a scaffold protein that facilitates SHP-1 interactions with p-STAT1 and STAT1, thereby preventing extensive and prolonged STAT1 activation. Thus, the loss of DJ-1 function may increase the risk of PD by enhancing brain inflammation.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating progressive neurodegenerative disease, resulting in selective motor neuron degeneration and paralysis. Patients die approximately 3-5 years after diagnosis. Disease pathophysiology is multifactorial, including excitotoxicity, but is not yet fully understood. Genetic analysis has proven fruitful in the past to further understand genes modulating the disease and increase knowledge of disease mechanisms. Here, we revisit a previously performed microsatellite analysis in ALS and focus on another hit, PLCD1, encoding phospholipase C delta 1 (PLC1), to investigate its role in ALS. PLC1 may contribute to excitotoxicity as it increases inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) formation, which releases calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum through IP3 receptors. We find that expression of PLC1 is increased in ALS mouse spinal cord and in neurons from ALS mice. Furthermore, genetic ablation of this protein in ALS mice significantly increases survival, but does not affect astrogliosis, microgliosis, aggregation or the amount of motor neurons at end stage compared to ALS mice with PLC1. Interestingly, genetic ablation of PLC1 prevents nuclear shrinkage of motor neurons in ALS mice at end stage. These results indicate that PLCD1 contributes to ALS and that PLC1 may be a new target for future studies.
Increased levels of SOD1 mRNA have been observed in sporadic ALS patients (SALS) compared to controls. Hence, the understanding of the mechanisms by which SOD1 gene expression is modulated may shed new light on SOD1 involvement in ALS. Of interest, some adenine/uracil-rich elements (AREs) in SOD1 3'-untranslated region have been identified. These sequences represent the docking sites for several RNA-binding proteins such as ELAV proteins (ELAVs), positive regulators of gene expression. We first investigated in SH-SY5Y cells whether SOD1 mRNA represents a target of ELAVs. Results from RNA Electrophoretic Mobility Shift and RNA-immunoprecipitation assays showed a molecular interaction between ELAVs and SOD1 mRNA. We also observed that the treatment with H2O2 induced a significant increase of the amount of SOD1 mRNA bound by ELAVs and an up-regulation of SOD1 protein levels. We found a specific increase in ELAV/HuR phosphorylation, suggesting activation of this protein, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from SALS patients compared to controls. Finally, we found increased levels of ELAV proteins in the motor cortex and spinal cord from SALS patients compared to controls, in parallel with SOD1 up-regulation in the same areas. This study suggests, for the first time, that ELAVs are involved in the regulation of SOD1 gene expression at post-transcriptional level and that these proteins are more activated in ALS pathology. The link between ELAVs and SOD1 may open novel perspectives for ALS research, paving the way for new therapeutic options.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive and selective death of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Pharmacologic treatment of PD can be divided into symptomatic and neuroprotective therapies. Orexin-A (hypocretin-1) is a hypothalamic peptide that exerts its biological effects by stimulation of two specific, membrane-bound orexin receptors. Recent studies have shown that orexin-A has a protective role during neuronal damage. Here, we investigated the effects of orexin-A on 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line as an in vitro model of Parkinson's disease. Cell damage was induced by 150M 6-OHDA and the cells viability was examined by MTT assay. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) was determined by fluorescence spectrophotometry method. Immunoblotting and DNA analysis were also employed to determine the levels of biochemical markers of apoptosis in the cells. The data showed that 6-OHDA could decrease the viability of the cells. In addition, intracellular ROS, activated caspase 3, Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, cytochrome c as well as DNA fragmentation were significantly increased in 6-OHDA-treated cells. Pretreatment of cells with orexin-A (80pM) elicited protective effect and reduced biochemical markers of cell death. The results suggest that orexin-A has protective effects against 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity and its protective effects are accompanied by its antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties and contribute to our knowledge of the pharmacology of orexin-A.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the major water channel expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and is primarily expressed in glial cells. Many studies have shown that AQP4 regulates the response of the CNS to insults or injury, but far less is known about the potential for AQP4 to influence synaptic plasticity or behavior. Recent studies have examined long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), and behavior in AQP4 knockout (KO) and wild-type mice to gain more insight into its potential role. The results showed a selective effect of AQP4 deletion on LTP of the Schaffer collateral pathway in hippocampus using an LTP induction protocol that simulates pyramidal cell firing during theta oscillations (theta-burst stimulation; TBS). However, LTP produced by a different induction protocol was unaffected. There was also a defect in LTD after low frequency stimulation (LFS) in AQP4 KO mice. Interestingly, some slices from AQP4 KO mice exhibited LTD after TBS instead of LTP, or LTP following LFS instead of LTD. These data suggest that AQP4 and astrocytes influence the polarity of long-term synaptic plasticity (potentiation or depression). These potentially powerful roles expand the influence of AQP4 and astrocytes beyond the original suggestions related to regulation of extracellular potassium and water balance. Remarkably, AQP4 KO mice did not show deficits in basal transmission, suggesting specificity for long-term synaptic plasticity. The mechanism appears to be related to neurotrophins and specifically brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) because pharmacological blockade of neurotrophin trk receptors or scavenging ligands such as BDNF restored plasticity. The in vitro studies predicted effects in vivo of AQP4 deletion because AQP4 KO mice performed worse using a task that requires memory for the location of objects (object placement). However, performance on other hippocampal-dependent tasks was spared. The results suggest an unanticipated and selective role of AQP4 in synaptic plasticity and spatial memory, and underscore the growing appreciation of the role of glial cells in functions typically attributed to neurons. Implications for epilepsy are discussed because of the previous evidence that AQP4 influences seizures, and the role of synaptic plasticity in epileptogenesis.
Glial cells play an important role in normal brain function and emerging evidence would suggest that their dysfunction may be responsible for some epileptic disease states. Neuroimaging of glial cells is desirable, but there are no clear methods to assess neither their function nor localization. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is now part of a standardized epilepsy imaging protocol to assess patients. Structural volumetric and T2-weighted imaging changes can assist in making a positive diagnosis in a majority of patients. The alterations reported in structural and T2 imaging is predominantly thought to reflect early neuronal loss followed by glial hypertrophy. MR spectroscopy for myo-inositol is a being pursued to identify glial alterations along with neuronal markers. Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) is ideal for acute epileptiform events, but is not sensitive to either glial cells or neuronal long-term changes found in epilepsy. However, DWI variants such as diffusion tensor imaging or q-space imaging may shed additional light on aberrant glial function in the future. The sensitivity and specificity of PET radioligands, including those targeting glial cells (translocator protein) hold promise in being able to image glial cells. As the role of glial function/dysfunction in epilepsy becomes more apparent neuroimaging methods will evolve to assist the clinician and researcher in visualizing their location and function.
Since astrocytes may sense and respond to neuronal activity these cells are now considered important players in brain signaling. Astrocytes form large gap junction coupled syncytia allowing them to clear the extracellular space from K and neurotransmitters accumulating during neuronal activity, and redistribute it to sites of lower extracellular concentrations. Increasing evidence suggests a crucial role for dysfunctional astrocytes in the etiology of epilepsy. Notably, alterations in expression, localization and function of astroglial K channels as well as impaired K buffering was observed in specimens from patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy and in chronic epilepsy models. Altered astroglial gap junction coupling has also been reported in epileptic tissue which, however, seems to play a dual role: (i) junctional coupling counteracts hyperactivity by facilitating clearance of elevated extracellular K and glutamate while (ii) it also provides a pathway for energetic substrates and fuels neuronal activity. Dysfunctional astrocytes should be considered promising targets for new therapeutic strategies.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a life threatening condition that often precedes the development of epilepsy. Traditional treatments for epilepsy have been focused on targeting neuronal mechanisms contributing to hyperexcitability, however, approximately 30% of patients with epilepsy do not respond to existing neurocentric pharmacotherapies. A growing body of evidence has demonstrated that profound changes in the morphology and function of astrocytes accompany SE and persist in epilepsy. Astrocytes are increasingly recognized for their diverse roles in modulating neuronal activity, and understanding the changes in astrocytes following SE could provide important clues about the mechanisms underlying seizure generation and termination. By understanding the contributions of astrocytes to the network changes underlying epileptogenesis and the development of epilepsy, we will gain a greater appreciation of the contributions of astrocytes to dynamic circuit changes, which will enable us to develop more successful therapies to prevent and treat epilepsy. This review summarizes changes in astrocytes following SE in animal models and human temporal lobe epilepsy and addresses the functional consequences of those changes that may provide clues to the process of epileptogenesis.
ErbB receptors not only function in cancer, but are also key developmental regulators in the nervous system. We previously identified an ErbB1 peptide antagonist, Inherbin3, that is capable of inhibiting tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we found that inhibition of ErbB1 kinase activity and activation of ErbB4 by NRG-1 induced neurite extension, suggesting that ErbB1 and ErbB4 act as negative and positive regulators, respectively, of the neuritogenic response. Inherbin3, inhibited activation not only of ErbB1 but also of ErbB4 in primary neurons, strongly induced neurite outgrowth in rat cerebellar granule neurons, indicating that this effect mainly was due to inhibition of ErbB1 activation.





Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) comprise a wide range of neurological deficits that result from fetal exposure to ethanol (EtOH), and are the leading cause of environmentally related birth defects and mental retardation in the western world. One aspect of diagnostic and therapeutic intervention strategies that could substantially improve our ability to combat this significant problem would be to facilitate earlier detection of the disorders within individuals. Light microscopy-based investigations performed by several laboratories have previously shown that morphological development of neurons within the early-developing cerebral cortex is abnormal within the brains of animals exposed to EtOH during fetal development. We and others have recently demonstrated that diffusion MRI can be of utility for detecting abnormal cellular morphological development in the developing cerebral cortex. We therefore assessed whether diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) could be used to distinguish the developing cerebral cortices of ex vivo rat pup brains born from dams treated with EtOH (EtOH; 4.5 g/kg, 25%) or calorie-matched quantities of maltose/dextrin (M/D) throughout gestation. Water diffusion and tissue microstructure were investigated using DTI (fractional anisotropy, FA) and histology (anisotropy index, AI), respectively. Both FA and AI decreased with age, and were higher in the EtOH than the M/D group at postnatal ages (P)0, P3, and P6. Additionally, there was a significant correlation between FA and AI measurements. These findings provide evidence that disruptions in cerebral cortical development induced by EtOH exposure can be revealed by water diffusion anisotropy patterns, and that these disruptions are directly related to cerebral cortical differentiation.
Understanding the neural systems underpinning social cognition is a primary focus of contemporary social neuroscience. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the present study asked if brain activity reflecting socio-cognitive processes differs between individuals according to their social behavior; namely, between a group of drivers with frequent traffic offenses and a group with none. Socio-cognitive processing was elicited by employing videos from a traffic awareness campaign, consisting of reckless and anti-social driving behavior ending in tragic consequences, and control videos with analogous driving themes but without such catastrophic endings. We investigated whether relative increases in brain function during the observation of these campaign stimuli compared with control videos differed between these two groups. To develop the results of our previous study we focused our analyses on superior temporal sulcus/gyrus (STS/STG). This revealed a bigger increase in brain activity within this region during the campaign stimuli in safe compared with dangerous drivers. Furthermore, by thematically coding drivers' verbal descriptions of the stimuli, we also demonstrate differences in STS reactivity according to drivers' scores on two indices of socio-cognitive processing: subjects' perceived consequences of actors' actions, and their affective evaluation of the clips. Our results demonstrate the influence of social behavior and socio-cognitive processing on STS reactivity to social stimuli, developing considerably our understanding of the role of this region in social cognition.
Due to anatomical variability across subjects many brain mapping experiments have analysis focused on a few particular regions of interest so as to circumvent the problem of sub-optimal statistics resulting from the lack of anatomical correspondence across subjects. Since the topographic distribution of experimental effects across the cortex is also often of interest, two separate analyses are often conducted, one on the regions of interest alone, as well as a separate 'whole brain' analysis with sub-optimal spatial correspondence across brains. In this paper we present a new group alignment procedure which incorporates, from each subject, both macro-anatomical (curvature) information and functional information from standard localizer experiments. After specifying appropriate parameters to weight anatomical and functional alignment forces, we were able to create a group cortical reconstruction which was well aligned in terms of both anatomical and functional areas. We observed an increase in the overlap of functional areas as well as an improvement in group statistics following this integrated alignment procedure. We propose that, using this alignment scheme, two separate analyses may not be necessary as both analyses can be integrated into a single procedure. After an integrated structural and functional alignment one is able to carry out a whole brain analysis with improved statistical sensitivity due to the reduction in spatial variation in the location of functional regions of interest which fCBA accomplishes. Furthermore, regions in the vicinity of localised and aligned regions-of-interest will also benefit from the integrated alignment.
Obtaining individual biomarkers for the prediction of altered neurological outcome is a challenge of modern medicine and neuroscience. Connectomics based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) stands as a good candidate to exhaustively extract information from MRI by integrating the information obtained in a few network features that can be used as individual biomarkers of neurological outcome. However, this approach typically requires the use of diffusion and/or functional MRI to extract individual brain networks, which require high acquisition times and present an extreme sensitivity to motion artifacts, critical problems when scanning fetuses and infants. Extraction of individual networks based on morphological similarity from gray matter is a new approach that benefits from the power of graph theory analysis to describe gray matter morphology as a large-scale morphological network from a typical clinical anatomic acquisition such as T1-weighted MRI. In the present paper we propose a methodology to normalize these large-scale morphological networks to a brain network with standardized size based on a parcellation scheme. The proposed methodology was applied to reconstruct individual brain networks of 63 one-year-old infants, 41 infants with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and 22 controls, showing altered network features in the IUGR group, and their association with neurodevelopmental outcome at two years of age by means of ordinal regression analysis of the network features obtained with Bayley Scale for Infant and Toddler Development, third edition. Although it must be more widely assessed, this methodology stands as a good candidate for the development of biomarkers for altered neurodevelopment in the pediatric population.
The neocortical slow oscillation (SO; ~1Hz) of non-REM sleep and anesthesia reflects synchronized network activity composed of alternating active and silent (ON/OFF) phases at the local network and cellular level. The SO itself shows self-organized spatiotemporal dynamics as it appears to originate at unique foci on each cycle and then propagates across the cortical surface. During sleep, this rhythm is relevant for neuroplastic processes mediating memory consolidation especially since its enhancement by slow, rhythmic electrical fields improves subsequent recall. However, the neurobiological mechanism by which spontaneous or enhanced SO activity might operate on memory traces is unknown. Here we show a series of original results, using cycle to cycle tracking across multiple neocortical sites in urethane anesthetized rats: The spontaneous spatiotemporal dynamics of the SO are complex, showing interfering propagation patterns in the anterior-to-posterior plane. These patterns compete for expression and tend to alternate following phase resets that take place during the silent OFF phase of the SO. Applying sinusoidal electrical field stimulation to the anterior pole of the cerebral cortex progressively entrained local field, gamma, and multi-unit activity at all sites, while disrupting the coordination of endogenous SO activity. Field stimulation also biased propagation in the anterior-to-posterior direction and more notably, enhanced the long-range gamma synchrony between cortical regions. These results are the first to show that changes to slow wave dynamics cause enhancements in high frequency cortico-cortical communication and provide mechanistic clues into how the SO is relevant for sleep-dependent memory consolidation.
Deficits in impulse control are discussed as key mechanisms for major worldwide health problems such as drug addiction and obesity. For example, obese subjects have difficulty controlling their impulses to overeat when faced with food items. Here, we investigated the role of neural impulse control mechanisms for dietary success in middle-aged obese subjects. Specifically, we used a food-specific delayed gratification paradigm and functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure eating-related impulse-control in middle-aged obese subjects just before they underwent a twelve-week low calorie diet. As expected, we found that subjects with higher behavioral impulse control subsequently lost more weight. Furthermore, brain activity before the diet in VMPFC and DLPFC correlates with subsequent weight loss. Additionally, a connectivity analysis revealed that stronger functional connectivity between these regions is associated with better dietary success and impulse control. Thus, the degree to which subjects can control their eating impulses might depend on the interplay between control regions (DLPFC) and regions signaling the reward of food (VMPFC). This could potentially constitute a general mechanism that also extends to other disorders such as drug addiction or alcohol abuse.
We study the developmental trajectory of morphology and function of the superior temporal cortex (STC) in children (8-9 years), adolescents (14-15 years) and young adults. We analyze cortical surface landmarks and functional MRI (fMRI) responses to voices, other natural categories and tones and examine how hemispheric asymmetry and inter-subject variability change across age. Our results show stable morphological asymmetries across age groups, including a larger left planum temporale and a deeper right superior temporal sulcus. fMRI analyses show that a rightward lateralization for voice-selective responses is present in all groups but decreases with age. Furthermore, STC responses to voices change from being less selective and more spatially diffuse in children to highly selective and focal in adults. Interestingly, the analysis of morphological landmarks reveals that inter-subject variability increases during development in the right--but not in the left--STC. Similarly, inter-subject variability of cortically-realigned functional responses to voices, other categories and tones increases with age in the right STC. Our findings reveal asymmetric developmental changes in brain regions crucial for auditory and voice perception. The age-related increase of inter-subject variability in right STC suggests that anatomy and function of this region are shaped by unique individual developmental experiences.
Detecting residual consciousness in unresponsive patients is a major clinical concern and a challenge for theoretical neuroscience. To tackle this issue, we recently designed a paradigm that dissociates two electro-encephalographic (EEG) responses to auditory novelty. Whereas a local change in pitch automatically elicits a mismatch negativity (MMN), a change in global sound sequence leads to a late P300b response. The latter component is thought to be present only when subjects consciously perceive the global novelty. Unfortunately, it can be difficult to detect because individual variability is high, especially in clinical recordings. Here, we show that multivariate pattern classifiers can extract subject-specific EEG patterns and predict single-trial local or global novelty responses. We first validate our method with 38 high-density EEG, MEG and intracranial EEG recordings. We empirically demonstrate that our approach circumvents the issues associated with multiple comparisons and individual variability while improving the statistics. Moreover, we confirm in control subjects that local responses are robust to distraction whereas global responses depend on attention. We then investigate 104 vegetative state (VS), minimally conscious state (MCS) and conscious state (CS) patients recorded with high-density EEG. For the local response, the proportion of significant decoding scores (M=60%) does not vary with the state of consciousness. By contrast, for the global response, only 14% of the VS patients' EEG recordings presented a significant effect, compared to 31% in MCS patients' and 52% in CS patients'. In conclusion, single-trial multivariate decoding of novelty responses provides valuable information in non-communicating patients and paves the way towards real-time monitoring of the state of consciousness.
Effective navigation of the social world relies on the correct interpretation of facial emotions. This may be particularly important in formative years. Critically, literature examining the emergence of face processing in youth (children and adolescents) has focused on the neural and behavioral correlates of processing adult faces, which are relationally different from youth participants, and whose facial expressions may convey different meaning than faces of their peers. During a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan, we compared concurrent neural and behavioral responses as youth (N=25) viewed validated, emotionally varied (i.e., anger, fear, happy, and neutral) adult and child face stimuli. We observed that participants made fewer errors when matching adult, compared to child, face stimuli, and that while similar brain regions were involved in processing both adult and child faces, activation in the face processing neural network was greater for adult than child faces. This was true across emotions, and also when comparing neutral adult versus neutral child faces. Additionally, a valence by stimuli-type effect was observed within the amygdala. That is, within adult face stimuli, negative and neutral face stimuli elicited the largest effects, whereas within child face stimuli, happy face stimuli elicited the largest amygdala effects. Thus, heightened engagement of the amygdala was observed for happy child and angry adult faces, which may reflect age-specific salience of select emotions in early life. This study provides evidence that the relational age of the perceived face influences neural processing in youth.
Despite almost a decade since the introduction of Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM), there remains some confusion within the wider neuroimaging, neuroscience and clinical communities as to what DCM studies are probing, and what all the jargon means. We provide ten simple rules, and a theoretical example to gently introduce the reader to the rationale behind DCM analyses, and how one should consider neuroimaging data and experiments that use DCM. It is deliberately written as a primer or orientation for non-technical imaging neuroscientists or clinicians who have had to contend with the technical intricacies of understanding DCM.
Anodal and cathodal transcranial direct current stimulations (tDCS) are both established techniques to induce cortical excitability changes. Typically, in the human motor system, such cortical modulations are inferred through changes in the amplitude of the motor evoked potentials (MEPs). However, it is now possible to directly evaluate tDCS-induced changes at the cortical level by recording the transcranial magnetic stimulation evoked potentials (TEPs) using electroencephalography (EEG). The present study investigated the modulation induced by the tDCS on the motor system. The study evaluates changes in the MEPs, in the amplitude and distribution of the TEPs, in resting state oscillatory brain activity and in behavioral performance in a simple manual response task. Both the short- and long-term tDCS effects were investigated by evaluating their time course at ~0 and 30min after tDCS. Anodal tDCS over the left primary motor cortex (M1) induced an enhancement of corticospinal excitability, whereas cathodal stimulation produced a reduction. These changes in excitability were indexed by changes in MEP amplitude. More interestingly, tDCS modulated the cortical reactivity, which is the neuronal activity evoked by TMS, in a polarity-dependent and site-specific manner. Cortical reactivity increased after anodal stimulation over the left M1, whereas it decreased with cathodal stimulation. These effects were partially present also at long term evaluation. No polarity-specific effect was found either on behavioral measures or on oscillatory brain activity. The latter showed a general increase in the power density of low frequency oscillations (theta and alpha) at both stimulation polarities. Our results suggest that tDCS is able to modulate motor cortical reactivity in a polarity-specific manner, inducing a complex pattern of direct and indirect cortical activations or inhibitions of the motor system-related network, which might be related to changes in synaptic efficacy of the motor cortex.
Recent human and rodent brain imaging studies have shown that the shape of the brain can be changed by experience. These mesoscopic alterations in neuroanatomy are hypothesized to be driven by changes at the level of neuronal processes. To examine whether the shape of the brain changes rapidly, we used MRI to examine changes in the volume of the hippocampus across the 4-6 day estrous cycle in the female mouse. It is well known that changing steroid levels across the cycle influence dendritic spine maturation and alter synapse density in the hippocampus; our results show that the estrous cycle is associated with approximately 2-3% changes in hippocampal volume as seen by high-resolution ex-vivo MRI. Changes in hippocampal volume are, moreover, associated with a switch between hippocampal and striatal based navigation strategies in solving the dual choice T-maze in the same mice. A second experiment, using in-vivo MRI, suggests that these changes in hippocampal volume can occur over a 24 hour period. In summary, we show that the brain is highly plastic at a mesoscopic level of resolution detectable by MRI, that volumetric increases and decreases in hippocampal volume follow previously established patterns of changes in neuropil, and that these changes in volume predict changes in cognition.
Neurovascular coupling links neuronal activity to vasodilation. Nitric oxide (NO) is a potent vasodilator, and in neurovascular coupling NO production from NO synthases plays an important role. However, another pathway for NO production also exists, namely the nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway. On this basis, we hypothesized that dietary nitrate (NO3-) could influence the brain's hemodynamic response to neuronal stimulation. In the present study, 20 healthy male participants were given either sodium nitrate (NaNO3) or sodium chloride (NaCl) (saline placebo) in a crossover study and were shown visual stimuli based on the retinotopic characteristics of the visual cortex. Our primary measure of the hemodynamic response was the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response measured with high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (0.640.641.8 mm) in the visual cortex. From this response, we made a direct estimate of key parameters characterizing the shape of the BOLD response (i.e. lag and amplitude). During elevated nitrate intake, corresponding to the nitrate content of a large plate of salad, both the hemodynamic lag and the BOLD amplitude decreased significantly (7.02% and 7.94%, respectively), and the variation across activated voxels of both measures decreased (12.34% and 15.37%, respectively). The baseline cerebral blood flow was not affected by nitrate. Our experiments demonstrate, for the first time, that dietary nitrate may modulate the local cerebral hemodynamic response to stimuli. A faster and smaller BOLD response, with less variation across local cortex, is consistent with an enhanced hemodynamic coupling during elevated nitrate intake. These findings suggest that dietary patterns, via the nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway, may be a potential way to affect key properties of neurovascular coupling. This could have major clinical implications, which remain to be explored.
We previously reported the neuropsychological consequences of a lesion confined to the middle and posterior part of the right fusiform gyrus (case JA) causing a partial loss of knowledge of visual attributes of concrete entities in the absence of category-selectivity (animate versus inanimate). We interpreted this in the context of a two-step model that distinguishes structural description knowledge from associative-semantic processing and implicated the lesioned area in the former process. To test this hypothesis in the intact brain, multi-voxel pattern analysis was used in a series of event-related fMRI studies in a total of 46 healthy subjects. We predicted that activity patterns in this region would be determined by the identity of rather than the conceptual similarity between concrete entities. In a prior behavioral experiment features were generated for each entity by more than 1000 subjects. Based on a hierarchical clustering analysis the entities were organised into 3 semantic clusters (musical instruments, vehicles, tools). Entities were presented as words or pictures. With foveal presentation of pictures, cosine similarity between fMRI response patterns in right fusiform cortex appeared to reflect both the identity of and the semantic similarity between the entities. No such effects were found for words in this region. The effect of object identity was invariant for location, scaling, orientation axis and color (grayscale versus color). It also persisted for different exemplars referring to a same concrete entity. The apparent semantic similarity effect however was not invariant. This study provides further support for a neurobiological distinction between structural description knowledge and processing of semantic relationships and confirms the role of right mid-posterior fusiform cortex in the former process, in accordance with previous lesion evidence.
Humans have an automatic tendency to imitate others. Although several regions commonly observed in social tasks have been shown to be involved in imitation control, there is little work exploring how these regions interact with one another. We used fMRI and dynamic causal modeling to identify imitation-specific control mechanisms and examine functional interactions between regions. Participants performed a pre-specified action (lifting their index or middle finger) in response to videos depicting the same two actions (biological cues) or dots moving with similar trajectories (non-biological cues). On congruent trials, the stimulus and response were similar (e.g. index finger response to index finger or left side dot stimulus), while on incongruent trials the stimulus and response were dissimilar (e.g. index finger response to middle finger or right side dot stimulus). Reaction times were slower on incongruent compared to congruent trials for both biological and non-biological stimuli, replicating previous findings that suggest the automatic imitative or spatially compatible (congruent) response must be controlled on incongruent trials. Neural correlates of the congruency effects were different depending on the cue type. The medial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, inferior frontal gyrus pars opercularis (IFGpo) and the left anterior insula were involved specifically in controlling imitation. In addition, the IFGpo was also more active for biological compared to non-biological stimuli, suggesting that the region represents the frontal node of the human mirror neuron system (MNS). Effective connectivity analysis exploring the interactions between these regions, suggests a role for the mPFC and ACC in imitative conflict detection and the anterior insula in conflict resolution processes, which may occur through interactions with the frontal node of the MNS. We suggest an extension of the previous models of imitation control involving interactions between imitation-specific and general cognitive control mechanisms.
The role of sensory-motor components in language processing is a central topic in cognitive neuroscience. Recent studies showed that the processing of action words recruits cortical motor regions involved in the planning and execution of the described actions. However, it remains unclear to what extent the abstract versus concrete nature of the described motion modulates the activation of premotor and motor areas and how the agent affects this modulation. Here, we contribute to this line of research by investigating the comprehension of motion verbs, used in a literal versus figurative context, in an fMRI study with normal subjects in which the somatotopy of activation was investigated by presenting motion verbs that involve upper vs. lower limbs. A set of sentences including a motion verb used in a literal, fictive (only lower limb), metaphorical, or idiomatic way was studied. Cognition verbs were also included as control. We found that figurative sentences compared to literal ones produced a greater activation of a bilateral fronto-temporal network, in line with previous studies. Moreover, fictive motion activated a more posterior region, involving primary visual areas and motion sensitive visual areas, but also the left middle frontal gyrus. Crucially, the left precentral gyrus was activated in the case of the upper limb for literal and metaphorical motion sentence types, but not idiomatic sentences. For fictive motion, we found a lower limb-related somatotopic effect, also present for literal sentences, while the evidence for metaphorical and idiomatic sentences was less strong. In conclusion, our results confirm that premotor areas are activated by language understanding, but to a different degree depending on the specific literal versus figurative context in which motion verbs appear. Therefore, they support weak embodied views suggesting that the motor system enhances the comprehension of linguistically encoded actions.
Cytoarchitectonic area 44 of Broca's region in the left inferior frontal gyrus is known to be involved in several functional domains including language, action and music processing. We investigated whether this functional heterogeneity is reflected in distinct modules within cytoarchitectonically defined left area 44 using meta-analytic connectivity-based parcellation (CBP). This method relies on identifying the whole-brain co-activation pattern for each area 44 voxel across a wide range of functional neuroimaging experiments and subsequently grouping the voxels into distinct clusters based on the similarity of their co-activation patterns. This CBP analysis revealed that five separate clusters exist within left area 44. A post-hoc functional characterization and functional connectivity analysis of these five clusters was then performed. The two posterior clusters were primarily associated with action processes, in particular with phonology and overt speech (posterior-dorsal cluster) and with rhythmic sequencing (posterior-ventral cluster). The three anterior clusters were primarily associated with language and cognition, in particular with working memory (anterior-dorsal cluster), with detection of meaning (anterior-ventral cluster) and with task switching/cognitive control (inferior frontal junction cluster). These five clusters furthermore showed specific and distinct connectivity patterns. The results demonstrate that left area 44 is heterogeneous, thus supporting anatomical data on the molecular architecture of this region, and provide a basis for more specific interpretations of activations localized in area 44.
Full brain network models comprise a large-scale connectivity (the connectome) and neural mass models as the network's nodes. Neural mass models absorb implicitly a variety of properties in their constant parameters to achieve a reduction in complexity. In situations, where the local network connectivity undergoes major changes, such as in development or epilepsy, it becomes crucial to model local connectivity explicitly. This leads naturally to a description of neural fields on folded cortical sheets with local and global connectivities. The numerical approximation of neural fields in biologically realistic situations as addressed in Virtual Brain simulations (see http://thevirtualbrain.org/app/ (version 1.0)) is challenging and requires a thorough evaluation if the Virtual Brain approach is to be adapted for systematic studies of disease and disorders. Here we analyze the sampling problem of neural fields for arbitrary dimensions and provide explicit results for one, two and three dimensions relevant to realistically folded cortical surfaces. We characterize (i) the error due to sampling of spatial distribution functions; (ii) useful sampling parameter ranges in the context of encephalographic (EEG, MEG, ECoG and functional MRI) signals; (iii) guidelines for choosing the right spatial distribution function for given anatomical and geometrical constraints.
In many neuroscience and clinical studies, accurate measurement of hippocampus is very important to reveal the inter-subject anatomical differences or the subtle intra-subject longitudinal changes due to aging or dementia. Although many automatic segmentation methods have been developed, their performances are still challenged by the poor image contrast of hippocampus in the MR images acquired especially from 1.5 or 3.0 Tesla (T) scanners. With the recent advance of imaging technology, 7.0 T scanner provides much higher image contrast and resolution for hippocampus study. However, the previous methods developed for segmentation of hippocampus from 1.5 T or 3.0 T images do not work for the 7.0 T images, due to different levels of imaging contrast and texture information. In this paper, we present a learning-based algorithm for automatic segmentation of hippocampi from 7.0 T images, by taking advantages of the state-of-the-art multi-atlas framework and also the auto-context model (ACM). Specifically, ACM is performed in each atlas domain to iteratively construct sequences of location-adaptive classifiers by integrating both image appearance and local context features. Due to the plenty texture information in 7.0 T images, more advanced texture features are also extracted and incorporated into the ACM during the training stage. Then, under the multi-atlas segmentation framework, multiple sequences of ACM-based classifiers are trained for all atlases to incorporate the anatomical variability. In the application stage, for a new image, its hippocampus segmentation can be achieved by fusing the labeling results from all atlases, each of which is obtained by applying the atlas-specific ACM-based classifiers. Experimental results on twenty 7.0 T images with the voxel size of 0.350.350.35 mm3 show very promising hippocampus segmentations (in terms of Dice overlap ratio 89.10.020), indicating high applicability for the future clinical and neuroscience studies.
There has been an increasing use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) by the neuroscience community to examine differences in functional connectivity between normal control groups and populations of interest. Understanding the reliability of these functional connections is essential to the study of neurological development and degenerate neuropathological conditions. To date, most research assessing the reliability with which resting-state functional connectivity characterizes the brain's functional networks has been on scans between 3 and 11 min in length. In our present study, we examine the test-retest reliability and similarity of resting-state functional connectivity for scans ranging in length from 3 to 27 min as well as for time series acquired during the same length of time but excluding half the time points via sampling every second image. Our results show that reliability and similarity can be greatly improved by increasing the scan lengths from 5 min up to 13 min, and that both the increase in the number of volumes as well as the increase in the length of time over which these volumes was acquired drove this increase in reliability. This improvement in reliability due to scan length is much greater for scans acquired during the same session. Gains in intersession reliability began to diminish after 9-12 min, while improvements in intrasession reliability plateaued around 12-16 min. Consequently, new techniques that improve reliability across sessions will be important for the interpretation of longitudinal fMRI studies.



The aim of this study was to investigate the functional anatomy of decision-making during the Iowa Gambling Task in patients with Parkinson's disease. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a computerized version of IGT to compare 18 PD patients on dopaminergic medication in the ON state and 18 healthy control subjects. Our analyses focused on outcome evaluation following card selection, because we expected this aspect of decision-making to be impaired in PD patients. The PD patients exhibited lower activation of the left putamen than the control group as a reaction to penalty. Using psychophysiological interaction analysis, we identified decreased functional connectivity between the right globus pallidus internus and the left anterior cingulate gyrus in the PD group. In contrast, increased connectivity between these structures was observed after penalty in the control group. Our results suggest altered functioning of the basal ganglia and their connections with the cortical structures involved in the limbic loop (e.g., the limbic fronto-striatal circuit of the basal ganglia) during decision-making in PD patients. Differences in the response to loss could be associated with insufficient negative reinforcement after a loss in PD patients in the ON state in comparison to a healthy population.
Emerging lines of evidence suggest a relationship between amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and protein sumoylation. Multiple studies have demonstrated that several of the proteins involved in the pathogenesis of ALS, including superoxide dismutase 1, fused in liposarcoma, and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), are substrates for sumoylation. Additionally, recent studies in cellular and animal models of ALS revealed that sumoylation of these proteins impact their localization, longevity, and how they functionally perform in disease, providing novel areas for mechanistic investigations and therapeutics. In this article, we summarize the current literature examining the impact of sumoylation of critical proteins involved in ALS and discuss the potential impact for the pathogenesis of the disease. In addition, we report and discuss the implications of new evidence demonstrating that sumoylation of a fragment derived from the proteolytic cleavage of the astroglial glutamate transporter, EAAT2, plays a direct role in downregulating the expression levels of full-length EAAT2 by binding to a regulatory region of its promoter.




Autoantibodies to the extracellular domain of neuronal proteins cause different neurological conditions with movement disorders as a prominent feature. We reviewed the literature of autoantibody-mediated and autoantibody-associated diseases focusing on anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis, autoimmune basal ganglia encephalitis, Sydenham chorea, and the rare syndrome of progressive encephalomyelitis with rigidity and myoclonus. NMDAR encephalitis is a diffuse encephalitis with psychiatric and cognitive features associated with autoantibodies against the NR1 subunit of the NMDAR. The movement disorder phenotype is diverse and often generalized in young children. Although orofacial dyskinesia was the initial movement phenotype, chorea, dystonia, catatonia, and stereotypical movements are now described. The stereotypical movements can be bizarre and include cycling movements and compulsive self-injurious behavior. Autoimmune basal ganglia encephalitis is an inflammatory encephalitis localizing to the basal ganglia that is sometimes associated with serum antibodies against dopamine-2 receptor. Although psychiatric features are common, the dominant problem is a movement disorder, with dystonia-parkinsonism being characteristic. Sydenham chorea is the prototypic poststreptococcal autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder and several autoantibodies may be involved in disease generation. The syndrome is characterized by a pure chorea, although hypotonia, dysarthria, and emotional lability are common. Progressive encephalomyelitis with rigidity and myoclonus is a rare autoimmune disorder causing rigidity, stimulus sensitive spasms, and myoclonus of nonepileptic origin and is associated with autoantibodies of multiple types including those against the glycine receptor. These disorders are important to recognize and diagnose, as immune therapy can shorten disease duration and improve outcome.
The search of targets for developing novel drugs that can control seizures resistant to available treatments in children and adults represents a great challenge for basic science. In the past decade, emerging evidence pointed out to the crucial role played by glia, the innate immunity brain-resident cells, in the generation of hyperexcitable neuronal networks underlying seizures. Molecular and pharmacological studies targeting glia, and the inflammatory mediators released by these cells in experimental models of epilepsy, highlighted novel targets for drug intervention aimed at interfering with the disease mechanisms, therefore providing putative disease-modifying treatments. This article will focus on the role of immunity activation in the brain and the concomitant release by glia of inflammatory molecules with neuromodulatory properties, in the pathogenesis of epileptic seizures, cell loss, and comorbidities.
Hippocampal neurogenesis is important for modulating the behavioural responses to stress and for certain forms of learning and memory. The mechanisms underlying the necessary coupling of neuronal activity to neural stem/progenitor cell (NSPC) function remain poorly understood. Within the dentate subgranular stem cell niche, local interneurons appear to play an important part in this excitation-neurogenesis coupling via GABAergic transmission, which promotes neuronal differentiation and integration. Neuropeptides such as neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and galanin have emerged as important mediators for signalling local and extrinsic interneuronal activity to subgranular zone precursors. Here we review the distribution of these neuropeptides and their receptors in the neurogenic area of the hippocampus and their precise effects on hippocampal neurogenesis. We also discuss neuropeptides' potential involvement in functional aspects of hippocampal neurogenesis particularly their involvement in the modulation of learning and memory and behavior responses.
Orexins A and B (hypocretins 1 and 2) and their two receptors (OX1R and OX2R) were discovered in 1998 by two different groups. Orexin A and B are derived from the differential processing of a common precursor, the prepro-orexin peptide. The neuropeptides are expressed in a few thousand cells located in the lateral hypothalamus (LH), but their projections and receptor distribution are widespread throughout the brain. Remarkably, prepro peptide and double (OX1R/OX2R) receptor knock out (KO) mice reproduce a sleep phenotype known in humans and dogs as narcolepsy/cataplexy. In humans, this disease is characterized by the absence of orexin producing cells in the LH, and severely depleted levels of orexin the cerebrospinal fluid. Null mutation of the individual OX1R or OX2R in mice substantially ameliorates the narcolepsy/cataplexy phenotype compared to the OX1R/OX2R KO, and highlights specific roles of the individual receptors in sleep architecture, the OX1R KO demonstrating an a attenuated sleep phenotype relative to the OX2R KO. It has therefore been suggested that orexin is a master regulator of the sleep-wake cycle, with high activity of the LH orexin cells during wake and almost none during sleep. Less than 10years later, the first orexin antagonist, almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist (DORA), was reported to be effective in inducing sleep in volunteers and insomnia patients. Although development was stopped for almorexant and for Glaxo's DORA SB-649868, no less than 4 orexin receptor antagonists have reached phase II for insomnia, including Filorexant (MK-6096) and Suvorexant (MK-4305) from Merck. Suvorexant has since progressed to Phase III and dossier submission to the FDA. These four compounds are reported as DORAs, however, they equilibrate very slowly at one and/or the other orexin receptor, and thus at equilibrium may show more or less selectivity for OX1R or OX2R. The appropriate balance of antagonism of the two receptors for sleep is a point of debate, although in rodent models OX2R antagonism alone appears sufficient to induce sleep, whereas OX1R antagonism is largely devoid of this effect. Orexin is involved in a number of other functions including reward and feeding, where OX1R (possibly OX2R) antagonists display anti-addictive properties in rodent models of alcohol, smoking, and drug self-administration. However, despite early findings in feeding and appetite control, orexin receptor antagonists have not produced the anticipated effects in models of increased food intake or obesity in rodents, nor have they shown marked effects on weight in the existing clinical trials. The role of orexin in a number of other domains such as pain, mood, anxiety, migraine and neurodegenerative diseases is an active area of research. The progress of the orexin field is thus extraordinary, and the community awaits the clinical testing of more receptor selective antagonists in sleep and other disorders, as well as that of orexin agonists, with the latter expected to produce positive outcomes in narcolepsy/cataplexy and other conditions.
This review focuses on the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of action of NAP (davunetide), an eight amino acid snippet derived from activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) which was discovered in our laboratory. We have recently described the effects of NAP in neurodegenerative disorders, and we now review the beneficial effects of NAP and other microtubule-stabilizing agents on impairments in axonal transport. Experiments in animal models of microtubule-deficiency including tauopathy (spanning from drosophila to mammals) showed protection of axonal transport by microtubule-stabilizers and NAP, which was coupled to motor and cognitive protection. Clinical trials with NAP (davunetide) are reviewed paving the path to future developments.
Major depression, with its strikingly high prevalence, is the most common cause of disability in communities of Western type, according to data of the World Health Organization. Stress-related mood disorders, besides their deleterious effects on the patient itself, also challenge the healthcare systems with their great social and economic impact. Our knowledge on the neurobiology of these conditions is less than sufficient as exemplified by the high proportion of patients who do not respond to currently available medications targeting monoaminergic systems. The search for new therapeutical strategies became therefore a &quot;hot topic&quot; in neuroscience, and there is a large body of evidence suggesting that brain neuropeptides not only participate is stress physiology, but they may also have clinical relevance. Based on data obtained in animal studies, neuropeptides and their receptors might be targeted by new candidate neuropharmacons with the hope that they will become important and effective tools in the management of stress related mood disorders. In this review, we attempt to summarize the latest evidence obtained using animal models for mood disorders, genetically modified rodent models for anxiety and depression, and we will pay some attention to previously published clinical data on corticotropin releasing factor, urocortin 1, urocortin 2, urocortin 3, arginine-vasopressin, neuropeptide Y, pituitary adenylate-cyclase activating polypeptide, neuropeptide S, oxytocin, substance P and galanin fields of stress research.
In the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, accumulation of A1-42 peptides is suggested to initiate a cascade of pathological events. To date, no treatments are available that can reverse or delay AD-related symptoms in patients. In the current study, we introduce a new A toxicity inhibitor, SEN1500, which in addition to its block effect on A1-42 toxicity in synaptophysin assays, can be administered orally and cross the blood-brain barrier without adverse effects in mice. In a different set of animals, APPPS1-21 mice were fed with three different doses of SEN1500 (1mg/kg, 5mg/kg and 20mg/kg) for a period of 5 months. Cognition was assessed in a variety of behavioral tests (Morris water maze, social recognition, conditioned taste aversion and passive avoidance). Results suggest a positive effect on cognition with 20mg/kg SEN1500 compared to control APPPS1-21 mice. However, no changes in soluble or insoluble A1-40 and A1-42 were detected in the brains of SEN1500-fed mice. SEN1500 also attenuated the effect of A1-42 on synaptophysin levels in mouse cortical neurons, which indicated that the compound blocked the synaptic toxicity of A1-42. Invitro and invivo effects presented here suggest that SEN1500 could be an interesting AD therapeutic.
Growing evidence suggests neuroplasticity changes are pivotal in both the occurrence and treatment of affective disorders. Abnormal expression and/or phosphorylation of numerous plasticity-related proteins have been observed in depression, while prolonged antidepressant treatment has been associated with the attenuation of stress-mediated effects on dendritic remodeling and adult hippocampal neurogenesis in experimental animals. This study explores the neurobiological adaptations induced by chronic stress and/or long-term tianeptine treatment. Male and female rats were studied to determine the potential contributory role of sex differences on stress-induced pathology and antidepressant-mediated actions. Our results confirm chronic stress-induced HPA axis disturbance and neuroplasticity impairment in both sexes (i.e. reduced CREB phosphorylation and hippocampal BrdU labeling). Commonly ensuing neurobiological alterations were accompanied by unique sex-specific adaptations. When the antidepressant tianeptine was administered, HPA axis hyperactivity was attenuated and specific neuronal defects were ameliorated in both sexes. These findings provide novel insight into sex-related influences on the neurobiological substrates mediating chronic stress-induced actions on neuroplasticity and the mechanisms underlying tianeptine-mediated therapeutic effects.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the monoaminergic stabilizer (-)-OSU6162 on spatial recognition memory. Male NMRI mice were tested in the object location model which is based on the animals' inherent interest to examine changes in their environment: The animals' propensity to explore relocated objects in relation to unaltered objects, presented in two different sessions (sample and trial), was studied. In a first series of experiments the effect of (-)-OSU6162 on natural forgetting was evaluated. With an inter-session interval (ISI) of 30min or an hour, untreated mice spent longer time exploring the displaced object, but when the time between sessions was as long as 6h, the mice did not identify the displaced object. However, using the 6h ISI design we found that (-)-OSU6162 in doses up to 30mol/kg, given directly after the sample session, caused an increased interest for the displaced object. Twenty-four hours after administration, (-)-OSU6162 was still effective in facilitating identification of the displaced object. We also evaluated the effect of (-)-OSU6162 on scopolamine-induced memory deficits in this model - the two agents were given 30min before the sample session and the ISI was one hour. Under these conditions scopolamine induced a deficit in object location memory and this effect was counteracted by (-)-OSU6162. The data from the present study suggest that (-)-OSU6162 prolongs object location memory in normal mice and reverses scopolamine-induced memory deficits. (-)-OSU6162 might be a valuable drug candidate for memory deficits and other cognitive impairments.
Morphine is mainly transformed to morphine-3-glucuronide (M3G) and morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) in the liver. Glucuronidation is also performed by rat brain homogenates and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) are present in the brain. Here we investigated the possibility that microglia transforms morphine into its metabolites M3G and M6G. Primary cultures of neonatal rat microglia were incubated for different intervals of time in basal conditions or with different concentrations of morphine. The following measures were performed on these cultures and/or in the medium: (i) morphine as well as M3G and M6G concentrations; (ii) levels of mRNA coding for UGT1A1, UGT1A6, UGT1A7, and UGT2B1 as well as their protein levels; (iii) released prostaglandin (PG)E2 and nitrite concentrations. Results show that in basal conditions morphine and M3G are produced by microglia; accordingly, these cells expressed UGT1A1, UGT1A6 and UGT1A7, but not UGT2B1. When cultures were exposed to different concentrations of exogenous morphine, M6G was also synthesized. This shift in the glucuronidation was associated with variations in the expression of UGT isozymes. In particular, UGT1A7 expression was rapidly upregulated and this event was translated into enhanced protein levels of UGT1A7; lesser effects were exerted on UGT1A1 and UGT1A6. Upon prolonged exposure to morphine, microglial cell UGT expression returned to baseline conditions or even to reduced levels of expression. Morphine exposure did not affect the synthesis of both PGE2 and nitrites, ruling out a generalized priming of microglia by morphine. In conclusion, this study suggests that morphine glucuronides found in the cerebrospinal liquor upon peripheral morphine administration may at least in part be brain-born, reconciling the conceptual gap between the high hydrophilic features of morphine glucuronides and their presence beyond the blood-brain barrier.
The pharmacological effect of the selective PDE10A inhibitor 2-[4-(1-methyl-4-pyridin-4-yl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl)-phenoxymethyl]-quinoline succinic acid (MP-10) on aversively and appetitively motivated behavior in C57BL/6J mice was examined. MP-10 dose-dependently impaired performance on a highly demanding reward schedule during appetitive conditioning. The compound further affected cue-based, but not contextual aversive conditioning. Finally, dose-dependent impaired performance in an instrumentally conditioned reinforcement (ICR) task was found. This suggests that the observed behavioral effects of MP-10 can be at least partially ascribed to impaired incentive salience attribution. MP-10 administration dose-dependently enhanced striatal expression of the immediate early gene Zif268, which suggest that MP-10 affects the studied motivated behaviors by enhancing PDE10A-regulated striatal signaling. Striatal signaling thus appears to be crucial in processes that control reward-motivated behavior in general, and incentive salience attribution in particular. Continued research will prove valuable towards a better understanding of psychopathologies that affect reward-motivated behaviors, such as drug addiction and schizophrenia.
Behavioral responsiveness to initial cocaine use varies among individuals and may contribute to differential vulnerability to cocaine addiction. Rats also exhibit individual differences in cocaine's effects and can be classified as low or high cocaine responders (LCRs or HCRs, respectively), based on their initial cocaine-induced locomotor activity (10mg/kg, i.p.). Here, we used the extinction/reinstatement model to address whether or not LCRs and HCRs differ in (i) extinction/reinstatement of cocaine self-administration behavior and (ii) levels of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) following these behaviors. During the earliest acquisition sessions, LCRs exhibited significantly greater cocaine intake (0.8mg/kg/infusion) and cocaine-paired lever responding than HCRs, but intake and lever responding converged by the end of the cocaine self-administration portion of the study. LCRs and HCRs did not differ in cocaine seeking during the first extinction session and extinguished cocaine seeking similarly. HCRs exhibited greater reinstatement than LCRs to lower (2.5 and 5mg/kg), but not higher (10mg/kg), i.p. priming doses of cocaine. The effect of drug-paired cues on reinstatement following extinction was complex, with HCRs and LCRs showing the greater effect of cue depending on the order in which cue- and drug-primed tests were given. Western blot analysis revealed that mGluR5 heteromers were significantly higher in the dorsal striatum of HCRs than LCRs following reinstatement testing. Although our previous findings with the LCR/HCR model have uniformly supported the idea that lower initial cocaine-induced activation predicts more ready development of cocaine addiction-like behaviors, here, we show a more complex relationship with cocaine reinstatement.
Taurine is an endogenous ligand acting on glycine receptors in many brain regions, including the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and nucleus accumbens (nAcc). These areas also contain low concentrations of zinc, which is known to potentiate glycine receptor responses. Despite an increasing awareness of the role of the glycine receptor in the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse, the possible interactions of these compounds with zinc has not been thoroughly addressed. Two-electrode voltage-clamp electrophysiological experiments were performed on 1, 2 1 and 2 glycine receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The effects of zinc alone, and zinc in combination with other positive modulators on the glycine receptor, were investigated when activated by the full agonist glycine versus the partial agonist taurine. Low concentrations of zinc enhanced responses of maximally-effective concentrations of taurine but not glycine. Likewise, chelation of zinc from buffers decreased responses of taurine- but not glycine-mediated currents. Potentiating concentrations of zinc decreased ethanol, isoflurane, and toluene enhancement of maximal taurine currents with no effects on maximal glycine currents. Our findings suggest that the concurrence of high concentrations of taurine and low concentrations of zinc attenuate the effects of additional modulators on the glycine receptor, and that these conditions are more representative of invivo functioning than effects seen when these modulators are applied in isolation.
We investigated the CCL5-glutamate interaction in the cortex and in the spinal cord from mice with Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis (EAE) at 13 and 21/30 days post immunization (d.p.i.), representing the onset and the peak of the disease, respectively. An early reduction of the KCl-evoked glutamate release was observed in cortical terminals from EAE mice at 13d.p.i., persisting until 21/30d.p.i.A concomitant reduction of the depolarization-evoked cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), but not of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) cortical production also occurred at 13d.p.i, that still was detectable at the acute stage of disease (21dp.i.). Inasmuch, the CCL5-mediated inhibition of glutamate exocytosis observed in control mice turned to facilitation in EAE mouse cortex at 13d.p.i., then becoming undetectable at 21/30d.p.i.Differently, glutamate exocytosis, as well as IP3 and cAMP productions were unaltered in spinal cord synaptosomes from EAE mice at 13d.p.i., but significantly increased at 21/30d.p.i., while the presynaptic CCL5-mediated facilitation of glutamate exocytosis observed in control mice remained unchanged. In both CNS regions, the presynaptic defects were parallelled by increased CCL5 availability. Inasmuch, the presynaptic defects so far described in EAE mice were reminiscent of the effects acute CCL5 exerts in control conditions. Based on these observations we propose that increased CCL5 bioavailability could have a role in determining the abovedescribed impaired presynaptic impairments in both CNS regions. These presynaptic defects could be relevant to the onset of early cognitive impairments and acute neuroinflammation and demyelinating processes observed in multiple sclerosis patients.
Following neurotrauma, cells beyond the initial trauma site undergo secondary degeneration, with excess Ca2+ a likely trigger for loss of neurons, compact myelin and function. Treatment using inhibitors of specific Ca2+ channels has shown promise in preclinical studies, but clinical trials have been disappointing and combinatorial approaches are needed. We assessed efficacy of multiple combinations of three Ca2+ channel inhibitors at reducing secondary degeneration following partial optic nerve transection in rat. We used lomerizine to inhibit voltage gated Ca2+ channels; oxidised adenosine-triphosphate (oxATP) to inhibit purinergic P2X7 receptors and/or 2-[7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro quinoxalin-1-yl]acetic acid (INQ) to inhibit Ca2+ permeable -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. Only the three Ca2+ channel inhibitors delivered in combination significantly preserved visual function, as assessed using the optokinetic nystagmus visual reflex, at 3 months after injury. Preservation of retinal ganglion cells was partial and is unlikely to have accounted for differential effects on function. A range of the Ca2+ channel inhibitor combinations prevented swelling of optic nerve vulnerable to secondary degeneration. Each of the treatments involving lomerizine significantly increased the proportion of axons with normal compact myelin. Nevertheless, limiting decompaction of myelin was not sufficient for preservation of function in our model. Multiple combinations of Ca2+ channel inhibitors reduced formation of atypical node/paranode complexes; outcomes were not associated with preservation of visual function. However, prevention of lengthening of the paranodal gap that was only achieved by treatment with the three Ca2+ channel inhibitors in combination was an important additional effect that likely contributed to the associated preservation of the optokinetic reflex using this combinatorial treatment strategy.
Reductions in the capacity of the human choline transporter (SLC5A7, CHT) have been hypothesized to diminish cortical cholinergic neurotransmission, leading to risk for cognitive and mood disorders. To determine the acetylcholine (ACh) release capacity of cortical cholinergic projections in a mouse model of cholinergic hypofunction, the CHT+/- mouse, we assessed extracellular ACh levels while mice performed an operant sustained attention task (SAT). We found that whereas SAT-performance-associated increases in extracellular ACh levels of CHT+/- mice were significantly attenuated relative to wildtype littermates, performance on the SAT was normal. Tetrodotoxin-induced blockade of neuronal excitability reduced both dialysate ACh levels and SAT performance similarly in both genotypes. Likewise, lesions of cholinergic neurons abolished SAT performance in both genotypes. However, cholinergic activation remained more vulnerable to the reverse-dialyzed muscarinic antagonist atropine in CHT+/- mice. Additionally, CHT+/- mice displayed greater SAT-disrupting effects of reverse dialysis of the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine. Receptor binding assays revealed a higher density of 42* nAChRs in the cortex of CHT+/- mice compared to controls. These findings reveal compensatory mechanisms that, in the context of moderate cognitive challenges, can overcome the performance deficits expected from the significantly reduced ACh capacity of CHT+/- cholinergic terminals. Further analyses of molecular and functional compensations in the CHT+/- model may provide insights into both risk and resiliency factors involved in cognitive and mood disorders.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling via tropomyosin-related kinase B (trkB) receptors exerts modulatory effects on glutamatergic transmission, learning, memory and reward processing. Although the role of BDNF in the regulation of mnemonic and affective/motivational processes is well studied, whether this neurotrophin could also regulate executive functions is not known. In the present study, we assessed the effects of intrastriatal infusions on BDNF (1-100ng/hemisphere) in mice performing an operant strategy set-shifting task that required the animals to eliminate a visual cue-based strategy and adopt a new egocentric spatial response strategy to achieve rewards. Exogenous BDNF administration facilitated the acquisition of strategy shifting by minimizing response perseveration to the previously acquired strategy and this effect resemble an inverted-U shaped dose-response pattern. Faster acquisition of strategy switching in BDNF-infused animals was dependent upon the activation of striatal trkB receptors. Moreover, activation of mGluR2/3 receptors by the selective group II metabotropic receptor agonist LY379268 abolished BDNF-induced cognitive enhancement suggesting the involvement of presynaptic glutamatergic activity. Assessment of striatal glutamate dynamics using electrochemical recordings indicated that local application of BDNF directly induces glutamate release by activating presynaptic trkB receptors on glutamatergic terminals, and this effect followed a bell-shaped dose-response pattern similar to strategy shifting performance. These data suggest that activation of BDNF-trkB signaling in the dorsal striatum improves strategy switching by effectively minimizing response conflicts, and this effect primarily involves facilitation of glutamatergic transmission.
Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) plays pivotal roles in neuronal survival in the adult mammalian brain and may modulate forms of structural and functional plasticity, including neurogenesis. We have shown previously that six weeks of housing in an enriched environment (EE) that did not include access to running wheels resulted in improved recognition memory concomitant with increased NGF expression and neurogenesis in the hippocampus. Here we have attempted to probe a causal link between NGF and the observed enrichment-induced changes in hippocampal function by assessing the effects of six weeks continuous intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of NGF on recognition memory and cell proliferation. We report that NGF-infused rats show enhanced recognition memory when compared with vehicle-treated controls. Expression of NGF and its receptor, TrkA, was increased in treated rats, as was expression of the synaptic vesicle protein, synapsin. Finally, we observed an increase in cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of NGF-treated rats. These data indicate that chronic infusion of NGF can stimulate an improvement in learning and memory that is associated with specific cellular changes in the hippocampus, including synaptogenesis and cell proliferation.
The pentameric A type -aminobutyric acid receptors (GABAARs) are the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in the nervous system and have long been considered as important pharmaceutical targets for the treatment of multiple neurological or psychological disorders. Here, we show that 2-guanidine-4-methylquinazoline (GMQ), a recently identified acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) modulator, strongly and preferentially inhibits GABAAR among the major neurotransmitter-gated ion channels in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. GMQ inhibited GABA (1 M)-induced currents in a competitive manner, with an IC50 (0.390.05 M) comparable to that of bicuculline. Schild analysis revealed a slope of 1.040.06 for GMQ on 12 GABAARs expressed in HEK293T cells. Single-channel analysis showed that GMQ decreased open probability of GABAARs without affecting conductance. Moreover, GMQ inhibited GABAergic neurotransmission in hippocampal neurons, while having no significant effect on the basal field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) and the intrinsic excitability of neurons. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we further demonstrated that mutations at Glu155 of 2 subunit and Phe64 of 1 subunit, both located inside the GABA binding pocket, profoundly decreased the sensitivity of the receptor to both GABA and GMQ. Interestingly, these mutations did not significantly affect the inhibition by amiloride, a diuretic structurally similar to GMQ and a known GABAAR inhibitor. We conclude that GMQ represents a novel chemical structure that acts, possibly, by competing with GABA binding to GABAARs. It is anticipated that GMQ and its analogs will facilitate the development of new chemical probes for GABAARs.
In numerous species social learning is predominant and adaptive, yet, we know little of its neurobiological mechanisms. Social learning is modulated by motivations and emotions, in a manner that is often sexually dimorphic. Additionally, stress hormones acutely modulate the related social cognitive process of social recognition. Whether this is true even for social learning is currently unknown. We investigated the acute effects of the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT) on the social transmission of food preferences (STFP) in male and female mice. During a brief social interaction an observer (OBS) acquires a food preference from a same-sex demonstrator (DEM). CORT (1.0, 2.5, 5.0mg/kg), its ethanol vehicle (0.1%), and saline solution (0.9%) were administered intraperitoneally to the OBS, 10min before a 30-min social interaction. Levels of plasma CORT were assessed in other mice that had received the same doses of CORT and either had or had not gone through a 30min social interaction 10min post-treatment. Exogenous CORT elicited levels of plasma level comparable to those seen at the peak of the circadian cycle and facilitated the STFP with males responding more than females both in terms of the duration of the food preference and the minimum effective dose. CORT also sexually dimorphically inhibited feeding, with females showing a greater dose-response than males. Saline solution and ethanol vehicles also sexually dimorphically facilitated the STFP and reduced feeding, but less than CORT did. These results indicate that CORT facilitates social learning, like social recognition. Hence, CORT may generally increase social information processing.
The majority of patients with metastatic bone disease experience moderate to severe pain. Bone cancer pain is usually progressive as the disease advances, and is very difficult to treat due to the poor understanding of the underlying mechanisms. Recent studies demonstrated that synaptic plasticity induces spinal cord sensitization and contributes to bone cancer pain. However, whether the synaptic plasticity is due to modifications of existing synapses or the formation of new synaptic connections is still unknown. Here we showed that a carcinoma implantation into a rats' tibia induced a significant increase in the number of excitability synapses in the dorsal horn, which contributes to the development of bone cancer pain. Previous studies identified that non-clustered protocadherins play significant roles in neuronal development and other implications in neurological disorders. In the present study, we showed that Protocadherin20 was significantly increased in the dorsal horn of cancer-bearing rats, while knockdown of Protocadherin20 with RNAi lentivirus reversed bone cancer-induced pain behaviors and decreased excitatory synaptogenesis in ipsilateral dorsal horn. In an invitro study, we showed that knockdown of Protocadherin20 inhibited neurite outgrowth and excitatory synapse formation of dorsal neurons. These findings indicate that Protocadherin20 is required for the development of bone cancer pain probably by promoting the excitability synaptogenesis.
Stimulation of cannabinoid CB1 receptors or inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) decreases anxiety-like behavior. Moreover, activation of CB1 receptors attenuates flight responses induced by nitric oxide (NO) donors in the dlPAG, suggesting that endocannabinoids and NO could interact to control defensive responses such as anxiety-like behavior. To test this hypothesis male Wistar rats received intra-dlPAG microinjections of anandamide (AEA) or NO inhibitors and were tested in the elevated plus maze (EPM). Combined administration of low and ineffective doses of AEA and the NO scavenger (c-Ptio), the nNOS inhibitor (NPA) or the soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor (ODQ) induced anxiolytic-like effects. The CB1 receptor antagonist AM251, but not the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline, attenuated the effect induced by AEA+c-Ptio combination. No effect, however, was found when anxiolytic doses of these same drugs were administered together. Combination of higher, ineffective doses of AEA and c-Ptio, NPA or ODQ was again anxiolytic. The effect of the former combination was prevented by low and ineffective doses of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline or the GABA synthesis inhibitor L-allilglycine, suggesting that they depend on GABAA-mediated neurotransmission. AM251 was also able to attenuate this effect, indicating that in the presence of NO inhibition, the resultant anxiolytic-like effect could be due to AEA action on CB1 receptors. The present results suggest that the AEA and nitrergic systems exert a complex functional interaction in the dlPAG to modulate anxiety behavior, probably interfering, in addition to glutamate, also with GABAergic mechanisms.
Cholinergic interneurons (ChIs) of dorsal striatum play a key role in motor control and in behavioural learning. Neuropeptides regulate cholinergic transmission and mu opioid receptor (MOR) activation modulates striatal acetylcholine release. However, the mechanisms underlying this effect are yet uncharacterized. Here, we examined the electrophysiological responses of ChIs to the selective MOR agonist, DAMGO {[D-Ala2-MePhe4-Gly(ol)5] enkephalin}. We observed a robust, dose-dependent inhibition of spontaneous firing activity (0.06-3M) which was reversible upon drug washout and blocked by the selective antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP) (1M). Voltage-clamp analysis of the reversal potential of the DAMGO effect did not provide univocal results, indicating the involvement of multiple membrane conductances. The MOR-dependent effect persisted in the presence of GABAA and ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, ruling out an indirect effect. Additionally, it depended upon G-protein activation, as it was prevented by intrapipette GDP--S. Because D2 dopamine receptors (D2R) and MOR share a common post-receptor signalling pathway, occlusion experiments were performed with maximal doses of both D2R and MOR agonists. The D2R agonist quinpirole decreased spike discharge, which was further reduced by adding DAMGO. Then, D2R or MOR antagonists were used to challenge the response to the respective agonists, DAMGO or quinpirole. No cross-effect was observed, suggesting that the two receptors act independently. Our findings demonstrate a postsynaptic inhibitory modulation by MOR on ChIs excitability. Such opioidergic regulation of cholinergic transmission might contribute to shape information processing in basal ganglia circuits, and represent a potential target for pharmacological intervention.
Monoamine oxidase (MAO) A, the major enzyme catalyzing the oxidative degradation of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), plays a key role in emotional regulation. In humans and mice, MAO-A deficiency results in high 5-HT levels, antisocial, aggressive, and perseverative behaviors. We previously showed that the elevation in brain 5-HT levels in MAO-A knockout (KO) mice is particularly marked during the first two weeks of postnatal life. Building on this finding, we hypothesized that the reduction of 5-HT levels during these early stages may lead to enduring attenuations of the aggression and other behavioral aberrances observed in MAO-A KO mice. To test this possibility, MAO-A KO mice were treated with daily injections of a 5-HT synthesis blocker, the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chloro-phenylalanine (pCPA, 300mg/kg/day, IP), from postnatal day 1 through 7. As expected, this regimen significantly reduced 5-HT forebrain levels in MAO-A KO pups. These neurochemical changes persisted throughout adulthood, and resulted in significant reductions in marble-burying behavior, as well as increases in spontaneous alternations within a T-maze. Conversely, pCPA-treated MAO-A KO mice did not exhibit significant changes in anxiety-like behaviors in a novel open-field and elevated plus-maze; furthermore, this regimen did not modify their social deficits, aggressive behaviors and impairments in tactile sensitivity. Treatment with pCPA from postnatal day 8 through 14 elicited similar, yet milder, behavioral effects on marble-burying behavior. These results suggest that early developmental enhancements in 5-HT levels have long-term effects on the modulation of behavioral flexibility associated with MAO-A deficiency.
The neurobiological underpinnings of anxiety are of paramount importance to selective and efficacious pharmaceutical intervention. Hippocampal theta frequency in urethane anaesthetized rats is suppressed by all known (and some previously unknown) anti-anxiety (anxiolytic) drugs. Although these findings support the predictive validity of this assay, its construct validity (i.e., whether theta frequency actually indexes anxiety per se) has not been a subject of systematic investigation. We reasoned that if anxiolytic drugs suppress hippocampal theta frequency, then drugs that increase anxiety (i.e., anxiogenic agents) should increase theta frequency, thus providing evidence of construct validity. We used three proven anxiogenic drugs--two benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonists, N-methyl--carboline-3-carboxamide (FG7142) and -carboline-3-carboxylate ethyl ester (CCE), and one 2 noradrenergic receptor antagonist, 17-hydroxy-yohimban-16-carboxylic acid methyl ester (yohimbine) as pharmacological probes to assess the construct validity of the theta model. Although all three anxiogenic drugs significantly increased behavioural measures of anxiety in the elevated plus-maze, none of the three increased the frequency of hippocampal theta oscillations in the neurophysiological model. As a positive control, we demonstrated that diazepam, a proven anxiolytic drug, decreased the frequency of hippocampal theta, as in all other studies using this model. Given this discrepancy between the significant effects of anxiogenic drugs in the behavioural model and the null effects of these drugs in the neurophysiological model, we conclude that the construct validity of the hippocampal theta model of anxiety is questionable.
Exposure to drug-associated cues evokes drug-seeking behavior and is regarded as a major cause of relapse. Cues evoke burst firing of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons and phasic DA release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Cholinergic and glutamatergic input to the VTA is suggested to gate phasic DA activity. However, the role of VTA cholinergic and glutamatergic receptors in regulating phasic dopamine release and cue-induced drug-seeking in cocaine experienced subjects is not known. In male Sprague-Dawley rats, we found that VTA inactivation strongly inhibited, while VTA stimulation promoted, cocaine-seeking behavior during early withdrawal. Blockade of phasic activated D1 receptors in the NAc core also strongly inhibited cue-induced cocaine-seeking--suggesting an important role of phasic DA activity in the VTA to NAc core circuit. Next, we examined the role of VTA acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) in regulating both NAc core phasic DA release and cue-induced cocaine-seeking. In cocaine nave subjects, VTA infusion of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antagonist mecamylamine, the muscarinic AChR antagonist scopolamine, or the NMDAR antagonist AP-5, led to robust attenuation of phasic DA release in the NAc core. During early cocaine withdrawal, VTA infusion of AP-5 had limited effects on NAc phasic DA release and cue-induced cocaine-seeking while VTA infusion of mecamylamine or scopolamine robustly inhibited both phasic DA release and cocaine-seeking. The results demonstrate that VTA AChRs, but not NMDARs, strongly regulate cue-induced cocaine-seeking and phasic DA release during early cocaine withdrawal.
The Group I metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) is widely distributed in the brain with dense expression in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and basal ganglia. These receptors have been implicated in psychiatric and neurological disorders such as schizophrenia, Fragile X syndrome, addiction, anxiety/depression, Parkinson's disease and neuropathic pain. The present study evaluated the effects of the mGluR5 negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) 4-difluoromethoxy-3-(pyridine-2-ylethynyl)phenyl)5H-pyrrolo[3,4-b]pyridine-6(7H)-yl methanone (GRN-529) and methyl (3aR,4S,7aR)-4-hydroxy-4-[(3-methylphenyl)ethynyl]octahydro-1H-indole-1-carboxylate (AFQ056) on polysomnographic (PSG) and quantitative electroencephalographic (qEEG) measures in freely moving rats. Furthermore, the anxiolytic profile of GRN-529 was characterized in anesthetized rats by measuring stimulation-induced hippocampal theta oscillation. The present findings demonstrate that inhibition of mGluR5 via its allosteric site profoundly modulates high-level neuronal network activities as indicated by changes in sleep-wake activity andpower distribution of qEEG. Both GRN-529 and AFQ056 reduced the total time spent in rapid-eye movement with AFQ056 producing a significant increase in wakefulness at the highest dose tested. Additionally, qEEG revealed significant compound-induced increases in delta power concomitant with more subtle decreases intheta and alpha band power. Receptor occupancy (RO) studies revealed that GRN-529 and AFQ056 at all doses resulted in over 45% mGluR5 occupancy. Furthermore, GRN-529 dose-dependently decreased elicitedhippocampal theta frequency, consistent with previous findings using clinically active anxiolytic compounds. The described changes in neurophysiological signals identified in freely moving rats may be considered suitable translational biomarkers for the clinical evaluation of mGluR5 NAMs.
Sleep-wake cycle is characterized by changes in neuronal network activity. However, for the last decade there is increasing evidence that neuroglial interaction may play a role in the modulation of sleep homeostasis and that astrocytes have a critical impact in this process. Interestingly, astrocytes are organized into communicating networks based on their high expression of connexins, which are the molecular constituents of gap junction channels. Thus, neuroglial interactions should also be considered as the result of the interplay between neuronal and astroglial networks. Here, we investigate the effect of modafinil, a wakefulness-promoting agent, on astrocyte gap junctional communication. We report that in the cortex modafinil injection increases the expression of mRNA and protein of connexin 30 but not those of connexin 43, the other major astroglial connexin. These increases are correlated with an enhancement of intercellular dye coupling in cortical astrocytes, which is abolished when neuronal activity is silenced by tetrodotoxin. Moreover, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, which at a millimolar concentration induces sleep, has an opposite effect on astroglial gap junctions in an activity-independent manner. These results support the proposition that astroglia may play an important role in complex physiological brain functions, such as sleep regulation, and that neuroglial networking interaction is modified during sleep-wake cycle. This article is part of the Special Issue Section entitled 'Current Pharmacology of Gap Junction Channels and Hemichannels'.
Gap junction channels and hemichannels formed by the connexin family of proteins play important roles in many aspects of tissue homeostasis in the brain and in other organs. In addition, connexin channels have been proposed as pharmacological targets in the treatment of a number of human disorders. In this review, we describe the connexin-subtype selectivity and specificity of pharmacological agents that are commonly used to modulate connexin channels. We also highlight recent progress made toward identifying new agents for connexin channels that act in a selective and specific manner. Finally, we discuss developing insights into possible mechanisms by which these agents modulate connexin channel function. This article is part of the Special Issue Section entitled 'Current Pharmacology of Gap Junction Channels and Hemichannels'.
During repetitive stimulation of skeletal muscle, extracellular ATP levels raise, activating purinergic receptors, increasing Ca2+ influx, and enhancing contractile force, a response called potentiation. We found that ATP appears to be released through pannexin1 hemichannels (Panx1 HCs). Immunocytochemical analyses and function were consistent with pannexin1 localization to T-tubules intercalated with dihydropyridine and ryanodine receptors in slow (soleus) and fast (extensor digitorum longus, EDL) muscles. Isolated myofibers took up ethidium (Etd+) and released small molecules (as ATP) during electrical stimulation. Consistent with two glucose uptake pathways, induced uptake of 2-NBDG, a fluorescent glucose derivative, was decreased by inhibition of HCs or glucose transporter (GLUT4), and blocked by dual blockade. Adult skeletal muscles apparently do not express connexins, making it unlikely that connexin hemichannels contribute to the uptake and release of small molecules. ATP release, Etd+ uptake, and potentiation induced by repetitive electrical stimulation were blocked by HC blockers and did not occur in muscles of pannexin1 knockout mice. MRS2179, a P2Y1R blocker, prevented potentiation in EDL, but not soleus muscles, suggesting that in fast muscles ATP activates P2Y1 but not P2X receptors. Phosphorylation on Ser and Thr residues of pannexin1 was increased during potentiation, possibly mediating HC opening. Opening of Panx1 HCs during repetitive activation allows efflux of ATP, influx of glucose and possibly Ca2+ too, which are required for potentiation of contraction. This article is part of the Special Issue Section entitled 'Current Pharmacology of Gap Junction Channels and Hemichannels'.
Impairments in executive function, self-regulation and attribution individually have been implicated in impairment in goal-directed behaviour, resulting in reduced participation in daily activities by individuals with brain injury. There is minimal literature that explicitly addresses the relationships among these constructs, how these may be affected by brain injury and the implications for rehabilitation. The objectives of this study were to determine what is known about the relationship between executive function, self-regulation and attribution, and to understand how these inter-relationships affect goal-directed behaviour in adults with acquired brain injury. A scoping review of the cognitive neuroscience, neuropsychology, rehabilitation, educational and social psychology literature from 1985 to 2011 was performed. The identified literature provided definitions of the constructs and insight into the relationships between them according to their neural underpinnings and theoretical models. These data also provided for the development of a new model illustrating the hypothesised relationships between constructs. This review and the model developed, suggest that attribution may play an important role in executive function and self-regulation. Rehabilitation interventions that address formulation of appropriate attributions should be considered in conjunction with those targeting self-regulation and executive function for individuals with brain injury.
Despite often impressive improvements on linguistic assessments, there is a lack of evidence of significant generalisation from impairment-focused aphasia therapy to everyday communication. The aim of the current study was to investigate the effect of a verb retrieval therapy across a range of levels of language production. Nine participants with chronic non-fluent stroke aphasia were recruited into this case series. Baseline assessment included naming a range of verbs (i.e., action verbs, semantically light verbs and personally relevant verbs) and sentence production. Multiple samples of conversation were collected from each participant and his/her partner. Consecutively failed verbs were divided across treatment and control sets; these sets were matched for salient psycholinguistic variables such as frequency, imageability and argument structure. A multi-component verb retrieval therapy was delivered, consisting of semantic feature analysis, gesture production and phonemic cueing. Following therapy, participants demonstrated significant and sustained gains in naming treated verbs; more modest effects were seen in untreated verbs. Mixed patterns of generalisation were evident in assessment of sentence production. In conversation, while group analysis suggested a lack of change, individual analyses indicated increased verb retrieval for three participants and qualitative changes related to the syntactic contexts of verbs retrieved.
The latest progress in understanding remediation of dyslexia underlines how some changes in brain are a necessary mechanism of improvement. We wanted to determine whether high frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (hf-rTMS) over areas that are underactive during reading in dyslexics, would improve reading of dyslexic adults. We applied 5Hz-TMS over both left and right inferior parietal lobule (IPL) and superior temporal gyrus (STG) prior to word, non-word and text reading aloud. Results show that hf-rTMS stimulation over the left IPL improves non-word reading accuracy and hf-rTMS stimulation over the left STG increases word reading speed and text reading accuracy. Moreover after right IPL stimulation, non-word reading accuracy also improves. These findings indicate that in dyslexics, L-STG and L-IPL have a differential role in word, non-word and text reading. Even if we would normally expect left-lateralized improvements only, the finding of a right IPL involvement suggests that there is additional compensatory recruitment of this region in dyslexics. In conclusion, we provide the first evidence that distinctive facilitation of neural pathways known to be underactive in dyslexics transitorily improves their reading performance. Such ameliorative effect may open new perspectives for the development of long-term specific treatments for dyslexia.
Greater knowledge of cortical brain regions in reward processing may set the stage for using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) as a treatment in patients with avolition, apathy or other drive-related symptoms. This study examined the effects of single pulse (sp) TMS to two reward circuit targets on drive in healthy subjects. Fifteen healthy subjects performed the monetary incentive delay task (MID) while receiving fMRI-guided spTMS to either inferior parietal lobe (IPL) or supplemental motor area (SMA). The study demonstrated decreasing reaction times (RT) for increasing reward. It also showed significant differences in RT modulation for TMS pulses to the IPL versus the SMA. TMS pulses during the delay period produced significantly more RT slowing when targeting the IPL than those to the SMA. This RT slowing carried over into subsequent trials without TMS stimulation, with significantly slower RTs in sessions that had targeted the IPL compared to those targeting SMA. The results of this study suggest that both SMA and IPL are involved in reward processing, with opposite effects on RT in response to TMS stimulation. TMS to these target cortical regions may be useful in modulating reward circuit deficits in psychiatric populations.

Volatile solvents such as those found in fuels, paints, and thinners are found throughout the world and are used in a variety of industrial applications. However, these compounds are also often intentionally inhaled at high concentrations to produce intoxication. While solvent use has been recognized as a potential drug problem for many years, research on the sites and mechanisms of action of these compounds lags behind that of other drugs of abuse. In this review, we first discuss the epidemiology of voluntary solvent use throughout the world and then consider what is known about their basic pharmacology and how this may explain their use as drugs of abuse. We next present data from preclinical and clinical studies indicating that these substances induce common addiction sequelae such as dependence, withdrawal, and cognitive impairments. We describe how toluene, the most commonly studied psychoactive volatile solvent, alters synaptic transmission in key brain circuits such as the mesolimbic dopamine system and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) that are thought to underlie addiction pathology. Finally, we make the case that activity in mPFC circuits is a critical regulator of the mesolimbic dopamine system's ability to respond to volatile solvents like toluene. Overall, this review provides evidence that volatile solvents have high abuse liability because of their selective effects on critical nodes of the addiction neurocircuitry, and underscores the need for more research into how these compounds induce adaptations in neural circuits that underlie addiction pathology.
Kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) agonists have dysphoric properties in humans and are aversive in rodents. This has been attributed to the activation of KORs within the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. However, the role of DA in KOR-mediated aversion and stress remains divisive as recent studies have suggested that activation of KORs on serotonergic neurons may be sufficient to mediate aversive behaviors. To address this question, we used conditional knock-out (KO) mice with KORs deleted on DA neurons (DAT(Cre/wt)/KOR(loxp/loxp), or DATCre-KOR KO). In agreement with previous findings, control mice (DAT(Cre/wt)/KOR(wt/wt) or WT) showed conditioned place aversion (CPA) to the systemically administered KOR agonist U69,593. In contrast, DATCre-KOR KO mice did not exhibit CPA with this same agonist. In addition, in vivo microdialysis showed that systemic U69,593 decreased overflow of DA in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in WT mice, but had no effect in DATCre-KOR KO mice. Intra- ventral tegmental area (VTA) delivery of KORs using an adeno-associated viral gene construct, resulted in phenotypic rescue of the KOR-mediated NAc DA response and aversive behavior in DATCre-KOR KO animals. These results provide evidence that KORs on VTA DA neurons are necessary to mediate KOR-mediated aversive behavior. Therefore, our data, along with recent findings, suggest that the neuronal mechanisms of KOR-mediated aversive behavior may include both dopaminergic and serotonergic components.
Fear conditioning, a form of associative learning is thought to involve the induction of an associative long-term potentiation of cortical and thalamic inputs to the lateral amygdala. Here, we show that stimulation of the thalamic input can reinforce a transient form of plasticity (E-LTP) induced by weak stimulation of the cortical inputs. This synaptic cooperation occurs within a time window of 30min, suggesting that synaptic integration at amygdala synapses can occur within large time windows. Interestingly, we found that synaptic cooperation is not symmetrical. Reinforcement of a thalamic E-LTP by subsequent cortical stimulation is only observed within a shorter time window. We found that activation of endocannabinoid CB1 receptors is involved in the time restriction of thalamic and cortical synaptic cooperation in an activity-dependent manner. Our results support the hypothesis that synaptic cooperation can underlie associative learning and that synaptic tagging and capture is a general mechanism in synaptic plasticity.
Tamoxifen (TMX) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator that is used as an estrogen receptor antagonist for the treatment and prevention of breast cancer. Whether TMX has antagonist activities in the human brain is less clear and its effects on cognitive function have not been experimentally explored. This study examined how TMX affected cognitive performance in older women using a model of anticholinergic drug-induced cognitive dysfunction. Twenty-one postmenopausal women were administered 20mg of oral TMX or placebo for 3 months. Participants then took part in five drug challenges using the anticholinergic antinicotinic agent mecamylamine (MECA) and antimuscarinic agent scopolamine (SCOP) and were tested on a comprehensive battery including tasks of attention and psychomotor function, verbal episodic memory, and spatial navigation. After a 3-month placebo washout, participants were then crossed over to the alternate treatment and repeated the drug challenges after 3 months. Compared with placebo treatment, TMX significantly attenuated the impairment from cholinergic blockade on tasks of verbal episodic memory and spatial navigation, but effects on attentional/psychomotor tasks were more variable. Analysis by APOE genotype showed that APO 4+ women showed a greater beneficial effect of TMX on reversing the cholinergic impairment than APO 4- women on most tasks. This study provides evidence that TMX may act as an estrogen-like agonist to enhance cholinergic system activity and hippocampally mediated learning.
Epidemiological studies have shown a link between sleep loss and the obesity 'epidemic,' and several observations indicate that sleep curtailment engenders positive energy balance via increased palatable-food 'snacking.' These effects suggest alterations in reward-modulatory brain systems. We explored the effects of 10 days of sleep deprivation in rats on the expression of striatal opioid peptide (OP) genes that subserve food motivation and hedonic reward, and compared effects with those seen in hypothalamic energy balance-regulatory systems. Sleep-deprived (Sleep-Dep) rats were compared with yoked forced-locomotion apparatus controls (App-Controls), food-restricted rats (Food-Restrict), and unmanipulated controls (Home-Cage). Detection of mRNA levels with in situ hybridization revealed a subregion-specific upregulation of striatal preproenkephalin and prodynorhin gene expression in the Sleep-Dep group relative to all other groups. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene expression in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and throughout neocortex was also robustly upregulated selectively in the Sleep-Dep group. In contrast, parallel gene expression changes were observed in the Sleep-Dep and Food-Restrict groups in hypothalamic energy-sensing systems (arcuate nucleus NPY was upregulated, and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript was downregulated), in alignment with leptin suppression in both groups. Together, these results reveal a novel set of sleep deprivation-induced transcriptional changes in reward-modulatory peptide systems, which are dissociable from the energy-balance perturbations of sleep loss or the potentially stressful effects of the forced-locomotion procedure. The recruitment of telencephalic food-reward systems may provide a feeding drive highly resistant to feedback control, which could engender obesity through the enhancement of palatable feeding.
Several hypotheses involving alterations of the immune system have been proposed among etiological explanations for psychotic disorders. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) has a homeostatic role as an endogenous neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory system. Alterations of this system have been associated with psychosis. Cannabis use is a robust risk factor for these disorders that could alter the ECS signalling. In this study, 95 patients with a first episode of psychosis (FEP) and 90 healthy controls were recruited. Protein expression of cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2), the protein levels of the main endocannabinoid synthesizing enzymes N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase (NAPE) and diacylglycerol lipase (DAGL), and of degradation enzymes fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) and monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) were determined by western blot analysis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Patients with a FEP showed a decreased expression of CB2 and of both endocannabinoids synthesizing enzymes (NAPE and DAGL) in comparison to healthy controls. After controlling for age, gender, body mass index, and cannabis use, NAPE and DAGL expression remained significantly decreased, whereas FAAH and MAGL expression were increased. On the other hand, FEP subjects with history of severe cannabis use showed a larger ECS dysregulation compared with healthy controls. These results indicate an ECS dysregulation in PBMC of FEP patients. The alteration of the ECS presented at the initial phases of psychosis could be contributing to the pathophysiology of the disease and constitutes a possible biomarker of psychotic disorders and an interesting pharmacological target to take into account for therapeutic purposes.
A current view proposes that the right inferior frontal cortex (IFC) is particularly responsible for attentive decoding and cognitive evaluation of emotional cues in human vocalizations. Although some studies seem to support this view, an exhaustive review of all recent imaging studies points to an important functional role of both the right and the left IFC in processing vocal emotions. Second, besides a supposed predominant role of the IFC for an attentive processing and evaluation of emotional voices in IFC, these recent studies also point to a possible role of the IFC in preattentive and implicit processing of vocal emotions. The studies specifically provide evidence that both the right and the left IFC show a similar anterior-to-posterior gradient of functional activity in response to emotional vocalizations. This bilateral IFC gradient depends both on the nature or medium of emotional vocalizations (emotional prosody versus nonverbal expressions) and on the level of attentive processing (explicit versus implicit processing), closely resembling the distribution of terminal regions of distinct auditory pathways, which provide either global or dynamic acoustic information. Here we suggest a functional distribution in which several IFC subregions process different acoustic information conveyed by emotional vocalizations. Although the rostro-ventral IFC might categorize emotional vocalizations, the caudo-dorsal IFC might be specifically sensitive to their temporal features.
Neuroimaging offers an opportunity to examine the neurobiological effects of therapeutic interventions for human drug addiction. Using activation likelihood estimation, the aim of the current meta-analysis was to quantitatively summarize functional neuroimaging studies of pharmacological and cognitive-based interventions for drug addiction, with an emphasis on their common and distinct neural targets. More exploratory analyses also contrasted subgroups of studies based on specific study and sample characteristics. The ventral striatum, a region implicated in reward, motivation, and craving, and the inferior frontal gyrus and orbitofrontal cortex, regions involved in inhibitory control and goal-directed behavior, were identified as common targets of pharmacological and cognitive-based interventions; these regions were observed when the analysis was limited to only studies that used established or efficacious interventions, and across imaging paradigms and types of addictions. Consistent with theoretical models, cognitive-based interventions were additionally more likely to activate the anterior cingulate cortex, middle frontal gyrus, and precuneus, implicated in self-referential processing, cognitive control, and attention. These results suggest that therapeutic interventions for addiction may target the brain structures that are altered across addictions and identify potential neurobiological mechanisms by which the tandem use of pharmacological and cognitive-based interventions may yield synergistic or complementary effects. These findings could inform the selection of novel functional targets in future treatment development for this difficult-to-treat disorder.
This review examines the involvement of the motor cortex in Parkinson's disease (PD), a debilitating movement disorder typified by degeneration of dopamine cells of the substantia nigra. While much of PD research has focused on the caudate/putamen, many aspects of motor cortex function are abnormal in PD patients and in animal models of PD, implicating motor cortex involvement in disease symptoms and their treatment. Herein, we discuss several lines of evidence to support this hypothesis. Dopamine depletion alters regional metabolism in the motor cortex and also reduces interneuron activity, causing a breakdown in intracortical inhibition. This leads to functional reorganization of motor maps and excessive corticostriatal synchrony when movement is initiated. Recent work suggests that electrical stimulation of the motor cortex provides a clinical benefit for PD patients. Based on extant research, we identify a number of unanswered questions regarding the motor cortex in PD and argue that a better understanding of the contribution of the motor cortex to PD symptoms will facilitate the development of novel therapeutic approaches.
It has been widely accepted that the younger the age and/or immaturity of the organism, the greater the brain plasticity, the young age plasticity privilege. This paper examines the relation of a young age to plasticity, reviewing human pediatric brain disorders, as well as selected animal models, human developmental and adult brain disorder studies. As well, we review developmental and childhood acquired disorders that involve a failure of regulatory homeostasis. Our core arguments are as follows:
Handedness is the single most studied aspect of human brain asymmetries. For long it has been thought to be a monogenic trait that can produce an asymmetrical shift of cerebral mechanisms, thereby producing right handedness. Nevertheless, a single gene explaining a sufficient amount of phenotypic variance has not been identified. The results of several recent studies using advanced molecular genetic techniques suggest that a multifactorial model taking into account both multiple genetic and environmental factors, as well as their interactions, might be better suited to explain the complex processes underlying the ontogenesis of handedness. In this article, we review the new insights into handedness genetics provided by these studies and discuss, how integrating results from genetic and neuroscientific studies might help us to generate more accurate models of the ontogenesis of handedness. Based on these thoughts, we suggest several candidate gene groups (e.g. genes involved in the formation of the corpus callosum, asymmetrically expressed genes or genes involved in the development of structural left-right asymmetries) whose investigation would help to further understand the complex relation of genes, the brain and handedness.
&quot;Cognitive unbinding&quot; refers to the impaired synthesis of specialized cognitive activities in the brain and has been proposed as a mechanistic paradigm of unconsciousness. This article draws on recent neuroscientific data to revisit the tenets and predictions of cognitive unbinding, using general anesthesia as a representative state of unconsciousness. Current evidence from neuroimaging and neurophysiology supports the proposition that cognitive unbinding is a parsimonious explanation for the direct mechanism (or &quot;proximate cause&quot;) of anesthetic-induced unconsciousness across multiple drug classes. The relevance of cognitive unbinding to sleep, disorders of consciousness, and psychological processes is also explored. It is concluded that cognitive unbinding is a viable neuroscientific framework for unconscious processes across the fields of anesthesiology, sleep neurobiology, neurology and psychoanalysis.
Memory loss is the key symptom of dementia-related disorders, including the prevalent Alzheimer's disease (AD). To date, pharmacological treatments for AD have limited and short-lasting effects. Therefore, researchers are investigating novel therapies such as deep brain stimulation (DBS) to treat memory impairment and to reduce or stop the progression of it. Clinical and preclinical studies have been performed and stimulations of the fornix, entorhinal cortex and nucleus basalis of Meynert have been carried out. The results of these studies suggest that DBS has the potential to enhance memory functions in patients and animal models. The mechanisms underlying memory enhancement may include the release of specific neurotransmitters and neuroplasticity. Some authors suggest that DBS might even be disease-modifying. Nevertheless, it is still premature to conclude that DBS can be used in the treatment of AD, and the field will wait for the results of ongoing clinical trials.
The burgeoning interest in placebo effects over the last 10-15 years has fallen into two main research areas: elucidation of the neurobiological mechanisms recruited following placebo administration, and investigations into the situations and contexts in which placebo effects are evoked. There has been little attention focused on bridging these two i.e. how to actively translate and apply these neurobiological mechanisms into daily clinical practice in a responsible way. This article addresses this gap, first through a narrative review of the last 15 years of neuroscience findings with special attention focussed on the elucidation of the neurotransmitters, pathways and mechanisms involved in placebo effects, and secondly, at how these psycho(neuro)biological effects could be harnessed in medical care.
The lack of initiative, drive or effort in patients with schizophrenia is linked to marked functional impairments. However, our assessment of effort and motivation is crude, relying on clinical rating scales based largely on patient recall. In order to better understand the neurobiology of effort in schizophrenia, we need more rigorous measurements of this construct. In the behavioural neuroscience literature, decades of work has been carried out developing various paradigms to examine the neural underpinnings of an animal's willingness to expend effort for a reward. Here, we shall review this literature on the nature of paradigms used in rodents to assess effort, as well as those used in humans. Next, the neurobiology of these effort-based decisions will be discussed. We shall then review what is known about effort in schizophrenia, and what might be inferred from experiments done in other human populations. Lastly, we shall discuss future directions of research that may assist in shedding light on the neurobiology of effort cost computations in schizophrenia.
Dementia is a major cause of disability amongst the elderly and represents a serious global health issue. Current treatments for dementia are limited; at best they provide inadequate symptomatic relief. In contrast, there are a plethora of approaches that provide symptomatic relief for abnormalities of movement including surgical approaches. Deep brain stimulation has been used successfully to directly alter processing in neural networks and thereby improve movement functions. Here we describe the anatomy, intrinsic organization and connectivity of the cholinergic nucleus basalis of Meynert, a basal forebrain structure implicated in cognitive functions including memory, attention, arousal and perception. A significant body of evidence suggests that degeneration of the nucleus and its cortical projections underlies the cognitive decline seen in dementia. We review this evidence and postulate that deep brain stimulation to this nucleus may be able to improve specific cognitive functions. This could represent a novel treatment strategy for some dementias in carefully selected individuals. Controlled trials of deep brain stimulation of the nucleus basalis of Meynert for Parkinson's disease dementia and Alzheimer's disease are required to evaluate potential efficacy and the mechanisms of possible cognitive changes.
Previous research has noted that music can improve gait in several pathological conditions, including Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and stroke. Current research into auditory-motor interactions and the neural bases of musical rhythm perception has provided important insights for developing potential movement therapies. Specifically, neuroimaging studies show that rhythm perception activates structures within key motor networks, such as premotor and supplementary motor areas, basal ganglia and the cerebellum - many of which are compromised to varying degrees in Parkinson's disease. It thus seems likely that automatic engagement of motor areas during rhythm perception may be the connecting link between music and motor improvements in Parkinson's disease. This review seeks to describe the link, address core questions about its underlying mechanisms, and examine whether it can be utilized as a compensatory mechanism.
The right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) is widely considered as part of a network that reorients attention to task-relevant, but currently unattended stimuli (Corbetta and Shulman, 2002). Despite the prevalence of this theory in cognitive neuroscience, there is little direct evidence for the principal hypothesis that TPJ sends an early reorientation signal that &quot;circuit breaks&quot; attentional processing in regions of the dorsal attentional network (e.g., the frontal eye fields) or is completely right lateralized during attentional processing. In this review, we examine both functional neuroimaging work on TPJ in the attentional literature as well as anatomical findings. We first critically evaluate the idea that TPJ reorients attention and is right lateralized; we then suggest that TPJ signals might rather reflect post-perceptual processes involved in contextual updating and adjustments of top-down expectations; and then finally discuss how these ideas relate to the electrophysiological (P300) literature, and to TPJ findings in other cognitive and social domains. We conclude that while much work is needed to define the computational functions of regions encapsulated as TPJ, there is now substantial evidence that it is not specialized for stimulus-driven attentional reorienting.
Research using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) can potentially elucidate metabolite changes representing early degeneration in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), an early stage of dementia. We integrated the published literature using meta-analysis to identify patterns of metabolite changes in MCI. 29 MRS studies (with a total of 607 MCI patients and 862 healthy controls) were classified according to brain regions. Hedges' g was used as effect size in a random effects model. N-Acetyl Aspartate (NAA) measures were consistently reduced in posterior cingulate (PC), hippocampus, and the paratrigonal white matter (PWM). Creatine (Cr) concentration was reduced in the hippocampus and PWM. Choline (Cho) concentration was reduced in the hippocampus while Cho/Cr ratio was raised in the PC. Myo-inositol (mI) concentration was raised in the PC and mI/Cr ratio was raised in the hippocampus. NAA/mI ratio was reduced in the PC. NAA may be the most reliable marker of brain dysfunction in MCI though mI, Cho, and Cr may also contribute towards this.
Abnormal emotion processing is a core feature of major depressive disorder (MDD). Since the emergence of functional neuroimaging techniques, many studies have been conducted in MDD subjects to elucidate the underlying abnormalities in the neural systems involved in emotion regulation. In this systematic review, we discuss this research in the context of the neural model of emotion regulation previously described by Phillips et al. (2008). This model differentiates between automatic and voluntary emotion regulation subprocesses. Automatic regulation subprocesses were shown to involve predominantly medial prefrontal cortical structures, in addition to the hippocampus and parahippocampus, while voluntary regulation processes additionally recruited lateral prefrontal cortical regions. In conclusion, although the available data is limited, findings suggest that MDD subjects demonstrate abnormally reduced activity in lateral prefrontal cortices during explicit voluntary control of emotional experience. During early, automatic stages of emotion regulation, on the other hand, MDD subjects appear to achieve successful emotion regulation by recruiting additional lateral prefrontal neural regions, that may be mediated by medial prefrontal, especially rostral/dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus (ACG) functioning. Dysfunctional automatic regulation may impair successful voluntary emotion regulation, and may present a target for novel therapeutic approaches in MDD.
Research on action understanding in cognitive neuroscience has led to the identification of a wide &quot;action understanding network&quot; mainly encompassing parietal and premotor cortical areas. Within this cortical network mirror neurons are critically involved implementing a neural mechanism according to which, during action understanding, observed actions are reflected in the motor patterns for the same actions of the observer. We suggest that focusing only on cortical areas and processes could be too restrictive to explain important facets of action understanding regarding, for example, the influence of the observer's motor experience, the multiple levels at which an observed action can be understood, and the acquisition of action understanding ability. In this respect, we propose that aside from the cortical action understanding network, sub-cortical processes pivoting on cerebellar and basal ganglia cortical loops could crucially support both the expression and the acquisition of action understanding abilities. Within the paper we will discuss how this extended view can overcome some limitations of the &quot;pure&quot; cortical perspective, supporting new theoretical predictions on the brain mechanisms underlying action understanding that could be tested by future empirical investigations.
Decision-making plays a pivotal role in daily life as impairments in processes underlying decision-making often lead to an inability to make profitable long-term decisions. As a case in point, pathological gamblers continue gambling despite the fact that this disrupts their personal, professional or financial life. The prevalence of pathological gambling will likely increase in the coming years due to expanding possibilities of on-line gambling through the Internet and increasing liberal attitudes towards gambling. It therefore represents a growing concern for society. Both human and animal studies rapidly advance our knowledge on brain-behaviour processes relevant for understanding normal and pathological gambling behaviour. Here, we review in humans and animals three features of pathological gambling which hitherto have received relatively little attention: (1) sex differences in (the development of) pathological gambling, (2) adolescence as a (putative) sensitive period for (developing) pathological gambling and (3) avenues for improving ecological validity of research tools. Based on these issues we also discuss how research in humans and animals may be brought in line to maximize translational research opportunities.
There are many new advances in neuroscience and mental health which should lead to a greater understanding of the neurobiological dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disorders and new developments for early, effective treatments. To do this, a biomarker approach combining genetic, neuroimaging, cognitive and other biological measures is needed. The aim of this article is to highlight novel approaches for pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment development. This article suggests approaches that can be taken in the future including novel mechanisms with preliminary clinical validation to provide a toolbox for mechanistic studies and also examples of translation and back-translation. The review also emphasizes the need for clinician-scientists to be trained in a novel way in order to equip them with the conceptual and experimental techniques required, and emphasizes the need for private-public partnership and pre-competitive knowledge exchange. This should lead the way for important new holistic treatment developments to improve cognition, functional outcome and well-being of people with neuropsychiatric disorders.
We present a comprehensive overview of the neurobiology of unipolar major depression and antidepressant drug action, integrating data from affective neuroscience, neuro- and psychopharmacology, neuroendocrinology, neuroanatomy, and molecular biology. We suggest that the problem of depression comprises three sub-problems: first episodes in people with low vulnerability ('simple' depressions), which are strongly stress-dependent; an increase in vulnerability and autonomy from stress that develops over episodes of depression (kindling); and factors that confer vulnerability to a first episode (a depressive diathesis). We describe key processes in the onset of a 'simple' depression and show that kindling and depressive diatheses reproduce many of the neurobiological features of depression. We also review the neurobiological mechanisms of antidepressant drug action, and show that resistance to antidepressant treatment is associated with genetic and other factors that are largely similar to those implicated in vulnerability to depression. We discuss the implications of these conclusions for the understanding and treatment of depression, and make some strategic recommendations for future research.
There is convincing evidence that schizophrenia is characterised by progressive brain volume changes during the course of the illness. In a large longitudinal study it was shown that different age-related trajectories of brain tissue loss are present in patients compared to healthy subjects, suggesting that brain maturation that occurs in the third and fourth decade of life is abnormal in schizophrenia. However, studies show that medication intake and cannabis use are important confounding factors when interpreting brain volume (change) abnormalities. Indeed, continues use of cannabis, but not cigarette smoking, is associated to a more pronounced loss of grey matter in the anterior cingulated and the prefrontal cortex. Atypical antipsychotics have been found to be related to smaller decreases in tissue loss. Moreover, independent of antipsychotic medication intake, the brain volume abnormalities appear associated to the outcome of the illness.
The predisposition to stroke might involve interactive effects among variants in several genes. We tested this hypothesis by examining the influence of polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) (C677T) and prothrombin (F2) (G20210A) as risk factors for stroke in Morocco. The polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism methods were used to analyze DNA from 91 stroke patients and 182 controls. Association between the two polymorphisms and the risk of stroke was estimated by four-level models for the analysis of genetic interaction. Neither the MTHFR 677TT nor the F2 20210GA genotype showed any significant association compared to the MTHFR CC and F2 GG genotypes, respectively. An interactive effect between the MTHFR 677TT and F2 20210GA polymorphisms showed an increased risk of stroke. The odds ratios, in univariate and multivariate analysis, for the combined polymorphisms were 4.99 (95% CI, 1.75-14.2, P = 0.001) and 5.29 (95% CI, 1.63-17.1, P = 0.005), respectively.
Myelinated nerve fibers have evolved to optimize signal propagation. Each myelin segment is attached to the axon by the unique paranodal axoglial junction (PNJ), a highly complex structure that serves to define axonal ion channel domains and to direct nodal action currents through adjacent nodes. Surprisingly, this junction does not entirely seal the paranodal myelin sheath to the axon and thus does not entirely isolate the perinodal space from the internodal periaxonal space. Rather the paranode is penetrated by extracellular pathways between the myelin sheath and the axolemma for movement of molecules and the flow of current to and from the internodal axon. This review summarizes past and current studies demonstrating these pathways and considers what functional roles they subserve. In addition, modern genetic engineering methods permit modification of individual PNJ constituents, which provides an opportunity to define their specific functions. One component in particular, the transverse bands, plays a key role in maintaining the structure and function of the PNJ. Loss of transverse bands results not in frank demyelination but rather in subtle dysmyelination, which causes significant functional impairment. The consequences of such subtle defects in the PNJ are considered along with the relevance of these studies to human diseases of myelin.
Meningiomas that invade the transverse or sigmoid sinuses are uncommon tumors that are challenging to treat surgically. Although the risk of recurrence is associated with the extent of resection, complete removal of meningiomas in these locations must be balanced with avoidance of venous outflow obstruction, which could cause venous infarction and significant neurological consequences. When a meningioma occludes a venous sinus completely, gross-total resection of the intravascular portion is commonly performed. When the tumor invades but does not completely obliterate a major venous sinus, however, opinions differ on whether to accept a subtotal resection or to open the sinus, perform a complete resection, and reconstruct the venous outflow tract. In this paper, the authors review the different strategies used to treat these lesions and provide illustrative case examples.




The assay of the toxic effects of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) on human health is a stringent need in view of their expected increasing exploitation in industrial and biomedical applications. Most studies so far have been focused on lung toxicity, as the respiratory tract is the main entry of airborne particulate, but there is also recent evidence on the existence of toxic effects of multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) on neuronal and neuroendocrine cells (Belyanskaya et al., 2009; Xu et al., 2009; Gavello et al., 2012). Commercial MWCNTs often contain large amounts of metals deriving from the catalyst used during their synthesis. Since metals, particularly iron, may contribute to the toxicity of MWCNTs, we compared here the effects of two short MWCNTs samples (&lt;5m length), differing only in their iron content (0.5 versus 0.05% w/w) on the secretory responses of neurotransmitters in mouse chromaffin cells. We found that both iron-rich (MWCNT+Fe) and iron-deprived (MWCNT-Fe) samples enter chromaffin cells after 24h exposure, even though incorporation was attenuated in the latter case (40% versus 78% of cells). As a consequence of MWCNT+Fe or MWCNT-Fe exposure (50-263g/ml, 24h), catecholamine secretion of chromaffin cells is drastically impaired because of the decreased Ca(2+)-dependence of exocytosis, reduced size of ready-releasable pool and lowered rate of vesicle release. On the contrary, both MWCNTs were ineffective in changing the kinetics of neurotransmitter release of single chromaffin granules and their quantal content. Overall, our data indicate that both MWCNT samples dramatically impair secretion in chromaffin cells, thus uncovering a true depressive action of CNTs mainly associated to their structure and degree of aggregation. This cellular &quot;loss-of-function&quot; is only partially attenuated in iron-deprived samples, suggesting a minor role of iron impurities on MWCNTs toxicity in chromaffin cells exocytosis.
Many soldiers that served in the 1991 Gulf War developed widespread chronic pain. Exposure to insecticides and the nerve gas prophylactic pyridostigmine bromide (PB) was identified as risk factors by the Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses (GWI). We examined whether a 60 day exposure to neurotoxicants/PB (NTPB) produced behavioral, molecular and cellular indices of chronic pain in the rat. Male rats were exposed to chlorpyrifos (120mg/kg; SC), permethrin (2.6mg/kg; topical), and PB (13.0mg/kg; oral) or their respective vehicles (corn oil, ethanol, and water). Permethrin can exert profound influences on voltage activated Na(+) channel proteins; while chlorpyrifos and PB can increase absorption and/or retard metabolism of permethrin as well as inhibit cholinesterases. During and after exposure to these agents, we assessed muscle pressure pain thresholds and activity (distance and rest time). Eight and 12 weeks after treatments ceased, we used whole cell patch electrophysiology to examine the physiology of tissue specific DRG nociceptor channel proteins expressed in muscle and putative vascular nociceptors (voltage dependent, activation, inactivation, and deactivation). Behavioral indices were unchanged after treatment with NTPB. Eight weeks after treatments ended, the peak and average conductance of Kv7 mediated K(+) currents were significantly increased in vascular nociceptors. When a specific Kv7 inhibitor was applied (linopirdine, 10M) NTPB treated vascular nociceptors emitted significantly more spontaneous APs than vehicle treated neurons. Changes to Kv7 channel physiology were resolved 12 weeks after treatment. The molecular alterations to Kv7 channel proteins and the specific susceptibility of the vascular nociceptor population could be important for the etiology of GWI pain.
Pulsed field gradient diffusion sequences (PFG) with multiple diffusion encoding blocks have been indicated to offer new microstructural tissue information, such as the ability to detect nonspherical compartment shapes in macroscopically isotropic samples, i.e. samples with negligible directional signal dependence on diffusion gradients in standard diffusion experiments. However, current acquisition schemes are not rotationally invariant in the sense that the derived metrics depend on the orientation of the sample, and are affected by the interplay of sampling directions and compartment orientation dispersion when applied to macroscopically anisotropic systems. Here we propose a new framework, the d-PFG 5-design, to enable rotationally invariant estimation of double wave vector diffusion metrics (d-PFG). The method is based on the idea that an appropriate orientational average of the signal emulates the signal from a powder preparation of the same sample, where macroscopic anisotropy is absent by construction. Our approach exploits the theory of exact numerical integration (quadrature) of polynomials on the rotation group, and we exemplify the general procedure with a set consisting of 60 pairs of diffusion wave vectors (the d-PFG 5-design) facilitating a theoretically exact determination of the fourth order Taylor or cumulant expansion of the orientationally averaged signal. The d-PFG 5-design is evaluated with numerical simulations and ex vivo high field diffusion MRI experiments in a nonhuman primate brain. Specifically, we demonstrate rotational invariance when estimating compartment eccentricity, which we show offers new microstructural information, complementary to that of fractional anisotropy (FA) from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). The imaging observations are supported by a new theoretical result, directly relating compartment eccentricity to FA of individual pores.
High-angular-resolution diffusion-weighted imaging (HARDI) is one of the most common MRI acquisition schemes for use with higher order models of diffusion. However, the optimal b value and number of diffusion-weighted (DW) directions for HARDI are still undetermined, primarily as a result of the large number of available reconstruction methods and corresponding parameters, making it impossible to identify a single criterion by which to assess performance. In this study, we estimate the minimum number of DW directions and optimal b values required for HARDI by focusing on the angular frequency content of the DW signal itself. The spherical harmonic (SH) series provides the spherical analogue of the Fourier series, and can hence be used to examine the angular frequency content of the DW signal. Using high-quality data acquired along 500 directions over a range of b values, we estimate that SH terms above l = 8 are negligible in practice for b values up to 5000 s/mm(2), implying that a minimum of 45 DW directions is sufficient to fully characterise the DW signal. l &gt; 0 SH terms were found to increase as a function of b value, levelling off at b = 3000 s/mm(2), suggesting that this value already provides the highest achievable angular resolution. In practice, it is recommended to acquire more than the minimum of 45 DW directions to avoid issues with imperfections in the uniformity of the DW gradient directions and to meet signal-to-noise requirements of the intended reconstruction method.
Hyperpolarized (13)C MRS allows the in vivo assessment of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) flux, which converts pyruvate to acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA). [1-(13)C]pyruvate has been used to measure changes in cardiac PDC flux, with demonstrated increase in (13)C-bicarbonate production after dichloroacetate (DCA) administration. With [1-(13)C]pyruvate, the (13)C label is released as (13 CO2 /(13)C-bicarbonate, and, hence, does not allow us to follow the fate of acetyl-CoA. Pyruvate labeled in the C2 position has been used to track the (13)C label into the TCA (tricarboxylic acid) cycle and measure [5-(13)C]glutamate as well as study changes in [1-(13)C]acetylcarnitine with DCA and dobutamine. This work investigates changes in the metabolic fate of acetyl-CoA in response to metabolic interventions of DCA-induced increased PDC flux in the fed and fasted state, and increased cardiac workload with dobutamine in vivo in rat heart at two different pyruvate doses. DCA led to a modest increase in the (13)C labeling of [5-(13)C]glutamate, and a considerable increase in [1-(13)C]acetylcarnitine and [1,3-(13)C]acetoacetate peaks. Dobutamine resulted in an increased labeling of [2-(13)C]lactate, [2-(13)C]alanine and [5-(13)C]glutamate. The change in glutamate with dobutamine was observed using a high pyruvate dose but not with a low dose. The relative changes in the different metabolic products provide information about the relationship between PDC-mediated oxidation of pyruvate and its subsequent incorporation into the TCA cycle compared with other metabolic pathways. Using a high dose of pyruvate may provide an improved ability to observe changes in glutamate.

Lens induction is a classical embryologic model to study cell fate determination. It has been proposed earlier that specific changes in core histone modifications accompany the process of cell fate specification and determination. The lysine acetyltransferases CBP and p300 function as principal enzymes that modify core histones to facilitate specific gene expression. Herein, we performed conditional inactivation of both CBP and p300 in the ectodermal cells that give rise to the lens placode. Inactivation of both CBP and p300 resulted in the dramatic discontinuation of all aspects of lens specification and organogenesis, resulting in aphakia. The CBP/p300(-/-) ectodermal cells are viable and not prone to apoptosis. These cells showed reduced expression of Six3 and Sox2, while expression of Pax6 was not upregulated, indicating discontinuation of lens induction. Consequently, expression of B- and A-crystallins was not initiated. Mutant ectoderm exhibited markedly reduced levels of histone H3 K18 and K27 acetylation, subtly increased H3 K27me3 and unaltered overall levels of H3 K9ac and H3 K4me3. Our data demonstrate that CBP and p300 are required to establish lens cell-type identity during lens induction, and suggest that posttranslational histone modifications are integral to normal cell fate determination in the mammalian lens.

Changes in muscle mass may result from changes in protein turnover, reflecting the balance between protein synthesis and protein degradation, and changes in cell turnover, reflecting the balance between myonuclear accretion and myonuclear loss. Myonuclear accretion, i.e. increase in the number of myonuclei within the muscle fibers, takes place via proliferation and fusion of satellite cells, myogenic stem cells associated to skeletal muscle fibers and involved in muscle regeneration. In developing muscle, satellite cells undergo extensive proliferation and most of them fuse with myofibers, thus contributing to the increase in myonuclei during early postnatal stages. A similar process is induced in adult skeletal muscle by functional overload and exercise. In contrast, satellite cells and myonuclei may undergo apoptosis during muscle atrophy, although it is debated whether myonuclear loss occurs in atrophying muscle. An increase in myofiber size can also occur by changes in protein turnover without satellite cell activation, e.g. in late phases of postnatal development or in some models of muscle hypertrophy. The relative role of protein turnover and cell turnover in muscle adaptation and in the establishment of functional muscle hypertrophy remains to be established. The identification of the signaling pathways mediating satellite cell activation may provide therapeutic targets for combating muscle wasting in a variety of pathological conditions, including cancer cachexia, renal and cardiac failure, neuromuscular diseases, as well as aging sarcopenia.
The most frequently described drugs in the treatment of mood disorders are selective serotonin reuptake and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, enhancing serotonin levels in the brain. However, side-effects have been reported for these drugs. Because serotonin levels in the brain are dependent on the availability of the food-derived precursor tryptophan, foods such as chicken, soyabeans, cereals, tuna, nuts and bananas may serve as an alternative to improve mood and cognition. Here we discuss the effects of high- or low-tryptophan-containing food, as well as plant extracts with a modest monoamine reuptake and MAO-A inhibition functional profile, on mood and cognition in healthy and vulnerable human subjects and rodents. Together the studies suggest that there is an inverted U-shaped curve for plasma tryptophan levels, with low and too high tryptophan levels impairing cognition, and moderate to high tryptophan levels improving cognition. This relationship is found for both healthy and vulnerable subjects. Whereas this relationship may also exist for mood, the inverted U-shaped curve for plasma tryptophan levels and mood may be based on different tryptophan concentrations in healthy v. vulnerable individuals. Animal studies are emerging and allow further understanding of effects and the mode of action of food-derived serotonergic components on mood, cognition and mechanisms. Ultimately, insight into the concentrations of tryptophan and other serotonergic components in food having beneficial effects on mood and cognition in healthy, but particularly vulnerable, subjects may support well-being in our highly demanding society.




Tumor biology is a broad and encompassing field of research, particularly given recent demonstrations of the multicellular nature of solid tumors, which have led to studies of molecular and metabolic intercellular interactions that regulate cancer progression. Hypoxia is a broad stimulus that results in activation of hypoxia inducible factors (HIFs). Downstream HIF targets include angiogenic factors (e.g. vascular endothelial growth factor, VEGF) and highly reactive molecules (e.g. nitric oxide, NO) that act as cell-specific switches with unique spatial and temporal effects on cancer progression. The effect of cell-specific responses to hypoxia on tumour progression and spread, as well as potential therapeutic strategies to target metastatic disease, are currently under active investigation. Vascular endothelial remodelling events at tumour and metastatic sites are responsive to hypoxia, HIF activation, and NO signalling. Here, we describe the interactions between endothelial HIF and NO during tumor growth and spread, and outline the effects of endothelial HIF/NO signalling on cancer progression. In doing so, we attempt to identify areas of metastasis research that require attention, in order to ultimately facilitate the development of novel treatments that reduce or prevent tumour dissemination.




The pain matrix is conceptualised here as a fluid system composed of several interacting networks. A nociceptive matrix receiving spinothalamic projections (mainly posterior operculoinsular areas) ensures the bodily specificity of pain and is the only one whose destruction entails selective pain deficits. Transition from cortical nociception to conscious pain relies on a second-order network, including posterior parietal, prefrontal and anterior insular areas. Second-order regions are not nociceptive-specific; focal stimulation does not evoke pain, and focal destruction does not produce analgesia, but their joint activation is necessary for conscious perception, attentional modulation and control of vegetative reactions. The ensuing pain experience can still be modified as a function of beliefs, emotions and expectations through activity of third-order areas, including the orbitofrontal and perigenual/limbic networks. The pain we remember results from continuous interaction of these subsystems, and substantial changes in the pain experience can be achieved by acting on each of them. Neuropathic pain (NP) is associated with changes in each of these levels of integration. The most robust abnormality in NP is a functional depression of thalamic activity, reversible with therapeutic manoeuvres and associated with rhythmic neural bursting. Neuropathic allodynia has been associated with enhancement of ipsilateral over contralateral insular activation and lack of reactivity in orbitofrontal/perigenual areas. Although lack of response of perigenual cortices may be an epiphenomenon of chronic pain, the enhancement of ipsilateral activity may reflect disinhibition of ipsilateral spinothalamic pathways due to depression of their contralateral counterpart. This in turn may bias perceptual networks and contribute to the subjective painful experience.
Treating bone cancer pain poses a major clinical challenge, and the mechanisms underlying bone cancer pain remain elusive. EphrinB-EphB receptor signaling may contribute to bone cancer pain through N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor neuronal mechanisms. Here, we report that ephrinB-EphB signaling may also act through a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-glial cell mechanism in the spinal cord. Bone cancer pain was induced by tibia bone cavity tumor cell implantation (TCI) in rats. TCI increased the expression of TLR4 and the EphB1 receptor, the activation of astrocytes and microglial cells, and increased levels of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-). The increased expression of TLR4 and EphB1 were colocalized with each other in astrocytes and microglial cells. Spinal knockdown of TLR4 suppressed TCI-induced behavioral signs of bone cancer pain. The TCI-induced activation of astrocytes and microglial cells, as well as the increased levels of IL-1 and TNF-, were inhibited by intrathecal administration of TLR4-targeting siRNA2 and the EphB receptor antagonist EphB2-Fc, respectively. The administration of EphB2-Fc suppressed the TCI-induced increase of TLR4 expression but siRNA2 failed to affect TCI-induced EphB1 expression. Intrathecal administration of an exogenous EphB1 receptor activator, ephrinB2-Fc, increased the expression of TLR4 and the levels of IL-1 and TNF-, activated astrocytes and microglial cells, and induced thermal hypersensitivity. These ephrinB2-Fc-induced alterations were suppressed by spinal knockdown of TLR4. This study suggests that TLR4 may be a potential target for preventing or reversing bone cancer pain and other similar painful processes mediated by ephrinB-EphB receptor signaling.
Chronic muscle pain affects 20-50% of the population, is more common in women than men, and is associated with increased pain during physical activity and exercise. Muscle fatigue is common in people with chronic muscle pain, occurs in response to exercise, and is associated with release of fatigue metabolites. Fatigue metabolites can sensitize muscle nociceptors, which could enhance pain with exercise. Using a mouse model we tested whether fatigue of a single muscle, induced by electrical stimulation, resulted in enhanced muscle hyperalgesia and if the enhanced hyperalgesia was more pronounced in female mice. Muscle fatigue was induced in combination with a sub-threshold muscle insult (2 injections of pH 5.0 saline) in male and female mice. We show that male and female mice, fatigued immediately prior to muscle insult in the same muscle, develop similar muscle hyperalgesia 24 hours later. However, female mice also develop hyperalgesia when muscle fatigue and muscle insult occur in different muscles, and when muscle insult is administered 24 hours after fatigue in the same muscle. Further, hyperalgesia lasts significantly longer in females. Finally, muscle insult with or without muscle fatigue results in minimal inflammatory changes in the muscle itself, and sex differences are not related to estradiol (ovariectomy) or changes in brainstem activity (pNR1). Thus, the current model mimics muscle fatigue-induced enhancement of pain observed in chronic muscle pain conditions in the human population. Interactions between fatigue and muscle insult may underlie the development of chronic widespread pain with an associated female predominance observed in human subjects.
The molecular/genetic era has seen the discovery of a staggering number of molecules implicated in pain mechanisms [18,35,61,69,96,133,150,202,224]. This has stimulated pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to invest billions of dollars to develop drugs that enhance or inhibit the function of many these molecules. Unfortunately this effort has provided a remarkably small return on this investment. Inevitably, transformative progress in this field will require a better understanding of the functional links among the ever-growing ranks of &quot;pain molecules,&quot; as well as their links with an even larger number of molecules with which they interact. Importantly, all of these molecules exist side-by-side, within a functional unit, the cell, and its adjacent matrix of extracellular molecules. To paraphrase a recent editorial in Science magazine [223], although we live in the Golden age of Genetics, the fundamental unit of biology is still arguably the cell, and the cell is the critical structural and functional setting in which the function of pain-related molecules must be understood. This review summarizes our current understanding of the nociceptor as a cell-biological unit that responds to a variety of extracellular inputs with a complex and highly organized interaction of signaling molecules. We also discuss the insights that this approach is providing into peripheral mechanisms of chronic pain and sex dependence in pain.
In order to understand how nociceptive information is processed in the spinal dorsal horn we need to unravel the complex synaptic circuits involving interneurons, which constitute the vast majority of the neurons in laminae I-III. The main limitation has been the difficulty in defining functional populations among these cells. We have recently identified 4 non-overlapping classes of inhibitory interneuron, defined by expression of galanin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and parvalbumin, in the rat spinal cord. In this study we demonstrate that these form distinct functional populations that differ in terms of sst(2A) receptor expression and in their responses to painful stimulation. The sst(2A) receptor was expressed by nearly all of the nNOS- and galanin-containing inhibitory interneurons but by few of those with NPY and none of the parvalbumin cells. Many galanin- and NPY-containing cells exhibited phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERK) after mechanical, thermal or chemical noxious stimuli, but very few nNOS-containing cells expressed pERK after any of these stimuli. However, many nNOS-positive inhibitory interneurons up-regulated Fos after noxious thermal stimulation or injection of formalin, but not after capsaicin injection. Parvalbumin cells did not express either activity-dependent marker following any of these stimuli. These results suggest that interneurons belonging to the NPY, nNOS and galanin populations are involved in attenuating pain, and for NPY and nNOS cells this is likely to result from direct inhibition of nociceptive projection neurons. They also suggest that the nociceptive inputs to the nNOS cells differ from those to the galanin and NPY populations.







Clusterin is a multifunctional chaperone protein that has repeatedly been linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis and, more recently, also to Parkinson's disease (PD) by both genetic and proteomic analyses. Although clusterin is detectable in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma, studies comparing clusterin levels in PD patients and controls have been scarce and yielded conflicting data. The aim of the present study was to determine whether CSF and/or plasma clusterin levels differ between PD patients and controls and are related to disease severity. We measured CSF and plasma clusterin levels in a group of 52 PD patients and in 50 age-matched neurologically healthy controls and found that clusterin levels in CSF and plasma were not different between the two groups. Furthermore, clusterin levels in CSF and plasma were not associated with disease duration, stage or severity. CSF clusterin levels did, however, correlate with CSF levels of total tau, phospho-tau and amyloid--42. We elaborate on the identified correlations between levels of clusterin and AD related proteins and on possible explanations for the discrepant findings in clusterin studies in PD so far.





While translational evidence suggests that long-chain omega-3 fatty acid status is positively associated with the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor drugs, the neurochemical mechanisms mediating this interaction are not known. Here, we investigated the effects of dietary omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid insufficiency on the neurochemical and behavioral effects of chronic fluoxetine (FLX) treatment. Female rats were fed diets with (CON, n=56) or without (DEF, n=40) the n-3 fatty acids during peri-adolescent development (P21-P90), and one half of each group was administered FLX (10mg/kg/day) for 30days (P60-P90) prior to testing. In adulthood (P90), regional brain serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic (5-HIAA) concentrations, presynaptic markers of 5-HT neurotransmission, behavioral responses in the forced swim test (FST), and plasma FLX and norfluoxetine (NFLX) concentrations were investigated. Peri-adolescent n-3 insufficiency led to significant reductions in cortical docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) composition in DEF (-25%, p0.0001) and DEF+FLX (-28%, p0.0001) rats. Untreated DEF rats exhibited significantly lower regional 5-HIAA/5-HT ratios compared with untreated CON rats, but exhibited similar behavioral responses in the FST. In both CON and DEF rats, chronic FLX treatment similarly and significantly decreased 5-HIAA concentrations and the 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and nucleus accumbens, brainstem tryptophan hydroxylase-2 mRNA expression, and immobility in the FST. While the FLX-induced reduction in 5-HIAA concentrations in the prefrontal cortex was significantly blunted in DEF rats, the reduction in the 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio was similar to CON rats. Although plasma FLX and NFLX levels were not significantly different in DEF and CON rats, the NFLX/FLX ratio was significantly lower in DEF+FLX rats. These preclinical data demonstrate that n-3 fatty acid deficiency does not significantly reduce the effects of chronic FLX treatment on central 5-HT turnover or behavior in the FST in female rats.


We investigate cluster synchronization in networks of nonlinear systems with time-delayed coupling. Using a generic model for a system close to the Hopf bifurcation, we predict the order of appearance of different cluster states and their corresponding common frequencies depending upon coupling delay. We may tune the delay time in order to ensure the existence and stability of a specific cluster state. We qualitatively and quantitatively confirm these results in experiments with chemical oscillators. The experiments also exhibit strongly nonlinear relaxation oscillations as we increase the voltage, i.e., go further away from the Hopf bifurcation. In this regime, we find secondary cluster states with delay-dependent phase lags. These cluster states appear in addition to primary states with delay-independent phase lags observed near the Hopf bifurcation. Extending the theory on Hopf normal-form oscillators, we are able to account for realistic interaction functions, yielding good agreement with experimental findings.
Despite its importance as a health problem issue, almost nothing is known about the membrane physiology of Giardia lamblia and practically there exist no information so far regarding the variety and properties of ion channels that this protozoan parasite possesses. To address this subject we resorted to an indirect method, consisting in the injection of mRNA and further characterization of ion currents in Xenopus oocytes. In this work, we show that oocytes injected with mRNA isolated from cultured trophozoites of G. lamblia, strain Portland-1 express novel potassium currents that appear over the second day after injection and show time- and voltage-dependent activation followed by a slow inactivation. They start activating at -90 mV, with V1/2 of -30 mV; its time constant of activation (at +60 mV) is 0.11 sec, whereas that of inactivation is 1.92 sec, V1/2 = -44.6 mV. Such K currents were effectively blocked by K channel blockers TEA and 4AP, as well as Ba(2+), quinine, quinidine, charybdotoxin, dendrotoxin-1, capsaicin, margatoxin, and diltiazem. These results suggest that such currents are the result of expression of Giardia's voltage-gated K channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes.
The potential interference of cutaneous circulation on muscle blood volume and oxygenation monitoring by near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) remains an important limitation of this technique. Spatially resolved spectroscopy (SRS) was reported to minimize the contribution of superficial tissue layers in cerebral monitoring but this characteristic has never been documented in muscle tissue monitoring. This study aims to compare SRS with the standard Beer-Lambert (BL) technique in detecting blood volume changes selectively induced in muscle and skin. In 16 healthy subjects, the biceps brachii was investigated during isometric elbow flexion at 70% of the maximum voluntary contractions lasting 10 sec, performed before and after exposure of the upper arm to warm air flow. From probes applied over the muscle belly the following variables were recorded: total hemoglobin index (THI, SRS-based), total hemoglobin concentration (tHb, BL-based), tissue oxygenation index (TOI, SRS-based), and skin blood flow (SBF), using laser Doppler flowmetry. Blood volume indices exhibited similar changes during muscle contraction but only tHb significantly increased during warming (+5.2  0.7 mol/Lcm, an effect comparable to the increase occurring in postcontraction hyperemia), accompanying a 10-fold increase in SBF. Contraction-induced changes in tHb and THI were not substantially affected by warming, although the tHb tracing was shifted upward by (5.2  3.5 mol/Lcm, P &lt; 0.01). TOI was not affected by cutaneous warming. In conclusion, SRS appears to effectively reject interference by SBF in both muscle blood volume and oxygenation monitoring. Instead, BL-based parameters should be interpreted with caution, whenever changes in cutaneous perfusion cannot be excluded.



Cortical oscillations are likely candidates for segmentation and coding of continuous speech. Here, we monitored continuous speech processing with magnetoencephalography (MEG) to unravel the principles of speech segmentation and coding. We demonstrate that speech entrains the phase of low-frequency (delta, theta) and the amplitude of high-frequency (gamma) oscillations in the auditory cortex. Phase entrainment is stronger in the right and amplitude entrainment is stronger in the left auditory cortex. Furthermore, edges in the speech envelope phase reset auditory cortex oscillations thereby enhancing their entrainment to speech. This mechanism adapts to the changing physical features of the speech envelope and enables efficient, stimulus-specific speech sampling. Finally, we show that within the auditory cortex, coupling between delta, theta, and gamma oscillations increases following speech edges. Importantly, all couplings (i.e., brain-speech and also within the cortex) attenuate for backward-presented speech, suggesting top-down control. We conclude that segmentation and coding of speech relies on a nested hierarchy of entrained cortical oscillations.
Myelination is essential for rapid impulse conduction in the CNS, but what determines whether an individual axon becomes myelinated remains unknown. Here we show, using a myelinating coculture system, that there are two distinct modes of myelination, one that is independent of neuronal activity and glutamate release and another that depends on neuronal action potentials releasing glutamate to activate NMDA receptors on oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Neuregulin switches oligodendrocytes from the activity-independent to the activity-dependent mode of myelination by increasing NMDA receptor currents in oligodendrocyte lineage cells 6-fold. With neuregulin present myelination is accelerated and increased, and NMDA receptor block reduces myelination to far below its level without neuregulin. Thus, a neuregulin-controlled switch enhances the myelination of active axons. In vivo, we demonstrate that remyelination after white matter damage is NMDA receptor-dependent. These data resolve controversies over the signalling regulating myelination and suggest novel roles for neuregulin in schizophrenia and in remyelination after white matter damage.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition that causes substantial morbidity and mortality and for which no treatments are available. Stem cells offer some promise in the restoration of neurological function. We used systematic review, meta-analysis, and meta-regression to study the impact of stem cell biology and experimental design on motor and sensory outcomes following stem cell treatments in animal models of SCI. One hundred and fifty-six publications using 45 different stem cell preparations met our prespecified inclusion criteria. Only one publication used autologous stem cells. Overall, allogeneic stem cell treatment appears to improve both motor (effect size, 27.2%; 95% Confidence Interval [CI], 25.0%-29.4%; 312 comparisons in 5,628 animals) and sensory (effect size, 26.3%; 95% CI, 7.9%-44.7%; 23 comparisons in 473 animals) outcome. For sensory outcome, most heterogeneity between experiments was accounted for by facets of stem cell biology. Differentiation before implantation and intravenous route of delivery favoured better outcome. Stem cell implantation did not appear to improve sensory outcome in female animals and appeared to be enhanced by isoflurane anaesthesia. Biological plausibility was supported by the presence of a dose-response relationship. For motor outcome, facets of stem cell biology had little detectable effect. Instead most heterogeneity could be explained by the experimental modelling and the outcome measure used. The location of injury, method of injury induction, and presence of immunosuppression all had an impact. Reporting of measures to reduce bias was higher than has been seen in other neuroscience domains but were still suboptimal. Motor outcomes studies that did not report the blinded assessment of outcome gave inflated estimates of efficacy. Extensive recent preclinical literature suggests that stem-cell-based therapies may offer promise, however the impact of compromised internal validity and publication bias mean that efficacy is likely to be somewhat lower than reported here.
The thalamus is the primary gateway that relays sensory information to the cerebral cortex. While a single recipient cortical cell receives the convergence of many principal relay cells of the thalamus, each thalamic cell in turn integrates a dense and distributed synaptic feedback from the cortex. During sensory processing, the influence of this functional loop remains largely ignored. Using dynamic-clamp techniques in thalamic slices in vitro, we combined theoretical and experimental approaches to implement a realistic hybrid retino-thalamo-cortical pathway mixing biological cells and simulated circuits. The synaptic bombardment of cortical origin was mimicked through the injection of a stochastic mixture of excitatory and inhibitory conductances, resulting in a gradable correlation level of afferent activity shared by thalamic cells. The study of the impact of the simulated cortical input on the global retinocortical signal transfer efficiency revealed a novel control mechanism resulting from the collective resonance of all thalamic relay neurons. We show here that the transfer efficiency of sensory input transmission depends on three key features: i) the number of thalamocortical cells involved in the many-to-one convergence from thalamus to cortex, ii) the statistics of the corticothalamic synaptic bombardment and iii) the level of correlation imposed between converging thalamic relay cells. In particular, our results demonstrate counterintuitively that the retinocortical signal transfer efficiency increases when the level of correlation across thalamic cells decreases. This suggests that the transfer efficiency of relay cells could be selectively amplified when they become simultaneously desynchronized by the cortical feedback. When applied to the intact brain, this network regulation mechanism could direct an attentional focus to specific thalamic subassemblies and select the appropriate input lines to the cortex according to the descending influence of cortically-defined &quot;priors&quot;.
Neurotransmitter release depends on the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane and the release of their contents. The final fusion step displays higher-order Ca(2+) dependence, but also upstream steps depend on Ca(2+). After deletion of the Ca(2+) sensor for fast release - synaptotagmin-1 - slower Ca(2+)-dependent release components persist. These findings have provoked working models involving parallel releasable vesicle pools (Parallel Pool Models, PPM) driven by alternative Ca(2+) sensors for release, but no slow release sensor acting on a parallel vesicle pool has been identified. We here propose a Sequential Pool Model (SPM), assuming a novel Ca(2+)-dependent action: a Ca(2+)-dependent catalyst that accelerates both forward and reverse priming reactions. While both models account for fast fusion from the Readily-Releasable Pool (RRP) under control of synaptotagmin-1, the origins of slow release differ. In the SPM the slow release component is attributed to the Ca(2+)-dependent refilling of the RRP from a Non-Releasable upstream Pool (NRP), whereas the PPM attributes slow release to a separate slowly-releasable vesicle pool. Using numerical integration we compared model predictions to data from mouse chromaffin cells. Like the PPM, the SPM explains biphasic release, Ca(2+)-dependence and pool sizes in mouse chromaffin cells. In addition, the SPM accounts for the rapid recovery of the fast component after strong stimulation, where the PPM fails. The SPM also predicts the simultaneous changes in release rate and amplitude seen when mutating the SNARE-complex. Finally, it can account for the loss of fast- and the persistence of slow release in the synaptotagmin-1 knockout by assuming that the RRP is depleted, leading to slow and Ca(2+)-dependent fusion from the NRP. We conclude that the elusive 'alternative Ca(2+) sensor' for slow release might be the upstream priming catalyst, and that a sequential model effectively explains Ca(2+)-dependent properties of secretion without assuming parallel pools or sensors.
Redundancies and correlations in the responses of sensory neurons may seem to waste neural resources, but they can also carry cues about structured stimuli and may help the brain to correct for response errors. To investigate the effect of stimulus structure on redundancy in retina, we measured simultaneous responses from populations of retinal ganglion cells presented with natural and artificial stimuli that varied greatly in correlation structure; these stimuli and recordings are publicly available online. Responding to spatio-temporally structured stimuli such as natural movies, pairs of ganglion cells were modestly more correlated than in response to white noise checkerboards, but they were much less correlated than predicted by a non-adapting functional model of retinal response. Meanwhile, responding to stimuli with purely spatial correlations, pairs of ganglion cells showed increased correlations consistent with a static, non-adapting receptive field and nonlinearity. We found that in response to spatio-temporally correlated stimuli, ganglion cells had faster temporal kernels and tended to have stronger surrounds. These properties of individual cells, along with gain changes that opposed changes in effective contrast at the ganglion cell input, largely explained the pattern of pairwise correlations across stimuli where receptive field measurements were possible.
Many aerobic organisms encounter oxygen-deprived environments and thus must have adaptive mechanisms to survive such stress. It is important to understand how mitochondria respond to oxygen deprivation given the critical role they play in using oxygen to generate cellular energy. Here we examine mitochondrial stress response in C. elegans, which adapt to extreme oxygen deprivation (anoxia, less than 0.1% oxygen) by entering into a reversible suspended animation state of locomotory arrest. We show that neuronal mitochondria undergo DRP-1-dependent fission in response to anoxia and undergo refusion upon reoxygenation. The hypoxia response pathway, including EGL-9 and HIF-1, is not required for anoxia-induced fission, but does regulate mitochondrial reconstitution during reoxygenation. Mutants for egl-9 exhibit a rapid refusion of mitochondria and a rapid behavioral recovery from suspended animation during reoxygenation; both phenotypes require HIF-1. Mitochondria are significantly larger in egl-9 mutants after reoxygenation, a phenotype similar to stress-induced mitochondria hyperfusion (SIMH). Anoxia results in mitochondrial oxidative stress, and the oxidative response factor SKN-1/Nrf is required for both rapid mitochondrial refusion and rapid behavioral recovery during reoxygenation. In response to anoxia, SKN-1 promotes the expression of the mitochondrial resident protein Stomatin-like 1 (STL-1), which helps facilitate mitochondrial dynamics following anoxia. Our results suggest the existence of a conserved anoxic stress response involving changes in mitochondrial fission and fusion.
Guiding axon growth cones towards their targets is a fundamental process that occurs in a developing nervous system. Several major signaling systems are involved in axon-guidance, and disruption of these systems causes axon-guidance defects. However, the specific role of the environment in which axons navigate in regulating axon-guidance has not been examined in detail. In Drosophila, the ventral nerve cord is divided into segments, and half-segments and the precursor neuroblasts are formed in rows and columns in individual half-segments. The row-wise expression of segment-polarity genes within the neuroectoderm provides the initial row-wise identity to neuroblasts. Here, we show that in embryos mutant for the gene midline, which encodes a T-box DNA binding protein, row-2 neuroblasts and their neuroectoderm adopt a row-5 identity. This reiteration of row-5 ultimately creates a non-permissive zone or a barrier, which prevents the extension of interneuronal longitudinal tracts along their normal anterior-posterior path. While we do not know the nature of the barrier, the axon tracts either stall when they reach this region or project across the midline or towards the periphery along this zone. Previously, we had shown that midline ensures ancestry-dependent fate specification in a neuronal lineage. These results provide the molecular basis for the axon guidance defects in midline mutants and the significance of proper specification of the environment to axon-guidance. These results also reveal the importance of segmental polarity in guiding axons from one segment to the next, and a link between establishment of broad segmental identity and axon guidance.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder caused by maternal deficiency of the imprinted gene UBE3A. Individuals with AS suffer from intellectual disability, speech impairment, and motor dysfunction. Currently there is no cure for the disease. Here, we evaluated the phenotypic effect of activating the silenced paternal allele of Ube3a by depleting its antisense RNA Ube3a-ATS in mice. Premature termination of Ube3a-ATS by poly(A) cassette insertion activates expression of Ube3a from the paternal chromosome, and ameliorates many disease-related symptoms in the AS mouse model, including motor coordination defects, cognitive deficit, and impaired long-term potentiation. Studies on the imprinting mechanism of Ube3a revealed a pattern of biallelic transcription initiation with suppressed elongation of paternal Ube3a, implicating transcriptional collision between sense and antisense polymerases. These studies demonstrate the feasibility and utility of unsilencing the paternal copy of Ube3a via targeting Ube3a-ATS as a treatment for Angelman syndrome.
Development in the central nervous system is highly dependent on the regulation of the switch from progenitor cell proliferation to differentiation, but the molecular and cellular events controlling this process remain poorly understood. Here, we report that ablation of Crb1 and Crb2 genes results in severe impairment of retinal function, abnormal lamination and thickening of the retina mimicking human Leber congenital amaurosis due to loss of CRB1 function. We show that the levels of CRB1 and CRB2 proteins are crucial for mouse retinal development, as they restrain the proliferation of retinal progenitor cells. The lack of these apical proteins results in altered cell cycle progression and increased number of mitotic cells leading to an increased number of late-born cell types such as rod photoreceptors, bipolar and Mller glia cells in postmitotic retinas. Loss of CRB1 and CRB2 in the retina results in dysregulation of target genes for the Notch1 and YAP/Hippo signaling pathways and increased levels of P120-catenin. Loss of CRB1 and CRB2 result in altered progenitor cell cycle distribution with a decrease in number of late progenitors in G1 and an increase in S and G2/M phase. These findings suggest that CRB1 and CRB2 suppress late progenitor pool expansion by regulating multiple proliferative signaling pathways.
When searching for clues to reach a diagnosis, neurologists often empathise with the detective who is trying to solve a case. The premise of this article is that detective stories have been part of the fabric of neurology ever since the time that it evolved into a discrete medical speciality. We will examine how this form of narrative has found expression in detective mystery fiction and popular science publications created by 20th century neurologist physician-writers. We will also investigate the power of the neurologist's alter ego, Sherlock Holmes: his relationship to founders of clinical neuroscience such as Jean-Martin Charcot, William Gowers and Sigmund Freud, and his influences on neurological practice and its literary traditions.
Niemann-Pick disease refers to a group of autosomal recessive lipid storage disorders associated with a variable degree of neurological manifestations in addition to other organ involvement. Niemann-Pick disease is divided into types A-C. Of interest to neurologists is Niemann-Pick type C because of the association with neurological manifestations that are not confined to childhood. The clinical presentation of Niemann-Pick type C is variable, depending on age at onset. Neurological symptoms vary with age: hypotonia, delay in developmental motor milestones, falls, seizures, learning difficulties, ataxia with cognitive deficits and psychosis. The definitive diagnosis of Niemann-Pick type C requires demonstration of abnormal intracellular cholesterol trafficking using the lipin test. Therapeutic interventions are few but one that is of interest is miglustat, which has been approved for specific treatment of the neurological manifestations. It showed improvement in horizontal saccadic eye movement and a trend towards improvement or stabilisation in swallowing, hearing and walking. Niemann-Pick type C should be considered in patients with early-onset ataxia associated with progressive learning/cognitive difficulties even in the absence of vertical gaze palsy.


Nerve entrapment syndromes in the upper extremity are being recognized with increasing frequency. Prompt and correct diagnosis of these injuries is important. This article is a review of the common entrapment nerve injuries seen in the upper extremity. Each of these clinical syndromes is discussed independently, reviewing the anatomy, compression sites, patient presentation (history and examination), the role of additional diagnostic studies, and management.
The reuniens and rhomboid nuclei, located in the ventral midline of the thalamus, have long been regarded as having non-specific effects on the cortex, while other evidence suggests that they influence behavior related to the photoperiod, hunger, stress or anxiety. We summarise the recent anatomical, electrophysiological and behavioral evidence that these nuclei also influence cognitive processes. The first part of this review describes the reciprocal connections of the reuniens and rhomboid nuclei with the medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus. The connectivity pattern among these structures is consistent with the idea that these ventral midline nuclei represent a nodal hub to influence prefrontal-hippocampal interactions. The second part describes the effects of a stimulation or blockade of the ventral midline thalamus on cortical and hippocampal electrophysiological activity. The final part summarizes recent literature supporting the emerging view that the reuniens and rhomboid nuclei may contribute to learning, memory consolidation and behavioral flexibility, in addition to general behavior and aspects of metabolism.
The research field of adult neurogenesis is rapidly expanding with more and more information becoming available on the identity of the cells located within the subventricular zone (SVZ). Much of our understanding is based on rodent studies. The SVZ is comprised of several different cell types including B1 astrocytes, transit amplifying progenitor cells (C cells), and neuroblasts (A cells). B1 astrocytes are the quiescent neural stem cells that continue to divide throughout a lifespan. They give rise to a progenitor cell, termed a C cell, which in turn, generates neuroblasts destined for the olfactory bulb. There is much controversy over how to distinguish various SVZ cell types. This review summarizes the known markers for rodent SVZ cell types, with particular attention paid towards B1 astrocytes and C cells. Unfortunately, there is no perfect stem cell marker. B1 astrocytes, C cells, and neuroblasts gain and lose marker expression patterns throughout their lineage progression. These expression patterns often overlap at the transition from one cell type to another. The SVZ cell lineage must be seen as a continuum, rather than a static and inert system. This view will aid in understanding the mechanisms underlying marker expression and cellular behavior in the SVZ.
In all six members of TRPV channel subfamily, there is an ankyrin repeat domain (ARD) in their intracellular N-termini. Ankyrin (ANK) repeat, a common motif with typically 33 residues in each repeat, is primarily involved in protein-protein interactions. Despite the sequence similarity among the ARDs of TRPV channels, the structure of TRPV3-ARD, however, remains unknown. Here, we report the crystal structure of TRPV3-ARD solved at 1.95  resolution, which reveals six-ankyrin repeats. While overall structure of TRPV3-ARD is similar to ARDs from other members of TRPV subfamily; it, however, features a noticeable finger 3 loop that bends over and is stabilized by a network of hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic packing, instead of being flexible as seen in known TRPV-ARD structures. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that mutating key residues R225, R226, Q255, and F249 of finger 3 loop altered the channel activities and pharmacology. Taken all together, our findings show that TRPV3-ARD with characteristic finger 3 loop likely plays an important role in channel function and pharmacology.
Fluvoxamine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor that is approved for psychiatric disorders such as major depressive episodes and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Beside inhibition of serotonin reuptake, fluvoxamine is also a potent agonist of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein sigma-1 receptors, which play a role in the pathophysiology of a number of psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. This report presents beneficial effects of sigma-1 agonist fluvoxamine on hyperkinetic movement disorders such as tardive dyskinesia and tardive akathisia. Fluvoxamine might be a novel treatmet approach in the treatment of hyperkinetic movement disorders.
The prevalence of HIV infection in older adults is increasing; by 2015, over half of adults living with HIV/AIDS in the United States will be over 50. This study describes the prevalence of drug use and examines psychosocial predictors of drug use in a sample of HIV-infected adults aged 50 and older. Participants were 301 HIV-positive older adults enrolled in a clinical trial of a coping intervention aimed to reduce their depressive symptoms. One-quarter used illicit drugs in the past 60 days (48% any cocaine, 48% weekly marijuana, 44% any other drugs) with an average of 36 days for marijuana and 15 days for cocaine. After controlling for demographics, self-destructive avoidance was positively associated and spiritual coping was negatively associated with drug use. These findings suggest that assessment of drug abuse should be a routine part of care for older patients in HIV clinics. Furthermore, interventions designed to increase spiritual coping and decrease self-destructive avoidance may be particularly efficacious for HIV-infected older adults.
Problem gambling may reflect a maladaptive means of fulfilling specific affect-regulation motives, such as enhancing positive affect or coping with negative affect. Research with clinical populations indicates that disorders with prominent affective symptoms are characterized by attentional biases for symptom-congruent information. Thus, we assessed whether problem gamblers with enhancement motives for gambling would demonstrate attentional biases for positive emotional information, relative to other types of emotional information, and problem gamblers with coping motives for gambling would demonstrate attentional biases for negative emotional information, compared with other types of emotional information. In addition, we expected motive-congruent biases to be stronger in problem gamblers than nonproblem gamblers. To test these hypotheses, problem and nonproblem gamblers received an emotional orienting task in which neutral, negative, and positive pictorial cues appeared to one side of the computer screen, followed by target words in cued or uncued locations. In a look-away condition, participants had to shift attention away from pictures to respond to predominantly uncued targets, whereas in a look-toward condition, they had to orient to pictures to categorize predominantly cued targets. The results revealed motive-congruent orienting biases and disengagement lags for emotional pictures in problem gamblers. The link between motives and affective biases was less apparent in nonproblem gamblers. Results suggest that attentional measures may provide a useful complement to the subjective methodologies that are typically employed in studying problem gamblers.
Although categorization is fundamental to speech processing, little is known about the learning systems that mediate auditory categorization and even less is known about changes across the life span. Vision research supports dual-learning systems that are grounded in neuroscience and are partially dissociable. The reflective, rule-based system is prefrontally mediated and uses working memory and executive attention to develop and test rules for classifying in an explicit fashion. The reflexive, information-integration system is striatally mediated and operates by implicitly associating perception with actions that lead to reinforcement. We examine the extent to which dual-learning systems mediate auditory and speech learning in younger and older adults. We examined auditory category learning when a rule-based strategy (Experiment 1) or information-integration strategy (Experiment 2) was optimal, and found an age-related rule-based deficit, but intact information-integration learning. Experiment 3 examined natural auditory category learning, and found an age-related performance deficit. Computational modeling suggested that this was attributable to older adults' persistent reliance on suboptimal, unidimensional strategies when 2-dimensional strategies were optimal. Working memory capacity was also found to be associated with improved rule-based and natural auditory category learning, but not information-integration category learning. These results suggest that dual-learning systems are operative in speech category learning across the life span, and that performance deficits, when present, are attributable to deficiencies in frontally mediated, rule-based processes.
Poor recognition of the degree or scope of one's own cognitive deficits is a common feature of many neurological conditions, including diseases of aging, but little is known about the impact the natural aging process has on this aspect of self-awareness (SA). Here, a group of 45 healthy older adults and a comparison group of 45 young adults completed a multidomain assessment of SA. Awareness of daily functioning was evaluated based on discrepancies between self- and informant ratings on questionnaire measures of attentional control, memory functioning, and socioemotional functioning. Online error awareness was also assessed using a variant of the Go/No-Go Error Awareness Task (EAT) in which participants are required to signal commission errors via a separate manual response. Whereas younger participants tended to underestimate their attentional control and memory functioning relative to informant reports, older adults significantly overestimated their abilities. The older adults also exhibited substantially poorer online error awareness compared with young adults, despite the fact that the two groups were matched for overall accuracy. Levels of online error awareness were significantly correlated with discrepancy scores for daily attentional and memory functioning, and with performance of a sustained attention task. These novel findings suggest that an important aspect of the neuropsychology of healthy aging has hitherto been overlooked.
Feedback-based associative learning (e.g., acquiring new associations from positive or negative outcomes) and generalization (e.g., applying past learning to new settings) are important cognitive skills that enable people to make economic decisions or social judgments. This ability to acquire new skills based on feedback and transfer those experiences to predict positive outcomes in novel situations is essential at all ages, but especially among older adults who must continually adapt to new people, environments, and technologies. Ample evidence from animal work, clinical research, and computational modeling has demonstrated that feedback-based associative learning is sensitive to basal ganglia dysfunction and generalization to medial temporal lobe dysfunction. This dissociation is relevant because of recent evidence that has suggested healthy aging compromises the basal ganglia system earlier than the medial temporal lobes. However, few studies have investigated how healthy aging influences these cognitive processes. Here, we examined both feedback-based associative learning and generalization in younger, middle-aged, and older adults using a computerized acquired equivalence task. Results revealed a significant effect of age group on feedback-based associative learning, consistent with evidence of persistent age-related declines in the basal ganglia. In contrast, generalization was spared in all but the oldest adult group, likely reflecting preserved medial temporal lobe function until advanced old age. Our findings add behavioral evidence to the emerging view that healthy aging affects the striatal system before the medial temporal lobes. Although further evidence is needed, this finding may shed light on the possible time course of neural system dysfunction in healthy aging.
Although it is generally agreed that recall performance declines more than recognition memory performance in the course of normal aging, there are some dissenting voices. There are also a few empirical findings that cast doubt on that conclusion. In light of these ambiguities the present experiments were designed to answer the question in a more definitive fashion. Over a series of 3 experiments, groups of younger and older adults performed recall and recognition tests successively on the same lists of words. Several analyses of the resulting data converge on the conclusion that there is a consistent age-related decrement in recall that is disproportionately greater than the age-related decrement in recognition. This conclusion is in line with several theoretical accounts of age-related differences in cognitive processing and also with emerging evidence from cognitive neuroscience.



Satisfaction of search (which we refer to as subsequent search misses)-a decrease in accuracy at detecting a second target after a first target has been found in a visual search-underlies real-world search errors (e.g., tumors may be missed in an X-ray if another tumor already has been found), but little is known about this phenomenon's cognitive underpinnings. In the present study, we examined subsequent search misses in terms of another, more extensively studied phenomenon: the attentional blink, a decrease in accuracy when a second target appears 200 to 500 ms after a first target is detected in a temporal stream. Participants searched for T-shaped targets among L-shaped distractors in a spatial visual search, and despite large methodological differences between self-paced spatial visual searches and attentional blink tasks, an attentional-blink-like effect accounted for subsequent-search-miss errors. This finding provides evidence that accuracy is negatively affected shortly after a first target is fixated in a self-paced, self-guided visual search.
Prominent theories highlight the importance of bodily perception for self-consciousness, but it is currently not known whether bodily perception is based on interoceptive or exteroceptive signals or on integrated signals from these anatomically distinct systems. In the research reported here, we combined both types of signals by surreptitiously providing participants with visual exteroceptive information about their heartbeat: A real-time video image of a periodically illuminated silhouette outlined participants' (projected, &quot;virtual&quot;) bodies and flashed in synchrony with their heartbeats. We investigated whether these &quot;cardio-visual&quot; signals could modulate bodily self-consciousness and tactile perception. We report two main findings. First, synchronous cardio-visual signals increased self-identification with and self-location toward the virtual body, and second, they altered the perception of tactile stimuli applied to participants' backs so that touch was mislocalized toward the virtual body. We argue that the integration of signals from the inside and the outside of the human body is a fundamental neurobiological process underlying self-consciousness.
Reliance on remembered facts or events requires memory for their sources, that is, the contexts in which those facts or events were embedded. Understanding of source retrieval has been stymied by the fact that uncontrolled fluctuations of attention during encoding can cloud results of key importance to theoretical development. To address this issue, we combined electrophysiology (high-density electroencephalogram, EEG, recordings) with computational modeling of behavioral results. We manipulated subjects' attention to an auditory attribute, whether the source of individual study words was a male or female speaker. Posterior alpha-band (8-14 Hz) power in subjects' EEG increased after a cue to ignore the voice of the person who was about to speak. Receiver-operating-characteristic analysis validated our interpretation of oscillatory dynamics as a marker of attention to source information. With attention under experimental control, computational modeling showed unequivocally that memory for source (male or female speaker) reflected a continuous signal detection process rather than a threshold recollection process.
Working memory is a construct of primary relevance to many areas of psychology. Two types of tasks have been used to measure working memory, primarily in different research areas: Complex span tasks are commonly used in behavioral studies in the cognitive and individual-differences literature, whereas n-back tasks have been used more frequently in cognitive neuroscience studies investigating the neural underpinnings of working memory. Despite both categories of tasks being labeled as &quot;working memory&quot; measures, previous empirical studies have provided mixed evidence regarding the shared amount of overlapping processes between complex span and n-back tasks. The present meta-analysis showed that the complex span and n-back tasks are weakly correlated, although significant heterogeneity across studies was observed. A follow-up analysis of unpublished data indicated that the sample composition affects the relationship between the complex span and n-back tasks, following the law of diminishing returns. Finally, a separate meta-analysis indicated that the simple span and n-back tasks are correlated to the same extent as are the complex span and n-back tasks. The present findings indicate that the complex span and n-back tasks cannot be used interchangeably as working memory measures in research applications.
In the present study, we investigated how brain images affect metacomprehension judgments of neuroscience research. Participants made a prereading judgment of comprehension of the text topic and then read a text about neuroimaging findings. In Experiment 1, participants read text only or text accompanying brain images. In Experiment 2, participants read text accompanying bar graphs or text accompanying brain images. Then participants were asked to rate their comprehension of the text. Finally, they completed comprehension tests. The results of Experiment 1 showed that the text accompanying brain images was associated with higher metacomprehension judgments than was the text only, whereas the performance of the comprehension test did not differ between each condition. The results of Experiment 2 showed that the text accompanying brain images was associated not only with credibility of the text, but also with higher metacomprehension judgments than was the text accompanying the bar graphs, whereas the performance of the comprehension test did not differ between each condition. The findings suggest that the readers' subjective judgments differ from actual comprehension.
Here, we demonstrate that &quot;moving to the beat&quot; can improve the perception of timing, providing an intriguing explanation as to why we often move when listening to music. In the first experiment, participants heard a series of isochronous beats and identified whether the timing of a final tone after a short silence was consistent with the timing of the preceding sequence. On half of the trials, participants tapped along with the beat, and on half of the trials, they listened without moving. When the final tone occurred later than expected, performance in the movement condition was significantly better than performance in the no-movement condition. Two additional experiments illustrate that this improved performance is due to improved timekeeping, rather than to a shift in strategy. This work contributes to a growing literature on sensorimotor integration by demonstrating body movement's objective improvement in timekeeping, complementing previous explorations involving subjective tasks.
Does numerical-spatial representation affect feature binding? Studies of visual attention show that poor spatial coding leads to illusory conjunctions (ICs). In numerical cognition, it has been shown that numbers and space are not totally dissociated. This association underlies the numerical distance effect (DE): faster responses as the distance between the compared digits becomes larger (2 7 vs. 2 4). We used the DE to test whether numerical-spatial representation is available to visual processes that rely on spatial coding, such as feature binding. Participants reported the larger of two colored numbers. Both numerical distance (distances 2 and 5) and number-space congruity (e.g., congruent pair, 1 3; incongruent pair, 3 1) were analyzed. Results showed a higher proportion of ICs for distance 2 than for distance 5, providing strong evidence that numerical-spatial representation (1) entails a strong location code and (2) is available to visual processes that rely on location information.
Variation in the early postnatal social environment can have lasting effects on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress responses. Both rats and macaque monkeys subjected to low quality or abusive maternal care during the early postnatal period have more pronounced HPA responses to environmental stressors throughout development and into adulthood compared to animals reared in higher quality early maternal environments. However, little is known about the relative contributions to HPA stress response styles in developing offspring in species in which offspring care is routinely provided by group members other than the mother, such as in cooperatively breeding mammals. Marmoset monkeys exhibit cooperative offspring rearing, with fathers and older siblings providing care in addition to that provided by the mother. We evaluated the effects of early maternal, paternal, and older sibling care on HPA responses to social separation across development in captive white-faced marmoset offspring (Callithrix geoffroyi). We monitored offspring care by mothers, fathers, and older siblings in marmosets for the first 60 days of life. Later in development, each marmoset experienced three standardized social separation/novelty exposure stressors at 6, 12, and 18 months of age. During separation, we collected urine samples and analyzed them via enzyme immunoassay for cortisol levels. Infants that received higher rates of rejections from the entire family group showed higher cortisol responses to social separation. This relationship was found when mothers, fathers, and older siblings, were analyzed separately as well. No differences in cortisol responses were found between offspring that received high and low rates of carrying or high and low rates of licking and grooming by any group member. In the cooperatively breeding marmoset, early social cues from multiple classes of caregivers may influence HPA stress responses throughout the lifespan.
Inflammatory pain experienced on the day of birth (postnatal day 0: PD0) significantly dampens behavioral responses to stress- and anxiety-provoking stimuli in adult rats. However, to date, the mechanisms by which early life pain permanently alters adult stress responses remain unknown. The present studies examined the impact of inflammatory pain, experienced on the day of birth, on adult expression of receptors or proteins implicated in the activation and termination of the stress response, including corticotrophin releasing factor receptors (CRFR1 and CRFR2) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Using competitive receptor autoradiography, we show that Sprague Dawley male and female rat pups administered 1% carrageenan into the intraplantar surface of the hindpaw on the day of birth have significantly decreased CRFR1 binding in the basolateral amygdala and midbrain periaqueductal gray in adulthood. In contrast, CRFR2 binding, which is associated with stress termination, was significantly increased in the lateral septum and cortical amygdala. GR expression, measured with in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, was significantly increased in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and significantly decreased in the hippocampus of neonatally injured adults. In parallel, acute stress-induced corticosterone release was significantly attenuated and returned to baseline more rapidly in adults injured on PD0 in comparison to controls. Collectively, these data show that early life pain alters neural circuits that regulate responses to and neuroendocrine recovery from stress, and suggest that pain experienced by infants in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit may permanently alter future responses to anxiety- and stress-provoking stimuli.
Diverse stressors can disrupt blastocyst implantation in inseminated female mammals. Stress-induced implantation failure can be mimicked by minute doses of exogenous estradiol, and some evidence indicates that it may be mitigated by exogenous progesterone. In Experiment 1, we showed that acute exposure to a rat across a wire-mesh grid caused elevation of corticosterone and progesterone. In Experiment 2, we showed that exposure of inseminated mice to rats across a grid during gestation days 1-5 was associated with avoidance of proximity to the grid and a significantly reduced number of implantation sites on gestation day 6. Rat-exposure also resulted in elevated progesterone levels in females that maintained their pregnancies, and elevated estradiol levels in females that lost their pregnancies. In Experiment 3, we investigated whether exogenous progesterone, estradiol, or a combination of both could influence implantation failure induced by rat-exposure stress. Treatment with 100 ng estradiol per day on gestation days 1-5 induced a complete absence of implantation sites on gestation day 6, regardless of the presence or absence of the stressor. Administration of 500 g progesterone per day was insufficient to prevent the stress-induced pregnancy loss. However, 500 g progesterone plus 10 ng estradiol per day did prevent implantation failure in rat-exposed females. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that estradiol elevations contribute to stress-induced pregnancy loss, but show paradoxically that low doses of estradiol can act together with progesterone to mitigate stress-induced pregnancy loss.
Stress can exert profound effects on memory encoding. Here, we investigated whether (sub)cortical information processing during encoding and memory retrieval at a 24 h delayed test are affected by the temporal proximity between stress and memory encoding. Sixty-four participants engaged in the Maastricht Acute Stress Test (MAST) or a no-stress control condition either immediately before (i.e., proximate condition) or 30 min before (i.e., distant condition) a picture encoding task. In general, stress decreased the number of freely recalled and recognized pictures and increased the number of false alarms. However, timing of stress exposure did not differentially affect picture recall, recognition or selective attention processes (i.e., LPP). Nevertheless, stress-induced cortisol responses and correctly recognized neutral pictures were positively associated within the proximate stress condition but negatively associated within the distant stress condition. These findings suggest that the time at which a stressor is applied might differentially impact the association between stress-induced cortisol elevations and memory formation and indicate the need for a finer delineation of the time window during which glucocorticoids affect memory formation processes.
Stress and hypercaloric food are recognized risk factors for obesity, Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) and Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). Given the complexity of these metabolic processes and the unavailability of animal models, there is poor understanding of their underlying mechanisms. We established a model of chronic psychosocial stress in which subordinate mice are vulnerable to weight gain while dominant mice are resilient. Subordinate mice fed a standard diet showed marked hyperphagia, high leptin, low adiponectin, and dyslipidemia. Despite these molecular signatures of MetS and T2D, subordinate mice fed a standard diet were still euglycemic. We hypothesized that stress predisposes subordinate mice to develop T2D when synergizing with other risk factors. High fat diet aggravated dyslipidemia and the MetS thus causing a pre-diabetes-like state in subordinate mice. Contrary to subordinates, dominant mice were fully protected from stress-induced metabolic disorders when fed both a standard- and a high fat-diet. Dominant mice showed a hyperphagic response that was similar to subordinate but, unlike subordinates, showed a significant increase in VO2, VCO2, and respiratory exchange ratio when compared to control mice. Overall, we demonstrated a robust stress- and social status-dependent effect on the development of MetS and T2D and provided insights on the physiological mechanisms. Our results are reminiscent of the effect of the individual socioeconomic status on human health and provide an animal model to study the underlying molecular mechanisms.









For studying multistable auditory perception, we propose a paradigm that evokes integrated or segregated perception of a sound sequence, and permits decomposition of the segregated grouping into foreground and background sounds. The paradigm combines 3-tone pitch patterns with alternating timbres, resulting in a repeating 6-tone structure that can be perceived as rising based on temporal proximity, or as falling based on timbre similarity. Listeners continuously report their percept while EEG is recorded. Results show an ERP modulation starting at 70ms after sound onset that can be explained by whether a sound belongs to perceived foreground or background, with no additional effect of integrated versus segregated grouping. Auditory grouping as indexed by the mismatch negativity did not correspond with reported sound grouping. The paradigm offers a new possibility for investigating effects of conscious perceptual organization on sound processing.
Fast encoding of frequency modulated (FM) sweeps is crucial for communication. In humans, FM sweeps deviating from the acoustic regularity elicit the mismatch negativity (MMN) evoked potential. Yet, direction sensitivity to FM sweeps is found in animals' primary auditory cortex, upstream of MMN sources found in humans. Here, we were interested in whether direction deviants of complex FM sweeps modulated brain responses earlier than MMN. We used a controlled oddball paradigm, and measured the middle latency responses (MLRs) and the MMN. Our results showed a repetition enhancement to the standards at the Pa component of the MLR and a genuine MMN in the later response range. These results show that, early in the cortical hierarchy, the system is sensitive to the physical characteristics of the repetitive stimuli, but a higher-order mechanism is needed to detect violations of the acoustic regularity.
It is now widely recognised that extracellular nucleotides, signalling via purinergic receptors, participate in numerous biological processes in most tissues. It has become evident that extracellular nucleotides have significant regulatory effects in the musculoskeletal system. In early development, ATP released from motor nerves along with acetylcholine acts as a cotransmitter in neuromuscular transmission; in mature animals, ATP functions as a neuromodulator. Purinergic receptors expressed by skeletal muscle and satellite cells play important pathophysiological roles in their development or repair. In many cell types, expression of purinergic receptors is often dependent on differentiation. For example, sequential expression of P2X5, P2Y1 and P2X2 receptors occurs during muscle regeneration in the mdx model of muscular dystrophy. In bone and cartilage cells, the functional effects of purinergic signalling appear to be largely negative. ATP stimulates the formation and activation of osteoclasts, the bone-destroying cells. Another role appears to be as a potent local inhibitor of mineralisation. In osteoblasts, the bone-forming cells, ATP acts via P2 receptors to limit bone mineralisation by inhibiting alkaline phosphatase expression and activity. Extracellular ATP additionally exerts significant effects on mineralisation via its hydrolysis product, pyrophosphate. Evidence now suggests that purinergic signalling is potentially important in several bone and joint disorders including osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis and cancers. Strategies for future musculoskeletal therapies might involve modulation of purinergic receptor function or of the ecto-nucleotidases responsible for ATP breakdown or ATP transport inhibitors.
Transient global ischemia (which closely resembles clinical situations such as cardiac arrest, near drowning or severe systemic hypotension during surgical procedures), often induces delayed neuronal death in the brain, especially in the hippocampal CA1 region. The mechanism of ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is not fully understood. In this study, we have shown that the P2X7 receptor antagonist, BBG, reduced delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region after I/R injury; P2X7 receptor expression levels increased before delayed neuronal death after I/R injury; inhibition of the P2X7 receptor reduced I/R-induced microglial microvesicle-like components, IL-1 expression, P38 phosphorylation, and glial activation in hippocampal CA1 region after I/R injury. These results indicate that antagonism of the P2X7 receptor and signaling pathways of microglial MV shedding, such as src-protein tyrosine kinase, P38 MAP kinase and A-SMase, might be a promising therapeutic strategy for clinical treatment of transient global cerebral I/R injury.

During development, a fetus and its placenta must respond to a changing maternal environment to ensure normal growth is achieved and survival is maintained. The mechanisms behind developmental programming involve complex interactions between epigenetic and physiological processes, which are not well understood. Importantly, when programming goes awry, it puts the fetus at risk for disease later in life and may, in some instances, affect subsequent generations via epigenetic processes including DNA methylation. The one-carbon metabolism, which includes the folate, methionine and choline pathways, provides methyl groups necessary for DNA methylation and a normal epigenetic landscape. Accordingly, disruptions in this pathway affect placental development and function leading to altered fetal programming. Remarkably, recent studies have revealed that abnormal folate metabolism causes transgenerational effects probably through epigenetic inheritance. The epigenetic mechanisms behind this phenomenon are not well understood but they have important implications for the influence of the metabolic environment on epigenetic stability and non-genetic inheritance of disease. Importantly, there are increasing concerns that assisted reproductive technologies cause aberrant epigenetic profiles in embryos leading to abnormal fetal programming. How the negative epigenetic consequences of assisted reproduction treatment affect subsequent generations requires further investigation.
This study evaluated handwriting movement dysfluency related to dysgraphia. A new variable, the Signal-to-Noise velocity peaks difference (SNvpd), was proposed to describe abnormal velocity fluctuations in cursive handwriting. This variable was compared to two variables most frequently used variables for assessing handwriting fluency. This comparison was carried out for three different groups, children with dysgraphia, proficient children, and adults, all of whom wrote the same single word. The adults were taken as the reference. Results revealed that, of the three variables studied, the SNvpd proved most efficient in discriminating children with dysgraphia, and that furthermore, it had the significant advantage of facilitating the localization of dysfluency peaks within a word. Our results also showed that the movement dysfluency of children with dysgraphia was specific to certain letters. In light of these results, we discuss the methodological and theoretical relevance of this new variable to the analysis of handwriting movement with the aim of characterizing dysgraphia.
Modulation in ventilatory settings is one of the approaches and interventions used to treat and prevent secondary brain damage after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Here we investigate the effect of hyperoxia in combination with hypoventilation on brain oxygenation, metabolism and intracranial pressure. Twelve pigs were divided into three groups; group1-100% hyperoxia (n=4), group 2-100% hyperoxia and 20% decrease in minute volume (MV) (n=4) and group 3-100% hyperoxia and 50% decrease in MV (n=4). Neither of the ventilator settings affected the lactate/pyruvate ratio significantly. However, there was a significant decrease of brain lactate (2.61.7 to 1.81.6mM) and a rapid and marked increase in brain oxygenation (7.90.7 to 61.317.6mmHg) in group 3. Intracranial pressure (ICP) was not significantly affected in this group, however, the ICP increased significantly in group 2 with 100% hyperoxia plus 20% reduction in minute volume. We conclude that hyperoxia in combination with 50% decrease in MV showed pronounced increase in partial brain oxygen tension (pbrO2) and decrease in brain lactate. The ventilatory modification, used in this study should be considered for further investigation as a possible therapeutic intervention for TBI patients.
Nerve conduction studies providing insight into demyelinating process are essential for the diagnostic of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. For the diagnostic, several sets of electrophysiologic criteria have been established. To assess the response to treatment, nerve conduction studies are often used in trials and in clinical practice. Nevertheless, the useful of these classical electrophysiologic techniques is debated because of their lack of sensibility and specificity. In the last 20 years, several works have showed that dysfunction of channels and pump of the axonal membrane at the site and around the site of the conduction block can precipitate conduction failure and produce weakness. These important features explaining clinical status are not correctly assessed by conventional nerve conduction studies. New nerve conduction examinations in dynamic conditions can explore these hyperexcitability modifications.

This historical article describes the life and work of the British physician Samuel Alexander Kinnier Wilson (1878-1937), who was one of the world's greatest neurologists of the first half of the 20th century. Early in his career, Wilson spent one year in Paris in 1903 where he learned from Pierre-Marie at Bictre Hospital. He subsequently retained uninterrupted links with French neurology. He also visited in Leipzig the German anatomist Paul Flechsig. In 1904, Wilson returned to London, where he worked for the rest of his life at the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic (later the National Hospital for Nervous Diseases, and today the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery) in Queen Square, and also at Kings' College Hospital. He wrote on 'the old motor system and the new', on disorders of motility and muscle tone, on the epilepsies, on aphasia, apraxia, tics, and pathologic laughing and crying, and most importantly on Wilson's disease. The other objective of our paper is to commemorate the centenary of Wilson's most important work published in 1912 in Brain, and also in Revue Neurologique, on an illness newly recognized and characterized by him entitled &quot;Progressive lenticular degeneration, a familial nervous disease associated with liver cirrhosis&quot;. He analyzed 12 clinical cases, four of whom he followed himself, but also four cases previously published by others and a further two that he considered in retrospect had the same disease as he was describing. The pathological profile combined necrotic damage in the lenticular nuclei of the brain and hepatic cirrhosis. This major original work is summarized and discussed in the present paper. Wilson not only delineated what was later called hepato-lenticular degeneration and Wilson's disease, but also introduced for the first time the terms extrapyramidal syndrome and extrapyramidal system, stressing the role of the basal ganglia in motility. The present historical work emphasizes the special contributions made by Wilson to the study of movement disorders, including akinesia and bradykinesia in Parkinson's disease, and their relation to basal ganglia pathology.
Several studies have shown that synthesis of new proteins at the synapse is a prerequisite for the storage of long-term memories. Relatively little is known about the availability of distinct mRNA populations for translation at specific synapses, the process that determines mRNA localization, and the temporal designations of localized mRNA translation during memory storage. Techniques such as synaptosome preparation and microdissection of distal neuronal processes of cultured neurons and dendritic layers in brain slices are general approaches used to identify localized RNAs. Exploration of the association of RNA-binding proteins to the axonal transport machinery has led to the development of a strategy to identify RNAs that are transported from the cell body to synapses by molecular motor kinesin. In this article, RNA localization at the synapse, as well as its mechanisms and significance in understanding long-term memory storage, are discussed.
Moving into a residential care facility requires a great deal of adjustment to an environment and lifestyle entirely different from that of one's previous life. Attachment to place is believed to help create a sense of home and maintain self-identity, supporting successful adjustment to contingencies of ageing. The purpose of this study was to deepen our understanding of processes and strategies by which older people create a sense of home in residential care. Our findings show that a sense of home in residential care involves strategies related to three dimensions of the environment - attachment to place, to space and attachment beyond the institution - and that the circumstances under which older people manage or fail in creating attachment, consist of psychosocial processes involving both individual and shared attitudes and beliefs. Assuming that attachment is important to human existence regardless of age, attention must be paid to optimize the circumstances under which attachment is created in residential care, and how nursing interventions can help speed up this process due to the frail and vulnerable state of most older residents.

Cross-education strength training has being shown to retain strength and muscle thickness in the immobilized contralateral limb. Corticospinal mechanisms have been proposed to underpin this phenomenon; however, no transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) data has yet been presented. This study used TMS to measure corticospinal responses following 3 weeks of unilateral arm training on the contralateral, immobilize arm. Participants (n = 28) were randomly divided into either immobilized strength training (Immob + train) immobilized no training (Immob) or control. Participants in the immobilized groups had their nondominant arm rested in a sling, 15 h/day for 3 weeks. The Immob + train group completed unilateral arm curl strength training, while the Immob and control groups did not undertake training. All participants were tested for corticospinal excitability, strength, and muscle thickness of both arms. Immobilization resulted in a group x time significant reduction in strength, muscle thickness and corticospinal excitability for the untrained limb of the Immob group. Conversely, no significant change in strength, muscle thickness, or corticospinal excitability occurred in the untrained limb of the Immob + train group. These results provide the first evidence of corticospinal mechanisms, assessed by TMS, underpinning the use of unilateral strength training to retain strength and muscle thickness following immobilization of the contralateral limb.


Utilizing a combination of neuropsychological and cognitive neuroscience approaches may be essential for characterizing cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and eventually assessing cognitive outcomes. This study was designed to compare the stability of select exemplars for these approaches and their correlations in schizophrenia patients with stable treatment and clinical profiles. Reliability estimates for serial order processing were comparable to neuropsychological measures and indicate that experimental serial order processing measures may be less susceptible to practice effects than traditional neuropsychological measures. Correlations were moderate and consistent with a global cognitive factor. Exploratory analyses indicated a potentially critical role of the Met allele of the Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met polymorphism in externally paced sequential recall. Experimental measures of serial order processing may reflect frontostriatal dysfunction and be a useful supplement to large neuropsychological batteries.




The central nervous system is comprised of numerous cell types that work in concert to facilitate proper function and homeostasis. Disruption of these carefully orchestrated networks results in neuronal dysfunction, manifesting itself in a variety of neurologic disorders. Although neuronal dysregulation is causative of symptoms that manifest in the clinic, the etiology of these disorders is often more complex than simply a loss of neurons or intrinsic dysregulation of their function. In the adult brain, astrocytes comprise the most abundant cell type and play key roles in central nervous system physiology; therefore, it stands to reason that dysregulation of normal astrocyte function contributes to the etiology and progression of varied neurologic disorders. We review here some neurologic disorders associated with an astrocyte factor and discuss how the related astrocyte dysfunction contributes to the etiology or progression of these disorders or both.
Astrocytes have long been forgotten entities in our quest to understand brain function. Over the last few decades, there has been an exponential increase in our knowledge of central nervous system (CNS) function, and, consequently, astrocytes have emerged as key figures in CNS physiology and disease. Indeed, several pediatric neurologic disorders have recently been linked to astrocyte dysregulation, including leukodystrophies, autism spectrum disorders, and epilepsy. Given that pediatric disorders are rooted in developmental processes, the goal of this review is to catalog what we know about astrocyte development and function in the developing CNS. Moreover, we highlight current challenges and questions that remain in the field about astrocyte development. Our hope is that this review illuminates the potential of astrocytes and their associated developmental and physiological functions as potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of neurologic disorders.












Light exerts a strong non-visual influence on human physiology and behavior. Additionally light is known to affect sleep indirectly through the phase shifting of circadian rhythms, and directly, promoting alertness in humans and sleep in nocturnal species. Little attention has been paid to the direct non-image-forming influence of light until recently with the discovery and emerging knowledge on melanopsin, a photopigment which is maximally sensitive to the blue spectrum of light and expressed in a subset of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells. Indeed, the development of transgenic mouse models targeting different phototransduction pathways has allowed researchers to decipher the mechanisms by which mammals adapt sleep to their light environment. This review summarizes the novel concepts and discrepancies from recent publications relating to the non-circadian effects of light on sleep and waking. Specifically, we discuss whether darkness, in addition to light, affects their quality. Furthermore, we seek to understand whether longer sustained periods of light exposure can influence sleep, if the direct photic regulation depends on time of day, and whether this affects the homeostatic sleep process. Moreover, the neural pathways by which light exerts a direct influence on sleep will be discussed including the respective role of rods/cones and melanopsin. Finally, we suggest that light weighs on the components of the flip-flop switch model to induce respectively sleep or waking, in nocturnal and diurnal animals. Taking these data into account we therefore propose a novel model of sleep regulation based on three processes; the direct photic regulation interacting with the circadian and homeostatic drives to determine the timing and quality of sleep and waking. An outlook of promising clinical and non-clinical applications of these findings will be considered as well as directions for future animal and human research.
Amygdala structural and functional abnormalities have been associated to reactive aggression in previous studies. However, the possible linkage of these two types of anomalies has not been examined. We hypothesized that they would coincide in the same localizations, would be correlated in intensity and would be mediated by reactive aggression personality traits. Here violent (n = 25) and non-violent (n = 29) men were recruited on the basis of their reactive aggression. Callous-unemotional (CU) traits were also assessed. Gray matter concentration (gmC) and reactivity to fearful and neutral facial expressions were measured in dorsal and ventral amygdala partitions. The difference between responses to fearful and neutral facial expressions was calculated (F/N-difference). Violent individuals exhibited a smaller F/N-difference and gmC in the left dorsal amygdala, where a significant coincidence was found in a conjunction analysis. Moreover, the left amygdala F/N-difference and gmC were correlated to each other, an effect mediated by reactive aggression but not by CU. The F/N-difference was caused by increased reactivity to neutral faces. This suggests that anatomical anomalies within local circuitry (and not only altered input) may underlie the amygdala hyper-reactivity to social signals which is characteristic of reactive aggression.
The N170 event-related potential (ERP) component differentiates faces from non-faces, but studies aimed at investigating whether the processing indexed by this component is also sensitive to racial differences among faces have garnered conflicting results. Here, we explore how task affects the influence of race on the N170 among White participants. N170s were larger to ingroup White faces than outgroup Black faces, but only for those required to attend to race, suggesting that attention to race can result in deeper levels of processing for ingroup members. Conversely, N170s were larger to Black faces than White faces for participants who attended to the unique identity of the faces, suggesting that attention to identity can result in preferential recruitment of cognitive resources for outgroup members. Taken together, these findings suggest that race can differentially impact face processing at early stages of encoding, but differences in processing are contingent upon one's goal state.



CPT-11 (irinotecan) has been investigated as a treatment for malignant brain tumors. However, limitations of CPT-11 therapy include low levels of the drug entering brain tumor sites and systemic toxicities associated with higher doses. Neural stem cells (NSCs) offer a novel way to overcome these obstacles because of their inherent tumor tropism and ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, which enables them to selectively target brain tumor sites. Carboxylesterases (CEs) are enzymes that can convert the prodrug CPT-11 (irinotecan) to its active metabolite SN-38, a potent topoisomerase I inhibitor. We have adenovirally transduced an established clonal human NSC line (HB1.F3.CD) to express a rabbit carboxylesterase (rCE) or a modified human CE (hCE1m6), which are more effective at converting CPT-11 to SN-38 than endogenous human CE. We hypothesized that NSC-mediated CE/CPT-11 therapy would allow tumor-localized production of SN-38 and significantly increase the therapeutic efficacy of irinotecan. Here, we report that transduced NSCs transiently expressed high levels of active CE enzymes, retained their tumor-tropic properties, and mediated an increase in the cytotoxicity of CPT-11 toward glioma cells. CE-expressing NSCs (NSC.CEs), whether administered intracranially or intravenously, delivered CE to orthotopic human glioma xenografts in mice. NSC-delivered CE catalyzed conversion of CPT-11 to SN-38 locally at tumor sites. These studies demonstrate the feasibility of NSC-mediated delivery of CE to glioma and lay the foundation for translational studies of this therapeutic paradigm to improve clinical outcome and quality of life in patients with malignant brain tumors.














This study assessed risk behavior and preventive measures for hepatitis C among injecting drug users in Rotterdam, the Netherlands (452 participants, 2002-2003) and Stockholm, Sweden (310 participants, 2004-2006), two cities with contrasting drug policies. Uni- and multivariate logistic regression models were used. We found that the prevalence of hepatitis C was almost two times higher in participants from Stockholm than in participants from Rotterdam, even after adjustment for sex sharing paraphernalia (adjusted relative risk: 1.92, 95% confidence interval: 1.60-2.29). Follow-up comparative studies are needed to determine if policies with structured health programs can decrease transmission of hepatitis C.
Modulation of glutamatergic NMDA receptors affects the synchronization of spike discharges in in WAG/Rij rats, a valid genetic animal model of absence epilepsy. In this study, we describe the alteration of NR2B subunit of NMDA receptors expression in WAG/Rij rats in different somatosensory cortical layers and in hippocampal CA1 area. Experimental groups were divided into four groups of six rats of both WAG/Rij and Wistar strains with 2 and 6 months of age. The distribution of NR2B receptors was assessed by immunohistochemical staining in WAG/Rij and compared with age-matched Wistar rats. The expression of NR2B subunit was significantly decreased in different somatosensory cortical layers in 2- and 6-month-old WAG/Rij rats. In addition, the distribution of NR2B in hippocampal CA1 area was lower in 6-month-old WAG/Rij compared with age-matched Wistar rats. The reduction of NR2B receptors in different brain areas points to disturbance of glutamate receptors expression in cortical and subcortical areas in WAG/Rij rats. An altered subunit assembly of NMDA receptors may underlie cortical hyperexcitability in absence epilepsy.
The existence of a barrier between the central nervous system (CNS) and the systemic circulation has been described over one hundred years ago. Since the discovery that this barrier was instigated by the barrier properties of the brain endothelial cells, research has focused on the identification of pathways how the brain endothelial cells are instructed to form the highly specialized blood-brain barrier (BBB). Even though our current understanding of BBB development is far from complete, recent literature shows a rise in knowledge of CNS-specific cues that can drive BBB development.  In this commentary, we will provide a brief overview of brain selective factors that are critical in the development of barrier properties in the brain endothelium; in particular the role of retinoic acid will be discussed.
In this study we evaluated the neurotoxicity of eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL), and of its in vivo metabolites eslicarbazepine (S-Lic) and R-licarbazepine (R-Lic), as compared to the structurally-related compounds carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXC), in an in vitro model of cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The non-related antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) lamotrigine (LTG) and sodium valproate (VPA) were also studied. We assessed whether AEDs modulate pro-survival/pro-apoptotic pathways, such as extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), Akt and stress activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK). We found that neither ESL nor its metabolites, CBZ or LTG, up to 0.3mM, for 24h of exposure, decreased cell viability. OXC was the most toxic drug decreasing cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, leading to activation of caspase-3 and PARP cleavage. VPA caused the appearance of the apoptotic markers, but did not alter cell viability. ESL, S-Lic and OXC decreased the levels of phospho-ERK1/2 and of phospho-Akt, when compared to basal levels, whereas CBZ decreased phospho-SAPK/JNK and phospho-Akt levels. LTG and VPA increased the phosphorylation levels of SAPK/JNK. These results suggest that ESL and its main metabolite S-Lic, as well as CBZ, LTG and VPA, are less toxic to hippocampal neurons than OXC, which was the most toxic agent.
Exposure to environmental pollutants such as dibenzofurans and furans is linked to the pathophysiology of several diseases. Dibenzofuran (DBF) is listed as a pollutant of concern due to its persistence in the environment, bioaccumulation and toxicity to humans, being associated with the development of lung diseases and cancers, due to its extremely toxic properties such as carcinogenic and teratogenic. Mitochondria play a key role in cellular homeostasis and keeping a proper energy supply for eukaryotic cells is essential in the fulfillment of the tissues energy-demand. Therefore, interference with mitochondrial function leads to cell death and organ failure. In this work, the effects of DBF on isolated rat liver mitochondria were analyzed. DBF exposure caused a markedly increase in the lag phase that follows depolarization induced by ADP, indicating an effect in the phosphorylative system. This was associated with a dose-dependent decrease in ATPase activity. Moreover, DBF also increased the threshold to the induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) by calcium. Pretreatment of mitochondria with DBF also increased the concentration of carboxyatractyloside (CAT) necessary to abolish ADP phosphorylation and to induce the MPT, suggesting that DBF may interfere with mitochondria through an effect on the adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT). By co-immunoprecipitating ANT and Cyclophilin D (CypD) following MPT induction, we observed that in the presence of DBF, the ratio CypD/ANT was decreased. This demonstrates that DBF interferes with the ANT and so prevents CypD binding to the ANT, causing decreased phosphorylative capacity and inhibiting the MPT, which is also reflected by an increase in calcium retention capacity. Clarifying the role of pollutants in some mechanisms of toxicity, such as unbalance of bioenergetics status and mitochondrial function, may help to explain the progressive and chronic evolution of diseases derived from exposure to environmental pollutants.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a polyglutamine-expansion disease associated to degeneration of striatal and cortical neurons. Previously, we showed that oxidative stress occurs in HD knock-in striatal cells, but little is known regarding cell antioxidant response against exogenous stimuli. Therefore, in the present study we analyzed cellular antioxidant profile following hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and staurosporine (STS) exposure and tested the protective effect of cystamine and creatine in striatal cells expressing mutant huntingtin with 111 glutamines (STHdh (Q111/Q111); mutant cells) versus wild-type cells (STHdh (Q7/Q7)). Mutant cells displayed increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decreased NADPH oxidase and xanthine oxidase (XO) activities, reflecting lower superoxide cytosolic generation, along with increased superoxide dismutases (SODs) and components of glutathione redox cycle. Exposure to H2O2 and STS enhanced ROS in mutant cells and largely increased XO activity; STS further boosted the generation of mitochondrial ROS and caspase-3 activity. Both stimuli slightly increased SOD1 activity, without affecting SOD2 activity, and decreased glutathione reductase with a consequent rise in oxidized glutathione or glutathione disulfide in mutant cells, whereas H2O2 only increased glutathione peroxidase activity. Additionally, creatine and cystamine increased mutant cells viability and prevented ROS formation in HD cells subjected to H2O2 and STS. These results indicate that elevation of the antioxidant systems accompanies mitochondrial-driven ROS generation in mutant striatal cells and that exposure to noxious stimuli induces a higher susceptibility to oxidative stress by increasing XO activity and lowering the antioxidant response. Furthermore, creatine and cystamine are efficient in preventing H2O2- and STS-evoked ROS formation in HD striatal cells.
Epsilon toxin (ET), produced by Clostridium perfringens types B and D, ranks among the four most potent poisonous substances known so far. ET-intoxication is responsible for enterotoxaemia in animals, mainly sheep and goats. This disease comprises several manifestations indicating the attack of the nervous system. This review aims to summarize the effects of ET on central nervous system. ET binds to endothelial cells of brain capillary vessels before passing through the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, it induces perivascular oedema and accumulates into brain. ET binding to different brain structures and to different component in the brain indicates regional susceptibility to the toxin. Histological examination has revealed nerve tissue and cellular lesions, which may be directly or indirectly caused by ET. The naturally occurring disease caused by ET-intoxication can be reproduced experimentally in rodents. In mice and rats, ET recognizes receptor at the surface of different neural cell types, including certain neurons (e.g. the granule cells in cerebellum) as well as oligodendrocytes, which are the glial cells responsible for the axons myelination. Moreover, ET induces release of glutamate and other transmitters, leading to firing of neural network. The precise mode of action of ET on neural cells remains to be determined.
The aim of the study was to determine the antiangiogenic efficacy of vatalanib, sunitinib, and AMD3100 in an animal model of human glioblastoma (GBM) by using dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and tumor protein expression analysis. Orthotopic GBM-bearing animals were randomly assigned either to control group or vatalanib, sunitinib, and AMD3100 treatment groups. Following 2 weeks of drug treatment, tumor growth and vascular parameters were measured using DCE-MRI. Expression of different angiogenic factors in tumor extracts was measured using a membrane-based human antibody array kit. Tumor angiogenesis and invasion were determined by immunohistochemistry. DCE-MRI showed a significant increase in tumor size after vatalanib treatment. AMD3100-treated group showed a significant decrease in a number of vascular parameters determined by DCE-MRI. AMD3100 significantly decreased the expression of different angiogenic factors compared to sunitinib or vatalanib; however, there were no significant changes in vascular density among the groups. Sunitinib-treated animals showed significantly higher migration of the invasive cells, whereas in both vatalanib- and AMD3100-treated animals the invasive cell migration distance was significantly lower compared to that of control. Vatalanib and sunitinib resulted in suboptimal therapeutic effect, but AMD3100 treatment resulted in a significant reduction in tumor growth, permeability, interstitial space volume, and invasion of tumor cells in an animal model of GBM.
Iron chelators, such as the intracellular ferrous chelator 2,2'-bipyridine, are a potential means of ameliorating iron-induced injury after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). We evaluated bipyridine against the collagenase and whole-blood ICH models and a simplified model of iron-induced damage involving a striatal injection of FeCl2 in adult rats. First, we assessed whether bipyridine (25 mg/kg beginning 12 h post-ICH and every 12 h for 3 days) would attenuate non-heme iron levels in the brain and lessen behavioral impairments (neurological deficit scale, corner turn test, and horizontal ladder) 7 days after collagenase-induced ICH. Second, we evaluated bipyridine (20 mg/kg beginning 6 h post-ICH and then every 24 h) on edema 3 days after collagenase infusion. Body temperature was continually recorded in a subset of these rats beginning 24 h prior to ICH until euthanasia. Third, bipyridine was administered (as per experiment 2) after whole-blood infusion to examine tissue loss, neuronal degeneration, and behavioral impairments at 7 days post-stroke, as well as body temperature for 3 days post-stroke. Finally, we evaluated whether bipyridine (25 mg/kg given 2 h prior to surgery and then every 12 h for 3 days) lessens tissue loss, neuronal death, and behavioral deficits after striatal FeCl2 injection. Bipyridine caused a significant hypothermic effect (maximum drop to 34.6 C for 2-5 h after each injection) in both ICH models; however, in all experiments bipyridine-treated rats were indistinguishable from vehicle controls on all other measures (e.g., tissue loss, behavioral impairments, etc.). These results do not support the use of bipyridine against ICH.
Delayed cerebral ischaemia (DCI) is the major cause of mortality and morbidity following aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Recent experimental evidence from animal models has highlighted the need for non-invasive and robust measurements of brain tissue perfusion in patients in order to help understand the pathophysiology underlying DCI. Quantitative, serial, whole-brain cerebral perfusion measurements were obtained with pseudo-continuous arterial spin labelling (PCASL) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in six SAH patients acutely following endovascular coiling. This technique requires no injected contrast or radioactive isotopes. MRI scanning was well tolerated. Artefact from endovascular coils was minimal. PCASL MRI was able to detect time-dependent and patient-specific changes in voxel-wise and regional cerebral blood flow. These changes reflected changes in clinical condition. Data obtained in healthy controls using the same experimental protocol confirm the reliability and reproducibility of these results. This is the first study to use whole-brain, quantitative PCASL to identify time-dependent changes in cerebral blood flow at the tissue level in the acute period following SAH. This technique has the potential to better understand changes in cerebral pathophysiology as a consequence of aneurysm rupture.
This is a speculative review of the role of the lysosome in ischemic cell death in the mammalian brain. In particular, it focuses on the role of the permeabilization of the lysosomal membrane to proteins (LMP) as a major mechanism of cell death in mild, but lethal, ischemic insults. The first section of the review outlines the evidence that this is the case, using the relatively few extant studies of mammalian brain. In the second section of the review, the mechanism by which an ischemic insult might lead to LMP is discussed. A metabolic sequence including NMDA receptor activation, activation of phospholipase A2 and production of free radicals, and also the activation of calpain are shown to be critical. The remainder of the section speculates on the actual agent(s) which may be causing the lysosomal membrane change, based on extensive literature references. There is currently no knowledge of the actual mechanism. The third section considers potential targets of the released lysosomal proteases and other proteins that might mediate the lethal effects of LMP, focusing largely on the mitochondria as the target. Again, this is speculative as the targets are not known. Finally, the fourth section addresses the level of importance that LMP has in the process of ischemic cell death and concludes that it may well play the major role during mild but lethal ischemic insults. This novel, so-called &quot;lysosomocentric,&quot; hypothesis is briefly critiqued. The therapeutic potential of this conclusion is then discussed.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is central for protein synthesis and is the largest intracellular Ca2+ store in neurons. The neuronal ER is classically described to have a continuous lumen spanning all cellular compartments. This allows neuronal ER to integrate spatially separate events in the cell. Recent in vitro as well as in vivo findings, however, demonstrate that the neuronal ER is a structurally dynamic entity, capable of rapid fragmentation, i.e., ER fission. The ER fragments can fuse back together and reinstate ER continuity. This reversible phenomenon can be induced repeatedly within the same cell, is temperature-dependent, and compatible with cell survival. The key trigger for dendritic ER fission is N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor stimulation in the presence of extracellular Ca2+. However, the exact molecular machinery responsible for the fission and fusion of neuronal ER remains unknown. Reversible ER fission represents a new cell biological event downstream of NMDA receptor-gated Ca2+ influx and may thus influence many aspects of neuronal function in physiology and disease. Hence, it constitutes a new field for exploration in neuroscience that will benefit greatly from recent advances in light microscopy imaging techniques allowing dynamic characterization of cellular events in vitro and in vivo.
Pathoconnectomics, the mapping of abnormal brain networks, is a popular current framework for the study of brain dysfunction in psychiatric disorders. In this review we evaluate the conceptual foundations of this framework, describe the construction and analysis of empirical models of brain networks or connectomes, and summarize recent reports of the large-scale whole-brain connectome organization of two candidate brain-network disorders, schizophrenia and autism. We consider the evidence for the abnormal brain-network nature of psychiatric disorders and find it inconclusive. For instance, although there is some evidence for more random whole-brain network organization in schizophrenia and autism, future studies need to determine if these and other observed brain-network abnormalities represent sufficient phenotypes of psychiatric disorders, in order to validate pathoconnectomics as a scientific and clinical framework.
The human brain undergoes protracted developmental changes during which it constructs functional networks that engender complex cognitive abilities. Understanding brain function ultimately depends on knowledge of how dynamic interactions between distributed brain regions mature with age to produce sophisticated cognitive systems. This review summarizes recent progress in our understanding of the ontogeny of functional brain networks. Here I describe how complementary methods for probing functional connectivity are providing unique insights into the emergence and maturation of distinct functional networks from childhood to adulthood. I highlight six emerging principles governing the development of large-scale functional networks and discuss how they inform cognitive and affective function in typically developing children and in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.
Recent discoveries on the organisation of the cortical connectome together with novel data on the dynamics of neuronal interactions require an extension of classical concepts on information processing in the cerebral cortex. These new insights justify considering the brain as a complex, self-organised system with nonlinear dynamics in which principles of distributed, parallel processing coexist with serial operations within highly interconnected networks. The observed dynamics suggest that cortical networks are capable of providing an extremely high-dimensional state space in which a large amount of evolutionary and ontogenetically acquired information can coexist and be accessible to rapid parallel search.
Understanding how brain systems interact to produce complex behaviors is a central goal of cognitive neuroscience. Palaniyappan and colleagues enhance our understanding of how interactions among brain systems contribute to individual differences in function and psychopathology by examining causal interactions among the salience and central executive systems in schizophrenia.
Sleep spindles are distinctive electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations emerging during non-rapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS) that have been implicated in multiple brain functions, including sleep quality, sensory gating, learning, and memory. Despite considerable knowledge about the mechanisms underlying these neuronal rhythms, their function remains poorly understood and current views are largely based on correlational evidence. Here, we review recent studies in humans and rodents that have begun to broaden our understanding of the role of spindles in the normal and disordered brain. We show that newly identified molecular substrates of spindle oscillations, in combination with evolving technological progress, offer novel targets and tools to selectively manipulate spindles and dissect their role in sleep-dependent processes.
The agranular architecture of motor cortex lacks a functional interpretation. Here, we consider a 'predictive coding' account of this unique feature based on asymmetries in hierarchical cortical connections. In sensory cortex, layer 4 (the granular layer) is the target of ascending pathways. We theorise that the operation of predictive coding in the motor system (a process termed 'active inference') provides a principled rationale for the apparent recession of the ascending pathway in motor cortex. The extension of this theory to interlaminar circuitry also accounts for a sub-class of 'mirror neuron' in motor cortex--whose activity is suppressed when observing an action--explaining how predictive coding can gate hierarchical processing to switch between perception and action.
In the search for novel treatments for addiction, most research has been propelled by the hope for a 'magic bullet' that would cure all forms of addiction. More recently, the field has started to appreciate the differences between psychostimulants versus opiates. Recent data suggest that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) may fundamentally serve different roles in cocaine versus heroin addiction: acting as a neural OFF switch for cocaine seeking, but an ON switch for heroin seeking. We discuss the relevance of this distinction in relationship to three main functions of the vmPFC: (i) extinction memory, (ii) the suppression of impulsive behaviors, and (iii) the transition from goal-directed behaviors to habits. We highlight the importance of dopamine in modulating corticostriatal circuits for each of these functions. Finally, we conclude by discussing the implications for treatment strategies.
Binocular rivalry (BR) is an intriguing phenomenon that occurs when two different images are presented, one to each eye, resulting in alternation or rivalry between the percepts. The phenomenon has been studied for nearly 200 years, with renewed and intensive investigation over recent decades. The rate of perceptual switching has long been known to vary widely between individuals but to be relatively stable within individuals. A recent twin study demonstrated that individual variation in BR rate is under substantial genetic control, a finding that also represented the first report, using a large study, of genetic contribution for any post-retinal visual processing phenomenon. The twin study had been prompted by earlier work showing BR rate was slow in the heritable psychiatric condition, bipolar disorder (BD). Together, these studies suggested that slow BR may represent an endophenotype for BD, and heralded the advent of modern clinical and genetic studies of rivalry. This new focus has coincided with rapid advances in 3D display technology, but despite such progress, specific development of technology for rivalry research has been lacking. This review therefore compares different display methods for BR research across several factors, including viewing parameters, image quality, equipment cost, compatibility with other investigative methods, subject group, and sample size, with a focus on requirements specific to large-scale clinical and genetic studies. It is intended to be a resource for investigators new to BR research, such as clinicians and geneticists, and to stimulate the development of 3D display technology for advancing interdisciplinary studies of rivalry.
The influence of CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) on acute and chronic viral infection of the central nervous system (CNS) was examined using a glial tropic murine coronavirus. Treg in the CNS were highest during initial T cell mediated virus control, decreased and then remained relatively stable during persistence. Anti-CD25 treatment did not affect CNS recruitment of inflammatory cells. Viral control was initially delayed; however, neither the kinetics of viral control nor viral persistence were affected. By contrast, the absence of Treg during the acute phase resulted in increased demyelination during viral persistence. These data suggest that CNS inflammation, progression of viral control and viral persistence are relatively independent of CD25(+)CD4(+) Treg. However, their absence during acute infection alters the ability of the host to limit tissue damage.








The ability to visualise neural circuits in zebrafish in vivo is one of the most useful aspects of this model organism in neuroscience. To maintain the transparency of embryos, however, drugs, such as 1-pheyl-2-thiourea (PTU) must be added, or researchers can use mutants that do not develop pigment (e.g., the casper). The behavioural characteristics of such strains, however, have not been documented. Here, we tested adult zebrafish from the casper line, as well as wild-type (Tbingen, TU) and wild-types treated as embryos with PTU on three commonly used behavioural endpoints in neuroscience: novel tank test (similar to open-field in rodents), conditioned place preference for nicotine, and social cohesion (using a new method of cluster analysis). We found no differences between the casper and the TU, but the adult TU treated with PTU as embryos showed a marked increase in anxiety during the novel tank test. These data suggest that where possible, labs interested in analysis of developmental processes involved in adult phenotypes should avoid the use of PTU in favour of transparent mutants, such as casper.


Although working memory is known to be impaired in schizophrenia the anatomical and functional relationships underlying this deficit remain to be elucidated. A combined imaging approach involving functional and structural magnetic resonance techniques was used, applying independent component analysis and surface-based morphometry to 14 patients with schizophrenia and 14 healthy controls. Neurocognitive functioning was assessed by a neuropsychological test battery that measured executive function. It was hypothesized that working memory dysfunctional connectivity in schizophrenia is related to underlying anatomical abnormalities. Patients with schizophrenia showed cortical thinning in the left inferior frontal gyrus and insula, which explained 57% of blood oxygenation level-dependent signal magnitude in functional magnetic resonance imaging in the central executive network (lateral prefrontal and parietal cortex) over-activation and default mode network (anterior and posterior cingulate) deactivation. No structure-function relationship emerged in the healthy control group. The study provides evidence to suggest that dysfunctional activation/deactivation patterns in schizophrenia may be explained in terms of underlying gray matter deficits.
Thorough analysis of translational endophenotypes is needed to improve therapeutic development in schizophrenia. Abnormal sensory gating, one such endophenotype, is associated with reduced expression of the 7 nicotinic receptor. However, typical gating measures such as the P50 evoked response are often low-pass filtered, and it is unclear how 7 expression affects gating at higher frequencies. Therefore, this study used time-frequency analysis to compare sensory gating at the beta and gamma frequencies between human patients and healthy controls as well as between 7 heterozygote mutant mice and wild-type. Gating of total beta (15-26Hz) and gamma (30-50Hz) power during paired clicks was assessed from mouse in vivo hippocampal CA3 recordings. Gating was also assessed in schizophrenia patients and healthy controls using electroencephalography. Relative to wild-type, 7 heterozygote mice showed impaired gating of total beta and gamma power. Similarly, relative to controls, patients showed impaired gating of total beta and gamma power. Poor beta gating was associated with negative symptoms. These results demonstrate that schizophrenia patients and 7 heterozygote mice show similar deficits in gating high frequency power. Time-frequency analysis of beta and gamma gating may thus be a translational method of assessing the genetic basis of gating deficits in schizophrenia.
Wells's (2009) metacognitive theory suggests that inflexible and recurrent styles of thinking in response to negative thoughts, feelings, and beliefs underlie mood and anxiety symptoms. Wells termed such styles of thinking as the cognitive attentional syndrome (CAS). Using a clinical sample (N=132) of patients with either a primary mood or anxiety disorder, we examined relations between the CAS and mood (depression) and anxiety (generalized anxiety, social anxiety, obsessive-compulsive, and panic) symptoms. We also examined the distinctiveness of the CAS from the related construct of psychological inflexibility. The CAS shared significant positive associations with all of the assessed symptoms, but appeared particularly relevant to depression and generalized anxiety symptoms. Despite having a strong significant positive correlation with psychological inflexibility, the CAS tended to share unique relations with symptoms after controlling for psychological inflexibility. These results broadly support the purported transdiagnostic importance of Wells's theory and indicate that intervention strategies targeting the CAS might be useful in treating certain disorders.
The present study aimed to examine empathy in individuals with schizotypy and to explore whether empathy mediates the associations between schizotypy traits and social functioning in college students. 1083 (376 males, mean age 18.78  0.86 years) Chinese university students completed questionnaires measuring empathy, social functioning, and schizotypy. Participants were categorized into four groups based on their scores on the Chapman Psychosis Proneness scales: mixed schizotypy, positive schizotypy, negative schizotypy, and healthy controls. Participants in the negative schizotypy group reported significantly poorer scores on both affective and cognitive empathy than those in the positive schizotypy and healthy control groups. The mixed schizotypy group showed lower affective empathy than the healthy control group. Scores on both cognitive and affective empathy in the positive schizotypy group were similar to those in the healthy control group. In addition, cognitive empathy was found to be a partial mediator of the association between negative schizotypy traits and social functioning. Results suggest that while individuals with negative schizotypy have deficits in empathy, individuals with positive schizotypy show empathy abilities comparable to that of healthy controls. Moreover, only cognitive empathy partially mediated the relationship between negative schizotypy and social functioning.
The aberrant expression of microRNAs is associated with development and progression of cancers. Down-regulation of miR-124 has been demonstrated in the hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but the underlying mechanism by which miR-124 suppresses tumorigenesis in HCC remains elusive. In this study, we found that miR-124 suppresses the tumor growth of HCC through targeting the signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3). Overexpression of miR-124 suppressed proliferation and induced apoptosis in HepG-2 cells. Luciferase assay confirmed that miR-124 binding to the 3'-UTR region of STAT3 inhibited the expression of STAT3 and phosphorylated STAT3 proteins in HepG-2 cells. Knockdown of STAT3 by siRNA in HepG-2 cells mimicked the effect induced by miR-124. Overexpression of STAT3 in miR-124-transfected HepG-2 cells effectively rescued the inhibition of cell proliferation caused by miR-124. Furthermore, miR-124 suppressed xenograft tumor growth in nude mice implanted with HepG-2 cells by reducing STAT3 expression. Taken together, our findings show that miR-124 functions as tumor suppressor in HCC by targeting STAT3, and miR-124 may therefore serve as a biomarker for diagnosis and therapeutics in HCC.
LRRK2 is one of the most important genetic contributors to Parkinson's disease (PD). Point mutations in this gene cause an autosomal dominant form of PD, but to date no cellular phenotype has been consistently linked with mutations in each of the functional domains (ROC, COR and Kinase) of the protein product of this gene. In this study, primary fibroblasts from individuals carrying pathogenic mutations in the three central domains of LRRK2 were assessed for alterations in the autophagy/lysosomal pathway using a combination of biochemical and cellular approaches. Mutations in all three domains resulted in alterations in markers for autophagy/lysosomal function compared to wild type cells. These data highlight the autophagy and lysosomal pathways as read outs for pathogenic LRRK2 function and as a marker for disease, and provide insight into the mechanisms linking LRRK2 function and mutations.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a large group of receptors of great biological and clinical relevance. Despite this, the tools for a detailed analysis of ligand-GPCR interactions are limited. The aim of this paper was to demonstrate how ligand binding to GPCRs can be followed in real-time on living cells. This was conducted using two model systems, the radiolabeled porcine peptide YY (pPYY) interacting with transfected human Y2 receptor (hY2R) and the bombesin antagonist RM26 binding to the naturally expressed gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR). By following the interaction over time, the affinity and kinetic properties such as association and dissociation rate were obtained. Additionally, data were analyzed using the Interaction Map method, which can evaluate a real-time binding curve and present the number of parallel interactions contributing to the curve. It was found that pPYY binds very slowly with an estimated time to equilibrium of approximately 12h. This may be problematic in standard end-point assays where equilibrium is required. The RM26 binding showed signs of heterogeneity, observed as two parallel interactions with unique kinetic properties. In conclusion, measuring binding in real-time using living cells opens up for a better understanding of ligand interactions with GPCRs.





Studies of long-term potentiation of synaptic efficacy, an activity-dependent synaptic phenomenon having properties that make it attractive as a potential cellular mechanism underlying learning and information storage, have long been used to elucidate the physiology of various neuronal circuits in the hippocampus, amygdala, and other limbic and cortical structures. With this in mind, transgenic mouse models of neurological diseases represent useful platforms to conduct long-term potentiation (LTP) studies to develop a greater understanding of the role of genes in normal and abnormal synaptic communication in neuronal networks involved in learning, emotion and information processing. This article describes methodologies for reliably inducing LTP in the freely behaving mouse. These methodologies can be used in studies of transgenic and knockout freely behaving mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases.

Tandem systems allowing enhanced two-photon (2P) absorption in a wavelength range permitting coupling of the primary excitation by energy transfer to an intramolecular cage known to have fragmentation properties suited to photolysis in neuroscience is demonstrated to lead to a 10-fold improvement in the 2P photolysis cross-section at experimentally compatible wavelengths.





Stress-induced activation of hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons trigger CRH release and synthesis. Recent findings have suggested that this process depends on the intracellular activation (phosphorylation) of ERK1/2 within CRH neurons. We have recently shown that the presence of glucocorticoids constrains stress-stimulated phosphorylation of PVN ERK1/2. In some peripheral cell types, dephosphorylation of ERK has been shown to be promoted by direct glucocorticoid upregulation of the MAP kinase phosphatase 1 (Mkp1) gene. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that glucocorticoids regulate Mkp1 mRNA expression in the neural forebrain (medial prefrontal cortex, mPFC, and PVN) and endocrine tissue (anterior pituitary) by subjecting young adult male Sprague-Dawley rats to various glucocorticoid manipulations with or without acute psychological stress (restraint). Restraint led to a rapid increase in Mkp1 mRNA within the mPFC, PVN, and anterior pituitary, and this increase did not require glucocorticoid activity. In contrast to glucocorticoid upregulation of Mkp1 gene expression in the peripheral tissues, we found that the absence of glucocorticoids (as a result of adrenalectomy) augmented basal mPFC and stress-induced PVN and anterior pituitary Mkp1 gene expression. Taken together, this study indicates that the presence of glucocorticoids may constrain Mkp1 gene expression in the neural forebrain and endocrine tissues. This possible constraint may be an indirect consequence of the inhibitory influence of glucocorticoids on stress-induced activation of ERK1/2, a known upstream positive regulator of Mkp1 gene transcription.





Programmed necrosis (or necroptosis) is a form of cell death triggered by the activation of receptor interacting protein kinase-3 (RIPK3). Several reports have implicated mitochondria and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation as effectors of RIPK3-dependent cell death. Here, we directly test this idea by employing a method for the specific removal of mitochondria via mitophagy. Mitochondria-deficient cells were resistant to the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis, but efficiently died via tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced, RIPK3-dependent programmed necrosis or as a result of direct oligomerization of RIPK3. Although the ROS scavenger butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) delayed TNF-induced necroptosis, it had no effect on necroptosis induced by RIPK3 oligomerization. Furthermore, although TNF-induced ROS production was dependent on mitochondria, the inhibition of TNF-induced necroptosis by BHA was observed in mitochondria-depleted cells. Our data indicate that mitochondrial ROS production accompanies, but does not cause, RIPK3-dependent necroptotic cell death.

A functional high throughput screen and subsequent multidimensional, iterative parallel synthesis effort identified the first muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) negative allosteric modulator (NAM) selective for the M5 subtype. ML375 is a highly selective M5 NAM with submicromolar potency (human M5 IC50 = 300 nM, rat M5 IC50 = 790 nM, M1-M4 IC50 &gt; 30 M), excellent multispecies PK, high CNS penetration, and enantiospecific inhibition.
Depression is a salient emotional feature of chronic pain. Depression alters the pain threshold and impairs functional recovery. To date, however, there has been limited understanding of synaptic or circuit mechanisms that regulate depression in the pain state. Here, we demonstrate that depression-like behaviors are induced in a rat model of chronic neuropathic pain. Using this model, we show that chronic pain selectively increases the level of GluA1 subunits of AMPA-type glutamate receptors at the synapses of the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key component of the brain reward system. We find, in addition, that this increase in GluA1 levels leads to the formation of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CPARs). Surprisingly, pharmacologic blockade of these CPARs in the NAc increases depression-like behaviors associated with pain. Consistent with these findings, an AMPA receptor potentiator delivered into the NAc decreases pain-induced depression. These results show that transmission through CPARs in the NAc represents a novel molecular mechanism modulating the depressive symptoms of pain, and thus CPARs may be a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of pain-induced depression. More generally, these findings highlight the role of central glutamate signaling in pain states and define the brain reward system as an important region for the regulation of depressive symptoms of pain.
Human capability to concurrently attend and perceive multiple visual objects has a limited and individual capacity of 2-4 objects. Neuronal mechanisms that support the perception of multiple objects and underlie these attentional capacity limits have remained unclear. We investigated the role of neuronal oscillations in multiobject visual perception and in limiting the attentional capacity. To this end, we used parametric multiobject tracking tasks, MEG and EEG recordings, and data-driven source-space analyses to localize the neuronal substrates of task performance. Three lines of evidence suggested a mechanistic role for neuronal oscillations in multiobject attention. First, oscillation amplitudes preceding target events were distinct for subsequently detected and undetected targets and also predicted reaction times to the target events. Second, suppression of  to low- (&lt;20 Hz) and strengthening of high- to  (20-90 Hz) oscillations in frontoparietal and visual regions were correlated with attentional load. Third, the load-dependent strengthening of  (30-90 Hz) band oscillations in lateral prefrontal, posterior parietal, and visual cortices predicted interindividual variability in attentional capacity. A progressive recruitment of  oscillations in sensory, attentional, and executive networks is thus directly correlated with multiobject attentional demands and, in particular, with the individual capability to consciously attend and perceive multiple visual objects concurrently. These data support the hypothesis that  oscillations contribute both to neuronal object representations and to attentional and executive processing.
Distraction typically has a negative impact on memory for recent events and patients with existing memory impairment are particularly vulnerable to distractor interference. In contrast, here we establish a beneficial effect for distractor presentation in humans for both patients with memory impairment due to bilateral hippocampal lesions and healthy adults with low memory performance. Recognition memory for images of place scenes, which had to be memorized for short delay periods was significantly improved with the presentation of a distractor face during the delay. Magnetoencephalography recordings of neural oscillations in the theta frequency range obtained in healthy adults suggest that this memory improvement results from the interruption of rehearsal by the distractor. Our results highlight circumstances where active memory rehearsal may paradoxically increase memory impairments and distraction alleviates these memory deficits in patients with hippocampal injury and healthy adults.
Postural limb reflexes (PLRs) represent a substantial component of the postural system responsible for stabilization of dorsal-side-up trunk orientation in quadrupeds. Spinalization causes spinal shock, that is a dramatic reduction of extensor tone and spinal reflexes, including PLRs. The goal of our study was to determine changes in activity of spinal interneurons, in particular those mediating PLRs, that is caused by spinalization. For this purpose, in decerebrate rabbits, activity of individual interneurons from L5 was recorded during stimulation causing PLRs under two conditions: (1) when neurons received supraspinal influences and (2) when these influences were temporarily abolished by a cold block of spike propagation in spinal pathways at T12 (&quot;reversible spinalization&quot;; RS). The effect of RS, that is a dramatic reduction of PLRs, was similar to the effect of surgical spinalization. In the examined population of interneurons (n = 199), activity of 84% of them correlated with PLRs, suggesting that they contribute to PLR generation. RS affected differently individual neurons: the mean frequency decreased in 67% of neurons, increased in 15%, and did not change in 18%. Neurons with different RS effects were differently distributed across the spinal cord: 80% of inactivated neurons were located in the intermediate area and ventral horn, whereas 50% of nonaffected neurons were located in the dorsal horn. We found a group of neurons that were coactivated with extensors during PLRs before RS and exhibited a dramatic (&gt;80%) decrease in their activity during RS. We suggest that these neurons are responsible for reduction of extensor tone and postural reflexes during spinal shock.
Most of the research on cortical processing of taste has focused on either the primary gustatory cortex (GC) or the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). However, these are not the only areas involved in taste processing. Gustatory information can also reach another frontal region, the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), via direct projections from GC. mPFC has been studied extensively in relation to its role in controlling goal-directed action and reward-guided behaviors, yet very little is known about its involvement in taste coding. The experiments presented here address this important point and test whether neurons in mPFC can significantly process the physiochemical and hedonic dimensions of taste. Spiking responses to intraorally delivered tastants were recorded from rats implanted with bundles of electrodes in mPFC and GC. Analysis of single-neuron and ensemble activity revealed similarities and differences between the two areas. Neurons in mPFC can encode the chemosensory identity of gustatory stimuli. However, responses in mPFC are sparser, more narrowly tuned, and have a later onset than in GC. Although taste quality is more robustly represented in GC, taste palatability is coded equally well in the two areas. Additional analysis of responses in neurons processing the hedonic value of taste revealed differences between the two areas in temporal dynamics and sensitivities to palatability. These results add mPFC to the network of areas involved in processing gustatory stimuli and demonstrate significant differences in taste-coding between GC and mPFC.
Adaptive decision-making involves interaction between systems regulating Pavlovian and instrumental control of behavior. Here we investigate in humans the role of serotonin in such Pavlovian-instrumental transfer in both the aversive and the appetitive domain using acute tryptophan depletion, known to lower central serotonin levels. Acute tryptophan depletion attenuated the inhibiting effect of aversive Pavlovian cues on instrumental behavior, while leaving unaltered the activating effect of appetitive Pavlovian cues. These data suggest that serotonin is selectively involved in Pavlovian inhibition due to aversive expectations and have implications for our understanding of the mechanisms underlying a range of affective, impulsive, and aggressive neuropsychiatric disorders.
In utero ethanol exposure from a mother's consumption of alcoholic beverages impacts brain and cognitive development, creating a range of deficits in the child (Levitt, 1998; Lebel et al., 2012). Children diagnosed with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are often born with facial dysmorphology and may exhibit cognitive, behavioral, and motor deficits from ethanol-related neurobiological damage in early development. Prenatal ethanol exposure (PrEE) is the number one cause of preventable mental and intellectual dysfunction globally, therefore the neurobiological underpinnings warrant systematic research. We document novel anatomical and gene expression abnormalities in the neocortex of newborn mice exposed to ethanol in utero. This is the first study to demonstrate large-scale changes in intraneocortical connections and disruption of normal patterns of neocortical gene expression in any prenatal ethanol exposure animal model. Neuroanatomical defects and abnormal neocortical RZR, Id2, and Cadherin8 expression patterns are observed in PrEE newborns, and abnormal behavior is present in 20-d-old PrEE mice. The vast network of neocortical connections is responsible for high-level sensory and motor processing as well as complex cognitive thought and behavior in humans. Disruptions to this network from PrEE-related changes in gene expression may underlie some of the cognitive-behavioral phenotypes observed in children with FASD.
Neocortical neuronal activity is characterized by complex spatiotemporal dynamics. Although slow oscillations have been shown to travel over space in terms of consistent phase advances, it is unknown how this phenomenon relates to neuronal activity in other frequency bands. We here present electrocorticographic data from three male and one female human subject and demonstrate that gamma power is phase locked to traveling alpha waves. Given that alpha activity has been proposed to coordinate neuronal processing reflected in the gamma band, we suggest that alpha waves are involved in coordinating neuronal processing in both space and time.
Artificial grammars (AG) are designed to emulate aspects of the structure of language, and AG learning (AGL) paradigms can be used to study the extent of nonhuman animals' structure-learning capabilities. However, different AG structures have been used with nonhuman animals and are difficult to compare across studies and species. We developed a simple quantitative parameter space, which we used to summarize previous nonhuman animal AGL results. This was used to highlight an under-studied AG with a forward-branching structure, designed to model certain aspects of the nondeterministic nature of word transitions in natural language and animal song. We tested whether two monkey species could learn aspects of this auditory AG. After habituating the monkeys to the AG, analysis of video recordings showed that common marmosets (New World monkeys) differentiated between well formed, correct testing sequences and those violating the AG structure based primarily on simple learning strategies. By comparison, Rhesus macaques (Old World monkeys) showed evidence for deeper levels of AGL. A novel eye-tracking approach confirmed this result in the macaques and demonstrated evidence for more complex AGL. This study provides evidence for a previously unknown level of AGL complexity in Old World monkeys that seems less evident in New World monkeys, which are more distant evolutionary relatives to humans. The findings allow for the development of both marmosets and macaques as neurobiological model systems to study different aspects of AGL at the neuronal level.
The visual system processes natural scenes in a split second. Part of this process is the extraction of &quot;gist,&quot; a global first impression. It is unclear, however, how the human visual system computes this information. Here, we show that, when human observers categorize global information in real-world scenes, the brain exhibits strong sensitivity to low-level summary statistics. Subjects rated a specific instance of a global scene property, naturalness, for a large set of natural scenes while EEG was recorded. For each individual scene, we derived two physiologically plausible summary statistics by spatially pooling local contrast filter outputs: contrast energy (CE), indexing contrast strength, and spatial coherence (SC), indexing scene fragmentation. We show that behavioral performance is directly related to these statistics, with naturalness rating being influenced in particular by SC. At the neural level, both statistics parametrically modulated single-trial event-related potential amplitudes during an early, transient window (100-150 ms), but SC continued to influence activity levels later in time (up to 250 ms). In addition, the magnitude of neural activity that discriminated between man-made versus natural ratings of individual trials was related to SC, but not CE. These results suggest that global scene information may be computed by spatial pooling of responses from early visual areas (e.g., LGN or V1). The increased sensitivity over time to SC in particular, which reflects scene fragmentation, suggests that this statistic is actively exploited to estimate scene naturalness.
Visual perception depends strongly on spatial context. A classic example is the tilt illusion where the perceived orientation of a central stimulus differs from its physical orientation when surrounded by tilted spatial contexts. Here we show that such contextual modulation of orientation perception exhibits trait-like interindividual diversity that correlates with interindividual differences in effective connectivity within human primary visual cortex. We found that the degree to which spatial contexts induced illusory orientation perception, namely, the magnitude of the tilt illusion, varied across healthy human adults in a trait-like fashion independent of stimulus size or contrast. Parallel to contextual modulation of orientation perception, the presence of spatial contexts affected effective connectivity within human primary visual cortex between peripheral and foveal representations that responded to spatial context and central stimulus, respectively. Importantly, this effective connectivity from peripheral to foveal primary visual cortex correlated with interindividual differences in the magnitude of the tilt illusion. Moreover, this correlation with illusion perception was observed for effective connectivity under tilted contextual stimulation but not for that under iso-oriented contextual stimulation, suggesting that it reflected the impact of orientation-dependent intra-areal connections. Our findings revealed an interindividual correlation between intra-areal connectivity within primary visual cortex and contextual influence on orientation perception. This neurophysiological-perceptual link provides empirical evidence for theoretical proposals that intra-areal connections in early visual cortices are involved in contextual modulation of visual perception.
Young infants discriminate phonetically relevant speech contrasts in a universal manner, that is, similarly across languages. This ability fades by 12 months of age as the brain builds language-specific phonemic maps and increasingly responds preferentially to the infant's native language. However, the neural mechanisms that underlie the development of infant preference for native over non-native phonemes remain unclear. Since gamma-band power is known to signal infants' preference for native language rhythm, we hypothesized that it might also indicate preference for native phonemes. Using high-density electroencephalogram/event-related potential (EEG/ERP) recordings and source-localization techniques to identify and locate the ERP generators, we examined changes in brain oscillations while 6-month-old human infants from monolingual English settings listened to English and Spanish syllable contrasts. Neural dynamics were investigated via single-trial analysis of the temporal-spectral composition of brain responses at source level. Increases in 4-6 Hz (theta) power and in phase synchronization at 2-4 Hz (delta/theta) were found to characterize infants' evoked responses to discrimination of native/non-native syllable contrasts mostly in the left auditory source. However, selective enhancement of induced gamma oscillations in the area of anterior cingulate cortex was seen only during native contrast discrimination. These results suggest that gamma oscillations support syllable discrimination in the earliest stages of language acquisition, particularly during the period in which infants begin to develop preferential processing for linguistically relevant phonemic features in their environment. Our results also suggest that by 6 months of age, infants already treat native phonemic contrasts differently from non-native, implying that perceptual specialization and establishment of enduring phonemic memory representations have been initiated.
Neurons in cortical ventral-stream area V4 are thought to contribute to important aspects of visual processing by integrating information from primary visual cortex (V1). However, how V4 neurons respond to visual stimulation after V1 injury remains unclear: While electrophysiological investigation of V4 neurons during reversible V1 inactivation suggests that virtually all responses are eliminated (Girard et al., 1991), fMRI in humans and monkeys with permanent lesions shows reliable V1-independent activity (Baseler et al., 1999; Goebel et al., 2001; Schmid et al., 2010). To resolve this apparent discrepancy, we longitudinally assessed neuronal functions of macaque area V4 using chronically implanted electrode arrays before and after creating a permanent aspiration lesion in V1. During the month after lesioning, we observed weak yet significant spiking activity in response to stimuli presented to the lesion-affected part of the visual field. These V1-independent responses showed sensitivity for motion and likely reflect the effect of V1-bypassing geniculate input into extrastriate areas.
Loss of neurotrophic support in the striatum caused by reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels plays a critical role in Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis. BDNF acts via TrkB and p75 neurotrophin receptors (NTR), and restoring its signaling is a prime target for HD therapeutics. Here we sought to determine whether a small molecule ligand, LM22A-4, specific for TrkB and without effects on p75(NTR), could alleviate HD-related pathology in R6/2 and BACHD mouse models of HD. LM22A-4 was administered to R6/2 mice once daily (5-6 d/week) from 4 to 11 weeks of age via intraperitoneal and intranasal routes simultaneously to maximize brain levels. The ligand reached levels in the R6/2 forebrain greater than the maximal neuroprotective dose in vitro and corrected deficits in activation of striatal TrkB and its key signaling intermediates AKT, PLC, and CREB. Ligand-induced TrkB activation was associated with a reduction in HD pathologies in the striatum including decreased DARPP-32 levels, neurite degeneration of parvalbumin-containing interneurons, inflammation, and intranuclear huntingtin aggregates. Aggregates were also reduced in the cortex. Notably, LM22A-4 prevented deficits in dendritic spine density of medium spiny neurons. Moreover, R6/2 mice given LM22A-4 demonstrated improved downward climbing and grip strength compared with those given vehicle, though these groups had comparable rotarod performances and survival times. In BACHD mice, long-term LM22A-4 treatment (6 months) produced similar ameliorative effects. These results support the hypothesis that targeted activation of TrkB inhibits HD-related degenerative mechanisms, including spine loss, and may provide a disease mechanism-directed therapy for HD and other neurodegenerative conditions.

Dividing limited time between work and leisure when both have their attractions is a common everyday decision. We provide a normative control-theoretic treatment of this decision that bridges economic and psychological accounts. We show how our framework applies to free-operant behavioural experiments in which subjects are required to work (depressing a lever) for sufficient total time (called the price) to receive a reward. When the microscopic benefit-of-leisure increases nonlinearly with duration, the model generates behaviour that qualitatively matches various microfeatures of subjects' choices, including the distribution of leisure bout durations as a function of the pay-off. We relate our model to traditional accounts by deriving macroscopic, molar, quantities from microscopic choices.


Evidence suggests that activating certain components of the immune system may increase regeneration and plasticity in the injured central nervous system. Investigating the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent endotoxin and immune activator, on neuronal plasticity in rat models of spinal cord injury, we discovered that systemic administration of LPS can increase the number of descending motor axons that transport neuronal tracers anterogradely to the spinal cord. This effect of LPS was not observed across all motor tracts traced in two different experiments, but was significant for two different tracers administered to corticospinal tract neurons. Densitometry measurement of traced corticospinal axons within the cervical gray matter revealed that normalization to the number of traced axons is crucial to avoid false-positive reports of increased plasticity following LPS injection. These findings indicate that assessments of neuronal growth based on neuronal tracing techniques should be normalized when inflammation or immune activation is an experimental variable.
The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease involves an amyloid -peptide (A)-induced cascade of elevated oxidative damage and inflammation. The present study investigates the protective effects and the underlying mechanisms of N-benzylcinnamide (PT-3), purified from Piper submultinerve. Against A-induced oxidative stress and inflammation in rat primary cortical cell cultures. Pre-treatment with 10-00nM PT-3 significantly attenuated neuronal cell death induced by 10M A1-42. PT-3 was found to enhance cell viability through a significant reduction in the level of reactive oxygen species, down-regulated expression of pro-apoptotic activated caspase-3 and Bax, increased expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2, and mitigation of A-induced morphological alterations. Regarding its effects on inflammatory responses, PT-3 pre-treatment decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 and IL-6. The mechanisms of PT-3 neuronal protection against inflammation may be associated with the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) pathway. A1-42-induced phosphorylation of JNK and p38 MAPK was inhibited by pretreatment with PT-3 in a dose-dependent manner. However, phosphorylation of ERK1/2 was not affected by either PT-3 or A1-42. PT-3 did not stimulate Akt phosphorylation, which was inhibited by A1-42. These findings suggest that PT-3 protects neurons from A1-42-induced neurotoxicity through its anti-apoptotic, anti-oxidative, and anti-inflammatory properties with inhibition of JNK and p38 MAPK phosphorylation as the potential underlying mechanism.
Our previous study showed that chemical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) by carbachol can produce conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. Also, it has been indicated that orexin activates the mesolimbic dopamine projecting neurons to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and promotes the development of reward in rodents. Therefore, in this study, we tried to determine the role of intra-accumbal D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the development (acquisition) of reward-related behaviors induced by chemical stimulation of the LH. Eighty-eight adult male Wistar rats were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the LH and NAc. For chemical stimulation of LH, carbachol (250nmol/0.5l saline) was microinjected once daily during 3-days conditioning phase (acquisition period) of CPP paradigm. In the next experiments, different doses of D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.25, 1 and 4g/0.5l saline) or sulpiride (0.25, 1 and 4g/0.5l DMSO) as a D2 receptor antagonist were unilaterally microinjected into the NAc, 5min prior to LH stimulation. One-way ANOVA showed that intra-accumbal administration of SCH23390 or sulpiride can decrease the development of LH stimulation-induced CPP in the rats. However, this decrease is more effective after blockade of the D2 dopamine receptor in the NAc. It seems that the dopaminergic system in this area is involved in place preference induced by LH stimulation.
Juvenile play behavior in rats promotes later behavioral flexibility and appears to do so by modifying the neural systems that regulate the animal's response to unexpected challenges. For example, the experience of play has been shown to prune the dendritic arbor of the cells in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), part of the brain's executive control system. The objective of the present study was to determine if the play-induced changes in the mPFC promotes greater plasticity to experiences later in life. In order to test this possibility, exposure to nicotine was used as the secondary experience given later in life, as it has been shown to produce later changes to the morphology of mPFC pyramidal neurons. Animals were either paired with three same-sex peers (play condition) or one adult (no play condition) during their juvenile period. As young adults, half of the rats from each condition were exposed to repeated injections of nicotine and the other half to injections of saline. The neural plasticity of the mPFC was measured by changes in length and branching of dendrites. Neural changes induced separately by play and by nicotine were consistent with previously published findings. The novel finding was that the cells in the mPFC exhibit a greater response to exposure to nicotine if the rats first had play experience. These findings suggest that juvenile play experiences enhance the plasticity of some neural systems.


Infection of the CNS (central nervous system) with a sublethal neurotropic coronavirus (JHMV) induces a vigorous inflammatory response. CD4 and CD8 T cells are essential to control infectious virus but at the cost of tissue damage. An enigma in understanding the contribution of T cell subsets in pathogenesis resides in their distinct migration pattern across the BBB (blood brain barrier). CD4 T cells transiently accumulate within the perivascular space, whereas CD8 T cells migrate directly into the CNS parenchyma. As MMPs (matrix metalloproteinases) facilitate migration across the glia limitans, specific expression of the TIMP (tissue inhibitor of MMPs)-1 by CD4 T cells present in the perivascular cuffs suggested that TIMP-1 is responsible for stalling CD4 T cell migration into the CNS parenchyma. Using TIMP-1 deficient mice, the present data demonstrate an increase rather than a decrease in CD4 T cell accumulation within the perivascular space during JHMV infection. Whereas virus control was not affected by perivascular retention of CD4 T cells, disease severity was decreased and associated with reduced IFN (interferon ) production. Moreover, decreased CD4 T cell recruitment into the CNS parenchyma of TIMP-1 deficient mice was not associated with impaired T cell recruiting chemokines or MMP expression, and no compensation by other TIMP molecules was identified. These data suggest an MMP-independent role of TIMP-1 in regulating CD4 T cell access into the CNS parenchyma during acute JHMV encephalitis.



When exploring potential treatments for spinal cord injury (SCI), functional recovery is deemed the most relevant outcome measure when it comes to translational considerations. Yet, assessing such recovery and potential treatment effects is challenging and the pitfalls are frequently underestimated. The consequences are that in many cases positive results cannot be reliably replicated, and likely treatments that appear to lack effects have been dismissed prematurely. In this article we review the relationships between lesion location/severity and functional outcomes with specific consideration given to floor and ceiling effects. The roles of compensatory strategies, the challenges of distinguishing them from bona fide recovery, and of comparing function to pre-injury levels given the variability inherent in animal testing are discussed. Ultimately, we offer a series of considerations to enhance the power of functional analysis in animal models of SCI.
The interaction dynamics between a lytic peptide and a biomembrane was studied using time-lapse fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy. The model membrane was 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphochloine giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs), and the peptide was the K14 derivative of melittin, to which the polarity-sensitive fluorescent probe AlexaFluor 430 was grafted. The interaction of the peptide with the GUVs resulted in a progressive quenching of the fluorescence lifetime over a period of minutes. From previous photophysics characterization of the peptide, we were able to deconvolve the contribution of three distinct peptide states to the lifetime trajectory and use this data to develop a kinetics model for the interaction process. It was found that the peptide-membrane interaction was well described by a two-step mechanism: peptide monomer adsorption followed by membrane surface migration, assembly, and insertion to form membrane pores. There was an equilibrium exchange between pore and surface monomers at all lipid/peptide (L/P) concentration ratios, suggesting that the fully inserted phase was reached, even at low peptide concentrations. In contrast to previous studies, there was no evidence of critical behavior; irrespective of L/P ratio, lytic pores were the dominant peptide state at equilibrium and were formed even at very low peptide concentrations. We suggest that this behavior is seen in GUVs because their low curvature means low Laplace pressure. Membrane elasticity is therefore relatively ineffective at damping the thermal fluctuations of lipid molecules that lead to random molecular-level lipid protrusions and membrane undulations. The transient local membrane deformations that result from these thermal fluctuations create the conditions necessary for facile peptide insertion.






Matrix mechanics controls cell fate by modulating the bonds between integrins and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. However, it remains unclear how fibronectin (FN), type 1 collagen, and their receptor integrin subtypes distinctly control force transmission to regulate focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activity, a crucial molecular signal governing cell adhesion/migration. Here we showed, using a genetically encoded FAK biosensor based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer, that FN-mediated FAK activation is dependent on the mechanical tension, which may expose its otherwise hidden FN synergy site to integrin 5. In sharp contrast, the ligation between the constitutively exposed binding motif of type 1 collagen and its receptor integrin 2 was surprisingly tension-independent to induce sufficient FAK activation. Although integrin  subunit determines mechanosensitivity, the ligation between  subunit and the ECM proteins converges at the integrin 1 activation to induce FAK activation. We further discovered that the interaction of the N-terminal protein 4.1/ezrin/redixin/moesin basic patch with phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate is crucial during cell adhesion to maintain the FAK activation from the inhibitory effect of nearby protein 4.1/ezrin/redixin/moesin acidic sites. Therefore, different ECM proteins either can transmit or can shield from mechanical forces to regulate cellular functions, with the accessibility of ECM binding motifs by their specific integrin  subunits determining the biophysical mechanisms of FAK activation during mechanotransduction.
Increased neuron and astrocyte activity triggers increased brain blood flow, but controversy exists over whether stimulation-induced changes in astrocyte activity are rapid and widespread enough to contribute to brain blood flow control. Here, we provide evidence for stimulus-evoked Ca(2+) elevations with rapid onset and short duration in a large proportion of cortical astrocytes in the adult mouse somatosensory cortex. Our improved detection of the fast Ca(2+) signals is due to a signal-enhancing analysis of the Ca(2+) activity. The rapid stimulation-evoked Ca(2+) increases identified in astrocyte somas, processes, and end-feet preceded local vasodilatation. Fast Ca(2+) responses in both neurons and astrocytes correlated with synaptic activity, but only the astrocytic responses correlated with the hemodynamic shifts. These data establish that a large proportion of cortical astrocytes have brief Ca(2+) responses with a rapid onset in vivo, fast enough to initiate hemodynamic responses or influence synaptic activity.
How low-level sensory areas help mediate the detection and discrimination advantages of integrating faces and voices is the subject of intense debate. To gain insights, we investigated the role of the auditory cortex in face/voice integration in macaque monkeys performing a vocal-detection task. Behaviorally, subjects were slower to detect vocalizations as the signal-to-noise ratio decreased, but seeing mouth movements associated with vocalizations sped up detection. Paralleling this behavioral relationship, as the signal to noise ratio decreased, the onset of spiking responses were delayed and magnitudes were decreased. However, when mouth motion accompanied the vocalization, these responses were uniformly faster. Conversely, and at odds with previous assumptions regarding the neural basis of face/voice integration, changes in the magnitude of neural responses were not related consistently to audiovisual behavior. Taken together, our data reveal that facilitation of spike latency is a means by which the auditory cortex partially mediates the reaction time benefits of combining faces and voices.








Chemokine receptors are involved in trafficking of leukocytes and represent targets for autoimmune conditions, inflammatory diseases, viral infections, and cancer. We recently published CCR1, CCR8, and CCR5 agonists and positive modulators based on a three metal-ion chelator series: 2,2'-bipyridine, 1,10-phenanthroline, and 2,2';6',2-terpyridine. Here, we have performed an in-depth structure-activity relationship study and tested eight new optimized analogs. Using density functional theory calculations we demonstrate that the chelator zinc affinities depend on how electron-donating and -withdrawing substituents modulate the partial charges of chelating nitrogens. The zinc affinity was found to constitute the major factor for receptor potency, although the activity of some chelators deviate suggesting favorable or unfavorable interactions. Hydrophobic and halogen substituents are generally better accommodated in the receptors than polar groups. The new analog brominated terpyridine (29) resulted in the highest chelator potencies observed so far CCR1 (EC50: 0.49 M) and CCR8 (EC50: 0.28 M). Furthermore, we identified the first selective CCR5 agonist chelator, meta dithiomethylated bipyridine (23). The structure-activity relationships contribute to small-molecule drug development, and the novel chelators constitute valuable tools for studies of structural mechanisms for chemokine receptor activation.









Over the recent years, antibodies against surface and conformational proteins involved in neurotransmission have been detected in autoimmune CNS diseases in children and adults. These antibodies have been used to guide diagnosis and treatment. Cell-based assays have improved the detection of antibodies in patient serum. They are based on the surface expression of brain antigens on eukaryotic cells, which are then incubated with diluted patient sera followed by fluorochrome-conjugated secondary antibodies. After washing, secondary antibody binding is then analyzed by flow cytometry. Our group has developed a high-throughput flow cytometry live cell-based assay to reliably detect antibodies against specific neurotransmitter receptors. This flow cytometry method is straight forward, quantitative, efficient, and the use of a high-throughput sampler system allows for large patient cohorts to be easily assayed in a short space of time. Additionally, this cell-based assay can be easily adapted to detect antibodies to many different antigenic targets, both from the central nervous system and periphery. Discovering additional novel antibody biomarkers will enable prompt and accurate diagnosis and improve treatment of immune-mediated disorders.





Network science holds great promise for expanding our understanding of the human brain in health, disease, development, and aging. Network analyses are quickly becoming the method of choice for analyzing functional MRI data. However, many technical issues have yet to be confronted in order to optimize results. One particular issue that remains controversial in functional brain network analyses is the definition of a network node. In functional brain networks a node represents some predefined collection of brain tissue, and an edge measures the functional connectivity between pairs of nodes. The characteristics of a node, chosen by the researcher, vary considerably in the literature. This manuscript reviews the current state of the art based on published manuscripts and highlights the strengths and weaknesses of three main methods for defining nodes. Voxel-wise networks are constructed by assigning a node to each, equally sized brain area (voxel). The fMRI time-series recorded from each voxel is then used to create the functional network. Anatomical methods utilize atlases to define the nodes based on brain structure. The fMRI time-series from all voxels within the anatomical area are averaged and subsequently used to generate the network. Functional activation methods rely on data from traditional fMRI activation studies, often from databases, to identify network nodes. Such methods identify the peaks or centers of mass from activation maps to determine the location of the nodes. Small (~10-20 millimeter diameter) spheres located at the coordinates of the activation foci are then applied to the data being used in the network analysis. The fMRI time-series from all voxels in the sphere are then averaged, and the resultant time series is used to generate the network. We attempt to clarify the discussion and move the study of complex brain networks forward. While the &quot;correct&quot; method to be used remains an open, possibly unsolvable question that deserves extensive debate and research, we argue that the best method available at the current time is the voxel-wise method.

TROY can functionally substitute p75 to comprise the Nogo receptor complex, which transduces the inhibitory signal of myelin-associated inhibitory factors on axon regeneration following CNS injury. The inhibition of neurite extension relies on TROY-dependent RhoA activation, but how TROY activates RhoA remains unclear. Here, we firstly identified Rho guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor  (RhoGDI) as a binding partner of TROY using GST pull-down combined with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectra analysis. The interaction was further confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation in vitro and in vivo. Deletion mutagenesis revealed that two regions of the TROY intracellular domain (amino acids 234-256 and 321-350) were essential for the interaction with RhoGDI. Secondly, TROY and RhoGDI were coexpressed in postnatal dorsal root ganglion neurons, cortex neurons, and cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Thirdly, TROY/RhoGDI association was potentiated by Nogo-66 and was independent of p75/RhoGDI interaction. Fourthly, TROY/RhoGDI interaction was still able to activate RhoA when p75 was deficient. Furthermore, RhoA activation was decreased dramatically when TROY was knocked down in p75-deficient CGNs cells. Finally, RhoGDI overexpression abolished RhoA activation and following neurite outgrowth inhibition by Nogo-66 in both wild-type and p75-deficient CGNs. These results showed that the association of RhoGDI with TROY contributed to TROY-dependent RhoA activation and neurite outgrowth inhibition after Nogo-66 stimulation.






Hemophilia is caused by a functional deficiency of one of the coagulation proteins. Therapy for no other group of genetic diseases has seen the progress that has been made for hemophilia over the past 40 years, from a life expectancy in 1970 of 20 years for a boy born with severe hemophilia to essentially a normal life expectancy in 2013 with current prophylaxis therapy. However, these therapies are expensive and require IV infusions 3 to 4 times each week. These are exciting times for hemophilia because several new technologies that promise extended half-lives for factor products, with potential for improvements in quality of life for persons with hemophilia, are in late-phase clinical development.

We report a case of a transient ischaemic attack (TIA) as an exceptionally rare form of cerebral vein thrombosis. A 41-year-old man presented with a headache and five episodes of a transient left hemiparesis lasting approximately 10-15 min over the course of 2 weeks. Arterial origins of the disease were ruled out by detailed investigations. However, MR venography revealed a superior sagittal sinus thrombosis with numerous prominent collateral venous channels. No parenchymal lesion was seen. After medical therapy, no further transient neurological deficit occurred. Follow-up MR venography showed sinus recanalisation.
Marijuana has been used for thousands of years as a treatment for medical conditions. However, untoward side effects limit its medical value. Here, we show that synaptic and cognitive impairments following repeated exposure to (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol ((9)-THC) are associated with the induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme that converts arachidonic acid to prostanoids in thebrain. COX-2 induction by (9)-THC is mediated via CB1 receptor-coupled G protein  subunits. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of COX-2 blocks downregulation and internalization of glutamate receptor subunits and alterations of the dendritic spine density of hippocampal neurons induced by repeated (9)-THC exposures. Ablation of COX-2 also eliminates (9)-THC-impaired hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity, working, and fear memories. Importantly, the beneficial effects of decreasing -amyloid plaques and neurodegeneration by (9)-THC in Alzheimer's disease animals are retained in the presence of COX-2 inhibition. These results suggest that the applicability of medical marijuana would be broadened by concurrent inhibition of COX-2.
Genetic studies have identified dozens of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) susceptibility genes, raising two critical questions: (1) do these genetic loci converge on specific biological processes, and (2) where does the phenotypic specificity of ASD arise, given its genetic overlap with intellectual disability (ID)? To address this, we mapped ASD and ID risk genes onto coexpression networks representing developmental trajectories and transcriptional profiles representing fetal and adult cortical laminae. ASD genes tightly coalesce in modules that implicate distinct biological functions during human cortical development, including early transcriptional regulation and synaptic development. Bioinformatic analyses suggest that translational regulation by FMRP and transcriptional coregulation by common transcription factors connect these processes. At a circuit level, ASD genes are enriched in superficial cortical layers and glutamatergic projection neurons. Furthermore, we show that the patterns of ASD and ID risk genes are distinct, providing a biological framework for further investigating the pathophysiology of ASD.
In almost all vertebrates, the downstream of the sox9 signaling axis is well conserved for testis differentiation. The upstream genes of this pathway vary from species to species during evolution. Yet, little is known about how these signaling cascades are regulated and what cellular processes are dominant in ovary-testis transformation in juvenile zebrafish. In this study, we find that the transforming gonads undergo activation of sox9a-expressing stromal cells with increased deposition of extracellular matrix and formation of degenerative compartments. This leads to follicle disassembly, oocyte degeneration, follicle cell-cyp19a1a-amh conversions, and, eventually, formation of the testis cord. In vitro primary culture of juvenile ovary tissue in gonadotropins increases cytoplasmic accumulation of sox9a and p-Erk1/2, and induces mesenchymal morphology. MAPK inhibitors (MKI), a mixture of PD98059 and U0216, eliminate the cytoplasmic distribution but do not eradicate nuclear localization of sox9a and p-Erk1/2. Nuclear p53 are relatively increased in MKI-treated cells that exhibit less spreading and reduced proliferation. Despite uniform nuclear condensation, only a fraction of cells displayed the apoptotic phenotype. These results suggest that high levels of cytoplasmic sox9a and p-Erk1/2 activity activate stromal cells and enhance the production of extracellular matrix required for testis cord formation, whereas deregulation and translocation of sox9a and p-Erk1/2 induce follicle disassembly and incomplete apoptosis associated with nuclear p53. Together with the established FSH/cAMP/MAPK/AMH pathway in mammalian granulosa and Sertoli cells, we demonstrated that the sox9 axis signaling that determines testis formation in mammals also induces zebrafish ovary-testis transition, and adds to its conserved role in sex reversal.
Biosensors are of great significance because of their capability to resolve a potentially large number of analytical problems and challenges in very diverse areas such as defense, homeland security, agriculture and food safety, environmental monitoring, medicine, pharmacology, industry, etc. The expanding role of biosensing in society and a real-world environment has led to an exponential growth of the R&amp;D efforts around the world. The world market for biosensor devices, according to Global Industry Analysts, Inc., is expected to reach $12 billion by 2015. Such expedient growth is driven by several factors including medical and health problems, such as a growing population with a high risk of diabetes and obesity, and the rising incidence of chronic diseases such as heart disease, stroke, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, tuberculosis, etc.; significant problems with environmental monitoring; and of course serious challenges in security and military applications and agriculture/food safety. A review paper in the biosensor technology area may be structured based on (i) the principles of detection, such as the type of transducer platform, bioanalytical principles (affinity or kinetic), and biorecognition elements origin/properties (i.e. antibodies, enzymes, cells, aptamers, etc.), and (ii) the application area. This review follows the latter strategy and focuses on the applications. This allows discussion on how different sensing strategies are brought to bear on the same problem and highlights advantages/disadvantages of these sensing strategies. Given the broad range of biosensor related applications, several particularly relevant areas of application were selected for review: biological threat agents, chemical threat agents, and medicine.
Emotional experiences leave vivid memories that can last a lifetime. The emotional facilitation of memory has been attributed to the engagement of diffusely projecting neuromodulatory systems that enhance the consolidation of synaptic plasticity in regions activated by the experience. This process requires the propagation of signals between brain regions, and for those signals to induce long-lasting synaptic plasticity. Both of these demands are met by gamma oscillations, which reflect synchronous population activity on a fast timescale (35-120 Hz). Regions known to participate in the formation of emotional memories, such as the basolateral amygdala, also promote gamma-band activation throughout cortical and subcortical circuits. Recent studies have demonstrated that gamma oscillations are enhanced during emotional situations, coherent between regions engaged by salient stimuli, and predict subsequent memory for cues associated with aversive stimuli. Furthermore, neutral stimuli that come to predict emotional events develop enhanced gamma oscillations, reflecting altered processing in the brain, which may underpin how past emotional experiences color future learning and memory.
P2 nucleotide receptors were proposed to consist of two subfamilies based on pharmacology in 1985, named P2X and P2Y receptors. Later, this was confirmed following cloning of the receptors for nucleotides and studies of transduction mechanisms in the early 1990s. P2X receptors are ion channels and seven subtypes are recognized that form trimeric homomultimers or heteromultimers. P2X receptors are involved in neuromuscular and synaptic neurotransmission and neuromodulation. They are also expressed on many types of non-neuronal cells to mediate smooth muscle contraction, secretion, and immune modulation. The emphasis in this review will be on the pathophysiology of P2X receptors and therapeutic potential of P2X receptor agonists and antagonists for neurodegenerative and inflammatory disorders, visceral and neuropathic pain, irritable bowel syndrome, diabetes, kidney failure, bladder incontinence and cancer, as well as disorders if the special senses, airways, skin, cardiovascular, and musculoskeletal systems.
Inhibitory GABA (-aminobutyric acid)-ergic interneurons are a vital component of the neocortex responsible for shaping its output through a variety of inhibitions. Consisting of many flavors, interneuron subtypes are predominantly defined by their morphological, physiological, and neurochemical properties that help to determine their functional role within the neocortex. During development, these cells are born in the subpallium where they then tangentially migrate over long distances before being radially positioned to their final location in the cortical laminae. As development progresses into adolescence, these cells mature and form chemical and electrical connections with both glutamatergic excitatory neurons and other interneurons ultimately establishing the cortical network. The production, migration, and organization of these cells are determined by vast array of extrinsic and intrinsic factors that work in concert in order to assemble a proper functioning cortical inhibitory network. Failure of these cells to undergo these processes results in abnormal positioning and cortical function. In humans, this can bring about several neurological disorders including schizophrenia, epilepsy, and autism spectrum disorders. In this article, we will review previous literature that has revealed the framework for interneuron neurogenesis and migratory behavior as well as discuss recent findings that aim to elucidate the spatial and functional organization of interneurons within the neocortex.
Serotonin (5-HT) is a neuromodulator that has been attributed to cost assessment and harm aversion. In this review, we look at the role 5-HT plays in making decisions when subjects are faced with potential harmful or costly outcomes. We review approaches for examining the serotonergic system in decision-making. We introduce our group's paradigm used to investigate how 5-HT affects decision-making. In particular, our paradigm combines techniques from computational neuroscience, socioeconomic game theory, human-robot interaction, and Bayesian statistics. We will highlight key findings from our previous studies utilizing this paradigm, which helped expand our understanding of 5-HT's effect on decision-making in relation to cost assessment. Lastly, we propose a cyclic multidisciplinary approach that may aid in addressing the complexity of exploring 5-HT and decision-making by iteratively updating our assumptions and models of the serotonergic system through exhaustive experimentation.
Oxidative stress is thought to play a significant role in the development and progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Although it is currently considered a hallmark of such processes, the interweaving of a multitude of signaling cascades hinders complete understanding of the direct role of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration. In addition to its extensive use as an aging model, some researchers have turned to the invertebrate model Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) in order to further investigate molecular mediators that either exacerbate or protect against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated neurodegeneration. Due to their fully characterized genome and short life cycle, rapid generation of C. elegans genetic models can be useful to study upstream markers of oxidative stress within interconnected signaling pathways. This report will focus on the roles of C. elegans homologs for the oxidative stress-associated transcription factor Nrf2, as well as the autosomal recessive, early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD)-associated proteins Parkin, DJ-1, and PINK1, in neurodegenerative processes.

Growing evidence suggests that movement abnormalities are a core feature of psychosis. One marker of movement abnormality, dyskinesia, is a result of impaired neuromodulation of dopamine in fronto-striatal pathways. The traditional methods for identifying movement abnormalities include observer-based reports and force stability gauges. The drawbacks of these methods are long training times for raters, experimenter bias, large site differences in instrumental apparatus, and suboptimal reliability. Taking these drawbacks into account has guided the development of betterstandardized and more efficient procedures to examine movement abnormalities through handwriting analysis software and tablet. Individuals atrisk for psychosis showed significantly more dysfluent pen movements (a proximal measure for dyskinesia) in a handwriting task. Handwriting kinematics offers a great advance over previous methods of assessing dyskinesia, which could clearly be beneficial for understanding the etiology of psychosis.





A prevailing problem in neuroscience is the fast and targeted delivery of DNA into selected neurons. The development of an appropriate methodology would enable the transfection of multiple genes into the same cell or different genes into different neighboring cells as well as rapid cell selective functionalization of neurons. Here, we show that optimized femtosecond optical transfection fulfills these requirements. We also demonstrate successful optical transfection of channelrhodopsin-2 in single selected neurons. We extend the functionality of this technique for wider uptake by neuroscientists by using fast three-dimensional laser beam steering enabling an image-guided &quot;point-and-transfect&quot; user-friendly transfection of selected cells. A sub-second transfection timescale per cell makes this method more rapid by at least two orders of magnitude when compared to alternative single-cell transfection techniques. This novel technology provides the ability to carry out large-scale cell selective genetic studies on neuronal ensembles and perform rapid genetic programming of neural circuits.

The membrane-bound water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) plays a significant role in maintaining brain water homeostasis. In ischemic brain, changes in the expression level of AQP4 have been reported. Previous studies suggest that the internalization of several membrane-bound proteins, including AQP4, may occur with or without lysosomal degradation. In this study, the internalization of AQP4 was detected in the ischemic rat brain via double immunofluorescence labeling. Specifically, AQP4 and early endosome antigen-1 (EEA1) co-localized after 1 h post-ischemic injury. Moreover, the co-expression of AQP4 and lysosomal-associated membrane protein-1 (LAMP1) was observed after 3 h post-ischemia. These findings suggest that AQP4 is internalized and the lysosome is involved in degrading the internalized AQP4 in the ischemic brain. AQP4 is known to be downregulated by the protein kinase C activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in vivo and in vitro. The results in this study displayed that PMA infusion could decrease brain edema accompanied by AQP4 downregulation in ischemic brain. However, compared with vehicle infusion, PKC activator infusion did not increase the ratio of internalized or lysosomal degraded AQP4. That is, we have not found out evidence to prove protein kinase C activator PMA can promote the internalization or lysosomal degradation of AQP4 in the ischemic brain.


Depression is a common chronic psychiatric disorder that is also often co-morbid with numerous neurological and immune diseases. Accumulating evidence indicates that disturbances of neuroplasticity occur with depression, including reductions of hippocampal neurogenesis and cortical synaptogenesis. Improper trophic support stemming from stressor-induced reductions of growth factors, most notably brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), likely drives such aberrant neuroplasticity. We posit that psychological and immune stressors can interact upon a vulnerable genetic background to promote depression by disturbing BDNF and neuroplastic processes. Furthermore, the chronic and commonly relapsing nature of depression is suggested to stem from &quot;faulty wiring&quot; of emotional circuits driven by neuroplastic aberrations. The present review considers depression in such terms and attempts to integrate the available evidence indicating that the efficacy of current and &quot;next wave&quot; antidepressant treatments, whether used alone or in combination, is at least partially tied to their ability to modulate neuroplasticity. We particularly focus on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, ketamine, which already has well documented rapid antidepressant effects, and the trophic cytokine, erythropoietin (EPO), which we propose as a potential adjunctive antidepressant agent.




Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is the major intermediate filament of mature astrocytes in the mammalian CNS. Dominant gain of function mutations in GFAP lead to the fatal neurodegenerative disorder, Alexander disease (AxD), which is characterized by cytoplasmic protein aggregates known as Rosenthal fibers along with variable degrees of leukodystrophy and intellectual disability. The mechanisms by which mutant GFAP leads to these pleiotropic effects are unknown. In addition to astrocytes, GFAP is also expressed in other cell types, particularly neural stem cells that form the reservoir supporting adult neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles. Here, we show that mouse models of AxD exhibit significant pathology in GFAP-positive radial glia-like cells in the dentate gyrus, and suffer from deficits in adult neurogenesis. In addition, they display impairments in contextual learning and spatial memory. This is the first demonstration of cognitive phenotypes in a model of primary astrocyte disease.
Although trait anxiety has been associated with risk decision making, whether it is related to risk per se or to the feeling of the risk, as well as the underlying neurocognitive mechanisms, remains unclear. Using a decision-making task with a manipulation of frame (i.e., written description of options as a potential gain or loss) and functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated the neurocognitive relationship between trait anxiety and decision making. The classic framing effect was observed: participants chose the safe option when it was described as a potential gain, but they avoided the same option when it was described as a potential loss. Most importantly, trait anxiety was positively correlated with this behavioral bias. Trait anxiety was also positively correlated with amygdala-based &quot;emotional&quot; system activation and its coupling with the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) when decisions were consistent with the framing effect, but negatively correlated with the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC)-based &quot;analytic&quot; system activation and its connectivity to the vmPFC when decisions ran counter to the framing effect. Our findings suggest that trait anxiety is not associated with subjective risk preference but an evaluative bias of emotional information in decision making, underpinned by a hyperactive emotional system and a hypoactive analytic system in the brain.
We report a novel model in which remote activation of peripheral nociceptive pathways in transgenic mice is achieved optogenetically, without any external noxious stimulus or injury. Taking advantage of a binary genetic approach, we selectively targeted Nav1.8(+) sensory neurons for conditional expression of channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) channels. Acute blue light illumination of the skin produced robust nocifensive behaviors, evoked by the remote stimulation of both peptidergic and nonpeptidergic nociceptive fibers as indicated by c-Fos labeling in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. A non-nociceptive component also contributes to the observed behaviors, as shown by c-Fos expression in lamina III of the dorsal horn and the expression of ChR2-EYFP in a subpopulation of large-diameter Nav1.8(+) dorsal root ganglion neurons. Selective activation of Nav1.8(+) afferents in vivo induced central sensitization and conditioned place aversion, thus providing a novel paradigm to investigate plasticity in the pain circuitry. Long-term potentiation was similarly evoked by light activation of the same afferents in isolated spinal cord preparations. These findings demonstrate, for the first time, the optical control of nociception and central sensitization in behaving mammals and enables selective activation of the same class of afferents in both in vivo and ex vivo preparations. Our results provide a proof-of-concept demonstration that optical dissection of the contribution of specific classes of afferents to central sensitization is possible. The high spatiotemporal precision offered by this non-invasive model will facilitate drug development and target validation for pain therapeutics.
How verbal and nonverbal visuoperceptual input connects to semantic knowledge is a core question in visual and cognitive neuroscience, with significant clinical ramifications. In an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment we determined how cosine similarity between fMRI response patterns to concrete words and pictures reflects semantic clustering and semantic distances between the represented entities within a single category. Semantic clustering and semantic distances between 24 animate entities were derived from a concept-feature matrix based on feature generation by &gt;1000 subjects. In the main fMRI study, 19 human subjects performed a property verification task with written words and pictures and a low-level control task. The univariate contrast between the semantic and the control task yielded extensive bilateral occipitotemporal activation from posterior cingulate to anteromedial temporal cortex. Entities belonging to a same semantic cluster elicited more similar fMRI activity patterns in left occipitotemporal cortex. When words and pictures were analyzed separately, the effect reached significance only for words. The semantic similarity effect for words was localized to left perirhinal cortex. According to a representational similarity analysis of left perirhinal responses, semantic distances between entities correlated inversely with cosine similarities between fMRI response patterns to written words. An independent replication study in 16 novel subjects confirmed these novel findings. Semantic similarity is reflected by similarity of functional topography at a fine-grained level in left perirhinal cortex. The word specificity excludes perceptually driven confounds as an explanation and is likely to be task dependent.
Visually responsive neurons typically exhibit a monotonic-saturating increase of firing with luminance contrast of the stimulus and are able to adapt to the current spatiotemporal context by shifting their selectivity, therefore being perfectly suited for optimal contrast encoding and discrimination. Here we report the first evidence of the existence of neurons showing selective tuning for contrast in area V4d of the behaving macaque (Macaca mulatta), i.e., narrow bandpass filter neurons with peak activity encompassing the whole range of visible contrasts and pronounced attenuation at contrasts higher than the peak. Crucially, we found that contrast tuning emerges after a considerable delay from stimulus onset, likely reflecting the contribution of inhibitory mechanisms. Selective tuning for luminance contrast might support multiple functions, including contrast identification and the attentive selection of low contrast stimuli.
Reference frames are important for understanding sensory processing in the cortex. Previous work showed that vestibular heading signals in the ventral intraparietal area (VIP) are represented in body-centered coordinates. In contrast, vestibular heading tuning in the medial superior temporal area (MSTd) is approximately head centered. We considered the hypothesis that visual heading signals (from optic flow) in VIP might also be transformed into a body-centered representation, unlike visual heading tuning in MSTd, which is approximately eye centered. We distinguished among eye-centered, head-centered, and body-centered spatial reference frames by systematically varying both eye and head positions while rhesus monkeys viewed optic flow stimuli depicting various headings. We found that heading tuning of VIP neurons based on optic flow generally shifted with eye position, indicating an eye-centered spatial reference frame. This is similar to the representation of visual heading signals in MSTd, but contrasts sharply with the body-centered representation of vestibular heading signals in VIP. These findings demonstrate a clear dissociation between the spatial reference frames of visual and vestibular signals in VIP, and emphasize that frames of reference for neurons in parietal cortex can depend on the type of sensory stimulation.
V3 interneurons (INs) are a major group of excitatory commissural interneurons in the spinal cord, and they are essential for producing a stable and robust locomotor rhythm. V3 INs are generated from the ventral-most progenitor domain, p3, but migrate dorsally and laterally during postmitotic development. At birth, they are located in distinctive clusters in the ventral horn and deep dorsal horn. To assess the heterogeneity of this genetically identified group of spinal INs, we combined patch-clamp recording and anatomical tracing with cluster analysis. We examined electrophysiological and morphological properties of mature V3 INs identified by their expression of tdTomato fluorescent proteins in Sim1(Cre/+); Rosa(floxstop26TdTom) mice. We identified two V3 subpopulations with distinct intrinsic properties and spatial distribution patterns. Ventral V3 INs, primarily located in lamina VIII, possess a few branching processes and were capable of generating rapid tonic firing spikes. By contrast, dorsal V3 INs exhibited a more complex morphology and relatively slow average spike frequency with strong adaptation, and they also displayed large sag voltages and post-inhibitory rebound potentials. Our data suggested that hyperpolarization-activated cation channel currents and T-type calcium channel currents may account for some of the membrane properties of V3 INs. Finally, we observed that ventral and dorsal V3 INs were active in different ways during running and swimming, indicating that ventral V3 INs may act as premotor neurons and dorsal V3 INs as relay neurons mediating sensory inputs. Together, we detected two physiologically and topographically distinct subgroups of V3 INs, each likely playing different roles in locomotor activities.
Mu-opioid receptor (OR) stimulation within ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) induces feeding and hyperactivity, resulting possibly from recruitment of glutamate signaling in multiple vmPFC projection targets. We tested this hypothesis by analyzing Fos expression in vmPFC terminal fields after intra-vmPFC OR stimulation, and by examining of the impact of glutamate receptor blockade in two feeding-related targets of vmPFC, the lateral-perifornical hypothalamic area (LH-PeF) and nucleus accumbens shell (Acb shell), upon behavioral effects elicited by intra-vmPFC OR stimulation in rats. Intra-vmPFC infusion of the OR agonist, DAMGO, provoked Fos expression in the dorsomedial sector of tuberal hypothalamus (including the perifornical area) and increased the percentage of Fos-expressing hypocretin/orexin-immunoreactive neurons in these zones. NMDA receptor blockade in the LH-PeF nearly eliminated intra-vmPFC DAMGO-induced food intake without altering DAMGO-induced hyperactivity. In contrast, blocking AMPA-type glutamate receptors within the Acb shell (the feeding-relevant subtype in this structure) antagonized intra-vmPFC DAMGO-induced hyperlocomotion but enhanced food intake. Intra-vmPFC DAMGO also elevated the breakpoint for sucrose-reinforced progressive-ratio responding; this effect was significantly enhanced by concomitant AMPA blockade in the Acb shell. Conversely, intra-Acb shell AMPA stimulation reduced breakpoint and increased nonspecific responding on the inactive lever. These data indicate intra-vmPFC OR signaling jointly modulates appetitive motivation and generalized motoric activation through functionally dissociable vmPFC projection targets. These findings may shed light on the circuitry underlying disorganized appetitive responses in psychopathology; e.g., binge eating and opiate or alcohol abuse, disorders in which ORs and aberrant cortical activation have been implicated.
The direct and indirect efferent pathways from striatum ultimately reconverge to influence basal ganglia output nuclei, which in turn regulate behavior via thalamocortical and brainstem motor circuits. However, the distinct contributions of these two efferent pathways in shaping basal ganglia output are not well understood. We investigated these processes using selective optogenetic control of the direct and indirect pathways, in combination with single-unit recording in the basal ganglia output nucleus substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) in mice. Optogenetic activation of striatal direct and indirect pathway projection neurons produced diverse cellular responses in SNr neurons, with stimulation of each pathway eliciting both excitations and inhibitions. Despite this response heterogeneity, the effectiveness of direct pathway stimulation in producing movement initiation correlated selectively with the subpopulation of inhibited SNr neurons. In contrast, effective indirect pathway-mediated motor suppression was most strongly influenced by excited SNr neurons. Our results support the theory that key basal ganglia output neurons serve as an inhibitory gate over motor output that can be opened or closed by striatal direct and indirect pathways, respectively.
In primary auditory cortex (AI), broadly correlated firing has been commonly observed. In contrast, sharply synchronous firing has rarely been seen and has not been well characterized. Therefore, we examined cat AI local subnetworks using cross-correlation and spectrotemporal receptive field (STRF) analysis for neighboring neurons. Sharply synchronous firing responses were observed predominantly for neurons separated by &lt;150 m. This high synchrony was independent of layers and was present between all distinguishable cell types. The sharpest synchrony was seen in supragranular layers and between regular spiking units. Synchronous spikes conveyed more stimulus information than nonsynchronous spikes. Neighboring neurons in all layers had similar best frequencies and similar STRFs, with the highest similarity in supragranular and granular layers. Spectral tuning selectivity and latency were only moderately conserved in these local, high-synchrony AI subnetworks. Overall, sharp synchrony is a specific characteristic of fine-scale networks within the AI and local functional processing is well ordered and similar, but not identical, for neighboring neurons of all cell types.
Astrocytic glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-I) is critical to control the bulk of glutamate uptake and, thus, to regulate synaptic plasticity and excitotoxicity. GLT-I glutamate uptake is driven by the sodium gradient implemented by Na(+)/K(+)-ATPases (NKAs) and the 2 subunit of NKA (NKA-2) is actually linked to GLT-I to regulate astrocytic glutamate transport. We recently found that adenosine A2A receptors (A2ARs), which control synaptic plasticity and neurodegeneration, regulate glutamate uptake through unknown mechanisms. Here we report that A2AR activation decreases NKA activity selectively in astrocytes to inhibit glutamate uptake. Furthermore, we found a physical association of A2ARs with NKA-2s in astrocytes, as gauged by coimmunoprecipitation and in situ proximity ligation assays, in the cerebral cortex and striatum, two brain regions where A2ARs inhibit the astrocytic glutamate uptake. Moreover, the selective deletion of A2ARs in astrocytes (using Gfa2-A2AR-KO mice) leads to a concurrent increase of both astrocytic glutamate uptake and NKA-2 levels and activity in the striatum and cortex. This coupling of astrocytic A2ARs to the regulation of glutamate transport through modulation of NKA-2 activity provides a novel mechanism linking neuronal activity to ion homeostasis controlling glutamatergic activity, all of which are processes intricately associated with the etiology of several brain diseases.
The Shank3 gene encodes a scaffolding protein that anchors multiple elements of the postsynaptic density at the synapse. Previous attempts to delete the Shank3 gene have not resulted in a complete loss of the predominant naturally occurring Shank3 isoforms. We have now characterized a homozygous Shank3 mutation in mice that deletes exon 21, including the Homer binding domain. In the homozygous state, deletion of exon 21 results in loss of the major naturally occurring Shank3 protein bands detected by C-terminal and N-terminal antibodies, allowing us to more definitively examine the role of Shank3 in synaptic function and behavior. This loss of Shank3 leads to an increased localization of mGluR5 to both synaptosome and postsynaptic density-enriched fractions in the hippocampus. These mice exhibit a decrease in NMDA/AMPA excitatory postsynaptic current ratio in area CA1 of the hippocampus, reduced long-term potentiation in area CA1, and deficits in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory. In addition, these mice also exhibit motor-coordination deficits, hypersensitivity to heat, novelty avoidance, altered locomotor response to novelty, and minimal social abnormalities. These data suggest that Shank3 isoforms are required for normal synaptic transmission/plasticity in the hippocampus, as well as hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory.
Attention, the prioritization of goal-relevant stimuli, and expectation, the modulation of stimulus processing by probabilistic context, represent the two main endogenous determinants of visual cognition. Neural selectivity in visual cortex is enhanced for both attended and expected stimuli, but the functional relationship between these mechanisms is poorly understood. Here, we adjudicated between two current hypotheses of how attention relates to predictive processing, namely, that attention either enhances or filters out perceptual prediction errors (PEs), the PE-promotion model versus the PE-suppression model. We acquired fMRI data from category-selective visual regions while human subjects viewed expected and unexpected stimuli that were either attended or unattended. Then, we trained multivariate neural pattern classifiers to discriminate expected from unexpected stimuli, depending on whether these stimuli had been attended or unattended. If attention promotes PEs, then this should increase the disparity of neural patterns associated with expected and unexpected stimuli, thus enhancing the classifier's ability to distinguish between the two. In contrast, if attention suppresses PEs, then this should reduce the disparity between neural signals for expected and unexpected percepts, thus impairing classifier performance. We demonstrate that attention greatly enhances a neural pattern classifier's ability to discriminate between expected and unexpected stimuli in a region- and stimulus category-specific fashion. These findings are incompatible with the PE-suppression model, but they strongly support the PE-promotion model, whereby attention increases the precision of prediction errors. Our results clarify the relationship between attention and expectation, casting attention as a mechanism for accelerating online error correction in predicting task-relevant visual inputs.
Approximately 30% of cognitively normal older adults harbor brain -amyloid (A), a prominent feature of Alzheimer's disease associated with neural alterations and episodic memory decline. We examined how aging and A deposition affect neural function during memory encoding of visual scenes using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans. Thirty-six cognitively normal older people underwent fMRI scanning, and positron emission tomography with [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B to measure fibrillar brain A; 15 young subjects were studied with fMRI. Older adults without A deposition showed reduced regional brain activation (compared with young subjects) with decreased task-independent functional connectivity between parahippocampal gyrus and prefrontal cortex. In this network, task-related connectivity was increased compared with young subjects, and the degree of connectivity was related to memory performance. In contrast, older individuals with A deposition showed no such increased task-related network connectivity, but did display increased regional activity unassociated with performance. These findings suggest that network connectivity plays a significant role in compensating for reduced regional activity during successful memory encoding in aging without A deposition, while in those with A this network compensation fails and is accompanied by inefficient regional hyperactivation.
Oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells of the CNS, exquisitely tailor the thickness of individual myelin sheaths to the diameter of their target axons to maximize the speed of action potential propagation, thus ensuring proper neuronal connectivity and function. Following demyelinating injuries to the adult CNS, newly formed oligodendrocytes frequently generate new myelin sheaths. Following episodes of demyelination such as those that occur in patients with multiple sclerosis, however, the matching of myelin thickness to axon diameter fails leaving remyelinated axons with thin myelin sheaths potentially compromising function and leaving axons vulnerable to damage. How oligodendrocytes determine the appropriate thickness of myelin for an axon of defined size during repair is unknown and identifying the signals that regulate myelin thickness has obvious therapeutic implications. Here, we show that sustained activation of extracellular-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) in oligodendrocyte lineage cells results in accelerated myelin repair after injury, and is sufficient for the generation of thick myelin sheaths around remyelinated axons in the adult mouse spinal cord. Our findings suggest a model where ERK1/2 MAP kinase signaling acts as a myelin thickness rheostat that instructs oligodendrocytes to generate axon-appropriate quantities of myelin.
One of the more enduring mysteries of neuroscience is how the visual system constructs robust maps of the world that remain stable in the face of frequent eye movements. Here we show that encoding the position of objects in external space is a relatively slow process, building up over hundreds of milliseconds. We display targets to which human subjects saccade after a variable preview duration. As they saccade, the target is displaced leftwards or rightwards, and subjects report the displacement direction. When subjects saccade to targets without delay, sensitivity is poor; but if the target is viewed for 300-500 ms before saccading, sensitivity is similar to that during fixation with a strong visual mask to dampen transients. These results suggest that the poor displacement thresholds usually observed in the &quot;saccadic suppression of displacement&quot; paradigm are a result of the fact that the target has had insufficient time to be encoded in memory, and not a result of the action of special mechanisms conferring saccadic stability. Under more natural conditions, trans-saccadic displacement detection is as good as in fixation, when the displacement transients are masked.
The transcription factor, FosB, is robustly and persistently induced in striatum by several chronic stimuli, such as drugs of abuse, antipsychotic drugs, natural rewards, and stress. However, very few studies have examined the degree of FosB induction in the two striatal medium spiny neuron (MSN) subtypes. We make use of fluorescent reporter BAC transgenic mice to evaluate induction of FosB in dopamine receptor 1 (D1) enriched and dopamine receptor 2 (D2) enriched MSNs in ventral striatum, nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and core, and in dorsal striatum (dStr) after chronic exposure to several drugs of abuse including cocaine, ethanol, (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, and opiates; the antipsychotic drug, haloperidol; juvenile enrichment; sucrose drinking; calorie restriction; the serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor antidepressant, fluoxetine; and social defeat stress. Our findings demonstrate that chronic exposure to many stimuli induces FosB in an MSN-subtype selective pattern across all three striatal regions. To explore the circuit-mediated induction of FosB in striatum, we use optogenetics to enhance activity in limbic brain regions that send synaptic inputs to NAc; these regions include the ventral tegmental area and several glutamatergic afferent regions: medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and ventral hippocampus. These optogenetic conditions lead to highly distinct patterns of FosB induction in MSN subtypes in NAc core and shell. Together, these findings establish selective patterns of FosB induction in striatal MSN subtypes in response to chronic stimuli and provide novel insight into the circuit-level mechanisms of FosB induction in striatum.
Hormone peptide tyrosine-tyrosine (PYY) is secreted into circulation from the gut L-endocrine cells in response to food intake, thus inducing satiation during interaction with its preferred receptor, Y2R. Clinical applications of systemically administered PYY for the purpose of reducing body weight were compromised as a result of the common side effect of visceral sickness. We describe here a novel approach of elevating PYY in saliva in mice, which, although reliably inducing strong anorexic responses, does not cause aversive reactions. The augmentation of salivary PYY activated forebrain areas known to mediate feeding, hunger, and satiation while minimally affecting brainstem chemoreceptor zones triggering nausea. By comparing neuronal pathways activated by systemic versus salivary PYY, we identified a metabolic circuit associated with Y2R-positive cells in the oral cavity and extending through brainstem nuclei into hypothalamic satiety centers. The discovery of this alternative circuit that regulates ingestive behavior without inducing taste aversion may open the possibility of a therapeutic application of PYY for the treatment of obesity via direct oral application.
Isolated focal dystonia is a neurological disorder that manifests as repetitive involuntary spasms and/or aberrant postures of the affected body part. Craniocervical dystonia involves muscles of the eye, jaw, larynx, or neck. The pathophysiology is unclear, and effective therapies are limited. One mechanism for increased muscle activity in craniocervical dystonia is loss of inhibition involving the trigeminal sensory nuclear complex (TSNC). The TSNC is tightly integrated into functionally connected regions subserving sensorimotor control of the neck and face. It mediates both excitatory and inhibitory reflexes of the jaw, face, and neck. These reflexes are often aberrant in craniocervical dystonia, leading to our hypothesis that the TSNC may play a central role in these particular focal dystonias. In this review, we present a hypothetical extended brain network model that includes the TSNC in describing the pathophysiology of craniocervical dystonia. Our model suggests the TSNC may become hyperexcitable due to loss of tonic inhibition by functionally connected motor nuclei such as the motor cortex, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. Disordered sensory input from trigeminal nerve afferents, such as aberrant feedback from dystonic muscles, may continue to potentiate brainstem circuits subserving craniocervical muscle control. We suggest that potentiation of the TSNC may also contribute to disordered sensorimotor control of face and neck muscles via ascending and cortical descending projections. Better understanding of the role of the TSNC within the extended neural network contributing to the pathophysiology of craniocervical dystonia may facilitate the development of new therapies such as noninvasive brain stimulation.
Rhesus monkeys underwent training in a contrast discrimination task, in which grating stimuli were presented at parafoveal and peripheral visual field locations. Subjects had to compare a sample stimulus that had a fixed contrast of 30% to a test stimulus that varied in contrast from trial to trial. Extensive practice yielded improvements in contrast discrimination that were observed across the full range of test stimulus contrasts. These improvements occurred across multiple sessions, as well as across trials within individual sessions. The finer the contrast discriminations required, the longer it took for subjects to improve. Improvements in psychophysical performance resulted in the steepening of psychometric functions and/or shifts in the point of subjective equality towards the contrast of the sample stimulus. Enhancement in discrimination was especially pronounced around the contrast level of the sample stimulus, to which the subject was consistently exposed. The changes resulted in increased accuracy overall, lower discrimination thresholds, and faster response times. Partial transfer of learning, from vertically oriented training stimuli to horizontally oriented testing stimuli, was observed, while transfer to stimuli with different spatial frequencies was less pronounced. The results demonstrate the existence of perceptual learning in the contrast domain, whereby learning affects multiple performance-related psychophysical metrics.
Viewers can recognize the gist of a scene (i.e., its holistic semantic representation, such as its category) in less time than a single fixation, and backward masking has traditionally been employed as a means to determine that time course. The masks used in those paradigms are often characterized by either specific amplitude spectra only, or amplitude and phase spectra-defined structural properties. However, it remains unclear whether there would be a differential contribution of amplitude only or amplitude + phase defined image statistics to the effective backward masking of rapid scene categorization. The current study addresses this issue. Experiments 1-3 explored amplitude spectra defined contributions to category masking and revealed that the slope of the amplitude spectrum was more important for modulating scene category masking strength than amplitude orientation. Further, the masking effects followed an &quot;amplitude spectrum slope similarity principle&quot; whereby the more similar the amplitude spectrum slope of the mask was to the target's amplitude spectrum slope, the stronger the masking. Experiment 5 showed that, when holding mask amplitude spectrum slope approximately constant, both categorically specific unrecognizable amplitude only and amplitude + phase statistical regularities disrupted rapid scene categorization. Specifically, the masking effects observed in Experiment 5 followed a target-mask categorical dissimilarity principle whereby the more dissimilar the mask category is to the target image category, the stronger the masking. Overall, the results support the notion that amplitude only or amplitude + phase-defined image statistics differentially contribute to the effective backward masking of rapid scene gist recognition.
Selective visual attention is subserved by selective neuronal synchronization, entailing precise orchestration among excitatory and inhibitory cells. We tentatively identified these as broad (BS) and narrow spiking (NS) cells and analyzed their synchronization to the local field potential in two macaque monkeys performing a selective visual attention task. Across cells, gamma phases scattered widely but were unaffected by stimulation or attention. During stimulation, NS cells lagged BS cells on average by 60 and gamma synchronized twice as strongly. Attention enhanced and reduced the gamma locking of strongly and weakly activated cells, respectively. During a prestimulus attentional cue period, BS cells showed weak gamma synchronization, while NS cells gamma-synchronized as strongly as with visual stimulation. These analyses reveal the cell-type-specific dynamics of the gamma cycle in macaque visual cortex and suggest that attention affects neurons differentially depending on cell type and activation level.
The mammalian neocortex is a highly interconnected network of different types of neurons organized into both layers and columns. Overlaid on this structural organization is a pattern of functional connectivity that can be rapidly and flexibly altered during behavior. Parvalbumin-positive (PV+) inhibitory neurons, which are implicated in cortical oscillations and can change neuronal selectivity, may play a pivotal role in these dynamic changes. We found that optogenetic activation of PV+ neurons in the auditory cortex enhanced feedforward functional connectivity in the putative thalamorecipient circuit and in cortical columnar circuits. In contrast, stimulation of PV+ neurons induced no change in connectivity between sites in the same layers. The activity of PV+ neurons may thus serve as a gating mechanism to enhance feedforward, but not lateral or feedback, information flow in cortical circuits. Functionally, it may preferentially enhance the contribution of bottom-up sensory inputs to perception.
Lateral habenula (LHb) neurons convey aversive and negative reward conditions through potent indirect inhibition of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons. Although VTA dopaminergic neurons reciprocally project to the LHb, the electrophysiological properties and the behavioral consequences associated with selective manipulations of this circuit are unknown. Here, we identify an inhibitory input to the LHb arising from a unique population of VTA neurons expressing dopaminergic markers. Optogenetic activation of this circuit resulted in no detectable dopamine release in LHb brain slices. Instead, stimulation produced GABA-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission, which suppressed the firing of postsynaptic LHb neurons in brain slices and increased the spontaneous firing rate of VTA dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Furthermore, in vivo activation of this pathway produced reward-related phenotypes that were dependent on intra-LHb GABAA receptor signaling. These results suggest that noncanonical inhibitory signaling by these hybrid dopaminergic-GABAergic neurons act to suppress LHb output under rewarding conditions.
Locomotion is controlled by spinal networks that generate rhythm and coordinate left-right and flexor-extensor patterning. Defined populations of spinal interneurons have been linked to patterning circuits; however, neurons comprising the rhythm-generating kernel have remained elusive. Here, we identify an ipsilaterally projecting excitatory interneuron population, marked by the expression of Shox2 that overlaps partially with V2a interneurons. Optogenetic silencing or blocking synaptic output of Shox2 interneurons (INs) in transgenic mice perturbed rhythm without an effect on pattern generation, whereas ablation of the Shox2 IN subset coinciding with the V2a population was without effect. Most Shox2 INs are rhythmically active during locomotion and analysis of synaptic connectivity showed that Shox2 INs contact other Shox2 INs, commissural neurons, and motor neurons,with preference for flexor motor neurons. Our findings focus attention on a subset of Shox2 INs that appearto participate in the rhythm-generating kernel for spinal locomotion.
Genomic tools have evolved with remarkable rapidity, but their clinical relevance and application have lagged behind. Now, consistent clinical applications have finally arrived and bring with them the promise of identifying the underlying causes of complex neurological disorders in a patient-specific manner.
The extinction of fear is believed to involve inhibitory processes in the amygdala. In this issue of Neuron, Trouche et al. (2013) show that basal amygdala neurons activated by fear conditioning are silenced by local inhibitory interneurons after extinction.
Reelin is a glycoprotein that is critical for proper layering of neocortex during development as well as dynamic regulation of glutamatergic postsynaptic signaling in mature synapses. Here, we show that Reelin also acts presynaptically, resulting in robust rapid enhancement of spontaneous neurotransmitter release without affecting properties of evoked neurotransmission. This effect of Reelin requires a modest but significant increase in presynaptic Ca(2+) initiatedvia ApoER2 signaling. The specificity of Reelin actionon spontaneous neurotransmitter release is encodedat the level of vesicular SNARE machinery as it requires VAMP7 and SNAP-25 but not synaptobrevin2, VAMP4, or vti1a. These results uncover a presynaptic regulatory pathway that utilizes the heterogeneity ofsynaptic vesicle-associated SNAREs and selectively augments action potential-independent neurotransmission.
A more complete understanding of how fear extinction alters neuronal activity and connectivity within fear circuits may aid in the development of strategies to treat human fear disorders. Using a c-fos-based transgenic mouse, we found that contextual fear extinction silenced basal amygdala (BA) excitatory neurons that had been previously activated during fear conditioning. We hypothesized that the silencing of BA fear neurons was caused by an action of extinction on BA inhibitory synapses. In support of this hypothesis, we found extinction-induced target-specific remodeling of BA perisomatic inhibitory synapses originating from parvalbumin and cholecystokinin-positive interneurons. Interestingly, the predicted changes in the balance of perisomatic inhibition matched the silent and active states of the target BA fear neurons. These observations suggest that target-specific changes in perisomatic inhibitory synapses represent a mechanism through which experience can sculpt the activation patterns within a neural circuit.
Drug-evoked synaptic plasticity in the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system reorganizes neural circuits that may lead to addictive behavior. The first cocaine exposure potentiates AMPAR excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) onto DA neurons of the VTA but reduces the amplitude of NMDAR-EPSCs. While plasticity of AMPAR transmission is expressed by insertion of calcium (Ca(2+))-permeable GluA2-lacking receptors, little is known about the expression mechanism for altered NMDAR transmission. Combining ex vivo patch-clamp recordings, mouse genetics, and subcellular Ca(2+) imaging, we observe that cocaine drives the insertion of NMDARs that are quasi-Ca(2+)-impermeable and contain GluN3A and GluN2B subunits. These GluN3A-containing NMDARs appear necessary for the expression of cocaine-evoked plasticity of AMPARs. We identify an mGluR1-dependent mechanism to remove these noncanonical NMDARs that requires Homer/Shank interaction and protein synthesis. Our data provide insight into the early cocaine-driven reorganization of glutamatergic transmission onto DA neurons and offer GluN3A-containing NMDARs as new targets in drug addiction.



Cyclic-nucleotide gated (CNG) channels are essential for phototransduction within retinal photoreceptors. We have demonstrated previously that the enzymatic activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9, members of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family of extracellular, Ca(2+)- and Zn(2+)-dependent proteases, enhances the ligand sensitivity of both rod (CNGA1 and CNGB1) and cone (CNGA3 and CNGB3) CNG channels. Additionally, we have observed a decrease in the maximal CNG channel current (Imax) that begins late during MMP-directed gating changes. Here we demonstrate that CNG channels become nonconductive after prolonged MMP exposure. Concurrent with the loss of conductive channels is the increased relative contribution of channels exhibiting nonmodified gating properties, suggesting the presence of a subpopulation of channels that are protected from MMP-induced gating effects. CNGA subunits are known to possess one extracellular core glycosylation site, located at one of two possible positions within the turret loop near the pore-forming region. Our results indicate that CNGA glycosylation can impede MMP-dependent modification of CNG channels. Furthermore, the relative position of the glycosylation site within the pore turret influences the extent of MMP-dependent proteolysis. Glycosylation at the site found in CNGA3 subunits was found to be protective, while glycosylation at the bovine CNGA1 site was not. Relocating the glycosylation site in CNGA1 to the position found in CNGA3 recapitulated CNGA3-like protection from MMP-dependent processing. Taken together, these data indicate that CNGA glycosylation may protect CNG channels from MMP-dependent proteolysis, consistent with MMP modification of channel function having a requirement for physical access to the extracellular face of the channel.

Zolpidem produces paradoxical recovery of speech, cognitive and motor functions in select subjects with severe brain injury but underlying mechanisms remain unknown. In three diverse patients with known zolpidem responses we identify a distinctive pattern of EEG dynamics that suggests a mechanistic model. In the absence of zolpidem, all subjects show a strong low frequency oscillatory peak 6-10 Hz in the EEG power spectrum most prominent over frontocentral regions and with high coherence (0.7-0.8) within and between hemispheres. Zolpidem administration sharply reduces EEG power and coherence at these low frequencies. The 6-10 Hz activity is proposed to arise from intrinsic membrane properties of pyramidal neurons that are passively entrained across the cortex by locally-generated spontaneous activity. Activation by zolpidem is proposed to arise from a combination of initial direct drug effects on cortical, striatal, and thalamic populations and further activation of underactive brain regions induced by restoration of cognitively-mediated behaviors. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01157.001.

Decades of research have established a model that includes the medial temporal lobe, and particularly the hippocampus, as a critical node for episodic memory. Neuroimaging and clinical studies have shown the involvement of additional cortical and subcortical regions. Among these areas, the thalamus, the retrosplenial cortex, and the prefrontal cortices have been consistently related to episodic memory performance. This article provides evidences that these areas are in different forms and degrees critical for human memory function rather than playing only an ancillary role. First we briefly summarize the functional architecture of the medial temporal lobe with respect to recognition memory and recall. We then focus on the clinical and neuroimaging evidence available on thalamo-prefrontal and thalamo-retrosplenial networks. The role of these networks in episodic memory has been considered secondary, partly because disruption of these areas does not always lead to severe impairments; to account for this evidence, we discuss methodological issues related to the investigation of these regions. We propose that these networks contribute differently to recognition memory and recall, and also that the memory stage of their contribution shows specificity to encoding or retrieval in recall tasks. We note that the same mechanisms may be in force when humans perform non-episodic tasks, e.g., semantic retrieval and mental time travel. Functional disturbance of these networks is related to cognitive impairments not only in neurological disorders, but also in psychiatric medical conditions, such as schizophrenia. Finally we discuss possible mechanisms for the contribution of these areas to memory, including regulation of oscillatory rhythms and long-term potentiation. We conclude that integrity of the thalamo-frontal and the thalamo-retrosplenial networks is necessary for the manifold features of episodic memory.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal paralytic disorder characterized by the progressive and selective loss of both upper and lower motoneurons. The neurodegenerative process is accompanied by a sustained inflammation in the brain and spinal cord. The neuron-immune interaction, implicating resident microglia of the central nervous system and blood-derived immune cells, is highly dynamic over the course of the disease. Here, we discuss the timely controlled neuroprotective and neurotoxic cues that are provided by the immune environment of motoneurons and their potential therapeutic applications for ALS.
This essay introduces a neurologically-informed mathematical model of collective action (CA) that reveals the role for empathy and distress in motivating costly helping behaviors. We report three direct tests of model with a key focus on the neuropeptide oxytocin as well as a variety of indirect tests. These studies, from our lab and other researchers, show support for the model. Our findings indicate that empathic concern, via the brain's release of oxytocin, is a trigger for CA. We discuss the implications from this model for our understanding why human beings engage in costly CA.


In the adult mammalian brain, newly generated neurons are continuously incorporated into two networks: interneurons born in the subventricular zone migrate to the olfactory bulb, whereas the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus integrates locally born principal neurons. That the rest of the mammalian brain loses significant neurogenic capacity after the perinatal period suggests that unique aspects of the structure and function of DG and olfactory bulb circuits allow them to benefit from the adult generation of neurons. In this review, we consider the distinctive features of the DG that may account for it being able to profit from this singular form of neural plasticity. Approaches to the problem of neurogenesis are grouped as &quot;bottom-up,&quot; where the phenotype of adult-born granule cells is contrasted to that of mature developmentally born granule cells, and &quot;top-down,&quot; where the impact of altering the amount of neurogenesis on behavior is examined. We end by considering the primary implications of these two approaches and future directions.





Mounting evidence supports the notion that gangliosides serve regulatory roles in neurogenesis; little is known, however, about how these glycosphingolipids function in neural stem cell (NSC) fate determination. We previously demonstrated that ganglioside GD3 is a major species in embryonic mouse brain: more than 80% of the NSCs obtained by the neurosphere method express GD3. To investigate the functional role of GD3 in neurogenesis, we compared the properties of NSCs from GD3-synthase knockout (GD3S-KO) mice with those from their wild-type littermates. NSCs from GD3S-KO mice showed decreased self-renewal ability compared with those from the wild-type animals, and that decreased ability was accompanied by reduced expression of EGF receptor (EGFR) and an increased degradation rate of EGFR and EGF-induced ERK signaling. We also showed that EGFR switched from the low-density lipid raft fractions in wild-type NSCs to the high-density layers in the GD3S-KO NSCs. Immunochemical staining revealed colocalization of EGFR and GD3, and EGFR could be immunoprecipitated from the NSC lysate with an anti-GD3 antibody from the wild-type, but not from the GD3S-KO, mice. Tracking the localization of endocytosed EGFR with endocytosis pathway markers indicated that more EGFR in GD3S-KO NSCs translocated through the endosomal-lysosomal degradative pathway, rather than through the recycling pathway. Those findings support the idea that GD3 interacts with EGFR in the NSCs and that the interaction is responsible for sustaining the expression of EGFR and its downstream signaling to maintain the self-renewal capability of NSCs.
Opitz syndrome (OS) is a genetic neurological disorder. The gene responsible for the X-linked form of OS, Midline-1 (MID1), encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates the degradation of the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2Ac). However, how Mid1 functions during neural development is largely unknown. In this study, we provide data from in vitro and in vivo experiments suggesting that silencing Mid1 in developing neurons promotes axon growth and branch formation, resulting in a disruption of callosal axon projections in the contralateral cortex. In addition, a similar phenotype of axonal development was observed in the Mid1 knockout mouse. This defect was largely due to the accumulation of PP2Ac in Mid1-depleted cells as further down-regulation of PP2Ac rescued the axonal phenotype. Together, these data demonstrate that Mid1-dependent PP2Ac turnover is important for normal axonal development and that dysregulation of this process may contribute to the underlying cause of OS.
Treatment of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mice with the estrogen receptor (ER)  ligand diarylpropionitrile (DPN) has been shown to have neuroprotective effects via stimulation of endogenous myelination. The direct cellular mechanisms underlying the effects of this ER ligand on the central nervous system are uncertain because different cell types in both the peripheral immune system and central nervous system express ERs. ER is the target molecule of DPN because DPN treatment fails to decrease EAE clinical symptoms in global ER-null mice. Here we investigated the potential role of ER expression in cells of oligodendrocyte (OL) lineage in ER ligand-mediated neuroprotection. To this end, we selectively deleted ER in OLs using the well-characterized Cre-loxP system for conditional gene knockout (CKO) in mice. The effects of this ER CKO on ER ligand-mediated neuroprotective effects in chronic EAE mice were investigated. ER CKO in OLs prevented DPN-induced decrease in EAE clinical disease. DPN treatment during EAE did not attenuate demyelination, only partially improved axon conduction, and did not activate the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/serine-threonine-specific protein kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling pathway in ER CKO mice. However, DPN treatment significantly increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in ER CKO mice. These findings demonstrate that signaling through ER in OLs is essential for the beneficial myelination effects of the ER ligand DPN in chronic EAE mice. Further, these findings have important implications for neuroprotective therapies that directly target OL survival and myelination.
Epigenetic modifications of chromatin represent a fundamental mechanism by which eukaryotic cells adapt their transcriptional response to developmental and environmental cues. Although an increasing number of molecules have been linked to epigenetic changes, the intracellular pathways that lead to their activation/repression have just begun to be characterized. Here, we demonstrate that inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 1 (IP6K1), the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the high-energy inositol pyrophosphates (IP7), is associated with chromatin and interacts with Jumonji domain containing 2C (JMJD2C), a recently identified histone lysine demethylase. Reducing IP6K1 levels by RNAi or using mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from ip6k1(-/-) knockout mice results in a decreased IP7 concentration that epigenetically translates to reduced levels of trimethyl-histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3) and increased levels of acetyl-H3K9. Conversely, expression of IP6K1 induces JMJD2C dissociation from chromatin and increases H3K9me3 levels, which depend on IP6K1 catalytic activity. Importantly, these effects lead to changes in JMJD2C-target gene transcription. Our findings demonstrate that inositol pyrophosphate signaling influences nuclear functions by regulating histone modifications.
Expanded hexanucleotide repeats in the chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) gene are the most common genetic cause of ALS and frontotemporal degeneration (FTD). Here, we identify nuclear RNA foci containing the hexanucleotide expansion (GGGGCC) in patient cells, including white blood cells, fibroblasts, glia, and multiple neuronal cell types (spinal motor, cortical, hippocampal, and cerebellar neurons). RNA foci are not present in sporadic ALS, familial ALS/FTD caused by other mutations (SOD1, TDP-43, or tau), Parkinson disease, or nonneurological controls. Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are identified that reduce GGGGCC-containing nuclear foci without altering overall C9orf72 RNA levels. By contrast, siRNAs fail to reduce nuclear RNA foci despite marked reduction in overall C9orf72 RNAs. Sustained ASO-mediated lowering of C9orf72 RNAs throughout the CNS of mice is demonstrated to be well tolerated, producing no behavioral or pathological features characteristic of ALS/FTD and only limited RNA expression alterations. Genome-wide RNA profiling identifies an RNA signature in fibroblasts from patients with C9orf72 expansion. ASOs targeting sense strand repeat-containing RNAs do not correct this signature, a failure that may be explained, at least in part, by discovery of abundant RNA foci with C9orf72 repeats transcribed in the antisense (GGCCCC) direction, which are not affected by sense strand-targeting ASOs. Taken together, these findings support a therapeutic approach by ASO administration to reduce hexanucleotide repeat-containing RNAs and raise the potential importance of targeting expanded RNAs transcribed in both directions.
Snakes and their relationships with humans and other primates have attracted broad attention from multiple fields of study, but not, surprisingly, from neuroscience, despite the involvement of the visual system and strong behavioral and physiological evidence that humans and other primates can detect snakes faster than innocuous objects. Here, we report the existence of neurons in the primate medial and dorsolateral pulvinar that respond selectively to visual images of snakes. Compared with three other categories of stimuli (monkey faces, monkey hands, and geometrical shapes), snakes elicited the strongest, fastest responses, and the responses were not reduced by low spatial filtering. These findings integrate neuroscience with evolutionary biology, anthropology, psychology, herpetology, and primatology by identifying a neurobiological basis for primates' heightened visual sensitivity to snakes, and adding a crucial component to the growing evolutionary perspective that snakes have long shaped our primate lineage.
The cellular organization of the cortex is of fundamental importance for elucidating the structural principles that underlie its functions. It has been suggested that reconstructing the structure and synaptic wiring of the elementary functional building block of mammalian cortices, the cortical column, might suffice to reverse engineer and simulate the functions of entire cortices. In the vibrissal area of rodent somatosensory cortex, whisker-related &quot;barrel&quot; columns have been referred to as potential cytoarchitectonic equivalents of functional cortical columns. Here, we investigated the structural stereotypy of cortical barrel columns by measuring the 3D neuronal composition of the entire vibrissal area in rat somatosensory cortex and thalamus. We found that the number of neurons per cortical barrel column and thalamic &quot;barreloid&quot; varied substantially within individual animals, increasing by 2.5-fold from dorsal to ventral whiskers. As a result, the ratio between whisker-specific thalamic and cortical neurons was remarkably constant. Thus, we hypothesize that the cellular architecture of sensory cortices reflects the degree of similarity in sensory input and not columnar and/or cortical uniformity principles.


Some everyday objects are associated with a particular color, such as bananas, which are typically yellow. Behavioral studies show that perception of these so-called color-diagnostic objects is influenced by our knowledge of their typical color, referred to as memory color. However, neural representations of memory colors are unknown. Here we investigated whether memory color can be decoded from visual cortex activity when color-diagnostic objects are viewed as grayscale images. We trained linear classifiers to distinguish patterns of fMRI responses to four different hues. We found that activity in V1 allowed predicting the memory color of color-diagnostic objects presented in grayscale in naive participants performing a motion task. The results imply that higher areas feed back memory-color signals to V1. When classifiers were trained on neural responses to some exemplars of color-diagnostic objects and tested on others, areas V4 and LOC also predicted memory colors. Representational similarity analysis showed that memory-color representations in V1 were correlated specifically with patterns in V4 but not LOC. Our findings suggest that prior knowledge is projected from midlevel visual regions onto primary visual cortex, consistent with predictive coding theory.

Excessive glutamate signaling is thought to underlie neurodegeneration in multiple contexts, yet the pro-degenerative signaling pathways downstream of glutamate receptor activation are not well defined. We show that dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK) is essential for excitotoxicity-induced degeneration of neurons in vivo. In mature neurons, DLK is present in the synapse and interacts with multiple known postsynaptic density proteins including the scaffolding protein PSD-95. To examine DLK function in the adult, DLK-inducible knockout mice were generated through Tamoxifen-induced activation of Cre-ERT in mice containing a floxed DLK allele, which circumvents the neonatal lethality associated with germline deletion. DLK-inducible knockouts displayed a modest increase in basal synaptic transmission but had an attenuation of the JNK/c-Jun stress response pathway activation and significantly reduced neuronal degeneration after kainic acid-induced seizures. Together, these data demonstrate that DLK is a critical upstream regulator of JNK-mediated neurodegeneration downstream of glutamate receptor hyper-activation and represents an attractive target for the treatment of indications where excitotoxicity is a primary driver of neuronal loss.


The way we perceive an object depends both on feedforward, bottom-up processing of its physical stimulus properties and on top-down factors such as attention, context, expectation, and task relevance. Here we compared neural activity elicited by varying perceptions of the same physical image--a bistable moving image in which perception spontaneously alternates between dissociated fragments and a single, unified object. A time-frequency analysis of EEG changes associated with the perceptual switch from object to fragment and vice versa revealed a greater decrease in alpha (8-12 Hz) accompanying the switch to object percept than to fragment percept. Recordings of event-related potentials elicited by irrelevant probes superimposed on the moving image revealed an enhanced positivity between 184 and 212 ms when the probes were contained within the boundaries of the perceived unitary object. The topography of the positivity (P2) in this latency range elicited by probes during object perception was distinct from the topography elicited by probes during fragment perception, suggesting that the neural processing of probes differed as a function of perceptual state. Two source localization algorithms estimated the neural generator of this object-related difference to lie in the lateral occipital cortex, a region long associated with object perception. These data suggest that perceived objects attract attention, incorporate visual elements occurring within their boundaries into unified object representations, and enhance the visual processing of elements occurring within their boundaries. Importantly, the perceived object in this case emerged as a function of the fluctuating perceptual state of the viewer.




The neurobiological mechanisms modulating stress may share common pathways with appetite regulation and consequent obesity. The orexigenic hormone, ghrelin may moderate anxiety and stress-related eating behavior. This study was designed to investigate humoral (ghrelin, cortisol) and psychological/behavioral characteristics (subjective hunger, anxiety, and stress; eating behavior; coping ability) among obese subjects in a fasting state and after eating a standard meal. Subjects included 18 obese but otherwise healthy adult women. Subjects were divided into two groups based on the relative direction of ghrelin response to a standard meal. A meal mediated suppression in serum ghrelin (post/pre&lt;.94) was defined as a normal ghrelin response (NG) (n=9) and failure to suppress (post/pre&gt;1.0) was designated as faulty ghrelin response (FG) (n=9). Ghrelin and cortisol responses were correlated, r(18)=0.558, p=.016. FG subjects had lower ratings of coping ability [t(2,16)=2.437, p=.027 and higher ratings of hunger cues in the expected direction [t(2,16)=-2.061, p=.056] compared to NG subjects. Meal mediated declines in subjective hunger were observed for both NG [t(1,8)=4.141, p=.003] and FG [t(1,8)=2.718, p=.026]. NG also showed declines in subjective anxiety [t(1,8)=2.977, p=.018], subjective stress [t(1,8)=2.321, p=.049], and cortisol [t(1,8)=4.214, p=.003]. In conclusion, changes in ghrelin, cortisol and selected psychological and behavioral indices are closely associated with one another suggesting that ghrelin may influence stress related eating and thus, the consequent observed relationship among stress, mood and obesity.
Calcium influx through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels is critical for many neuronal processes required for learning and memory. Persistent increases in cytosolic intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations in aging neurons are associated with learning impairments, while small transient subcellular changes in intracellular calcium concentrations play critical roles in neural plasticity in young neurons. In the present study, young male and female Fisher 344  Brown Norway (FBN) hybrid rats were administered different doses of magnesium chloride (0.0, 100.0, or 200.0mg/kg, i.p.) following a single inhibitory avoidance training trial. Extracellular magnesium ions can non-specifically block voltage-gated calcium channels, and/or reduce the calcium conductance gated via glutamate and serine's activation of neuronal NMDA receptors. In our study, magnesium chloride dose-dependently enhanced memory compared to controls (significantly increased latency to enter a dark compartment previously paired with an aversive stimulus) when tested 48 h later as compared to controls. A leftward shift in the dose response curve for memory enhancement by magnesium chloride was observed for male compared to female rats. These findings provide further insights into calcium-dependent modulation of aversive memory, and should be considered when assessing the design of effective treatment options for both male and female patients with dementia or other memory problems.
To identify genes involved in the development/expression of anxiety/fear, we analyzed the gene expression profile in the hippocampus of genetically heterogeneous NIH-HS rats. The NIH-HS rat stock is a unique genetic resource for the fine mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) to very small genomic regions, due to the high amount of genetic recombinants accumulated along more than 50 breeding generations, and for the same reason it can be expected that those genetically heterogeneous rats should be especially useful for studying differential gene expression as a function of anxiety, fearfulness or other complex traits. We selected high- and low-anxious NIH-HS rats according to the number of avoidance responses they performed in a single 50-trial session of the two-way active avoidance task. Rats were also tested in unconditioned anxiety/fearfulness tests, i.e. the elevated zero-maze and a &quot;novel-cage activity&quot; test. Three weeks after behavioral testing, the hippocampus was dissected and prepared for the microarray study. There appeared 29 down-regulated and 37 up-regulated SNC-related genes (fold-change&gt;|2.19|, FDR&lt;0.05) in the &quot;Low-anxious&quot; vs. the &quot;High-anxious&quot; group. Regression analyses (stepwise) revealed that differential expression of some genes could be predictive of anxiety/fear responses. Among those genes for which the present results suggest a link with individual differences in trait anxiety, nine relevant genes (Avpr1b, Accn3, Cd74, Ltb, Nrg2, Oprdl1, Slc10a4, Slc5a7 and RT1-EC12), tested for validation through qRT-PCR, have either neuroendocrinological or neuroinmunological/inflammation-related functions, or have been related with the hippocampal cholinergic system, while some of them have also been involved in the modulation of anxiety or stress-related (neurobiological and behavioral) responses (i.e. Avpr1b, Oprdl1). The present work confirms the usefulness of NIH-HS rats as a good animal model for research on the neurogenetic basis or mechanisms involved in anxiety and/or fear, and suggest that some MHC-(neuroinmunological/inflammation)-related pathways, as well as the cholinergic system within the hippocampus, may play a role in shaping individual differences in trait anxiety.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a crucial regulator of neuronal survival and neuroplasticity in the central nervous system (CNS). As a result, there has been a growing interest in the role of BDNF in neuropsychiatric disorders associated with neurodegeneration, including depression and dementia. However, until now, BDNF-targeting therapies have yielded disappointing results. BDNF is thought to exert its beneficial effects on synaptic and neuronal plasticity mainly through binding to the tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) receptor. Recently, 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (7,8-DHF) was identified as the first selective TrkB agonist. In the present study the effect of 7,8-DHF on memory consolidation processes was evaluated. In healthy rats, 7,8-DHF improved object memory formation in the object recognition task when administered both immediately and 3h after learning. In a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, i.e. APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, spatial memory as measured in the object location task was improved after administration of 7,8-DHF. A similar memory improvement was found when their wild-type littermates were treated with 7,8-DHF. The acute beneficial effects in healthy mice suggest that effects might be symptomatic rather than curing. Nevertheless, this study suggests that 7,8-DHF might be a promising therapeutic target for dementia.

New findings show that neurotrophic and antidepressant effects of 5-HT in brain can, in part, be mediated by activation of the 5-HT1A receptor protomer in the hippocampal and raphe FGFR1-5-HT1A heteroreceptor complexes enhancing the FGFR1 signaling. The dynamic agonist modulation of the FGFR1-5-HT1A heteroreceptor complexes and their recruitment of -arrestin is now determined in cellular models with focus on its impact on 5-HT1AR and FGFR1 homodimerization in the heteroreceptor complexes based on BRET(2) assays. The findings show that coagonist treatment with 8-OH-DPAT and FGF2 but not treatment with the 5-HT1A agonist alone markedly increases the BRETmax values and significantly reduces the BRET50 values of 5HT1A homodimerization. The effects of FGF2 or FGF20 with or without the 5-HT1A agonist were also studied on the FGFR1 homodimerization of the heteroreceptor complexes. FGF2 produced a marked and rapid increase in FGFR1 homodimerization which partially declined over a 10min period. Cotreatment with FGF2 and 5-HT1A agonist blocked this decline in FGFR1 homodimerization. Furthermore, FGF2 alone produced a small increase in the BRET(2) signal from the 5-HT1A--arrestin2 receptor-protein complex which was additive to the marked effect of 8-OH-DPAT alone. Taken together, the participation of 5-HT1A and FGFR1 homodimers and recruitment of -arrestin2 was demonstrated in the FGFR1-5-HT1A heteroreceptor complexes upon agonist treatments.
A cluster of phosphorylation sites in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2), including Ser910, Ser935, Ser955 and Ser973, is important for PD (Parkinson's disease) pathogenesis as several PD-linked LRRK2 mutants are dephosphorylated at these sites. LRRK2 is also dephosphorylated in cells after pharmacological inhibition of its kinase activity, which is currently proposed as a strategy for disease-modifying PD therapy. Despite this importance of LRRK2 dephosphorylation in mutant LRRK2 pathological mechanism(s) and in LRRK2's response to inhibition, the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. Therefore we aimed to identify the phosphatase for LRRK2. Using a panel of recombinant phosphatases, we found that PP1 (protein phosphatase 1) efficiently dephosphorylates LRRK2 in vitro. PP1 activity on LRRK2 dephosphorylation was confirmed in cells using PP1 inhibition to reverse LRRK2 dephosphorylation induced by the potent LRRK2 kinase inhibitor LRRK2-IN1 as well as in R1441G mutant LRRK2. We also found that PP1 and LRRK2 can form a complex in cells. Furthermore, we observed that PP1 inhibition modulates LRRK2's cellular phenotype by reducing skein-like LRRK2-positive structures associated with dephosphorylation. In conclusion, the present study reveals PP1 as the physiological LRRK2 phosphatase, responsible for LRRK2 dephosphorylation observed in PD mutant LRRK2 and after LRRK2 kinase inhibition.
Prefrontal glutamate release evoked through activation of 42* nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) situated on thalamic glutamatergic afferents mediates cue detection processes and thus contributes to attentional performance. However, little is known about the respective contributions of the high sensitivity and low sensitivity (LS) stoichiometries of the 42 nAChR, (4)2(2)3 and (4)3(2)2, to these processes. In the present study we employed glutamate-sensitive microelectrodes and the (4)3(2)2-selective positive allosteric modulator (PAM) NS9283 to investigate the importance of the LS 42 nAChR for glutamate release in the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Firstly, the signaling evoked by physiologically relevant ACh concentrations through the (4)3(2)2 nAChR in HEK293 cells was potentiated by NS9283, consistent with the classification of NS9283 as a PAM. In urethane-anesthetized rats, intra-prefrontal pressure ejections of NS9283 evoked glutamatergic transients. Importantly, this glutamate release was attenuated by removal of cholinergic projections to the recording area. This finding indicates that the effects of NS9283 depend on endogenous ACh, again consistent with effects of a PAM. We then conducted microdialysis to demonstrate the presence of extracellular ACh in urethane-anesthetized control rats. While detectable, those levels were significantly lower than in awake rats. Finally, the amplitudes of glutamatergic transients evoked by local pressure ejections of a low concentration of nicotine were significantly augmented following systemic administration of NS9283 (3.0mg/kg). In conclusion, our results indicate that a LS 42 nAChR PAM such as NS9283 may enhance the cholinergic modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the cortex, thereby perhaps alleviating the attentional impairments common to a range of brain disorders.




Herein we report the discovery and SAR of a novel series of SARS-CoV 3CLpro inhibitors identified through the NIH Molecular Libraries Probe Production Centers Network (MLPCN). In addition to ML188, ML300 represents the second probe declared for 3CLpro from this collaborative effort. The X-ray structure of SARS-CoV 3CLpro bound with a ML300 analog highlights a unique induced-fit reorganization of the S2-S4 binding pockets leading to the first sub-micromolar noncovalent 3CLpro inhibitors retaining a single amide bond.
A glyoxalase inhibitor was synthesized and tested against Staphylococcus aureus for first time and showed MIC90 of 20 g/ml. Henceforth, we synthesized unnatural azide derivative of the same inhibitor to improve the biological activity. In that order, an azide carboxylate was synthesized from dimethyl tartrate by tosylation and azide substitution. The synthesized, azide compound was coupled with glutathione derivative in high yield and tested against S. aureus and showed improved MIC90 of 5 g/ml. In general, it can be also easily converted to unnatural -amino acid in good yield. The shown methodology will be extended to study induced suicide in Burkholderia mallei, Francisella tularensis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis in future.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a major unsolved health problem. Most drugs that pass preclinical tests fail in these patients, emphasizing the need of improved preclinical models to test novel anticancer strategies. Here, we developed four orthotopic mouse models using primary human PDAC cells genetically engineered to express firefly- and Gaussia luciferase, simplifying the ability to monitor tumor growth and metastasis longitudinally in individual animals with MRI and high-frequency ultrasound. In these models, we conducted detailed histopathologic and immunohistochemical analyses on paraffin-embedded pancreatic tissues and metastatic lesions in liver, lungs, and lymph nodes. Genetic characteristics were compared with the originator tumor and primary tumor cells using array-based comparative genomic hybridization, using frozen specimens obtained by laser microdissection. Notably, the orthotopic human xenografts in these models recapitulated the phenotype of human PDACs, including hypovascular and hypoxic areas. Pursuing genomic and immunohistochemical evidence revealed an increased copy number and overexpression of c-Met in one of the models; we examined the preclinical efficacy of c-Met inhibitors in vitro and in vivo. In particular, we found that crizotinib decreased tumor dimension, prolonged survival, and increased blood and tissue concentrations of gemcitabine, synergizing with a cytidine deaminase-mediated mechanism of action. Together, these more readily imaged orthotopic PDAC models displayed genetic, histopathologic, and metastatic features similar to their human tumors of origin. Moreover, their use pointed to c-Met as a candidate therapeutic target in PDAC and highlighted crizotinib and gemcitabine as a synergistic combination of drugs warranting clinical evaluation for PDAC treatment.


Chronic stress exposure and resulting dysregulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis develops susceptibility to variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Agmatine, a putative neurotransmitter has been reported to be released in response to various stressful stimuli to maintain the homeostasis. Present study investigated the role of agmatine on chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) induced behavioral and biochemical alteration in mice. Exposure of mice to CUMS protocol for 28 days resulted in diminished performance in sucrose preference test, splash test, forced swim test and marked elevation in plasma corticosterone levels. Chronic agmatine (5 and10 mg/kg, ip, once daily) treatment started on day-15 and continued till the end of the CUMS protocol significantly increased sucrose preference, improved self-care and motivational behavior in the splash test and decreased duration of immobility in the forced swim test. Agmatine treatment also normalized the elevated corticosterone levels and prevented the body weight changes in chronically stressed animals. The pharmacological effect of agmatine was comparable to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine (10mg/kg, ip). Results of present study clearly demonstrated the anti-depressant like effect of agmatine in chronic unpredictable mild stress induced depression in mice. Thus the development of drugs based on brain agmatinergic modulation may represent a new potential approach for the treatment of stress related mood disorders like depression.
Inhibitors of the metabolism of the endogenous cannabinoid ligand anandamide by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) reduce the gastric damage produced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and synergise with them in experimental pain models. This motivates the design of compounds with joint FAAH/cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitory activity. Here we present data on the N-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)amide derivatives of flurbiprofen and naproxen (Flu-AM1 and Nap-AM1, respectively) with respect to their properties towards these two enzymes. Flu-AM1 and Nap-AM1 inhibited FAAH-catalysed hydrolysis of [(3)H]anandamide by rat brain homogenates with IC50 values of 0.44 and 0.74 M. The corresponding values for flurbiprofen and naproxen were 29 and &gt;100 M, respectively. The inhibition by Flu-AM1 was reversible, mixed-type, with K(i)slope and K(i)intercept values of 0.21 and 1.4 M, respectively. Flurbiprofen and Flu-AM1 both inhibited COX in the same manner with the order of potencies COX-2 vs. 2-arachidonoylglycerol&gt;COX-1 vs. arachidonic acid&gt;COX-2 vs. arachidonic acid with flurbiprofen being approximately 2-3 fold more potent than Flu-AM1 in the assays. Nap-AM1 was a less potent inhibitor of COX. Flu-AM1 at low micromolar concentrations inhibited the FAAH-driven uptake of [(3)H]anandamide into RBL2H3 basophilic leukaemia cells in vitro, but did not penetrate the brain in vivo sufficiently to block the binding of [(18)F]DOPP to brain FAAH. It is concluded that Flu-AM1 is a dual-action inhibitor of FAAH and COX that may be useful in exploring the optimal balance of effects on these two enzyme systems in producing peripheral alleviation of pain and inflammation in experimental models.


Disruption to axonal transport is an early pathological feature in Alzheimer's disease. The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a key axonal transport cargo in Alzheimer's disease since perturbation of its transport increases APP processing and production of amyloid- peptide (A) that is deposited in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. APP is transported anterogradely through axons on kinesin-1 motors. One favoured route for attachment of APP to kinesin-1 involves the scaffolding protein c-Jun N-terminal kinase-interacting protein-1 (JIP1), which has been shown to bind both APP and kinesin-1 light chain (KLC). However, direct experimental evidence to support a role of JIP1 in APP transport is lacking. Notably, the effect of loss of JIP1 on movement of APP through axons of living neurons, and the impact of such loss on APP processing and A production has not been reported. To address these issues, we monitored how siRNA mediated loss of JIP1 influenced transport of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-tagged APP through axons and production of endogenous A in living neurons. Surprisingly, we found that knockdown of JIP1 did not affect either APP transport or A production. These results have important implications for our understanding of APP trafficking in Alzheimer's disease.

The aim of this paper is to describe patients' attitudes towards tele-rehabilitation in the Danish TELEKAT (for Telehomecare, Chronic Patients and the Integrated Healthcare System) project, in order to better understand patients' behavior when performing tele-rehabilitation activities in home surroundings. A total of 111 COPD patients were included in the study, and they were randomized into an intervention group (n = 60) and a control group (n = 51). However, a non-randomized design was used to analyze the qualitative perspectives of the patients' attitudes towards tele-rehabilitation. From the intervention group, 22 COPD patients were selected for qualitative interviews and participant observation in their homes. The theoretical framework for this study is based on learning theory and the &quot;communities of practice&quot; approach inspired by Etienne Wenger. COPD patients exhibit four types of attitudes about their tele-rehabilitation: indifference, learning as part of situations in everyday life, feeling of security and motivation for performing physical training. The patients express the view that they circulate between these attitudes depending on their physical and emotional state as they perform their training. The COPD patients and healthcare professionals have created a community of tele-rehabilitation across sectors, exchanging experiences, stories and strategies for how to manage rehabilitation in home surroundings.
Aggregated Tau proteins are hallmarks of Alzheimer disease and other tauopathies. Recent studies from our group and others have demonstrated that both active and passive immunizations reduce Tau pathology and prevent cognitive decline in transgenic mice. To determine the efficacy and safety of targeting the prominent 396/404 region, we developed two novel monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) with distinct binding profiles for phospho and non-phospho epitopes. The two mAbs significantly reduced hyperphosphorylated soluble Tau in long term brain slice cultures without apparent toxicity, suggesting the therapeutic importance of targeting the 396/404 region. In mechanistic studies, we found that neurons were the primary cell type that internalized the mAbs, whereas a small amount of mAbs was taken up by microglia cells. Within neurons, the two mAbs were highly colocalized with distinct pathological Tau markers, indicating their affinity toward different stages or forms of pathological Tau. Moreover, the mAbs were largely co-localized with endosomal/lysosomal markers, and partially co-localized with autophagy pathway markers. Additionally, the Fab fragments of the mAbs were able to enter neurons, but unlike the whole antibodies, the fragments were not specifically localized in pathological neurons. In summary, our Tau mAbs were safe and efficient to clear pathological Tau in a brain slice model. Fc-receptor-mediated endocytosis and the endosome/autophagosome/lysosome system are likely to have a critical role in antibody-mediated clearance of Tau pathology.

T cells have an essential role in the induction of multiple sclerosis and its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although for CD4(+) T cells it is well established that they contribute to the disease, less is known about the role of CD8(+) T cells. Our aim was to determine the individual contribution of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55-induced EAE. We investigated MOG35-55-activated CD8(+) T cells to clarify their potential to induce or attenuate EAE. We monitored the behavior of CD8(+) T cells and their interaction with CD4(+) T cells directly at the site of inflammation in the CNS using intravital imaging of the brainstem of EAE-affected living anesthetized mice. We found that mice without CD4(+) T cells did not develop relevant clinical signs of disease, although CD8(+) T cells were present in the CNS of these mice. These CD8(+) T cells displayed reduced motility compared with those in the presence of CD4(+) T cells. In mice that harbored CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, we saw a similar extent of clinical signs of EAE as in mice with only CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, the dynamic motility and viability of CD4(+) T cells were not disturbed by CD8(+) T cells in the lesions of these mice. Therefore, we conclude that in MOG35-55-induced EAE, CD8(+) T cell accumulation in the CNS represents instead an epiphenomenon with no impact on clinical disease or on the effects of CD4(+) T cells, the latter being the true inducers of the disease.
We investigated the impact of disease duration, clinical course and immunosuppressive therapy on intrathecal IgG synthesis in multiple sclerosis (MS). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained twice, 8-10 years apart, from 20 MS patients and 26 healthy controls, and from 22 MS patients before and after two years of mitoxantrone treatment. The oligoclonal IgG band patterns changed in 15 patients at long-term follow-up, but were only influenced in 4 patients by mitoxantrone therapy. The CSF B-cell-regulating chemokine CXCL13 correlated with intrathecal IgG production suggesting a B-cell-dependence of intrathecal IgG synthesis in MS.

MS susceptibility is comprised of both genetic and environmental factors and it has become increasingly clear that these interact. The major histocompatiblity complex is the major site of the interactions which determine MS risk.


Neuronal circuits exhibiting seizure episodes have been shown to be prone to multistability. The coexistence of normal and pathological regimes could explain why seizures suddenly start and stop. Methods developed in dynamical systems theory are powerful tools for determining the cellular mechanisms that underlie multistable seizure dynamics. Here, we present two different approaches to assess multistability in a model neuron. In this model, we identified a bursting regime and a silent regime. First, we investigated properties of a square pulse of injected current which produced a switch from seizure-like bursting into silence. By systematically varying the phase and amplitude of the pulse, we found contiguous pulse parameter sets, so-called windows, that satisfied this criterion, and we determined the dependence of these windows on the parameter gleak. As gleak increased, the size of each window scaled according to the same law as the amplitude of the saddle orbit. Second, we examined the role of each current in supporting bistability of bursting and silence. We defined the index of propensity for multistability as the range of gleak for which bursting and silence coexisted. We computed this quantity while iteratively varying the maximal conductance of each voltage-gated current one at a time. Increasing the maximal conductance of the slow potassium current or the hyperpolarization-activated current increased the range of bistability. In contrast, decreasing the maximal conductance of the persistent sodium current increased the range of bistability.
Body 'ownership' defines which things belong to us and can be manipulated by signals from cutaneous or muscle receptors. Whether signals from muscle proprioceptors on their own influence perceived ownership is unknown. We used finger-joint movement to induce illusory ownership of an artificial finger without vision. We coupled the subject's index finger to an artificial finger 12 cm above it. The experimenter held the subject's other index finger and thumb on the artificial finger and passively moved them congruently or incongruently for 3 min with the index finger and the grasping index finger and thumb intact or anaesthetised. When intact, congruent movement (19 subjects) reduced perceived vertical distance between index fingers to 1.0 (0.0, 2.0) cm [median (IQR)] from 3.0 (3.0, 4.0) cm with incongruent movement (P &lt; 0.01). Simply grasping the artificial finger reduced perceived spacing between the grasping and test index fingers from 6.0 (5.0, 9.0) cm to 3.0 (3.0, 6.0) cm (P &lt; 0.01), a new grasp illusion. Digital anaesthesia eliminated this grasp effect, after which congruent movement still reduced the perceived spacing between the index fingers to 1.0 (0.0, 2.75) cm compared to 4.0 (3.25, 6.0) cm with incongruent movement (P &lt; 0.001). Subjects more strongly agreed that they were holding their own finger after congruent but not incongruent movement (P &lt; 0.01). We propose that the brain generates possible scenarios and tests them against available sensory information. This process can function without vision or motor commands, and with only one channel of somatic information.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is a common medically refractory neurological disease. Deep brain electrical stimulation (DBS) of grey matter has been used for MTLE with limited success. However, stimulation of a white matter tract connecting the hippocampi, the ventral hippocampal commissure (VHC), with low frequencies that simulate interictal discharges has shown promising results, with seizure reduction greater than 98% in bilateral hippocampi during stimulation and greater than 50% seizure reduction in bilateral hippocampi after treatment. A major hurdle to the implementation and optimization of this treatment is that the mechanisms of seizure reduction by low frequency electrical stimulation (LFS) are not known. The goal of this study is to understand how commissural fibre tract stimulation reduces bilateral hippocampal epileptic activity in an in vitro slice preparation containing bilateral hippocampi connected by the VHC. It is our hypothesis that electrical stimuli induce hyperpolarization lasting hundreds of milliseconds following each pulse which reduces spontaneous epileptic activity during each inter-stimulus interval (ISI). Stimulus-induced long-lasting-hyperpolarization (LLH) can be mediated by GABA(B) inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) or slow after-hyperpolarization (sAHP). To test the role of LLH in effective bilateral seizure reduction by fibre tract stimulation, we measured stimulus-induced hyperpolarization during LFS of the VHC using electrophysiology techniques. Antagonism of the GABA(B) IPSP and/or sAHP diminished stimulus-induced hyperpolarization concurrently with LFS efficacy (greater than 50% reduction). Blocking both the GABA(B) IPSP and sAHP simultaneously eliminated the effect of electrical stimulation on seizure reduction entirely. These data show that LFS of the VHC is an effective protocol for bilateral hippocampal seizure reduction and that its efficacy relies on the induction of long-lasting hyperpolarization mediated through GABA(B) IPSPs and sAHP. Based on this study, optimization of the timing of LFS and LFS-induced-LLH may lead to improved outcomes from DBS treatments for human epilepsy.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) and their interaction partners of the stomatin family have all been implicated in sensory transduction. Single gene deletion of asic3, asic2, stomatin, or stoml3 all result in deficits in the mechanosensitivity of distinct cutaneous afferents in the mouse. Here, we generated asic3(-/-):stomatin(-/-), asic3(-/-):stoml3(-/-) and asic2(-/-):stomatin(-/-) double mutant mice to characterize the functional consequences of stomatin-ASIC protein interactions on sensory afferent mechanosensitivity. The absence of ASIC3 led to a clear increase in mechanosensitivity in rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors (RAMs) and a decrease in the mechanosensitivity in both A- and C-fibre nociceptors. The increased mechanosensitivity of RAMs could be accounted for by a loss of adaptation which could be mimicked by local application of APETx2 a toxin that specifically blocks ASIC3. There is a substantial loss of mechanosensitivity in stoml3(-/-) mice in which 35% of the myelinated fibres lack a mechanosensitive receptive field and this phenotype was found to be identical in asic3(-/-):stoml3(-/-) mutant mice. However, A-nociceptors showed much reduced mechanosensitivity in asic3(-/-):stoml3(-/-) mutant mice compared to asic3(-/)(-) controls. Interestingly, in asic2(-/-):stomatin(-/-) mutant mice many A-nociceptors completely lost their mechanosensitivity which was not observed in asic2(-/-) or stomatin(-/-) mice. Examination of stomatin(-/-):stoml3(-/-) mutant mice indicated that a stomatin/STOML3 interaction is unlikely to account for the greater A-nociceptor deficits in double mutant mice. A key finding from these studies is that the loss of stomatin or STOML3 in asic3(-/-) or asic2(-/-) mutant mice markedly exacerbates deficits in the mechanosensitivity of nociceptors without affecting mechanoreceptor function.
The main objective of this review is to re-examine the type of information transmitted by the dorsal and ventral spinocerebellar tracts (DSCT and VSCT respectively) during rhythmic motor actions such as locomotion. Based on experiments in the 1960s and 1970s, the DSCT was viewed as a relay of peripheral sensory input to the cerebellum in general, and during rhythmic movements such as locomotion and scratch. In contrast, the VSCT was seen as conveying a copy of the output of spinal neuronal circuitry, including those circuits generating rhythmic motor activity (the spinal central pattern generator, CPG). Emerging anatomical and electrophysiological information on the putative subpopulations of DSCT and VSCT neurons suggest differentiated functions for some of the subpopulations. Multiple lines of evidence support the notion that sensory input is not the only source driving DSCT neurons and, overall, there is a greater similarity between DSCT and VSCT activity than previously acknowledged. Indeed the majority of DSCT cells can be driven by spinal CPGs for locomotion and scratch without phasic sensory input. It thus seems natural to propose the possibility that CPG input to some of these neurons may contribute to distinguishing sensory inputs that are a consequence of the active locomotion from those resulting from perturbations in the external world.
The group of nuclei within the basal ganglia of the forebrain is central to the control of movement. We present data showing that the structure and function of the basal ganglia have been conserved throughout vertebrate evolution over some 560 million years. The interaction between the different nuclei within the basal ganglia is conserved as well as the cellular and synaptic properties and transmitters. We consider the role of the conserved basal ganglia circuitry for basic patterns of motor behaviour controlled via brainstem circuits. The output of the basal ganglia consists of tonically active GABAergic neurones, which target brainstem motor centres responsible for different patterns of behaviour, such as eye and locomotor movements, posture, and feeding. A prerequisite for activating or releasing a motor programme is that this GABAergic inhibition is temporarily reduced. This can be achieved through activation of GABAergic projection neurons from striatum, the input level of the basal ganglia, given an appropriate synaptic drive from cortex, thalamus and the dopamine system. The tonic inhibition of the motor centres at rest most likely serves to prevent the different motor programmes from becoming active when not intended. Striatal projection neurones are subdivided into one group with dopamine 1 receptors that provides increased excitability of the direct pathway that can initiate movements, while inhibitory dopamine 2 receptors are expressed on neurones that instead inhibit movements and are part of the 'indirect loop' in mammals as well as lamprey. We review the evidence showing that all basic features of the basal ganglia have been conserved throughout vertebrate phylogeny, and discuss these findings in relation to the role of the basal ganglia in selection of behaviour.
The phosphatase and tensin homolog detected on chromosome 10 (PTEN) gene product modulates activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway. The PI3K pathway has been found to be involved in the regulation of the fragile X mental retardation protein, which is important for long-term depression and in the formation of new memories. We used delayed fear conditioning and trace fear conditioning to determine learning and memory deficits in neuron subset-specific Pten (NS-Pten) conditional knockout (KO) mice. We found that NS-Pten KO mice had deficits in contextual learning and trace conditioning, but did not have deficits in the ability to learn a conditioned stimulus. Furthermore, we found increased levels in the total and phosphorylated forms of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) in the hippocampus of NS-Pten KO mice.
During the last decade there has been increasing use of artificial intelligence tools in nanotechnology research. In this paper we review some of these efforts in the context of interpreting scanning probe microscopy, the study of biological nanosystems, the classification of material properties at the nanoscale, theoretical approaches and simulations in nanoscience, and generally in the design of nanodevices. Current trends and future perspectives in the development of nanocomputing hardware that can boost artificial-intelligence-based applications are also discussed. Convergence between artificial intelligence and nanotechnology can shape the path for many technological developments in the field of information sciences that will rely on new computer architectures and data representations, hybrid technologies that use biological entities and nanotechnological devices, bioengineering, neuroscience and a large variety of related disciplines.

Neurophysiological studies have reported functional network alterations in epilepsy, most consistently in the theta frequency band. Highly interconnected brain regions (so-called 'hubs') seem to be important in these epileptic networks. High frequency oscillations (HFOs) in intracranial EEG recordings are recently discovered biomarkers that can identify the epileptogenic area and are thought to result from altered neuronal interactions. We studied whether the epileptogenic zone (identified by HFOs and seizure onset zone) is associated with pathological hubs. Bilateral depth electrode recordings from the hippocampus and amygdala were available from twelve patients suspected of temporal lobe epilepsy. HFOs, classified as ripples (80-250 Hz) and fast ripples (250-500 Hz), and epileptiform spikes were marked for all patients in a five-minute epoch of slow-wave sleep. For each channel, we computed hub-measures from a period without epileptiform spikes and found that the epileptogenic zone was associated with a decreased hub-value in the theta frequency band. The amount of HFOs, especially fast ripples, was negatively correlated with the hub-value per channel. Results from post-hoc analyses of other frequency bands, particularly the broad- and gamma frequency band, pointed in the same direction as the results for the theta frequency band. These findings suggest a pathological functional 'isolation' of the epileptogenic zone in the interictal state.
In the motion aftereffect (MAE), adapting to a moving stimulus causes a subsequently presented stationary stimulus to appear to move in the opposite direction. Recently, the neural basis of the motion aftereffect has received considerable interest, and a number of brain areas have been implicated in the generation of the illusory motion. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging in combination with multivariate pattern classification to directly compare the neural activity evoked during the observation of both real and illusory motions. We show that the perceived illusory motion is not encoded in the same way as real motion in the same direction. Instead, suppression of the adapted direction of motion results in a shift of the population response of motion sensitive neurons in area MT+, resulting in activation patterns that are in fact more similar to real motion in orthogonal, rather than opposite directions. Although robust motion selectivity was observed in visual areas V1, V2, V3, and V4, this MAE-specific modulation of the population response was only observed in area MT+. Implications for our understanding of the motion aftereffect, and models of motion perception in general, are discussed.
We frequently need to change our current occupation, an operation requiring additional effortful cognitive demands. Switching from one task to another may involve two distinct processes: inhibition of the previously relevant task-set, and initiation of a new one. Here we tested whether these two processes are underpinned by separate neural substrates, and whether they differ depending on the nature of the task and the emotional content of stimuli. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy human volunteers who categorize emotional faces according to three different judgment rules (color, gender, or emotional expression). Our paradigm allowed us to separate neural activity associated with inhibition and switching based on the sequence of the tasks required on successive trials. We found that the bilateral medial superior parietal lobule and left intraparietal sulcus showed consistent activation during switching regardless of the task. On the other hand, no common region was activated (or suppressed) as a consequence of inhibition across all tasks. Rather, task-specific effects were observed in brain regions that were more activated when switching to a particular task but less activated after inhibition of the same task. In addition, compared to other conditions, the emotional task elicited a similar switching cost but lower inhibition cost, accompanied by selective decrease in the anterior cingulate cortex when returning to this task shortly after inhibiting it. These results demonstrate that switching relies on domain-general processes mediated by postero-medial parietal areas, engaged across all tasks, but also provide novel evidence that task inhibition produces domain-specific decreases as a function of particular task demands, with only the latter inhibition component being modulated by emotional information.
Mechanistic understandings of forms of incidental emotion regulation have implications for basic and translational research in the affective sciences. In this study we applied Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM) for fMRI to a common paradigm of labeling facial affect to elucidate prefrontal to subcortical influences. Four brain regions were used to model affect labeling, including right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC), amygdala and Broca's area. 64 models were compared, for each of 45 healthy subjects. Family level inference split the model space to a likely driving input and Bayesian Model Selection within the winning family of 32 models revealed a strong pattern of endogenous network connectivity. Modulatory effects of labeling were most prominently observed following Bayesian Model Averaging, with the dampening influence on amygdala originating from Broca's area but much more strongly from right vlPFC. These results solidify and extend previous correlation and regression-based estimations of negative corticolimbic coupling.
Both sleep deprivation and extended task engagement (time-on-task) have been shown to degrade performance in tasks evaluating sustained attention. Here we used pulsed arterial spin labeling (pASL) to study participants engaged in a demanding selective attention task. The participants were imaged twice, once after a normal night of sleep and once after approximately 24h of total sleep deprivation. We compared task-related changes in BOLD signal alongside ASL-based cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes. We also collected resting baseline CBF data prior to and following task performance. Both BOLD fMRI and ASL identified spatially congruent task activation in ventral visual cortex and fronto-parietal regions. Sleep deprivation and time-on-task caused a decline of both measures in ventral visual cortex. BOLD fMRI also revealed such declines in fronto-parietal cortex. Only early visual cortex showed a significant upward shift in resting baseline CBF following sleep deprivation, suggesting that the neural consequences of both SD and ToT are primarily evident in task-evoked signals. We conclude that BOLD fMRI is preferable to pASL in studies evaluating sleep deprivation given its better signal to noise characteristics and the relative paucity of state differences in baseline CBF.
This study examined the reproducibility of prefrontal-hippocampal connectivity estimates obtained by stochastic dynamic causal modeling (sDCM). 180 healthy subjects were measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a standard working memory N-Back task at three different sites (Mannheim, Bonn, Berlin; each with 60 participants). The reproducibility of regional activations in key regions for working memory (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, DLPFC; hippocampal formation, HF) was evaluated using conjunction analyses across locations. These analyses showed consistent activation of right DLPFC and deactivation of left HF across all three different sites. The effective connectivity between DLPFC and HF was analyzed using a simple two-region sDCM. For each subject, we evaluated sixty-seven alternative sDCMs and compared their relative plausibility using Bayesian model selection (BMS). Across all locations, BMS consistently revealed the same winning model, with the 2-Back working memory condition as driving input to both DLPFC and HF and with a connection from DLPFC to HF. Statistical tests on the sDCM parameter estimates did not show any significant differences across the three sites. The consistency of both the BMS results and model parameter estimates indicates the reliability of sDCM in our paradigm. This provides a basis for future genetic and clinical studies using this approach.
While tinnitus can be interpreted as a simple or elementary form of auditory phantom perception, musical hallucinosis is a more complex auditory phantom phenomenon not only limited to sound perception, but also containing semantic and musical content. It most often occurs in association with hearing loss. To elucidate the relation between simple and complex auditory phantom percepts a source localized electroencephalography (EEG) study is performed. The analyses showed in both simple and complex auditory phantoms an increase in theta-gamma activity and coupling within the auditory cortex that could be associated with the thalamocortical dysrhythmia model. Furthermore increased beta activity within the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula is demonstrated, that might be related to auditory awareness, salience and its attribution to an external sound source. The difference between simple and complex auditory phantoms relies on differential alpha band activity within the auditory cortex and on beta activity in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and (para)hippocampal area. This could be related to memory based load dependency, while suppression within the primary visual cortex might be due the presence of a continuous auditory cortex activation inducing an inhibitory signal to the visual system. Complex auditory phantoms further activate the right inferior frontal area (right sided Broca homolog) and right superior temporal pole that might be associated with the musical content. In summary, this study showed for the first time that simple and complex auditory phantoms might share a common neural substrate but differ as complex auditory phantoms are associated with activation in brain areas related to music and language processing.
Electrophysiological and micro-stimulation studies in non-human animal species indicated that the superior colliculus (SC) plays a role in the control of upper limb movements. In our previous work we found reach-related signals in the deep superior colliculus in humans. Here we show that also signals in more dorsal locations are correlated with the execution of arm movements. We instructed healthy participants to reach for visual targets either presented in the left or in the right visual hemifield during an fMRI measurement. Visual stimulation was dissociated from movement execution using a pro- and anti-reaching task. Thereby, we successfully differentiated between signals at these locations induced by the visual input of target presentations on the one hand and by the execution of arm movements on the other hand. Extending our previous report, the results of this study are in good agreement with the observed anatomical distribution of reach-related neurons in macaques. Obviously, reach-related signals can be found across a considerable depth range also in humans.
Neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the architecture of human intelligence, identifying a distributed network of brain structures that support goal-directed, intelligent behavior. However, the neural foundations of cognitive flexibility and adaptive aspects of intellectual function remain to be well characterized. Here, we report a human lesion study (n=149) that investigates the neural bases of key competencies of cognitive flexibility (i.e., mental flexibility and the fluent generation of new ideas) and systematically examine their contributions to a broad spectrum of cognitive and social processes, including psychometric intelligence (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), emotional intelligence (Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test), and personality (Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness Personality Inventory). Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain error-free indices of each factor, followed by voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. Regression analyses revealed that latent scores for psychometric intelligence reliably predict latent scores for cognitive flexibility (adjusted R(2)=0.94). Lesion mapping results further indicated that these convergent processes depend on a shared network of frontal, temporal, and parietal regions, including white matter association tracts, which bind these areas into an integrated system. A targeted analysis of the unique variance explained by cognitive flexibility further revealed selective damage within the right superior temporal gyrus, a region known to support insight and the recognition of novel semantic relations. The observed findings motivate an integrative framework for understanding the neural foundations of adaptive behavior, suggesting that core elements of cognitive flexibility emerge from a distributed network of brain regions that support specific competencies for human intelligence.
Auditory cortices can be separated into dissociable processing pathways similar to those observed in the visual domain. Emotional stimuli elicit enhanced neural activation within sensory cortices when compared to neutral stimuli. This effect is particularly notable in the ventral visual stream. Little is known, however, about how emotion interacts with dorsal processing streams, and essentially nothing is known about the impact of emotion on auditory stimulus localization. In the current study, we used fMRI in concert with individualized auditory virtual environments to investigate the effect of emotion during an auditory stimulus localization task. Surprisingly, participants were significantly slower to localize emotional relative to neutral sounds. A separate localizer scan was performed to isolate neural regions sensitive to stimulus location independent of emotion. When applied to the main experimental task, a significant main effect of location, but not emotion, was found in this ROI. A whole-brain analysis of the data revealed that posterior-medial regions of auditory cortex were modulated by sound location; however, additional anterior-lateral areas of auditory cortex demonstrated enhanced neural activity to emotional compared to neutral stimuli. The latter region resembled areas described in dual pathway models of auditory processing as the 'what' processing stream, prompting a follow-up task to generate an identity-sensitive ROI (the 'what' pathway) independent of location and emotion. Within this region, significant main effects of location and emotion were identified, as well as a significant interaction. These results suggest that emotion modulates activity in the 'what,' but not the 'where,' auditory processing pathway.
Previous evidence showed that spin-echo (SE) BOLD signals offer an increased linearity and promptness with respect to gradient-echo (GE) acquisition, possibly providing a more accurate estimate of the amplitude of neuronal activity. However there is no evidence that the two sequences differ in representing different activation levels due to changes in stimulus intensity. In this study at 3T we compared GE and SE BOLD responses to visual stimuli at increasing contrast levels (5%, 20%, 60%, and 100%). Both sequences showed a monotonic increase of the BOLD response with stimulus contrast. While the larger sensitivity of GE yielded overall larger signal changes, step-wise increase in activation for GE was significant only when comparing 20% with 5% contrast, whereas for SE a significant increase was observed also when comparing 60% with 20% contrast. Moreover, BOLD responses normalized to the lowest contrast showed that relative increases of SE fMRI signal with increasing stimulus strength are larger with respect to the corresponding values of GE signal. This difference was observed also when excluding voxels attributed to large vessels, suggesting a non negligible role of the extravascular contribution to the modulation of SE fMRI signal with stimulus intensity. These results are shown to be in agreement with theoretical predictions that we derived from a recently proposed model of GE and SE functional signals. The present findings suggest that, despite the limited increase in functional localization accuracy at low field, SE fMRI might offer a potential advantage in distinguishing different levels of stimulus-evoked brain activity.
Neuroimaging data is raw material for cognitive neuroscience experiments, leading to scientific knowledge about human neurological and psychological disease, language, perception, attention and ultimately, cognition. The structure of the variables used in the experimental design defines the structure of the data gathered in the experiments; this in turn structures the interpretative assertions that may be presented as experimental conclusions. Representing these assertions and the experimental data which support them in a computable way means that they could be used in logical reasoning environments, i.e. for automated meta-analyses, or linking hypotheses and results across different levels of neuroscientific experiments. Therefore, a crucial first step in being able to represent neuroimaging results in a clear, computable way is to develop representations for the scientific variables involved in neuroimaging experiments. These representations should be expressive, computable, valid, extensible, and easy-to-use. They should also leverage existing semantic standards to interoperate easily with other systems. We present an ontology design pattern called the Ontology of Experimental Variables and Values (OoEVV). This is designed to provide a lightweight framework to capture mathematical properties of data, with appropriate 'hooks' to permit linkage to other ontology-driven projects (such as the Ontology of Biomedical Investigations, OBI). We instantiate the OoEVV system with a small number of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging datasets, to demonstrate the system's ability to describe the variables of a neuroimaging experiment. OoEVV is designed to be compatible with the XCEDE neuroimaging data standard for data collection terminology, and with the Cognitive Paradigm Ontology (CogPO) for specific reasoning elements of neuroimaging experimental designs.
Allocation of attention during goal-directed behavior entails simultaneous processing of relevant and attenuation of irrelevant information. How the brain delegates such processes when confronted with dynamic (biological motion) stimuli and harnesses relevant sensory information for sculpting prospective responses remains unclear. We analyzed neuromagnetic signals that were recorded while participants attentively tracked an actor's pointing movement that ended at the location where subsequently the response-cue indicated the required response. We found the observers' spatial allocation of attention to be dynamically reflected in lateralized parieto-occipital alpha (8-12 Hz) activity and to have a lasting influence on motor preparation. Specifically, beta (16-25 Hz) power modulation reflected observers' tendency to selectively prepare for a spatially compatible response even before knowing the required one. We discuss the observed frequency-specific and temporally evolving neural activity within a framework of integrated visuomotor processing and point towards possible implications about the mechanisms involved in action observation.
Neuroimaging and the discipline of cognitive neuroscience have grown together in lock-step with each pushing the other toward an improved ability to explore and examine brain function and form. However successful neuroimaging and the examination of cognitive processes may seem today, the culture of data sharing in these fields remains underdeveloped. In this article, we discuss our own experience in the development of the fMRI Data Center (fMRIDC) - a large-scale effort to gather, curate, and openly share the complete data sets from published research articles of brain activation studies using fMRI. We outline the fMRIDC effort's beginnings, how it operated, note some of the sociological reactions we received, and provide several examples of prominent new studies performed using data drawn from the archive. Finally, we provide comment on what considerations are needed for successful neuroimaging databasing and data sharing as existing and emerging efforts take the next steps in archiving and disseminating the field's valuable and irreplaceable data.
Over a decade ago, the fMRI Data Center (fMRIDC) pioneered open-access data sharing in the task-based functional neuroimaging community. Well ahead of its time, the fMRIDC effort encountered logistical, sociocultural and funding barriers that impeded the field-wise instantiation of open-access data sharing. In 2009, ambitions for open-access data sharing were revived in the resting state functional MRI community in the form of two grassroots initiatives: the 1000 Functional Connectomes Project (FCP) and its successor, the International Neuroimaging Datasharing Initiative (INDI). Beyond providing open access to thousands of clinical and non-clinical imaging datasets, the FCP and INDI have demonstrated the feasibility of large-scale data aggregation for hypothesis generation and testing. Yet, the success of the FCP and INDI should not be confused with widespread embracement of open-access data sharing. Reminiscent of the challenges faced by fMRIDC, key controversies persist and include participant privacy, the role of informatics, and the logistical and cultural challenges of establishing an open science ethos. We discuss the FCP and INDI in the context of these challenges, highlighting the promise of current initiatives and suggesting solutions for possible pitfalls.

Vitamin B12 deficiency causes a wide range of hematological, gastrointestinal, psychiatric and neurological disorders. Hematological presentation of cobalamin deficiency ranges from the incidental increase of mean corpuscular volume and neutrophil hypersegmentation to symptoms due to severe anemia, such as angor, dyspnea on exertion, fatigue or symptoms related to congestive heart failure, such as ankle edema, orthopnea and nocturia. Neuropsychiatric symptoms may precede hematologic signs and are represented by myelopathy, neuropathy, dementia and, less often, optic nerve atrophy. The spinal cord manifestation, subacute combined degeneration (SCD), is characterized by symmetric dysesthesia, disturbance of position sense and spastic paraparesis or tetraparesis. The most consistent MRI finding is a symmetrical abnormally increased T2 signal intensity confined to posterior or posterior and lateral columns in the cervical and thoracic spinal cord. Isolated peripheral neuropathy is less frequent, but likely overlooked. Vitamin B12 deficiency has been correlated negatively with cognitive functioning in healthy elderly subjects. Symptoms include slow mentation, memory impairment, attention deficits and dementia. Optic neuropathy occurs occasionally in adult patient. It is characterized by symmetric, painless and progressive visual loss. Parenteral replacement therapy should be started soon after the vitamin deficiency has been established.
In rats, considerable differences in the social consequences of acute ethanol are seen across ontogeny, with adolescents being more sensitive to low dose ethanol-induced social facilitation and less sensitive to the social inhibition evident at higher ethanol doses relative to adults. Stressor exposure induces social anxiety-like behavior, indexed via decreases in social preference, and alters responsiveness to the social consequences of acute ethanol by enhancing ethanol-associated social facilitation and anxiolysis regardless of age. Given that substantial ontogenetic differences in the social consequences of ethanol are evident even within the adolescent period, the present study was designed to investigate whether similar stress-associated alterations in social behavior and ethanol responsiveness are evident in early and late adolescents. Juvenile-early adolescent [postnatal days (P) 24-28] and mid-late adolescent (P38-42) male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were repeatedly restrained (90 min/day) for 5 days, followed by examination of ethanol-induced (0, 0.25, 0.5, or 1.0 g/kg) alterations in social behaviors on the last day. Responsiveness to restraint stress in terms of both stress-induced behavioral alterations and stress-associated changes in sensitivity to the social consequences of acute ethanol challenge differed drastically at the two ages. Repeated restraint increased anxiety-like behavior in a social context in older adolescents, whereas previously stressed young adolescent males showed substantial increases in play fighting - an effect of stress not evident in P28 females or P42 adolescents of either sex. Unexpectedly, repeated restraint eliminated sensitivity to ethanol-induced social facilitation in P28 adolescent males and made their female counterparts less sensitive to this effect. In contrast, previously stressed late adolescents became sensitive to the socially facilitating and anxiolytic effects of acute ethanol.

Ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) were first isolated over a century ago and have been shown to be catalytic toxins that irreversibly inactivate protein synthesis. Elucidation of atomic structures and molecular mechanism has revealed these proteins to be a diverse group subdivided into two classes. RIPs have been shown to exhibit RNA N-glycosidase activity and depurinate the 28S rRNA of the eukaryotic 60S ribosomal subunit. In this review, we compare archetypal RIP family members with other potent toxins that abolish protein synthesis: the fungal ribotoxins which directly cleave the 28S rRNA and the newly discovered Burkholderia lethal factor 1 (BLF1). BLF1 presents additional challenges to the current classification system since, like the ribotoxins, it does not possess RNA N-glycosidase activity but does irreversibly inactivate ribosomes. We further discuss whether the RIP classification should be broadened to include toxins achieving irreversible ribosome inactivation with similar turnovers to RIPs, but through different enzymatic mechanisms.
Acetylcholinesterase is a critical enzyme that regulates neurotransmission by degrading the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in synapses of the nervous system. It is an important target for both therapeutic drugs that treat Alzheimer's disease and chemical warfare agents that cripple the nervous system and cause death through paralysis. The enzyme has both catalytic and peripheral sites to which inhibitors may bind. Structures of recombinant human acetylcholinesterase in complex with the natural product inhibitors dihydrotanshinone I and territrem B reveal dihydrotanshinone I binding that is specific to only the peripheral site and territrem B binding that spans both sites and distorts the protein backbone in the peripheral site. These inhibitors may function as important molecular templates for therapeutics used for treatment of disease and protection against nerve agents.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid beta (A) that is assumed to result from impaired elimination of this neurotoxic peptide. Most patients with AD also exhibit cerebral amyloid angiopathy, which consists of A deposition within the cerebral vasculature. The contribution of monocytes in AD has so far been limited to macrophage precursors. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether circulating monocytes could play a role in the elimination of A. With live intravital two-photon microscopy, we demonstrate that patrolling monocytes are attracted to and crawl onto the luminal walls of A-positive veins, but not on A-positive arteries or A-free blood vessels. Additionally, we report the presence of crawling monocytes carrying A in veins and their ability to circulate back into the bloodstream. Selective removal of Ly6C(lo) monocytes in APP/PS1 mice induced a significant increase of A load in the cortex and hippocampus. These data uncover the ability of Ly6C(lo) monocytes to naturally target and eliminate A within the lumen of veins and constitute a potential therapeutic target in AD.
Successful memory involves not only remembering information over time, but also keeping memories distinct and less confusable. The computational process for making representations for similar input patterns more distinct from each other has been referred to as &quot;pattern separation.&quot; In this work, we developed a set of behavioral conditions that allowed us to manipulate the load for pattern separation at different stages of memory. Thus, we provide experimental evidence that a brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-dependent pattern separation process occurs during the encoding/storage/consolidation, but not the retrieval stage of memory processing. We also found that a spontaneous increase in BDNF in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is associated with exposure to landmarks delineating similar, but not dissimilar, spatial locations, suggesting that BDNF is expressed on an &quot;as-needed&quot; basis for pattern separation.

Childhood Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a growing mental health concern worldwide. Effective, accessible and low-cost therapeutics for the disorder are urgently needed. Here we introduce a novel internet-based cognitive training intervention: Online Neuroplasticity-based Training for the Remediation of ADHD in Children (ONTRAC). The intervention is deployed in the home setting; it is customized to the cognitive capacities of each child and progressively improves performance in the specific neuro-cognitive domains deficient in ADHD. A feasibility trial of ONTRAC is being conducted in a resource limited clinical setting in New Delhi, India and is an exemplar of hi-tech global psychiatry.
The occupancy of the orthosteric ligand binding sites of P2X receptor (P2XR) channels causes the rapid opening of a small cation-permeable pore, followed by a gradual dilation that renders the pore permeable to large organic cations. Electrophysiologically, this phenomenon was shown using whole-cell current recording on P2X2R-, P2X2/X5R-, P2X4R- and P2X7R-expressing cells that were bathed in N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG(+))-containing buffers in the presence and/or absence of small monovalent and divalent cations. The pore dilation of P2X4R and P2X7R caused a secondary current growth, whereas that of P2X2R showed a sustained kinetic coupling of dilation and desensitization, leading to receptor channel closure. The pore size of the P2X7R open and dilated states was estimated to be approximately 0.85 nm and greater than 1 nm, respectively. The P2XR pore dilation was also observed in intact cells by measurement of fluorescent dye uptake/release, application of polyethylene glycols of different sizes, and atomic force microscopy. However, pore dilation was not observed at the single channel level. Structural data describing the dilated state are not available, and the relevance of orthosteric and allosteric ligand interactions to pore dilation was not studied.

Our development of PDE10A inhibitors began with an HTS screening hit (1) that exhibited both high p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux ratios in rat and human and poor metabolic stability. On the basis of cocrystal structure of 1 in human PDE10A enzyme, we designed a novel keto-benzimidazole 26 with comparable PDE10A potency devoid of efflux liabilities. On target in vivo coverage of PDE10A in rat brain was assessed using our previously reported LC-MS/MS receptor occupancy (RO) technology. Compound 26 achieved 55% RO of PDE10A at 30 mg/kg po and covered PDE10A receptors in rat brain in a dose-dependent manner. Cocrystal structure of 26 in PDE10A confirmed the binding mode of the novel scaffold. Further optimization resulted in the identification of keto-benzimidazole 34, which showed an increased in vivo efficacy of 57% RO in rats at 10 mg/kg po and an improved in vivo rat clearance and oral bioavailability.


Active dendritic branchlets enable the propagation of dendritic spikes, whose computational functions remain an open question. Here we propose a concrete function to the active channels in large dendritic trees. Modelling the input-output response of large active dendritic arbors subjected to complex spatio-temporal inputs and exhibiting non-stereotyped dendritic spikes, we find that the dendritic arbor can undergo a continuous phase transition from a quiescent to an active state, thereby exhibiting spontaneous and self-sustained localized activity as suggested by experiments. Analogously to the critical brain hypothesis, which states that neuronal networks self-organize near criticality to take advantage of its specific properties, here we propose that neurons with large dendritic arbors optimize their capacity to distinguish incoming stimuli at the critical state. We suggest that &quot;computation at the edge of a phase transition&quot; is more compatible with the view that dendritic arbors perform an analog rather than a digital dendritic computation.
