Myotilin is a muscle-specific Z disk protein. Several missense mutations in the myotilin gene (MYOT) have been identified in limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD), myofibrillar myopathy, and distal myopathy patients. All previously reported pathogenic MYOT mutations have been identified only in Exon 2. We sequenced MYOT in 138 patients diagnosed as having LGMD, myofibrillar myopathy, or distal myopathy, and identified a novel MYOT mutation in Exon 9 encoding the second immunoglobulin-like domain in 1 patient with clinically typical LGMD. By light microscopy, there were scattered fibers with rimmed vacuoles and myofibrillary disorganization in the patient's muscle biopsy; accumulation of Z disk proteins was observed by immunohistochemistry. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that the amount of myotilin monomer was increased in the patient muscle, but that the myotilin homodimeric band was decreased. Functional analysis of the myotilin mutation using a yeast 2-hybrid system revealed defective homodimerization of the mutant myotilin and decreased interaction between mutant myotilin and alpha-actinin. The homodimerization defect was further demonstrated by immunoprecipitation. This is the first MYOT mutation outside of Exon 2 in an LGMD type 1A patient and the first MYOT mutation identified in the Japanese population. This mutation in the second immunoglobulin-like domain impairs myotilin dimerization and alters the binding between myotilin and alpha-actinin, which is known to be important for actin bundling.
A central focus of cognitive neuroscience is identification of the neural codes that represent stimulus dimensions. One common theme is the study of whether dimensions, such as color and shape, are encoded independently by separate pools of neurons or are represented by neurons conjointly tuned for both properties. We describe an application of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) adaptation to distinguish between independent and conjoint neural representations of dimensions by examining the neural signal evoked by changes in one versus two stimulus dimensions and considering the metric of two-dimension additivity. We describe how a continuous carry-over paradigm may be used to efficiently estimate this metric. The assumptions of the method are examined as are optimizations. Finally, we demonstrate that the method produces the expected result for fMRI data collected from ventral occipitotemporal cortex while subjects viewed sets of shapes predicted to be represented by conjoint or independent neural tuning.
Behavioral variability is important for motor skill learning but continues to be present and actively regulated even in well-learned behaviors. In adult songbirds, two types of song variability can persist and are modulated by social context: variability in syllable structure and variability in syllable sequencing. The degree to which the control of both types of adult variability is shared or distinct remains unknown. The output of a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit, LMAN (the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium), has been implicated in song variability. For example, in adult zebra finches, neurons in LMAN actively control the variability of syllable structure. It is unclear, however, whether LMAN contributes to variability in adult syllable sequencing because sequence variability in adult zebra finch song is minimal. In contrast, Bengalese finches retain variability in both syllable structure and syllable sequencing into adulthood. We analyzed the effects of LMAN lesions on the variability of syllable structure and sequencing and on the social modulation of these forms of variability in adult Bengalese finches. We found that lesions of LMAN significantly reduced the variability of syllable structure but not of syllable sequencing. We also found that LMAN lesions eliminated the social modulation of the variability of syllable structure but did not detect significant effects on the modulation of sequence variability. These results show that LMAN contributes differentially to syllable versus sequence variability of adult song and suggest that these forms of variability are regulated by distinct neural pathways.
Inner ear hair cells are exquisite mechanosensors that transduce nanometer scale deflections of their sensory hair bundles into electrical signals. Several essential elements must be precisely assembled during development to confer the unique structure and function of the mechanotransduction apparatus. Here we investigated the functional development of the transduction complex in outer hair cells along the length of mouse cochlea acutely excised between embryonic day 17 (E17) and postnatal day 8 (P8). We charted development of the stereociliary bundle using scanning electron microscopy; FM1-43 uptake, which permeates hair cell transduction channels, mechanotransduction currents evoked by rapid hair bundle deflections, and mRNA expression of possible components of the transduction complex. We demonstrated that uptake of FM1-43 first occurred in the basal portion of the cochlea at P0 and progressed toward the apex over the subsequent week. Electrophysiological recordings obtained from 234 outer hair cells between E17 and P8 from four cochlear regions revealed a correlation between the pattern of FM1-43 uptake and the acquisition of mechanotransduction. We found a spatiotemporal gradient in the properties of transduction including onset, amplitude, operating range, time course, and extent of adaptation. We used quantitative RT-PCR to examine relative mRNA expression of several hair cell myosins and candidate tip-link molecules. We found spatiotemporal expression patterns for mRNA that encodes cadherin 23, protocadherin 15, myosins 3a, 7a, 15a, and PMCA2 that preceded the acquisition of transduction. The spatiotemporal expression patterns of myosin 1c and PMCA2 mRNA were correlated with developmental changes in several properties of mechanotransduction.
Reward and punishment have opposite affective value but are both processed by the cingulate cortex. However, it is unclear whether the positive and negative affective values of monetary reward and punishment are processed by separate or common subregions of the cingulate cortex. We performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging study using a free-choice task and compared cingulate activations for different levels of monetary gain and loss. Gain-specific activation (increasing activation for increasing gain, but no activation change in relation to loss) occurred mainly in the anterior part of the anterior cingulate and in the posterior cingulate cortex. Conversely, loss-specific activation (increasing activation for increasing loss, but no activation change in relation to gain) occurred between these areas, in the middle and posterior part of the anterior cingulate. Integrated coding of gain and loss (increasing activation throughout the full range, from biggest loss to biggest gain) occurred in the dorsal part of the anterior cingulate, at the border with the medial prefrontal cortex. Finally, unspecific activation increases to both gains and losses (increasing activation to increasing gains and increasing losses, possibly reflecting attention) occurred in dorsal and middle regions of the cingulate cortex. Together, these results suggest separate and common coding of monetary reward and punishment in distinct subregions of the cingulate cortex. Further meta-analysis suggested that the presently found reward- and punishment-specific areas overlapped with those processing positive and negative emotions, respectively.
Smooth-pursuit eye movements are variable, even when the same tracking target motion is repeated many times. We asked whether variation in pursuit could arise from noise in the response of visual motion neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT). In physiological experiments, we evaluated the mean, variance, and trial-by-trial correlation in the spike counts of pairs of simultaneously recorded MT neurons. The correlations between responses of pairs of MT neurons are highly significant and are stronger when the two neurons in a pair have similar preferred speeds, directions, or receptive field locations. Spike count correlation persists when the same exact stimulus form is repeatedly presented. Spike count correlations increase as the analysis window increases because of correlations in the responses of individual neurons across time. Spike count correlations are highest at speeds below the preferred speeds of the neuron pair and increase as the contrast of a square-wave grating is decreased. In computational analyses, we evaluated whether the correlations and variation across the population response in MT could drive the observed behavioral variation in pursuit direction and speed. We created model population responses that mimicked the mean and variance of MT neural responses as well as the observed structure and amplitude of noise correlations between pairs of neurons. A vector-averaging decoding computation revealed that the observed variation in pursuit could arise from the MT population response, without postulating other sources of motor variation.
Burst firing mediated by a low-threshold spike (LTS) is the hallmark of many thalamic neurons. However, postburst afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) are relatively uncommon in thalamus. We now report data from patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slice preparations that reveal an LTS-induced slow AHP (sAHP) in thalamic paraventricular (PVT) and other midline neurons, but not in ventrobasal or reticular thalamic neurons. The LTS-induced sAHP lasts 8.9 +/- 0.4 s and has a novel pharmacology, with resistance to tetrodotoxin and cadmium and reduction by Ni(2+) or nominally zero extracellular calcium concentration, which also attenuate both the LTS and sAHP. The sAHP is inhibited by 10 mM intracellular EGTA or by equimolar replacement of extracellular Ca(2+) with Sr(2+), consistent with select activation of LVA T-type Ca(2+) channels and subsequent Ca(2+) influx. In control media, the sAHP reverses near E(K(+)), shifting to -78 mV in 10.1 mM [K(+)](o) and is reduced by Ba(2+) or tetraethylammonium. Although these data are consistent with opening of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, this sAHP lacks sensitivity to specific Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel blockers apamin, iberiotoxin, charybdotoxin, and UCL-2077. The LTS-induced sAHP is suppressed by a beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol, a serotonin 5-HT(7) receptor agonist 5-CT, a neuropeptide orexin-A, and by stimulation of the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway with 8-Br-cAMP and forskolin. The data suggest that PVT and certain midline thalamic neurons possess an LTS-induced sAHP that is pharmacologically distinct and may be important for information transfer in thalamic-limbic circuitry during states of attentiveness and motivation.
Previous work has shown that a single dose of cocaine can produce long-term potentiation (LTP) of the glutamatergic synapses received by dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This and other plastic changes in the brain's reward circuitry have been suggested to underlie addiction. A recent study has provided new insights into cocaine-induced LTP, showing that it begins 3-5 h after exposure, requires activation of a dopamine D(5)/NMDA receptor cascade, and can be evoked by cocaine application directly to the VTA.
In mammals, the sense of smell is modulated by the status of satiety, which is mainly signaled by blood-circulating peptide hormones. However, the underlying mechanisms linking olfaction and food intake are poorly understood. Here we investigated the effects of two anorectic peptides, insulin and leptin, on the functional properties of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Using patch-clamp recordings, we analyzed the spontaneous activity of rat OSNs in an in vitro intact epithelium preparation. Bath perfusion of insulin and leptin significantly increased the spontaneous firing frequency in 91.7% (n = 24) and 75.0% (n = 24) of the cells, respectively. When the activity was electrically evoked, both peptides shortened the latency to the first action potential by approximately 25% and decreased the interspike intervals by approximately 13%. While insulin and leptin enhanced the electrical excitability of OSNs in the absence of odorants, they surprisingly reduced the odorant-induced activity in the olfactory epithelium. Insulin and leptin decreased the peak amplitudes of isoamyl acetate-induced electroolfactogram (EOG) signals to 46 and 38%, respectively. When measured in individual cells by patch-clamp recordings, insulin and leptin decreased odorant-induced transduction currents and receptor potentials. Therefore by increasing the spontaneous activity but reducing the odorant-induced activity of OSNs, an elevated insulin and leptin level (such as after a meal) may result in a decreased global signal-to-noise ratio in the olfactory epithelium, which matches the smell ability to the satiety status.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a very common peripheral neuropathy; however, its symptoms are such that they are often overlooked by patients or misdiagnosed by their primary care physicians or nurse practitioners, leading to progression of the condition so severe that sometimes even surgical options will be of little benefit. This article reviews current literature on carpal tunnel syndrome and its signs and symptoms, diagnosis and differential diagnosis, and treatment options.
Neuromonitoring with the microdialysis technique is now being utilized at the bedside. Cerebral metabolism monitoring enables identification of clinical events hours or even days before clinical examination changes, providing clinical staff an opportunity for earlier intervention. Cerebral microdialysis also allows clinicians to evaluate the impact of therapeutics on cerebral metabolism and certain metabolic patterns, which can trigger specific alerts and/or clinical protocols. Cerebral metabolism monitoring through microdialysis can guide clinicians to institute therapeutic measures that prevent the occurrence of secondary injury. This article focuses on the state-of-the-art application of cerebral microdialysis, the rationale for its use, and the nursing implications of this technique.
Approximately 30% of primary brain tumors are meningiomas; 90% of these are benign. The remaining 10% have aggressive pathological features and significantly higher recurrence rates. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, and other medical therapies. Management of these patients involves vigilant neuroradiological imaging, follow-up visits, symptom management, and ongoing patient and family teaching. Even with aggressive treatment modalities, morbidity and mortality rates remain high.
A training protocol was developed based on durable exposure to the two-way shuttle avoidance task, in which the conditioned stimulus (CS), which was fear evoking for both training conditions on the first day of training, becomes instructive at the end of training under controllable conditions but remains fear evoking under the uncontrollable conditions. The protocol was utilized to examine whether, depending on the training regime, the memory formed will result in a different level of involvement of the amygdala. Three groups of rats were tested: controllable, subjected to durable avoidance learning; uncontrollable, subjected to the same training schedule but with no control over the stressor; and naive. Two weeks later, after the introduction of a reminder cue, freezing response, defecation, and blood corticosterone (CORT) of the uncontrollable group were higher than in the controllable and naive groups, indicating that indeed, for this group, the CS remained fear evoking. Significantly higher than chance shuttling responses of the controllable group indicated that, for them, the CS became &quot;instructive.&quot; Activation of ERK2 and CREB in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) was highest in the uncontrollable group compared with the controllable and naive groups. Overall, the results indicate that the training procedure succeeded in dissociating between the physical (electric shock) and the psychological (control) attributes of the experience. Also, our findings support the view that an emotionally charged reminder cue activates the amygdala but that, as a previously fear-evoking memory cue becomes instructive, the involvement of the amygdale lessens.
The neural cell adhesion molecule L1 plays an important role in axon growth, neuronal survival, and synaptic plasticity. We recently demonstrated that the L1 fibronectin type III (FN3) modules interact directly with the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (FGFR). Sequence alignment of individual L1 FN3 modules with various FGFs suggested that four sequence motifs located in the third and fifth L1 FN3 modules might be involved in interactions with FGFR. The present study found that corresponding synthetic peptides, termed elcamins 1, 2, 3, and 4, bind and activate FGFR in the absence of FGF1. Conversely, in the presence of FGF1, elcamins inhibited receptor phosphorylation, indicating that the peptides are FGFR partial agonists. Elcamins 1, 3, and 4 dose dependently induced neurite outgrowth in cultured primary cerebellar neurons. The neuritogenic effect of elcamins was dependent on FGFR activation, insofar as the effect was abolished by the receptor inhibition. Thus, the identified peptides act as L1 mimetics with regard to activation of FGFR and induction of neurite outgrowth.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) that contain the alpha 5 subunit are expressed predominantly in the hippocampus, where they regulate learning and memory processes. Unlike conventional postsynaptic receptors, GABA(A)Rs containing the alpha 5 subunit (alpha 5 GABA(A)Rs) are localized primarily to extrasynaptic regions of neurons, where they generate a tonic inhibitory conductance. The unique characteristics of alpha 5 GABA(A)Rs have been examined with pharmacological, immunostaining, and electrophysiological techniques; however, little is known about their biochemical properties. The aim of this study was to modify existing purification and enrichment techniques to isolate alpha 5 GABA(A)Rs preferentially from the mouse hippocampus and to identify the alpha 5 subunit by using tandem mass spectroscopy (MS/MS). The results showed that the detergent solubility of the alpha 5 subunits was distinct from that of alpha1 and alpha2 subunits, and the relative distribution of the alpha 5 subunits in Triton X-100-soluble fractions was correlated with that of the extracellular protein radixin but not with that of the postsynaptic protein gephyrin. Mass spectrometry identified the alpha 5 subunit and showed that this subunit associates with multiple alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, but most frequently the beta 3 subunit. Thus, the alpha 5 subunits coassemble with similar subunits as their synaptic counterparts yet have a distinct detergent solubility profile. Mass spectroscopy now offers a method for detecting and characterizing factors that confer the unique detergent solubility and possibly cellular location of alpha 5 GABA(A)Rs in hippocampal neurons.
Synthetic phosphothioated (PTO) oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) sequences are commonly used for a variety of applications that benefit from nuclease protection. The PTO modification is implemented mainly in antisense ODN, but also in ODN that were shown to activate members of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family such as TLR3 (poly-I:C), TLR8 (ssRNA), and TLR9 (CpG). Neurons are routinely plated on surfaces coated with either cationic substances such as poly-L-ornithine (PLO), polyethylenimine (PEI), poly-L-lysine or ECM components such as laminin, collagen, or fibronectin. We found that PTO-ODN aimed at activating TLR9 induces a non-TLR9-specific detachment phenotype in cortical neurons plated on either laminin or PEI, but not on PLO. This phenotype was correlated with decreased viability and was partially inhibited when caspase-3 was inhibited with Ac-DEVD-CMK. This finding suggests that the use of PTO-ODN can cause nonspecific effects on cell adhesion that could compromise interpretation of data from experiments using PTO-ODN.



Proteomics for blast traumatic brain injury (bTBI) research represents an exciting new approach that can greatly help to address the complex pathology of this condition. Antibody-based platforms, antibody microarrays (AbMA), and reverse capture protein microarrays (RCPM) can complement the classical methods based on 2D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry (2DGE/MS). These new technologies can address problematic issues, such as sample complexity, sensitivity, quantitation, reproducibility, and analysis time, which are typically associated with 2DGE/MS. Combined with bioinformatics analysis and interpretation of primary microarray data, these methods will generate a new level of understanding about bTBI at the level of systems biology. As biological and clinical knowledge and the availability of these systems become more widely established, we expect that AbMA and RCPM will be used routinely in clinical diagnostics, and also for following therapeutic progress. At the technical level, we anticipate that these platforms will evolve to accommodate comprehensive, high-speed, label-free analysis on a human proteome-wide scale.

Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) is a relatively new discipline within the field of neuroscience which researches the relationship between emotional states, the central and peripheral nervous systems, and the endocrine and immune systems. Negative psychological states, such as stress, anxiety, and depression, may alter immune system regulation and modulation of peripheral cytokines. A plethora of PNI studies have shown that increased psychological stress and depression are associated with an alteration of immune functioning and worsened health outcomes for many conditions. To date, application of PNI methodology has not been reported for ocular diseases. This article provides an historical perspective on the origins of the rift between the emotional and spiritual from physical aspects of disease. A review of how stress is mediated through sympathetic adrenomedullary and hypothalamic pituitary axis activation with shifts in immunity is provided. The literature which supports spirituality in healing is presented. Finally, ocular diseases which would be most amenable to a PNI approach are discussed.


We report genetic aberrations that activate the ERK/MAP kinase pathway in 100% of posterior fossa pilocytic astrocytomas, with a high frequency of gene fusions between KIAA1549 and BRAF among these tumours. These fusions were identified from analysis of focal copy number gains at 7q34, detected using Affymetrix 250K and 6.0 SNP arrays. PCR and sequencing confirmed the presence of five KIAA1549-BRAF fusion variants, along with a single fusion between SRGAP3 and RAF1. The resulting fusion genes lack the auto-inhibitory domains of BRAF and RAF1, which are replaced in-frame by the beginning of KIAA1549 and SRGAP3, respectively, conferring constitutive kinase activity. An activating mutation of KRAS was identified in the single pilocytic astrocytoma without a BRAF or RAF1 fusion. Further fusions and activating mutations in BRAF were identified in 28% of grade II astrocytomas, highlighting the importance of the ERK/MAP kinase pathway in the development of paediatric low-grade gliomas.

Six patients with chronic acquired demyelinating neuropathy (CADP) were treated with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). Two with polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M-protein, and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome improved-improvement was sustained in one but relapsed and required repeat transplant in the other. Two of the three with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and one with an IgM paraprotein and antibodies to nerve improved--of the responders, one relapsed after 18 months and the other was in remission after 6 months. Four developed neutropenic septicemia and pneumonia. The role of PBSCT in CADP refractory to other treatment deserves further investigation but the serious adverse events and lack of sustained response in some patients emphasize the need for caution.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is considered an auto-immune disorder. We evaluated expression of pSTAT1, T-bet, and pSTAT3 in circulating T-cells, B-cells, and monocytes and spontaneous production of interleukin-17 (IL17), interferon-gamma (IFN gamma), and interleukin-10 (IL10) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 14 active CIDP patients compared with 6 patients with long-lasting remission and 20 controls. Active disease patients showed higher pSTAT1, T-bet, and pSTAT3 in CD4(+) T-cells than controls (p &lt; 0.001, p = 0.0002, p = 0.0097, respectively) and remission patients (p &lt; 0.001, p = 0.0036, p = 0.0008, respectively). pSTAT1, T-bet, and pSTAT3 were also higher in monocytes from active CIDP patients than controls (p = 0.0011, p = 0.0041, p = 0.0413, respectively) and remission patients (p = 0.0073, p = 0.0274, p = 0.0251, respectively). Moreover in CD8(+) T-cells, pSTAT3 expression was higher in active CIDP patients than in remission patients (p = 0.0345) and in controls (p = 0.0023). IL17 and IFN gamma production were significantly higher in active CIDP patients than in controls (p &lt; 0.0395, p = 0.0010, respectively); IFN gamma levels were higher also in remission CIDP patients (p = 0.0073). IL10 levels were higher in active phase patients than in controls (p = 0.0334). Our data suggest that pSTAT1, T-bet, and pSTAT3 can be considered putative markers of disease activity and potential targets for specific therapies.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 Tat protein plays a key role in the pathogenesis of both HIV-1-associated cognitive-motor disorder and drug abuse. Dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) function is strikingly altered in patients with HIV-1-associated dementia and a history of chronic drug abuse. This study is the first in vitro evaluation of potential mechanisms underlying the effects of Tat protein on DAT function. Rat striatal synaptosomes were incubated with recombinant Tat(1-86) protein, and [(3)H]DA uptake and the binding of [(3)H]2beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane (WIN 35,428) and [(3)H]1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)-piperazine (GBR 12935) were determined. Tat decreased [(3)H]DA uptake, [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding, and [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding in a time-dependent manner. The potency of Tat for inhibiting [(3)H]DA uptake (K(i) = 1.2 microM) was the same as that for inhibiting [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding but 3-fold less than that for inhibiting [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding. Mutant Tat proteins did not alter [(3)H]DA uptake. Kinetic analysis of [(3)H]DA uptake revealed that Tat (1 or 10 microM) decreased the V(max) value and increased the K(m) value in a dose-dependent manner. The V(max) value, decreased by Tat (1 microM), returned to the control level after washout of Tat, indicating that the inhibitory effect of Tat on DA uptake was reversible. Saturation studies revealed that Tat decreased the B(max) value and increased the K(d) value of [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding, whereas Tat decreased the B(max) value of [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding, without a change in the K(d) value. These findings provide new insight into understanding the pharmacological mechanisms of Tat-induced dysfunction of the DAT in the dopaminergic system in HIV-infected patients.
To advance understanding of the potential of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 5 as treatment targets for cocaine addiction, the effects of MTEP [3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl) ethynyl]piperidine] (a selective mGluR5 antagonist) on conditioned reinstatement of cocaine seeking were examined. To test whether modification of conditioned reinstatement by MTEP is selective for drug-directed behavior or reflects general actions on motivated behavior, effects of MTEP on reinstatement induced by a stimulus conditioned to palatable conventional reward, sweetened condensed milk (SCM), were also evaluated. Previous data suggest that mGluR manipulations preferentially interfere with conditioned reinstatement compared with cocaine self-administration. Therefore, the effects of MTEP on cocaine self-administration were compared with MTEP's effects on SCM-reinforced behavior using the same cocaine doses and SCM concentrations employed for establishing conditioned reinstatement. Male Wistar rats were trained to associate a discriminative stimulus (S(D)) with response-contingent availability of cocaine or SCM and subjected to reinstatement tests after extinction of cocaine or SCM-reinforced behavior. MTEP (0.3-10 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently attenuated the response-reinstating effects of both the cocaine S(D) and SCM S(D). MTEP also decreased cocaine self-administration without a clear graded dose-response profile and did not modify SCM-reinforced responding. The findings implicate mGluR5-regulated glutamate transmission in appetitive behavior controlled by reward-related stimuli but without selectivity for cocaine seeking. However, the data suggest a differential role for mGluR5 in the acute reinforcing effects of cocaine versus conventional reward. These observations identify mGluR5 as potential treatment targets for cocaine relapse prevention, although the profile of action of mGluR5 antagonists remains to be more closely examined for potential anhedonic effects.
Early brain development has a tremendous impact on the success of humans throughout their lives. During early development, neural circuit formation proceeds in a strictly regulated manner. In addition to genetic and epigenetic programs, recent studies using animal models have demonstrated that certain maternal bio-active agents are essential for normal neural development, with deficiencies adversely affecting offspring brain function and behavior. On the basis of these findings, we propose a new viewpoint: that maternal bio-active substances support the development of the fetal and neonatal brain, and the subsequent expression and maintenance of higher brain functions. We term these molecular-based biological conversations between mother and offspring &quot;bio-communications&quot;. Based on findings obtained primarily from animal models, we review the effects of maternal substances on the neural developments and functions. Clarifying the regulatory mechanisms of &quot;bio-communications&quot; will help improve understanding of the mechanisms of human brain functioning and neural development. In addition, these findings will be applied to elucidate the mechanisms of developmental disorders and to explore new medical therapies to treat them.
Two-related studies are presented here, detailing our early experience with benzodiazepine-dependent patients treated with a four-day flumazenil infusion using a novel delivery technique. Patients with long-term benzodiazepine dependence who attended the Australian Medical Procedures Research Foundation (AMPRF, Perth, Australia) for treatment were recruited for these studies. Self-reported psychological and physical symptoms, as well as objective vital signs data were collected at intervals before, during and 2 weeks postinfusion. Study A is a case series with cardiovascular measures; study B is an open trial that tracks the psychological profiles of 13 subjects. Withdrawal symptoms were tracked, however, the nature and severity of these symptoms differed between patients. No major complications or discomfort prompting study dropout was observed. Significant benzodiazepine abstinence occurred with this flumazenil infusion method despite high levels of initial dependence, comorbid substance use and comorbid psychiatric illness. Low-dose flumazenil infusion appears to be a safe and effective treatment resulting in withdrawal symptoms of lesser severity than any other cessation method currently available. Recommendations for future research are discussed.

The relative contributions of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and IL-23 to viral pathogenesis have not been extensively studied. IL-12p40 mRNA rapidly increases after neurotropic coronavirus infection. Infection of mice defective in both IL-12 and IL-23 (p40(-/-)), in IL-12 alone (p35(-/-)), and in IL-23 alone (p19(-/-)) revealed that the symptoms of coronavirus-induced encephalitis are regulated by IL-12. IL-17-producing cells never exceeded background levels, supporting a redundant role of IL-23 in pathogenesis. Viral control, tropism, and demyelination were all similar in p35(-/-), p19(-/-), and wild-type mice. Reduced morbidity in infected IL-12 deficient mice was also not associated with altered recruitment or composition of inflammatory cells. However, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) levels and virus-specific IFN-gamma-secreting CD4 and CD8 T cells were all reduced in the central nervous systems (CNS) of infected p35(-/-) mice. Transcription of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and IL-6, but not tumor necrosis factor, were initially reduced in infected p35(-/-) mice but increased to wild-type levels during peak inflammation. Furthermore, although transforming growth factor beta mRNA was not affected, IL-10 was increased in the CNS in the absence of IL-12. These data suggest that IL-12 does not contribute to antiviral function within the CNS but enhances morbidity associated with viral encephalitis by increasing the ratio of IFN-gamma to protective IL-10.

The forward lunge movement may be used as a functional performance test of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) deficient and reconstructed subjects. The purposes were 1) to determine the test-retest reliability of a forward lunge in healthy subjects and 2) to determine the required numbers of repetitions necessary to yield satisfactory reliability. Nineteen healthy subjects performed four trials of a forward lunge on two different days. The movement time, impulses of the ground reaction forces (IFz, IFy), knee joint kinematics and dynamics during the forward lunge were calculated. The relative reliability was determined by calculation of Intraclass Correlation Coefficients (ICC). The IFz, IFy and the positive work of the knee extensors showed excellent reliability (ICC &gt;0.75). All other variables demonstrated acceptable reliability (0.4&gt;ICC&lt;0.75). The relative reliability increased when more than a single forward lunge was used. In conclusion, the reliability was acceptable. It is recommended to represent the biomechanical variables as an average of at least three trials of the forward lunge.

Perceptual learning is the improvement in perceptual task performance with practice or training. The observation of specificity in perceptual learning has been widely associated with plasticity in early visual cortex representations. Here, we review the evidence supporting the plastic reweighting of readout from stable sensory representations, originally proposed by Dosher &amp; Lu (1998), as an alternative explanation of perceptual learning. A task-analysis that identifies circumstances in which specificity supports representation enhancement and those in which it implies reweighting provides a framework for evaluating the literature; reweighting is broadly consistent with the behavioral results and almost all of the physiological reports. We also consider the evidence that the primary mode of perceptual learning is through augmented Hebbian learning of the reweighted associations, which has implications for the role and importance of feedback. Feedback is not necessary for perceptual learning, but can improve it in some circumstances, and in some cases block feedback is also helpful - all effects that are generally compatible with an augmented Hebbian model (Petrov, Dosher, &amp; Lu, 2005). The two principles of perceptual learning through reweighting evidence from stable sensory representations and of augmented Hebbian learning provide a theoretical structure for the consideration of issues such as task difficulty, task roving, and cuing in perceptual learning.
The target regions of single-voxel MR spectroscopy often deviate from the cuboidal volume acquired with localization methods based on cross-sectional RF excitations. To diminish partial volume effects spatially 2D-selective RF excitations (2DRF) have been used to excite anatomically defined regions of interest (ROIs). Thereby, segmentation of the 2DRF has been applied to avoid excessive pulse durations yielding &quot;virtual&quot; excitation profiles that are defined upon averaging multiple acquisitions obtained with the different segments. In this work, the feasibility of segmented 2DRF for single-voxel (1)H-MR spectroscopy of arbitrarily shaped voxel in the living human brain is demonstrated. The 2DRF segments were chosen to cover a single line of a blipped-planar trajectory in order to minimize chemical shift displacement artifacts and achieve standard echo times of 30 ms. To eliminate unwanted side excitations, a refocusing RF excitation in the blip direction was used. Phantom experiments demonstrate the high spatial selectivity achieved, i.e., the absence of significant signal contaminations from regions outside of the target volume. Although the signal obtained per volume is reduced compared to cross-sectional localization, the better volume coverage of anatomically defined ROIs can deliver an improved signal-to-noise ratio for irregularly shaped ROIs.
Absolute blood flow and blood volume measurements using perfusion weighted MRI require an accurately measured arterial input function (AIF). Because of limited spatial resolution of MR images, AIF voxels cannot be placed completely within a feeding artery. We present a two-compartment model of an AIF voxel including the relaxation properties of blood and tissue. Artery orientations parallel and perpendicular to the main magnetic field were investigated and AIF voxels were modeled to either include or be situated close to a large artery. The impact of partial volume effects on quantitative perfusion metrics was investigated for the gradient echo pulse sequence at 1.5 T and 3.0 T. It is shown that the tissue contribution broadens and introduces fluctuations in the AIF. Furthermore, partial volume effects bias perfusion metrics in a nonlinear fashion, compromising quantitative perfusion estimates and profoundly effecting local AIF selection.
Novel methodologies have been recently developed to characterize the microgeometry of neural tissues and porous structures via diffusion MRI data. In line with these previous works, this article provides a detailed mathematical description of q-space in spherical coordinates that helps to highlight the differences and similarities between various related q-space methodologies proposed to date such as q-ball imaging (QBI), diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), and diffusion orientation transform imaging (DOT). This formulation provides a direct relationship between the orientation distribution function (ODF) and the diffusion data without using any approximation. Under this relationship, the exact ODF can be computed by means of the Radon transform of the radial projection (in q-space) of the diffusion MRI signal. This new methodology, termed exact q-ball imaging (EQBI), was put into practice using an analytical ODF estimation in terms of spherical harmonics that allows obtaining model-free and model-based reconstructions. This work provides a new framework for combining information coming from diffusion data recorded on multiple spherical shells in q-space (hybrid diffusion imaging encoding scheme), which is capable of mapping ODF to a high accuracy. This represents a step toward a more efficient development of diffusion MRI experiments for obtaining better ODF estimates.


Optical-resolution photoacoustic microscopy (OR-PAM) has been validated as a valuable tool for label-free volumetric microvascular imaging. More importantly, the advantages of noninvasiveness and measurement consistency suggest the use of OR-PAM for chronic imaging of intact microcirculation. Here, such chronic imaging is demonstrated for the first time by monitoring the healing process of laser-induced microvascular lesions in a small animal model in vivo. The central part of a 1 mm by 1 mm region in a nude mouse ear was treated under a continuous-wave laser to create a microvascular lesion for chronic study. The region of interest was imaged before the laser treatment, immediately after the treatment, and throughout the healing process using both the authors' OR-PAM system and a commercial transmission-mode optical microscope. Three-dimensional microvascular morphology and blood oxygenation information were imaged simultaneously at capillary-level resolution. Transmission-mode optical microscopic images were acquired for comparison. OR-PAM has potential important applications in microcirculatory physiology or pathophysiology, tumor angiogenesis, laser microsurgery, and neuroscience.
Neurodegenerative diseases associated with dementia are characterized by cognitive deficits and memory impairment, thus stimulating research for memory enhancing drugs. We survey here the state of the art of research and clinical trials on these drugs from cholinesterase inhibitors and drugs acting on neurotransmitter receptors to drugs acting on gene expression.
Two small GTPase Rabs, Rab32 and Rab38, have recently been proposed to regulate trafficking of melanogenic enzymes to melanosomes in mammalian epidermal melanocytes; however, the exact molecular mechanism of Rab32/38-mediated transport of melanogenic enzymes has never been clarified, because no Rab32/38-specific effector has ever been identified. In this study, we screened for a Rab32/38-specific effector by a yeast two-hybrid assay using a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-locked Rab32/38 as bait and found that VPS9-ankyrin-repeat protein (Varp)/Ankrd27, characterized previously as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rab21, functions as a specific Rab32/38-binding protein in mouse melanocyte cell line melan-a. Deletion analysis showed that the first ankyrin-repeat (ANKR1) domain functions as a GTP-dependent Rab32/38-binding domain, but that the N-terminal VPS9 domain (i.e., Rab21-GEF domain) does not. Small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of endogenous Varp in melan-a cells caused a dramatic reduction in Tyrp1 (tyrosinase-related protein 1) signals from melanosomes but did not cause any reduction in Pmel17 signals. Furthermore, expression of the ANKR1 domain in melan-a cells also caused a dramatic reduction of Tyrp1 signals, whereas the VPS9 domain had no effect. Based on these findings, we propose that Varp functions as the Rab32/38 effector that controls trafficking of Tyrp1 in melanocytes.
Humanin (HN) inhibits neuronal death induced by various Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related insults via an unknown receptor on cell membranes. Our earlier study indicated that the activation of STAT3 was essential for HN-induced neuroprotection, suggesting that the HN receptor may belong to the cytokine receptor family. In this study, a series of loss-of-function tests indicated that gp130, the common subunit of receptors belonging to the IL-6 receptor family, was essential for HN-induced neuroprotection. Overexpression of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha (CNTFR) and/or the IL-27 receptor subunit, WSX-1, but not that of any other tested gp130-related receptor subunit, up-regulated HN binding to neuronal cells, whereas siRNA-mediated knockdown of endogenous CNTFR and/or WSX-1 reduced it. These results suggest that both CNTFR and WSX-1 may be also involved in HN binding to cells. Consistent with these results, loss-of-functions of CNTFR or WSX-1 in neuronal cells nullified their responsiveness to HN-mediated protection. In vitro-reconstituted binding assays showed that HN, but not the other control peptide, induced the hetero-oligomerization of CNTFR, WSX-1, and gp130. Together, these results indicate that HN protects neurons by binding to a complex or complexes involving CNTFR/WSX-1/gp130.
The LARK RNA-binding protein (RBP) has well documented roles in the circadian systems of Drosophila and mammals. Recent studies have demonstrated that the Drosophila LARK RBP is associated with many mRNA targets, in vivo, including those that regulate either neurophysiology or development of the nervous system. In the present study, we have employed conditional expression techniques to distinguish developmental and physiological functions of LARK for a defined class of neurons: the Pigment-Dispersing Factor (PDF)-containing LNv clock neurons. We found that increased LARK expression during development dramatically alters the small LNv class of neurons with no obvious effects on the large LNv cells. Conversely, conditional expression of LARK at the adult stage results in altered clock protein rhythms and circadian locomotor activity, even though neural morphology is normal in such animals. Electrophysiological analyses at the larval neuromuscular junction indicate a role for LARK in regulating neuronal excitability. Altogether, our results demonstrate that LARK activity is critical for neuronal development and physiology.
Nel is a glycoprotein containing five chordin-like and six epidermal growth factor-like domains and is strongly expressed in the nervous system. In this study, we have examined expression patterns and in vitro functions of Nel in the chicken retinotectal system. We have found that in the developing tectum, expression of Nel is localized in specific laminae that retinal axons normally do not enter, including the border between the retinorecipient and non-retinorecipient laminae. Nel-binding activity is detected on retinal axons both in vivo and in vitro, suggesting that retinal axons express a receptor for Nel. In vitro, Nel inhibits retinal axon outgrowth and induces growth cone collapse and axon retraction. These results indicate that Nel acts as an inhibitory guidance cue for retinal axons, and suggest its roles in the establishment of the lamina-specificity in the retinotectal projection.
Regulation of microtubule dynamics is crucial for axon growth and guidance as well as for the establishment of synaptic connections. STOPs (Stable Tubule Only Polypeptides) are microtubule-associated proteins that regulate microtubule stabilization but are also able to interact with actin or Golgi membranes. Here, we have investigated the involvement of STOPs during the development of the olfactory system. We first describe the spatio-temporal expression patterns of N- and E-STOP, the two neuronal-specific isoforms of STOP. E- and N-STOP are expressed in the axonal compartment of olfactory sensory neurons, but are differentially regulated during development. Interestingly, each neuronal isoform displays a specific gradient distribution within the olfactory nerve layer. Then, we have examined the development of the olfactory system in the absence of STOPs. Olfactory axons display a normal outgrowth and targeting in STOP-null mice, but maturation of the synapses in the glomerular neuropil is altered.
At the presynaptic plasma membrane of the photoreceptor the correct localization of the calcium extruder, plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA), is determined by a unique protein complex. Here, the role of two proteins within the complex; membrane palmitoylated protein 4 (MPP4) and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) is investigated in more details, using Mpp4 and Psd95 mutant mice. MPP4 deficiency results in the loss of both PMCA and PSD95 from the photoreceptor synapse. Truncation of the C-terminal part of MPP4 leads to a loss of PSD95 and mislocalization of PMCA, while truncation of the C-terminal part of PSD95 did not affect the localization of the complex members. Lentivirus-mediated molecular replacement strategy was used to selectively express either PSD95alpha or PSD95beta in wild type or Mpp4 mutant primary retinal explants. Silencing of the Psd95 gene resulted in the loss of presynaptic MPP4 and PMCA1. The plasma membrane localization of MPP4 and PMCA1 could be restored by the expression of PSD95beta. We conclude that both scaffold proteins PSD95beta and MPP4 are essential for the modulation of PMCA levels at the presynaptic plasma membrane and thereby influence the photoreceptor synaptic calcium handling.
Intraventricular administration of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in primate and humans to study Parkinson's disease (PD) has revealed the potential for GDNF to induce weight loss. Our previous data indicate that bilateral continuous hypothalamic GDNF overexpression via recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) results in significant failure to gain weight in young rats and weight loss in aged rats. Based on these previous results, we hypothesized that because the nigrostriatal tract passes through the lateral hypothalamus, motor hyperactivity mediated by nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) may have been responsible for the previously observed effect on body weight. In this study, we compared bilateral injections of rAAV2/5-GDNF in hypothalamus versus substantia nigra (SN) in aged Brown-Norway X Fisher 344 rats. Nigrostriatal GDNF overexpression resulted in significantly greater weight loss than rats treated in hypothalamus. The nigral or hypothalamic GDNF-induced weight loss was unrelated to motor activity levels of the rats, though some of the weight loss could be attributed to a transient reduction in food intake. Forebrain DA levels did not account for the observed effects on body weight, although GDNF-induced increases in nucleus accumbens DA may have partially contributed to this effect in the hypothalamic GDNF-treated group. However, only nigrostriatal GDNF overexpression induced activation of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK) in a small population of corticotrophin-releasing factor [corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH)] neurons located specifically in the medial parvocellullar division (MPD) of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Activation of these hypothalamic CRH neurons likely accounted for the observed metabolic effects leading to weight loss in obese rats.
Brachial plexus injury is frequent after traffic accident in adults or shoulder dystocia in newborns. Whereas surgery can restore arm movements, therapeutic options are missing for sensory defects. Dorsal root (DR) ganglion neurons convey sensory information to the central nervous system (CNS) through a peripheral and a central axon. Central axons severed through DR section or avulsion during brachial plexus injury inefficiently regenerate and do not reenter the spinal cord. We show that a combination of microsurgery and gene therapy circumvented the functional barrier to axonal regrowth at the peripheral and CNS interface. After cervical DR section in rats, microsurgery restored anatomical continuity through a nerve graft that laterally connected the injured DR to an intact DR. Gene transfer to cells in the nerve graft induced the local release of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and stimulated axonal regrowth. Central DR ganglion axons efficiently regenerated and invaded appropriate areas of the spinal cord dorsal horn, leading to partial recovery of nociception and proprioception. Microsurgery created conditions for functional restoration of DR ganglion central axons, which were improved in combination with gene therapy. This combination treatment provides means to reduce disability due to somatosensory defects after brachial plexus injury.
The question whether and when it is morally appropriate to withdraw life-support from patients diagnosed as being in the persistent vegetative state is one of the most controversial in bioethics. Recent work on the neuroscience of consciousness seems to promise fundamentally to alter the debate, by demonstrating that some entirely unresponsive patients are in fact conscious. In this paper, I argue that though this work is extremely important scientifically, it ought to alter the debate over the moral status of the patients very little. First, the data presented is complex and difficult to interpret; we should be wary of taking the claimed discovery entirely at face value (though the remaining questions will probably be settled by future research). Second, though the demonstration that some of the patients are in fact conscious would show that they are moral patients, and therefore beings whose welfare must be taken into account, it would not, by itself at any rate, show that they have an interest in continued life.

Muscle ultrasound is a useful technique to detect neuromuscular disorders. Quantification of muscle echo intensity (EI) using gray-scale analysis is more reliable and more sensitive compared with visual evaluation of the images. We devised a method to reliably use EI normal values established with one ultrasound device for use with another device. Based on measurements in a dedicated phantom and in 7 healthy subjects, a conversion equation was calculated to convert the mean EI. The reliability of this equation was next evaluated in a follow-up study of 22 healthy children. Mean muscle EI could be reliably converted from one ultrasound device to another. This allows for normal values obtained with one device to be used with other devices, which is an important step forward toward the use of quantitative muscle ultrasound in daily clinical care.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV)-hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM) is an adult-onset, moderately progressive autosomal recessive myopathy; eventually, affected individuals become wheelchair bound1. It is characterized clinically by skeletal muscle atrophy and weakness, and pathologically by rimmed vacuoles, which are actually accumulations of autophagic vacuoles2, 3, 4, scattered angular fibers and intracellular accumulation of amyloid and other proteins5. To date, no therapy is available for this debilitating myopathy, primarily because the disease pathomechanism has been enigmatic. It is known that the disease gene underlying DMRV-hIBM is GNE, encoding glucosamine (UDP-N-acetyl)-2-epimerase and N-acetylmannosamine kinase6, 7, 8--two essential enzymes in sialic acid biosynthesis9. It is still unclear, however, whether decreased sialic acid production causes muscle degeneration, as GNE has been proposed to have roles other than for sialic acid biosynthesis10, 11, 12. By showing that muscle atrophy and weakness are completely prevented in a mouse model of DMRV-hIBM after treatment with sialic acid metabolites orally, we provide evidence that hyposialylation is indeed one of the key factors in the pathomechanism of DMRV-hIBM. These results support the notion that DMRV-hIBM can potentially be treated simply by giving sialic acids, a strategy that could be applied in clinical trials in the near future.
We found that the combination of spatially restricted uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPRT) expression with 4-thiouracil delivery can be used to label and purify cell type-specific RNA from intact complex tissues in Drosophila melanogaster. This method is useful for isolating RNA from cell types that are difficult to isolate by dissection or dissociation methods and should work in many organisms, including mammals and other vertebrates.
The dynamic reshaping of tissues during morphogenesis results from a combination of individual cell behaviors and collective cell rearrangements. However, a comprehensive framework to unambiguously measure and link cell behavior to tissue morphogenesis is lacking. Here we introduce such a kinematic framework, bridging cell and tissue behaviors at an intermediate, mesoscopic, level of cell clusters or domains. By measuring domain deformation in terms of the relative motion of cell positions and the evolution of their shapes, we characterized the basic invariant quantities that measure fundamental classes of cell behavior, namely tensorial rates of cell shape change and cell intercalation. In doing so we introduce an explicit definition of cell intercalation as a continuous process. We mapped strain rates spatiotemporally in three models of tissue morphogenesis, gaining insight into morphogenetic mechanisms. Our quantitative approach has broad relevance for the precise characterization and comparison of morphogenetic phenotypes.
Speech and language are considered uniquely human abilities: animals have communication systems, but they do not match human linguistic skills in terms of recursive structure and combinatorial power. Yet, in evolution, spoken language must have emerged from neural mechanisms at least partially available in animals. In this paper, we will demonstrate how our understanding of speech perception, one important facet of language, has profited from findings and theory in nonhuman primate studies. Chief among these are physiological and anatomical studies showing that primate auditory cortex, across species, shows patterns of hierarchical structure, topographic mapping and streams of functional processing. We will identify roles for different cortical areas in the perceptual processing of speech and review functional imaging work in humans that bears on our understanding of how the brain decodes and monitors speech. A new model connects structures in the temporal, frontal and parietal lobes linking speech perception and production.

The basolateral amygdala (BLA) mediates the facilitating effects of emotions on memory. The BLA's enhancing influence extends to various types of memories, including striatal-dependent habit formation. To shed light on the underlying mechanisms, we carried out unit and local field potential (LFP) recordings in BLA, striatum, auditory cortex and intralaminar thalamus in cats trained on a stimulus-response task in which the presentation of one of two tones predicted reward delivery. The coherence of BLA, but not of cortical or thalamic, LFPs was highest with striatal gamma activity, and intra-BLA muscimol infusions selectively reduced striatal gamma power. Moreover, coupling of BLA-striatal unit activity increased when LFP gamma power was augmented. Early in training, the rewarded and unrewarded tones elicited a modest increase in coherent BLA-striatal gamma. As learning progressed, this gamma coupling selectively increased in relation to the rewarded tone. Thus, coherent gamma oscillations coordinate amygdalostriatal interactions during learning and might facilitate synaptic plasticity.
One of the largest components of the delayed outward current that is active under physiological conditions in many mammalian neurons, such as medium spiny neurons of the striatum and tufted-mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, has gone unnoticed and is the result of a Na(+)-activated K(+) current. Previous studies of K(+) currents in mammalian neurons may have overlooked this large outward component because the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) is typically used in such studies. We found that TTX also eliminated this delayed outward component in rat neurons as a secondary consequence. Unexpectedly, we found that the activity of a persistent inward sodium current (persistent I(Na)) is highly effective at activating this large Na(+)-dependent (TTX sensitive) delayed outward current. Using siRNA techniques, we identified SLO2.2 channels as being carriers of this delayed outward current. These findings have far reaching implications for many aspects of cellular and systems neuroscience, as well as clinical neurology and pharmacology.
Using two photon-guided focal stimulation, we found spike timing-dependent plasticity of proximal excitatory inputs to olfactory bulb granule cells that originated, in part, from cortical feedback projections. The protocol that potentiated proximal inputs depressed distal, dendrodendritic inputs to granule cells. Granule cell excitatory postsynaptic potentials and mitral cell inhibition were also potentiated by theta-burst stimulation. Plasticity of cortical feedback inputs to interneurons provides a mechanism for encoding information by modulating bulbar inhibition.
Ghrelin is a peptide hormone that possesses unique orexigenic properties. By acting on the growth-hormone secretagogue receptor 1a, ghrelin induces a short-term increase in food consumption, which ultimately induces a positive energy balance and increases fat deposition. Reduced ghrelin levels have been observed in obese patients and after bariatric surgery. In particular, bariatric procedures that involve gastric resection or bypass lead to reduced ghrelin levels. Administration of physiological doses of exogenous ghrelin to humans does not significantly alter gastric motility; however, administration of high doses stimulates gastric motility, with increased gastric tone and emptying, and increased activity of migrating motor complexes in the small bowel. The potential of ghrelin agonists to be used as prokinetics is being tested in patients with gastroparesis and postoperative ileus. Ghrelin acts directly on pancreatic islet cells to reduce insulin production. Findings from studies in animals have revealed that small-molecule ghrelin antagonists favorably influence glucose tolerance, appetite suppression and weight loss. Other studies have demonstrated that ghrelin antagonists retard gastric emptying only at very high doses, which suggests that these agents will probably not induce upper gastrointestinal symptoms. The potential of this new class of therapeutic agents to influence appetite and glycemic control strongly indicates that they should be tested in clinical trials.
Emotionally significant experiences tend to be well remembered, and the amygdala has a pivotal role in this process. But the efficient encoding of emotional memories can become maladaptive - severe stress often turns them into a source of chronic anxiety. Here, we review studies that have identified neural correlates of stress-induced modulation of amygdala structure and function - from cellular mechanisms to their behavioural consequences. The unique features of stress-induced plasticity in the amygdala, in association with changes in other brain regions, could have long-term consequences for cognitive performance and pathological anxiety exhibited in people with affective disorders.
Every individual experiences stressful life events. In some cases acute or chronic stress leads to depression and other psychiatric disorders, but most people are resilient to such effects. Recent research has begun to identify the environmental, genetic, epigenetic and neural mechanisms that underlie resilience, and has shown that resilience is mediated by adaptive changes in several neural circuits involving numerous neurotransmitter and molecular pathways. These changes shape the functioning of the neural circuits that regulate reward, fear, emotion reactivity and social behaviour, which together are thought to mediate successful coping with stress.
The amino-terminal domain (ATD) of glutamate receptor ion channels, which controls their selective assembly into AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptor subtypes, is also the site of action of NMDA receptor allosteric modulators. Here we report the crystal structure of the ATD from the kainate receptor GluR6. The ATD forms dimers in solution at micromolar protein concentrations and crystallizes as a dimer. Unexpectedly, each subunit adopts an intermediate extent of domain closure compared to the apo and ligand-bound complexes of LIVBP and G protein-coupled glutamate receptors (mGluRs), and the dimer assembly has a markedly different conformation from that found in mGluRs. This conformation is stabilized by contacts between large hydrophobic patches in the R2 domain that are absent in NMDA receptors, suggesting that the ATDs of individual glutamate receptor ion channels have evolved into functionally distinct families.
In this study, the Galpha(qi5) protein was used to force the human nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide (NOP) receptor to signal through the Ca(2+) pathway in CHO cells. [Ca(2+)](i) levels were monitored using the fluorometer FlexStation II and the Ca(2+) dye Fluo 4 AM. Concentration response curves were generated with a panel of full and partial agonists, while NOP antagonists were assessed in inhibition-response curves. The following rank order of potency of antagonists was measured: SB - 612111 &gt; J - 113397 = Trap - 101 &gt; or = UFP - 101 &gt; [Nphe1]N/OF Q(1 - 13)NH2 &gt; naloxone, which is superimposable to literature findings. The rank order of potency of full and partial agonists is also similar to that obtained in previous studies with the exception of a panel of ligands (UFP-112, Ro 64-6198, ZP120, UFP-113) whose potency was relatively low in the Galpha(qi5)-NOP receptor calcium assay. Interestingly, these NOP ligands are characterized by slow kinetic of interaction with the NOP receptor, as demonstrated by bioassay experiments. These results demonstrated that the FlexStation II-Galpha(qi5)-NOP receptor calcium assay represents an adequate and useful screening for NOP receptor ligands, particularly for antagonists.
Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by deposits of ubiquitinated and aberrant proteins, suggesting a failure of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). The aberrant ubiquitin UBB(+1) is one of the ubiquitinated proteins accumulating in tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and polyglutamine diseases such as Huntington's disease. We have generated UBB(+1) transgenic mouse lines with post-natal neuronal expression of UBB(+1), resulting in increased levels of ubiquitinated proteins in the cortex. Moreover, by proteomic analysis, we identified expression changes in proteins involved in energy metabolism or organization of the cytoskeleton. These changes show a striking resemblance to the proteomic profiles of both AD brain and several AD mouse models. Moreover, UBB(+1) transgenic mice show a deficit in contextual memory in both water maze and fear conditioning paradigms. Although UBB(+1) partially inhibits the UPS in the cortex, these mice do not have an overt neurological phenotype. These mouse models do not replicate the full spectrum of AD-related changes, yet provide a tool to understand how the UPS is involved in AD pathological changes and in memory formation.
Oxidative stress contributes to aging and may cause alterations in pain and analgesia. Knowledge about effects of oxidative stress on the opioid system is very limited. This project was designed to determine the relationship between age-related oxidative damage and opioid antinociception. Three age groups of male Fischer 344 rats were tested for pain sensitivity and responses to morphine and fentanyl using the hot plate method. Oxidative stress markers in various brain regions were measured. With advancing age, nociceptive threshold and antinociceptive effects of opioids decreased significantly. There was a significant negative correlation between morphine antinociception and protein oxidation in cortex, striatum, and midbrain (r(2)=0.73, 0.87, and 0.77, respectively), and lipid peroxidation in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum (r(2)=0.73, 0.61, and 0.71, respectively). Similar correlation was observed between oxidative stress markers and fentanyl antinociception. These findings demonstrate that the age-related increase in oxidative damage in brain is associated with a significant decrease in the antinociceptive effects of opioids.
Aging was associated with increased oxidation of DNA, RNA, and lipids in the cerebellum of male rats. DNA and lipid oxidation was reduced by lifelong (94 weeks) voluntary exercise on a running wheel. A reduction in cerebellar lipid oxidation, but not RNA or DNA oxidation, was observed following 3 months of moderate exercise or dietary supplementation of vitamin E, initiated at 18 months of age. The level of lipid oxidation correlated with measures of forelimb grip strength. The results indicate that lifelong exercise attenuates multiple molecular markers of age-related oxidative damage in the cerebellum. In addition, modest exercise initiated late in life can have a beneficial effect on lipid oxidation and motor function.
Young and middle-aged female mice were ovariectomized and given cyclic injections of either estradiol or vehicle treatments. During the fifth week after surgery the Morris water maze was used to assess cognitive function. Age and treatment effects emerged over the course of spatial training such that middle-aged vehicle treated mice exhibited deficits in acquiring a spatial search strategy compared to younger vehicle treated mice and middle-age estradiol treated mice. Following behavioral characterization, mice were maintained on their injection schedule until week seven and hippocampi were collected 24h after the last injection. Hippocampal RNA was extracted and genes responsive to age and estrogen were identified using cDNA microarrays. Estradiol treatment in middle-aged mice altered the expression of genes related to transcriptional regulation, biosynthesis, growth, neuroprotection, and elements of cell signaling pathways. Expression profiles for representative genes were confirmed in a separate set of animals using oligonucleotide arrays and RT-PCR. Our results indicate that estrogen treatment in middle-aged animals may promote hippocampal health during the aging process.
Increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines, like interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), is a feature of the aged brain and it is generally accepted that the primary cell source of these cytokines is activated microglia. In hippocampus of aged rats, the increase in IL-1 beta is accompanied by microglial activation and impaired long-term potentiation (LTP). Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) possess anti-inflammatory properties that target microglia. In this study the PPAR gamma agonist, rosiglitazone, was orally administered to young and aged rats, and we report that the age-related increases in NO and IL-1 beta production were attenuated in hippocampus of rosiglitazone-treated aged rats and that this was associated with a restoration of LTP. In addition, treatment with rosiglitazone increased interleukin-4 (IL-4) mRNA and reversed the age-related decrease in hippocampal IL-4 concentration. Significantly, while rosiglitazone attenuated the LPS-induced increase in MHCII and IL-1 beta concentration in glia prepared from wildtype mice, it failed to exert an effect in glia prepared from IL-4(-/-) mice, thereby suggesting that the anti-inflammatory actions of rosiglitazone are mediated by its ability to increase IL-4 expression.
Benign Familial Neonatal Seizures (BFNS) is a rare, autosomal-dominant epilepsy of the newborn caused by mutations in K(v)7.2 (KCNQ2) or K(v)7.3 (KCNQ3) genes encoding for neuronal potassium (K(+)) channel subunits. In this study, we describe a sporadic case of BFNS; the affected child carried heterozygous missense mutations in both K(v)7.2 (D212G) and K(v)7.3 (P574S) alleles. Electrophysiological experiments revealed that the K(v)7.2 D212G substitution, neutralizing a unique negatively-charged residue in the voltage sensor of K(v)7.2 subunits, altered channel gating, leading to a marked destabilization of the open state, a result consistent with structural analysis of the K(v)7.2 subunit, suggesting a possible pathogenetic role for BFNS of this K(v)7.2 mutation. By contrast, no significant functional changes appeared to be prompted by the K(v)7.3 P574S substitution. Computational modelling experiments in CA1 pyramidal cells revealed that the gating changes introduced by the K(v)7.2 D212G increased cell firing frequency, thereby triggering the neuronal hyperexcitability which underlies the observed neonatal epileptic condition.
Emotional dysfunction occurs commonly in neurological disease, although the study of this phenomenon has been relatively neglected. In this introduction to the special issue of Neurocase, we review some key processes underlying normal emotional function and we link these processes to their putative neuroanatomical substrates. Emotions are multimodal phenomena involving the coordinated activation of thoughts, somatic musculature, and the autonomic system in response to shifting environmental demands. Key facets of emotional function include appraisal, reactivity, regulation, emotional understanding, and empathy. These processes are carried out via interactions between the frontal and temporal lobes and insula, and subcortical structures including the amygdala, basal ganglia, hypothalamus and brainstem. A thorough understanding of emotional dysfunction in neurological disease will require a sophisticated approach to studying emotion, which takes into account these various processes and links them to neuroanatomical changes.
We have reported previously that there appears to be an intriguing sex-related functional asymmetry of the prefrontal cortices, especially the ventromedial sector, in regard to social conduct, emotional processing, and decision-making, whereby the right-sided sector is important in men but not women and the left-sided sector is important in women but not men. The amygdala is another structure that has been widely implicated in emotion processing and social decision-making, and the question arises as to whether the amygdala, in a manner akin to what has been observed for the prefrontal cortex, might have sex-related functional asymmetry in regard to social and emotional functions. A preliminary test of this question was carried out in the current study, where we used a case-matched lesion approach and contrasted a pair of men cases and a pair of women cases, where in each pair one patient had left amygdala damage and the other had right amygdala damage. We investigated the domains of social conduct, emotional processing and personality, and decision-making. The results provide support for the notion that there is sex-related functional asymmetry of the amygdala in regard to these functions - in the male pair, the patient with right-sided amygdala damage was impaired in these functions, and the patient with left-sided amygdala damage was not, whereas in the female pair, the opposite pattern obtained, with the left-sided woman being impaired and the right-sided woman being unimpaired. These data provide preliminary support for the notion that sex-related functional asymmetry of the amygdala may entail functions such as social conduct, emotional processing, and decision-making, a finding that in turn could reflect (as either a cause or effect) differences in the manner in which men and women apprehend, process, and execute emotion-related information.
Social functioning in FTD is profoundly affected, and forms the basis for the clinical diagnosis of the behavioural variant of the disease (bv-FTD). In particular, there are deficits in emotional processing, but the inter-relationship of such deficits to other aspects of social functioning remains unclear. We studied patients with bv-FTD (n = 14) and AD (n = 14), and compared their performance on a test of emotion recognition with their scores on two carer-based assessments: the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD) of activities in daily living (ADL), and the Cambridge Behavioural Inventory (CBI). The bv-FTD group had significantly greater impairments in ADLs, and had higher scores on the CBI, compared to the AD group. Despite a deficit in emotion recognition, particularly involving negative emotions, in the FTD group relative to AD and controls, performance on this task did not correlate with ADL ratings which instead, correlated highly with carer-rated apathy levels on the CBI. The study highlights the multifactorial nature of social dysfunction in FTD which is important in the management of these patients and in designing effective behavioural and therapeutic interventions. The relationship of emotional processing to other aspects of social cognition in FTD is reviewed.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) is produced at high levels in the injured central nervous system, where it is generally considered a cytotoxic mediator of inflammation. The cellular actions of PGE(2) are mediated by G-protein signaling activated by prostanoid receptors termed EP(1), EP(2), EP(3) and EP(4). Recent studies have implicated the EP(2) prostanoid receptor to be in apparently conflicting roles promoting neuronal death in some model systems and the survival of neurons in others. Here we show that treatment of immortalized human microglia and CCF-STTG1 astrocytes with either PGE(2) or the EP(2) selective agonist butaprost stimulates the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Both cell lines express mRNA for the EP(2) receptor, whereas transcripts for the other subtypes are not detected. Pharmacological studies using PGE(2) and modulators of cyclic AMP signaling implicate this pathway in PGE(2)-stimulated BDNF release. These results indicate that EP(2) prostanoid receptor activation induces BDNF secretion through stimulation of cyclic AMP dependent signaling. Our findings provide a mechanism by which endogenous PGE(2) might contribute to either neurotoxicity or neuroprotection in the injured brain via the induction of BDNF release from microglial cells and astrocytes.
Xanomeline is thought to be a M1/M4 functionally selective agonist at muscarinic receptors. We have previously demonstrated that it binds in a unique manner at the M1 receptor. In the current study, we examined the ability of xanomeline to bind to the M3 receptor and determined the long-term consequences of this mode of binding in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing M3 receptors. Xanomeline binds in a reversible and wash-resistant manner at the M3 receptor and elicits a functional response under both conditions. Long-term exposure to xanomeline resulted in changes in the binding profile of [(3)H]NMS and a decrease in cell-surface receptor density. Additionally, pretreatment with xanomeline was associated with antagonism of the functional response to subsequent stimulation by conventional agonists. Our results indicate that xanomeline binds to and activates the M3 muscarinic receptor in a wash-resistant manner, and that this type of binding results in time-dependent receptor regulation.
Nerve growth factor (NGF)-mediated activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) is critical for differentiation and apoptosis of PC12 cells. Since NGF employs stress-activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) to regulate both programmed cell death and neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells, we examined NGF-regulated JNK activity and the role of G(i/o) proteins. Induction of JNK phosphorylation by NGF occurred in a time- and dose-dependent manner and was partially inhibited by pertussis toxin (PTX). To discern the participation of various signaling intermediates, PC12 cells were treated with specific inhibitors prior to NGF challenge. NGF-elevated JNK activity was abolished by inhibitors of JNK, p38 MAPK, Src, JAK3 and MEK1/2. NGF-dependent JNK phosphorylation became insensitive to PTX treatment upon transient expressions of Galpha(z) or the PTX-resistant mutants of Galpha(i1-3) and Galpha(oA). Collectively, these studies indicate that NGF-dependent JNK activity may be mediated via G(i1-3) proteins, JAK3, Src, p38 MAPK and the MEK/ERK cascade.
Aging is associated with significant white matter deterioration and this deterioration is assumed to be at least partly a consequence of myelin degeneration. The present study investigated specific predictions of the myelodegeneration hypothesis using diffusion tensor tractography. This technique has several advantages over other methods of assessing white matter architecture, including the possibility of isolating individual white matter tracts and measuring effects along the whole extent of each tract. The study yielded three main findings. First, age-related white matter deficits increased gradually from posterior to anterior segments within specific fiber tracts traversing frontal and parietal, but not temporal cortex. This pattern inverts the sequence of myelination during childhood and early development observed in previous studies and lends support to a &quot;last-in-first-out&quot; theory of the white matter health across the lifespan. Second, both the effects of aging on white matter and their impact on cognitive performance were stronger for radial diffusivity (RD) than for axial diffusivity (AD). Given that RD has previously been shown to be more sensitive to myelin integrity than AD, this second finding is also consistent with the myelodegeneration hypothesis. Finally, the effects of aging on select white matter tracts were associated with age difference in specific cognitive functions. Specifically, FA in anterior tracts was shown to be primarily associated with executive tasks and FA in posterior tracts mainly associated with visual memory tasks. Furthermore, these correlations were mirrored in RD, but not AD, suggesting that RD is more sensitive to age-related changes in cognition. Taken together, the results help to clarify how age-related white matter decline impairs cognitive performance.
A dominant view in numerical cognition is that processing the quantity indicated by numbers (e.g. deciding the larger between two numbers such as '12.07' or '15.02') relies on the intraparietal regions (IPS) of the cerebral cortex. However, it remains unclear whether the IPS could play a more general role in numerical cognition, for example in (1) quantity processing even with non-numerical stimuli (e.g. choosing the larger of 'bikini' and 'coat'); and/or (2) conceptual tasks involving numbers beyond those requiring quantity processing (e.g. attributing a summer date to either '12.07' or '15.02'). In this study we applied fMRI-guided TMS to the left and right IPS, while independently manipulating stimulus and task. Our results showed that IPS involvement in numerical cognition is neither stimulus-specific nor specific for conceptual tasks. Thus, quantity judgments with numerical and non-numerical stimuli were equally affected by IPS-TMS, as well as a number conceptual task not requiring quantity comparisons. However, IPS-TMS showed no impairment for perceptual decisions on numbers without any conceptual processing (i.e. colour judgment), nor for conceptual decisions that did not involve quantity or number stimuli (e.g. summer object: 'bikini' or 'coat'?). These results are consistent with proposals that the parietal areas are engaged in the conceptual representation of numbers but they challenge the most common view that number processing is so automatic that the simple presentation of numbers activates the IPS and a sense of magnitude. Rather, our results show that the IPS is only necessary when conceptual operations need to be explicitly oriented to numerical concepts.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become the leading modality for studying the working brain. Being based on measuring the haemodynamic changes after enhanced mass neuronal activity the spatiotemporal resolution of the method is somewhat limited. Alternative MR-based methods for detection of brain activity have been proposed and investigated and studies have reported functional imaging based on diffusion weighted (DW) MRI. The basis for such DW fMRI is believed to be the sensitivity of diffusion weighted MRI to changes in tissue micro-structure. However, it remains unclear whether signal changes observed with these methods reflect cell swelling related to neural activation, residual vascular effects, or a combination of both. Here we present evidence of a detectable, activity-related change in the diffusion weighted MR-signal from the cellular level in live hippocampal slices in the absence of vasculature. Slices are exposed to substances which evoke or inhibit neural activity and the effects are evaluated and compared. The results are also compared to earlier DW fMRI studies in humans.


Intracranial aspergillosis is a rare pathologic condition, difficult to treat and often fatal which generally affects immunocompromised hosts. High-dose steroid therapy represents a risk factor for opportunistic infections. We report a case of fatal brain abscess in an immunocompetent patient with a previous diagnosis of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) in whom a high-dose steroid course has probably contributed to the development of the fungal infection. Despite steroids' relative safety, clinicians must remain alert to potential fatal complication that could arise from their use.
Body composition is sparsely described in spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Body (BMI, mass/height in m(2)), fat-free (FFMI, lean mass/height in m(2)) and fat (FMI, fat mass/height in m(2)) mass indexes were estimated in 25 children (aged 5-18) with SMA (2 type I, 13 type II, 10 type III) using dual-energy radiograph absorptiometry and anthropometric data referenced to gender and age-matched healthy children (NHANES III, New York Pediatric Rosetta Body Project). BMI was 50th percentile in 11 (44%) and 85th in 5 (20%). FFMI was reduced (p&lt;0.005) and FMI was increased (p&lt;0.005) in the overall study cohort. FMI was 50th, 85th and 95th percentiles in 19 (76%), 10 (40%) and 5 (20%) subjects, respectively. Using a receiver operator characteristic curve, BMI above 75th, 50th and 3rd percentiles maximized sensitivity and specificity for FMI 95th, 85th and 50th percentiles, respectively. Children with SMA have reduced lean and increased fat mass compared to healthy children. Obesity is a potentially important modifiable source of morbidity in SMA.
We describe a 5.3-year-old girl with autism, mental retardation, hypotonia, marked speech delay, and mild dysmorphic features with a 22q11.2 duplication. Her mother carries the same duplication and presents cleft palate, and normal intelligence. The clinical and behavioural phenotype of this relatively new syndrome is very heterogeneous, with high variability also in the familiar cases. Up till now, about 50 cases of 22q11.2 duplication have been reported, but only three of them are associated with autistic disorders. We propose that in addition to 22q13.3 deletion syndrome, also 22q11.2 duplication should be suspected in a patient with unspecified dysmorphisms, mental retardation, autism, hypotonia, and severe speech delay.
The effects of subcutaneous Nociceptin/Orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) administration on corticosterone (CORT) secretion were determined in male and female wild-type mice and mice lacking the N/OFQ prepropeptide. Additionally the effect of pretreating animals with isoflurane anesthesia to minimize the potential stress of injection was examined. Although N/OFQ itself did not specifically increase CORT levels in males or females of either genotype, injection alone (either vehicle or N/OFQ) or isoflurane exposure both increased CORT levels in all groups. These results demonstrate that N/OFQ does not elevate circulating CORT levels; however the injection process itself results in increased CORT secretion. Pretreatment with isoflurane did not significantly diminish the CORT response to injection, except in wild-type males. In fact, isoflurane exposure alone increased CORT levels above basal values. Additionally, a gender difference was evident; females displayed a greater change of plasma CORT levels than males. Finally, because even saline injection increased CORT levels, we closely investigated another possible non-specific stress effect, i.e. the effect of transporting animals from their home environment in the animal facility to the laboratory on the day of the experiment. Although basal CORT levels were similar to values reported in other studies, circulating CORT levels were elevated in animals transported to the laboratory, even after a 30 min acclimation period. These results indicate that the experimental protocol that is followed when conducting stress experiments needs to be carefully considered.
Modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission by metabotropic glutamate2/3 (mGlu2/3) receptor agonists effectively treats seemingly diverse neuropsychiatric illness such as generalized anxiety disorder and schizophrenia. Activation of adenosine A(1) heteroceptors, like mGlu2 autoreceptors, decreases glutamate release in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and other limbic brain regions. Previously, we have reported electrophysiological, neurochemical and behavioral evidence for interactions between the 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) (5-HT(2A)) and mGlu2/3 receptors in the mPFC. The present studies were designed to investigate the effects in rats of adenosine A(1) receptor activation/blockade on a behavior modulated by 5-HT(2A) receptor activation/blockade in the mPFC: head shakes induced in the rat by phenethylamine hallucinogens. An adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) suppressed head shakes induced by activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors with the phenethylamine hallucinogen (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride (DOI). An adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), enhanced DOI-induced head shakes and blocked the suppressant action of an adenosine A(1) receptor agonist on DOI-induced head shakes. Thus, the pattern of activity for an agonist and antagonist at the adenosine A1 receptor with respect to modulating DOI-induced head shakes is similar to the pattern observed with mGlu2/3 receptor agonists and antagonists. These novel observations with an adenosine A(1) receptor agonist suggest that this pharmacological action could contribute to antipsychotic effects in addition to thymoleptic effects.
Evidence for involvement of cytochrome P450 2E1 in the MPTP-induced mouse model of PD has been reported [Vaglini, F., Pardini, C., Viaggi, C., Bartoli, C., Dinucci, D., Corsini, G.U., 2004. Involvement of cytochrome P450 2E1 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease. J. Neurochem. 91, 285-298]. We studied the sensitivity of Cyp2e1(-/-) mice to the acute administration of MPTP in comparison with their wild-type counterparts. In Cyp2e1(-/-) mice, the reduction of striatal DA content was less pronounced 7 days after MPTP treatment compared to treated wild-type mice. Similarly, TH immunoreactivity analysis of the substantia nigra of Cyp2e1(-/-) mice did not show any neuronal lesions after MPTP treatment. In contrast to this, wild-type animals showed a minimal but significant lesioning by the toxin as evaluated also by means of non-stereologic computerized assisted analysis of this brain area. Striatal levels of DA metabolites after 7 days were variably affected by the toxin, but consistent differences between the two animal strains were not observed. We evaluated short-term changes in the levels of striatal DA and its metabolites, and we monitored striatal MPP(+) levels. Striatal MPP(+) was cleared more rapidly in Cyp2e1(-/-) mice than in wild-type animals and, consistently, striatal DA content decreased faster in Cyp2e1(-/-) mice than in wild-type animals, and 3-methoxytyramine and HVA levels showed an early and sharp rise. Our findings suggest that Cyp2e1(-/-) mice are weakly sensitive to MPTP-induced brain lesions, markedly in contrast with a protective role of the enzyme as suggested previously. The differences observed between the knockout mice and their wild-type counterparts are modest and may be due to an efficient compensatory mechanism or genetic drift in the colonies.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and schizophrenia are both neurodevelopmental disorders that have extensively been associated with impairments in functional brain connectivity. Using a cross-sensory P50 suppression paradigm, this study investigated low-level audiovisual interactions on cortical EEG activation, which provides crucial information about functional integrity of connections between brain areas involved in cross-sensory processing in both disorders. Thirteen high functioning adult males with ASD, 13 high functioning adult males with schizophrenia, and 16 healthy adult males participated in the study. No differences in neither auditory nor cross-sensory P50 suppression were found between healthy controls and individuals with ASD. In schizophrenia, attenuated P50 responses to the first auditory stimulus indicated early auditory processing deficits. These results are in accordance with the notion that filtering deficits may be secondary to earlier sensory dysfunction. Also, atypical cross-sensory suppression was found, which implies that the cognitive impairments seen in schizophrenia may be due to deficits in the integrity of connections between brain areas involved in low-level cross-sensory processing.
Ocular motor abnormalities are a common feature of multiple sclerosis (MS), with more salient deficits reflecting tissue damage within brainstem and cerebellar circuits. However, MS may also result in disruption to higher level or cognitive control processes governing eye movement, including attentional processes that enhance the neural processing of behaviourally relevant information. The attentional control of eye movement was investigated in 25 individuals with MS and a comparable number of neurologically healthy individuals matched for age and IQ. This entailed an evaluation of distractor-related effects on the generation of both unpredictable and predictable visually guided saccades, as well as an evaluation of the effects of presenting endogenous cues prior to target onset. For unpredictable saccades, we revealed an exaggerated distractor effect in MS, with saccade latencies prolonged and endpoints less accurate in the presence of a visual distractor. Predictable saccades tended to be hypometric for MS patients, although we found no significant distractor effects. For endogenously cued saccades, we found no group differences in latency following a valid cue, but an exaggerated increase in latency following invalid cues for MS patients. MS patients also generated a significantly greater proportion of erroneous responses to cue stimuli. These ocular motor characteristics demonstrate considerable sensitivity with respect to evaluating attentional deficits in MS, evident even in the absence of clinical signs of disease.
While a core function of the working memory (WM) system is the active maintenance of behaviorally relevant sensory representations, it is also critical that distracting stimuli are appropriately ignored. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the role of domain-general WM resources in the top-down attentional modulation of task-relevant and irrelevant visual representations. In our dual-task paradigm, each trial began with the auditory presentation of six random (high load) or sequentially ordered (low load) digits. Next, two relevant visual stimuli (e.g., faces), presented amongst two temporally interspersed visual distractors (e.g., scenes), were to be encoded and maintained across a 7-s delay interval, after which memory for the relevant images and digits was probed. When taxed by high load digit maintenance, participants exhibited impaired performance on the visual WM task and a selective failure to attenuate the neural processing of task-irrelevant scene stimuli. The over-processing of distractor scenes under high load was indexed by elevated encoding activity in a scene-selective region-of-interest relative to low load and passive viewing control conditions, as well as by improved long-term recognition memory for these items. In contrast, the load manipulation did not affect participants' ability to upregulate activity in this region when scenes were task-relevant. These results highlight the critical role of domain-general WM resources in the goal-directed regulation of distractor processing. Moreover, the consequences of increased WM load in young adults closely resemble the effects of cognitive aging on distractor filtering [Gazzaley, A., Cooney, J. W., Rissman, J., &amp; D'Esposito, M. (2005). Top-down suppression deficit underlies working memory impairment in normal aging. Nature Neuroscience 8, 1298-1300], suggesting the possibility of a common underlying mechanism.
Previous in vitro studies have characterized the electrophysiological and molecular signaling pathways of adenosine tonic modulation on long-lasting synaptic plasticity events, particularly for hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). However, it remains to be elucidated whether the long-term changes produced by endogenous adenosine in the efficiency of synapses are related to those required for learning and memory formation. Our goal was to understand how endogenous activation of adenosine excitatory A(2A) receptors modulates the associative learning evolution in conscious behaving mice. We have studied here the effects of the application of a highly selective A(2A) receptor antagonist, SCH58261, upon a well-known associative learning paradigm-classical eyeblink conditioning. We used a trace paradigm, with a tone as the conditioned stimulus (CS) and an electric shock presented to the supraorbital nerve as the unconditioned stimulus (US). A single electrical pulse was presented to the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway to evoke field EPSPs (fEPSPs) in the pyramidal CA1 area during the CS-US interval. In vehicle-injected animals, there was a progressive increase in the percentage of conditioning responses (CRs) and in the slope of fEPSPs through conditioning sessions, an effect that was completely prevented (and lost) in SCH58261 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) -injected animals. Moreover, experimentally evoked LTP was impaired in SCH58261-injected mice. In conclusion, the endogenous activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors plays a pivotal effect on the associative learning process and its relevant hippocampal circuits, including activity-dependent changes at the CA3-CA1 synapse.
Recent theories propose that both GABA and glutamate signaling are compromised in patients with schizophrenia. These deficits can be observed in several brain regions including the prefrontal cortex (PFC), an area extensively linked to the cognitive dysfunction in this disease and notably affected by NMDA receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP). We have previously demonstrated that inhibition of the nitric oxide (NO) pathways in the brain, particularly in the PFC, prevents a wide range of PCP-induced behavioral deficits including disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI). This study investigated the role of GABA(B) receptor signaling and NO in the effects of PCP on PPI. Mice received systemic or prefrontal injections of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (2.5-5 mg/kg and 1 mM) before PCP treatment (5 mg/kg) and were thereafter tested for PPI. GABA/NO interactions were studied by combining baclofen and the NO synthase inhibitor L-NAME (20 mg/kg) in subthreshold doses. The role of GABA(B) receptors for NO production in vivo was assessed using NO-sensors implanted into the rat PFC. PCP-induced PPI deficits were attenuated in an additive manner by systemic baclofen treatment, whereas prefrontal microinjections of baclofen completely blocked the effects of PCP, without affecting PPI per se. The combination of baclofen and L-NAME was more effective in preventing the effects of PCP than any compound by itself. Additionally, baclofen decreased NO release in the PFC in a dose-related manner. This study proposes a role for GABA(B) receptor signaling in the effects of PCP, with altered NO levels as a downstream consequence. Thus, prefrontal NO signaling mirrors an altered level of cortical inhibition that may be of importance for information processing deficits in schizophrenia.
Chromatin modification through histone acetylation is a molecular pathway involved in the regulation of transcription underlying memory storage. Sodium 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA) is a well-known histone deacetylase inhibitor, which increases gene transcription of a number of genes, and also exerts neuroprotective effects. In this study, we report that administration of 4-PBA reversed spatial learning and memory deficits in an established mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) without altering beta-amyloid burden. We also observed that the phosphorylated form of tau was decreased in the AD mouse brain after 4-PBA treatment, an effect probably due to an increase in the inactive form of the glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta). Interestingly, we found a dramatic decrease in brain histone acetylation in the transgenic mice that may reflect an indirect transcriptional repression underlying memory impairment. The administration of 4-PBA restored brain histone acetylation levels and, as a most likely consequence, activated the transcription of synaptic plasticity markers such as the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA receptor, PSD95, and microtubule-associated protein-2. The results suggest that 4-PBA, a drug already approved for clinical use, may provide a novel approach for the treatment of AD.
Prospective memory refers to the realization of delayed intentions. Several studies have shown that 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA) users perform worse on measures of prospective memory as compared to nondrug users. Interpretation of these data may be limited because of polydrug use, psychosocial stressors, and increased psychopathology that have been reported in MDMA users. This study was designed to directly assess the pharmacological effect of MDMA on prospective memory and brain activity in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. Twelve recreational MDMA users received MDMA 75 mg and placebo and performed an objective prospective memory task during functional imaging. During prospective memory task performance subjects were engaged in a foreground task that consisted of a simple reaction time to visual stimuli (Go trials) and a prospective task of withholding a response during trials that were part of a dynamic memory set (No go trials). Behavioral data showed that a single dose of MDMA increased prospective memory failures in the No go trials, and that number of prospective memory failures was positively correlated to MDMA concentration in plasma. Functional imaging showed that MDMA decreased BOLD activation during Go trials in the thalamus (left), putamen (left), precuneus (left), and the inferior parietal lobules (bilateral), as compared to placebo. During No go trials, MDMA reduced BOLD deactivation in the inferior parietal lobules (bilateral), as compared to placebo. It is concluded that the loss of deactivation in inferior parietal lobules may account for increments in memory failures observed during MDMA intoxication.
The motivational effects of drugs play a key role during the transition from casual use to abuse and dependence. Ethanol reinforcement has been successfully studied through Pavlovian and operant conditioning in adult rats and mice genetically selected for their ready acceptance of ethanol. Another model for studying ethanol reinforcement is the immature (preweanling) rat, which consumes ethanol and exhibits the capacity to process tactile, odor and taste cues and transfer information between different sensorial modalities. This review describes the motivational effects of ethanol in preweanling, heterogeneous non-selected rats. Preweanlings exhibit ethanol-mediated conditioned taste avoidance and conditioned place aversion. Ethanol's appetitive effects, however, are evident when using first- and second-order conditioning and operant procedures. Ethanol also devalues the motivational representation of aversive stimuli, suggesting early negative reinforcement. It seems that preweanlings are highly sensitive not only to the aversive motivational effects of ethanol but also to its positive and negative (anti-anxiety) reinforcement potential. The review underscores the advantages of using a developing rat to evaluate alcohol's motivational effects.
The serotonergic system is implicated in the regulation of mood and cognition. Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is an experimental procedure for lowering central serotonin levels. Here, the effects of ATD on psychomotor processing, declarative memory, working memory, executive functions and attention are discussed. The most robust finding is that ATD impairs the consolidation of episodic memory for verbal information. Semantic memory appears to be unaffected by ATD although a limited variety of tasks examined effects in this domain. Similarly, evidence suggests ATD does not influence verbal, spatial and affective working memory. Most studies investigating effects on executive functions have produced non-specific or negative findings. In terms of attention, ATD either does not affect or may improve focused attention and ATD likely does not impact sustained and divided attention or attentional set-shifting. Although ATD is known to affect mood in certain vulnerable populations, the effects of ATD on cognition in non-vulnerable participants are independent of mood changes. Suggestions for future directions and implications for psychiatric illnesses are discussed.
It is widely accepted that the human brain is remarkably adaptive not only in child development, but also during adulthood. Aim of this work is to offer an overview and a systematic analysis of neuroimaging studies on the acquisition of arithmetic expertise. In normally developing children and adults, the gain of arithmetic competence is reflected by a shift of activation from frontal brain areas to parietal areas relevant for arithmetic processing. A shift of activation is also observed within the parietal lobe from the intraparietal sulci to the left angular gyrus. Increases in angular gyrus activation with gaining of expertise have also been documented in other cognitive domains. It appears that the left angular gyrus activation is modulated by inter-individual differences in arithmetic performance. The comparison of normal individuals with exceptionally performing individuals (e.g., calculating prodigies) suggests that the experts' arithmetic proficiency relies on a more extended activation network than the network found in non-experts. In expert individuals with long-lasting, extensive mathematical training, specific structural brain modifications are also evident.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) mediates a range of higher order 'executive functions' that subserve the selection and processing of information in such a way that behavior can be planned, controlled and directed according to shifting environmental demands. Impairment of executive functions typifies many forms of psychopathology, including schizophrenia, mood and anxiety disorders and addiction, that are often associated with a history of trauma and stress. Recent research in animal models demonstrates that exposure to even brief periods of intense stress is sufficient to cause significant structural remodeling of the principle projection neurons within the rodent PFC. In parallel, there is growing evidence that stress-induced alterations in PFC neuronal morphology are associated with deficits in rodent executive functions such as working memory, attentional set-shifting and cognitive flexibility, as well as emotional dysregulation in the form of impaired fear extinction. Although the molecular basis of stress-induced changes in PFC morphology and function are only now being elucidated, an understanding of these mechanisms could provide important insight into the pathophysiology of executive dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disease and foster improved strategies for treatment.
Skin-derived precursors (SKPs) are derived from mesoblast and can differentiate into smooth muscle cells, adipocytes, and less neuronal phenotypes. This study demonstrates that retinoic acid (RA) improves SKPs exit from self-proliferation to neural differentiation through up-regulating of NeuroD and cell-cycle regulatory protein p21, meanwhile RA also induces p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) up-regulation and apoptosis of SKPs. When treated sequentially with neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) after RA induction, the survival and neural differentiation of SKPs were enhanced significantly, and cell apoptosis induced by RA was decreased. These effects could be reversed by p75NTR inhibitor Pep5 instead of Trk receptor inhibitor K252a. The results indicate that NT-3 improves the neural differentiation of SKPs induced by RA through a p75NTR-dependent signaling pathway.
Color processing begins with the absorption of light by cone photoreceptors, and progresses through a series of hierarchical stages: Retinal signals carrying color information are transmitted through the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (LGN) up to the primary visual cortex (V1). From V1, the signals are processed by the second visual area (V2); then by cells located in subcompartments (&quot;globs&quot;) within the posterior inferior temporal (PIT) cortex, a brain region that encompasses area V4 and brain regions immediately anterior to V4. Color signals are then processed by regions deep within the inferior temporal (IT) cortex including area TE. As a heuristic, one can consider each of these stages to be involved in constructing a distinct aspect of the color percept. The three cone types are the basis for trichromacy; retinal ganglion cells that respond in an opponent fashion to activation of different cone classes are the basis for color opponency (these &quot;cone-opponent&quot; cells increase their firing rate above baseline to activation of one cone class and decrease their firing rate below baseline to activation of a different cone class); double-opponent neurons in the V1 generate local color contrast and are the building blocks for color constancy; glob cells elaborate the perception of hue; and IT integrates color perception in the context of behavior. Finally, though nothing is known, these signals presumably interface with motor programs and emotional centers of the brain to mediate the widely acknowledged emotional salience of color.
Cerebral venous and dural sinus thrombosis (CVDST) is a rare cause of stroke in young and middle-aged adults. When the clinical course is complicated by uncontrollable intracranial hypertension and brainstem compression due to edema or cerebral hemorrhage, the prognosis is poor. The authors evaluated the therapeutic role of surgical decompression in patients with clinical signs of impending herniation. Cerebral venous and dural sinus thrombosis complicated by impending brain herniation a very rare, life-threatening but potentially treatable clinical condition. Three patients with pupillary signs of transtentorial herniation due to brain edema and hemorrhage caused by CVDST (superior sagittal sinus in 1 patient and transverse and sigmoid sinus in 2 patients) were treated surgically. The intervention consisted of clot removal, infarcted tissue resection, and frontotemporoparietooccipital craniectomy with duraplasty. According to the Glasgow Outcome Scale, 2 patients were classified as having good recovery and 1, moderate disability. The results of neuropsychological assessment were normal in 2 patients and demonstrated a partial neuropsychological deficit (neglect) in the other. Surgery may be indicated in selected patients with CVDST whose condition is deteriorating because of intractable intracranial hypertension and impending brain herniation.
More than 1000 years ago, Rhazes practiced rudimentary neurology. This monumental physician wrote more than 200 books in his lifetime and died a blind pauper in the 10th century AD. His Kitab al-Hawi (Liber Continens) was one of the most famous and detailed medical texts of the ancient world. Here, we discuss the life of Rhazes and provide perhaps the first English translation of his writings dealing with facial palsy (Lagveh) and its treatment. It is the contributions of early clinicians/scholars such as Rhazes on which we base our current medical knowledge.

This study aimed at ascertaining the status of students' performances and their perception of the learning of neurophysiology in a Nigerian medical school. The goal of the study was to determine ways of addressing identified negative perceptions for the purpose of improving upon the overall learning and use neurophysiology knowledge by structured curricular reform. We analyzed and compared the performances of students in three areas of physiology at the second professional examinations over a three-year period [n=300]. We also surveyed learning experience of a batch of graduating doctors in neurosciences [n=50] and surveyed the staff and students' perception of the teaching of neurophysiology. The students performances in neurophysiology was comparatively poorer than in cardiovascular and endocrinology aspects of the subject over a three year period at the second professional examinations. The reported students perception of their neurophysiology learning included uninteresting, abstract concepts, lack of real examples and conflicting facts with their prior basic knowledge. Over 50% of the graduates rated their learning experiences as poor or very poor or below average for the neuroscience courses. The analyses of the curricular contents of neurophysiology in the preclinical departments indicted asynchrony and redundancy in topics that may reduce the learning and reduce teaching time efficiency of the neuroscience courses. It is suggested that learning experiences of medical students should be routinely monitored and structured to ensure that the graduate doctor is able to understand and transfer learned experiences into clinical studies and practice. A horizontally integrated curriculum may be one way of raising students knowledge, attitude and skills in neuroscience courses as taught in the preclinical departments and is suggested.
Although the impaired extinction of traumatic memory is one of the hallmark symptoms of PTSD, the underlying mechanisms of impaired extinction are unclear and effective pharmacological interventions have not yet been developed. In this study, using rats subjected to single prolonged stress (SPS), an animal model of PTSD, we examined (a) the ability of SPS to impair fear extinction, (b) whether D-cycloserine (DCS) can alleviate impaired fear extinction in SPS rats, and (c) the effect of SPS and/or DCS on the levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit mRNAs in the rat hippocampus during extinction training. SPS rats exhibited impaired fear extinction in the contextual fear test, which was alleviated by the repeated administration of DCS. SPS induced significant upregulation of the levels of NMDA receptor subunit mRNAs before and during the period of extinction training, while repeated administration of DCS eliminated the enhanced mRNA levels of NMDARs, suggesting that DCS, irrespective of its mechanistic involvement in the enhancement of fear extinction, may help to reverse hippocampal plasticity, and thus reverse the NMDA compensatory alterations. Our research indicates that DCS may be a promising tool for the treatment of PTSD.
Transactivation represents the process whereby G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) activate receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), which are receptors for several neurotrophic factors and growth factors, with a subsequent downstream signaling such as mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Transactivation has been shown to be involved in the pathophysiology of cardiac hypertrophy and chronic kidney diseases, and it is targeted to develop novel therapeutic agents for these diseases. Recent accumulating evidence indicates that monoamines as well as neurotrophic factors and growth factors are thought to be involved in the therapeutic effects for psychiatric disorders. We have reported that serotonin (5-HT), which is important for the effect of antidepressant, increases glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) via the 5-HT2R-mediated fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 transactivation pathway in glial cells (Tsuchioka et al, 2008). Transactivation in the CNS may play a role in the crosstalk between receptors for neurotransmitters, such as monoamines, and RTKs. Thus, transactivation will be an important basis for producing novel treatment strategies for psychiatric disorders. In this review, we outline a role of transacitvation in the CNS by explaining the concept and the mechanism of transactivation and summarizing recent reports about it in the CNS with our results.

Studies of children treated for dense cataract shed light on the extent to which pattern stimulation drives normal visual development and whether there are sensitive periods during which an abnormal visual environment is especially detrimental. Here, we summarize the findings to date into five general principles: (1) At least for low-level vision, aspects of vision that develop the earliest are the least likely to be adversely affected by abnormal visual input whereas those that develop later are affected more severely. (2) Early visual input is necessary to preserve the neural infrastructure for later visual learning, even for visual capabilities that will not appear until later in development. (3) The development of both the dorsal and ventral streams depends on normal visual input. (4) After monocular deprivation has been treated by surgical removal of the cataractous lens, the interactions between the aphakic and phakic eyes are competitive for low-level vision but are complementary for high-level vision. (5) There are multiple sensitive periods during which experience can influence visual development.The studies described here have important implications for understanding normal development. They indicate that patterned visual input immediately after birth plays a vital role in the construction and preservation of the neural architecture that will later mediate sensitivity to both basic and higher level aspects of vision. The period during which patterned visual input is necessary for normal visual development varies widely across different aspects of vision and can range from only a few months after birth to more than the first 10 years of life. The results point to new research questions on why early visual deprivation can cause later deficits, what limits adult plasticity, and whether effective rehabilitation in other areas can provide new clues for the treatment of amblyopia.
We evaluated the role of sigma(1) receptors on capsaicin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity and on nociceptive pain induced by punctate mechanical stimuli, using wild-type and sigma(1) receptor knockout (sigma(1)-KO) mice and selective sigma(1) receptor-acting drugs. Mutation in sigma(1)-KO mice was confirmed by PCR analysis of genomic DNA and, at the protein level, by [(3)H](+)-pentazocine binding assays. Both wild-type and sigma(1)-KO mice not treated with capsaicin showed similar responses to different intensities of mechanical stimuli (0.05-8 g force), ranging from innocuous to noxious, applied to the hind paw. This indicates that sigma(1) gene inactivation does not modify the perception of punctate mechanical stimuli. The intraplantar (i.pl.) administration of capsaicin induced dose-dependent mechanical allodynia in wild-type mice (markedly reducing both the threshold force necessary to induce paw withdrawal and the latency to paw withdrawal induced by a given force). In contrast, capsaicin was completely unable to induce mechanical hypersensitivity in sigma(1)-KO mice. The high-affinity and selective sigma(1) antagonists BD-1063, BD-1047 and NE-100, administered subcutaneously (s.c.), dose-dependently inhibited mechanical allodynia induced by capsaicin (1 microg,i.pl.), yielding ED(50) (mg/kg) values of 15.80+/-0.93, 29.31+/-1.65 and 40.74+/-7.20, respectively. The effects of the sigma(1) antagonists were reversed by the sigma(1) agonist PRE-084 (32 mg/kg, s.c.). None of the drugs tested modified the responses induced by a painful mechanical punctate stimulus (4 g force) in nonsensitized animals. These results suggest that sigma(1) receptors are essential for capsaicin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity, but are not involved in mechanical nociceptive pain.
Metabolic testing in spinal fluid is not routinely obtained in every patient with refractory epilepsy or status epilepticus. A 9-month-old girl who was referred for surgical treatment of refractory status epilepticus suggestive of a right hemispheric focus; cranial magnetic resonance imaging was unremarkable. The patient received a metabolic evaluation according to institutional protocol and was noted to have a spinal fluid peak characteristically seen in folinic acid-responsive epilepsy. Subsequent testing revealed a deleterious mutation in the ALDH7A1 gene. At last follow-up, the patient was seizure free on folinic acid and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate supplementation. Surgery was not performed. Metabolic testing in spinal fluid is strongly urged in all patients with refractory epilepsy or status epilepticus when an underlying etiology is not known.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown etiology characterized by social and communication deficits and the presence of restricted interests/repetitive behaviors. Higher rates of epilepsy have long been reported, but prevalence estimates vary from as little as 5% to as much as 46%. This variation is probably the result of sample characteristics that increase epilepsy risk such as sample ascertainment, lower intelligence quotient (IQ), the inclusion of patients with nonidiopathic autism, age, and gender. However, critical review of the literature reveals that the rate in idiopathic cases with normal IQ is still significantly above the population risk suggesting that autism itself is associated with an increased risk of epilepsy. Recently, there has been interest in the occurrence of epileptiform electroencephalograms (EEGs) even in the absence of epilepsy. Rates as high as 60% have been reported and some investigators propose that these abnormalities may play a causal role in the autism phenotype. Although this phenomenon is still not well understood and risk factors have yet to be determined, the treatment implications are increasingly important. We review the recent literature to elucidate possible risk factors for both epilepsy and epileptiform EEGs. We then review existing data and discuss controversies surrounding treatment of EEG abnormalities.
We explored the structural basis of voltage sensing in the HCN1 hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel by examining the relative orientation of the voltage sensor and pore domains. The opening of channels engineered to contain single cysteine residues at the extracellular ends of the voltage-sensing S4 (V246C) and pore-forming S5 (C303) domains is inhibited by formation of disulfide or cysteine:Cd(2+) bonds. As Cd(2+) coordination is promoted by depolarization, the S4-S5 interaction occurs preferentially in the closed state. The failure of oxidation to catalyze dimer formation, as assayed by Western blotting, indicates the V246C:C303 interaction occurs within a subunit. Intriguingly, a similar interaction has been observed in depolarization-activated Shaker voltage-dependent potassium (Kv) channels at depolarized potentials but such an intrasubunit interaction is inconsistent with the X-ray crystal structure of Kv1.2, wherein S4 approaches S5 of an adjacent subunit. These findings suggest channels of opposite voltage-sensing polarity adopt a conserved S4-S5 orientation in the depolarized state that is distinct from that trapped upon crystallization.
One of the few preclinical models used to identify mood stabilizers is an assay in which amphetamine-induced hyperactivity (AMPH) is potentiated by the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (CDP), an effect purportedly blocked by mood stabilizers. Our data here challenge this standard interpretation of the AMPH-CDP model. We show that the potentiating effects of AMPH-CDP are not explained by a pharmacokinetic interaction as both drugs have similar brain and plasma exposures whether administered alone or in combination. Of concern, however, we find that combining CDP (1-12 mg/kg) with AMPH (3 mg/kg) results in an inverted-U dose response in outbred CD-1 as well as inbred C57Bl/6N and 129S6 mice (peak hyperactivity at 3 mg/kg CDP+3 mg/kg AMPH). Such an inverted-U dose response complicates interpreting whether a reduction in hyperactivity produced by a mood stabilizer reflects a &quot;blockade&quot; or a &quot;potentiation&quot; of the mixture. In fact, we show that the prototypical mood stabilizer valproic acid augments the effects of CDP on hypolocomotion and anxiolytic-like behavior (increases punished crossings by Swiss-Webster mice in the four-plate test). We argue that these data, in addition to other practical and theoretical concerns surrounding the model, limit the utility of the AMPH-CDP mixture model in drug discovery.
Several lines of evidence have shown that stimulation or inactivation of lateral hypothalamus (LH) produces antinociception. In this study, we assessed the role of nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) in antinociceptive response induced by LH stimulation or inactivation in the rat. The cholinergic agonist carbachol (125 nmol/0.5 microl saline) or lidocaine (2%; 0.5 microl) was unilaterally microinjected into the LH with the LC inactivation concurrently. Antinociceptive responses were obtained by tail-flick test and represented as maximal possible effect (MPE) at 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 and 60 min after drug administration. The results showed that microinjection of carbachol into the LH significantly induced antinociception at 5 and 10 min (p&lt;0.001). This effect was significantly blocked by microinjection of lidocaine into the LC. On the other hand, microinjection of lidocaine into LH-induced antinociception at 5 (p&lt;0.01) and 10 (p&lt;0.05) min after administration. However, inactivation of the LC following the LH inactivation increased MPE at 5 min after injection. These findings support the conclusion that antinociception produced by LH stimulation or inactivation involves two separate mechanisms. It seems that analgesic response induced by LH stimulation is mediated in part by the subsequent activation of spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons in the LC cell group.
Adolescents have been hypothesized to exhibit an age-related partial anhedonia that may lead them to seek out natural and drug rewards to compensate for this attenuated hedonic sensitivity. In the present series of experiments, taste reactivity (TR) and 2 bottle choice tests were used to assess hedonic reactions to sucrose. In Exp 1, total positive taste responses to 10% sucrose solution were significantly higher in adolescent than adult rats during the infusion period. In Exp 2, adolescent animals exhibited a concentration-effect shift that was consistent with a greater hedonic sensitivity compared to adults. Conversely, adolescents exhibited fewer negative responses to quinine. Using a shortened infusion period, adolescents in Exp 3 exhibited a trend for greater positive TR than adults in response to 10 and 34% sucrose. Consistent with the TR results of Exp 1-3, adolescents consumed significantly more sucrose solution (ml/kg) than adults, although no significant age difference in sucrose preference rates emerged. The results of the current series of experiments do not support the hypothesis that adolescents exhibit an age-related, partial anhedonia, with adolescent animals, under a number of test circumstances showing greater positive taste reactivity and reduced negative responding.
Recent studies have implicated the orexin system as a critical regulator of sleep/wake states as well as feeding behavior and reward processes. Orexin deficiency results in narcolepsy in humans, dogs, and rodents, suggesting that the orexin system is particularly important for maintenance of wakefulness. In addition, orexin deficiency also cause abnormalities in energy homeostasis and reward systems. Orexin activates waking active monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons in the hypothalamus and brainstem regions to maintain a long, consolidated waking period. Orexin neurons receive abundant input from the limbic system. Orexin neurons also have reciprocal links with the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, which regulates feeding. Moreover, the responsiveness of orexin neurons to peripheral metabolic cues, such as leptin and glucose, suggest that these neurons have important role as a link between the energy homeostasis and vigilance states. Orexin neurons also have a link with the dopaminergic reward system in the ventral tegmental nucleus. These findings suggest that the orexin system interacts with systems that regulate emotion, reward, and energy homeostasis to maintain proper vigilance states. Therefore, this system may be a potentially important therapeutic target for treatment of sleep disorder, obesity, emotional stress, and addiction.
Cognition, memory, and attention and arousal have been linked to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Thus it is not surprising that nAChRs have been strongly implicated as therapeutic targets for treating cognitive deficits in disorders such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In particular the alpha7 (alpha7) nAChR has been closely linked with normalization of P50 auditory evoked potential (AEP) gating deficits, and to a lesser extent improvements in pre-pulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response. These two brain phenomena can be considered as pre-attentive, occurring while sensory information is being processed, and are important endophenotypes in schizophrenia with deficits likely contributing to the cognitive fragmentation associated with the disease. In addition alpha7 nAChRs have been implicated in attention, in particular under high attentional demand, and in more demanding working memory tasks such as long delays in delayed matching tasks. Efficacy of alpha7 nAChR agonists across a range of cognitive processes ranging from pre-attentive to attentive states and working and recognition memory provides a solid basis for their pro-cognitive effects. This review will focus on the recent work highlighting the role of alpha7 in cognition and cognitive processes.

On a daily basis, humans interact with a vast range of objects and tools. A class of tasks, which can pose a serious challenge to our motor skills, are those that involve manipulating objects with internal degrees of freedom, such as when folding laundry or using a lasso. Here, we use the framework of optimal feedback control to make predictions of how humans should interact with such objects. We confirm the predictions experimentally in a two-dimensional object manipulation task, in which subjects learned to control six different objects with complex dynamics. We show that the non-intuitive behavior observed when controlling objects with internal degrees of freedom can be accounted for by a simple cost function representing a trade-off between effort and accuracy. In addition to using a simple linear, point-mass optimal control model, we also used an optimal control model, which considers the non-linear dynamics of the human arm. We find that the more realistic optimal control model captures aspects of the data that cannot be accounted for by the linear model or other previous theories of motor control. The results suggest that our everyday interactions with objects can be understood by optimality principles and advocate the use of more realistic optimal control models for the study of human motor neuroscience.
The NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) signaling pathway regulates phase 2 detoxification genes, including a variety of antioxidative enzymes. We tested neuroprotective effects of the synthetic triterpenoid CDDO-MA, a potent activator of the Nrf2/ARE signaling. CDDO-MA treatment of neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells resulted in Nrf2 upregulation and translocation from cytosol to nucleus and subsequent activation of ARE pathway genes. CDDO-MA blocked t-butylhydroperoxide-induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by activation of ARE genes only in wild type, but not Nrf2 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Oral administration of CDDO-MA resulted in significant protection against MPTP-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration, pathological alpha-synuclein accumulation and oxidative damage in mice. Additionally, CDDO-MA treatment in rats produced significant rescue against striatal lesions caused by the neurotoxin 3-NP, and associated increases in the oxidative damage markers malondialdehyde, F(2)-Isoprostanes, 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine, 3-nitrotyrosine, and impaired glutathione homeostasis. Our results indicate that the CDDO-MA renders its neuroprotective effects through its potent activation of the Nrf2/ARE pathway, and suggest that triterpenoids may be beneficial for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
The majority of rabies virus (RV) infections are caused by bites or scratches from rabid carnivores or bats. Usually, RV utilizes the retrograde transport within the neuronal network to spread from the infection site to the central nervous system (CNS) where it replicates in neuronal somata and infects other neurons via trans-synaptic spread. We speculate that in addition to the neuronal transport of the virus, hematogenous spread from the site of infection directly to the brain after accidental spill over into the vascular system might represent an alternative way for RV to invade the CNS. So far, it is unknown whether hematogenous spread has any relevance in RV pathogenesis. To determine whether certain RV variants might have the capacity to invade the CNS from the periphery via hematogenous spread, we infected mice either intramuscularly (i.m.) or intravenously (i.v.) with the dog-associated RV DOG4 or the silver-haired bat-associated RV SB. In addition to monitoring the progression of clinical signs of rabies we used immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to follow the spread of the virus from the infection site to the brain. In contrast to i.m. infection where both variants caused a lethal encephalopathy, only i.v. infection with SB resulted in the development of a lethal infection. While qRT-PCR did not reveal major differences in virus loads in spinal cord or brain at different times after i.m. or i.v. infection of SB, immunohistochemical analysis showed that only i.v. administered SB directly infected the forebrain. The earliest affected regions were those hypothalamic nuclei, which are connected by neurosecretory fibers to the circumventricular organs neurohypophysis and median eminence. Our data suggest that hematogenous spread of SB can lead to a fatal encephalopathy through direct retrograde invasion of the CNS at the neurovascular interface of the hypothalamus-hypophysis system. This alternative mode of virus spread has implications for the post exposure prophylaxis of rabies, particularly with silver-haired bat-associated RV.


The base excision repair (BER) pathway is mainly responsible for the repair of a vast number of non-bulky lesions produced by alkylation, oxidation or deamination of bases. DNA glycosylases are the key enzymes that recognize damaged bases and initiate BER by catalyzing the cleavage of the N-glycosylic bond between the base and the sugar. Many of the mammalian DNA glycosylases have been identified by a combination of biochemical and bioinformatics analysis. Thus, a mammalian family of three proteins (NEIL1, NEIL2 and NEIL3) that showed homology to the Escherichia coli Fpg/Nei DNA glycosylases was identified. Two of the proteins, NEIL1 and NEIL2 have been thoroughly characterized and shown to initiate BER of a diverse number of oxidized lesions. However, much less is known about NEIL3. The biochemical properties of NEIL3 have not been elucidated. This is mainly due to the difficulty in the expression and purification of NEIL3. Here, we describe the expression and partial purification of full-length human NEIL3 and the expression, purification and characterization of a truncated human core-NEIL3 (amino acids 1-301) that contains the complete E. coli Fpg/Nei-like domain but lacks the C-terminal region.
We report a quantitative proteomic study to investigate the changes induced in membrane rafts by the inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3. Sensitive quantitation of membrane raft proteins using isobaric tagging chemistries was enabled by a novel hybrid proteomic method to isolate low-microgram (10-30 microg) membrane raft protein preparations as unresolved bands in a low-density acrylamide gel. Samples were in-gel digested, differentially tagged and combined for 2-D LC and quantitative MS. Analysis of hippocampal membrane preparations using this approach resulted in a sixfold increase in sensitivity and a threefold increase in the number of quantifiable proteins compared with parallel processing using a traditional in-solution method. Quantitative analysis of membrane raft preparations from a human neuronal cell line treated with glycogen synthase kinase-3 inhibitors SB415286 or lithium chloride, that have been reported to modulate processing of the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein, identified several protein changes. These included decreases in lamin B1 and lamin B receptor, as well as increases in several endosome regulating rab proteins, rab5, rab7 and rab11 that have been implicated in processing of the amyloid precursor protein in Alzheimer's disease.
This review has touched upon some of the major ethical issues surrounding emerging technologies in neuroscience and genetics. Although at first glance these issues may seem somewhat peripheral to the clinical practice of psychiatry, we suggest that they may have unanticipated effects upon the care of patients with mental illness. Certainly, the philosophical issues surrounding free will are of tremendous consequence to persons who commit crimes while suffering severe symptoms of mental illness. In addition, the opening up of a lucrative new &quot;enhancement&quot; market for the sale of new therapies could divert commercial resources away from the development of therapies for mental illness, although it is also possible that some enhancements will have secondary benefits as treatments for disease. Social acceptance of enhancement therapies could have a beneficial, normalizing effect on public attitudes toward those who receive mental health treatment. On the other hand, a moral backlash against enhancements as &quot;quick fixes&quot; that deprive individuals of authenticity could have a secondary effect of increasing the stigma of mental health treatment. For all of these reasons, it has become increasingly important for psychiatrists to be informed about and active participants in the public conversation about neuroethics. Psychiatric patients appear to have much at stake in these ethical debates, and psychiatrists have valuable expertise to offer as professionals with intimate knowledge of the human mind, its limitations, and its potential.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether a functional abnormality in the left prefrontal cortex observed in patients with major depression performing a verbal fluency task is present after remission of depression. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to study changes in cerebral blood oxygenation in eight remitted patients with major depression and 10 healthy control subjects during a verbal fluency task. Compared to the control subjects, the patients had a reduced response in the left prefrontal cortex (middle frontal gyrus, Brodmann area 10). These findings suggest the presence of dysfunction in the left prefrontal cortex during remission in major depression.



The study investigated age-related differences in theory of mind and explored the relationship between this ability, other cognitive abilities, and structural brain measures. A cohort of 106 adults (ages 50-90 years) was recruited. Participants completed tests of theory of mind, verbal and performance intelligence, executive function, and information processing speed and underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (measurement of whole brain volume, volume of white matter hyperintensities, and diffusion tensor imaging of white matter integrity). Theory of mind ability declined with increasing age, and the relationship between theory of mind and age was fully mediated by performance intelligence, executive function, and information processing speed and was partially mediated by verbal intelligence. Theory of mind performance correlated significantly with diffusion tensor imaging measures of white matter integrity but not with volume of white matter hyperintensities or whole-brain volume. Theory of mind age-related decline may not be independent of other cognitive functions; it may also be particularly susceptible to changes in white matter integrity.

The authors describe the relative benefits of conducting meta-analyses with (a) individual participant data (IPD) gathered from the constituent studies and (b) aggregated data (AD), or the group-level statistics (in particular, effect sizes) that appear in reports of a study's results. Given that both IPD and AD are equally available, meta-analysis of IPD is superior to meta-analysis of AD. IPD meta-analysis permits synthesists to perform subgroup analyses not conducted by the original collectors of the data, to check the data and analyses in the original studies, to add new information to the data sets, and to use different statistical methods. However, the cost of IPD meta-analysis and the lack of available IPD data sets suggest that the best strategy currently available is to use both approaches in a complementary fashion such that the first step in conducting an IPD meta-analysis would be to conduct an AD meta-analysis. Regardless of whether a meta-analysis is conducted with IPD or AD, synthesists must remain vigilant in how they interpret their results. They must avoid ecological fallacies, Simpson's paradox, and interpretation of synthesis-generated evidence as supporting causal inferences.

A scientometric analysis of modern research on the second-to-fourth digit ratio (2D:4D), a widely studied putative marker for prenatal androgen action, is presented. In early 2009, this literature totalled more than 300 publications and, since its initiation in 1998, has grown at a rate slightly faster than linear. Key findings included evidence of publication bias and citation bias, incomplete coverage and outdatedness of existing reviews, and a dearth of meta-analyses in this field. 2D:4D research clusters noticeably in terms of researchers, institutions, countries, and journals involved. Although 2D:4D is an anthropometric trait, most of the research has been conducted at psychology departments, not anthropology departments. However, 2D:4D research has not been predominantly published in core and specialized journals of psychology, but rather in more broadly scoped journals of the behavioral sciences, biomedical social sciences, and neurosciences. Total citation numbers of 2D:4D papers for the most part were not larger than their citation counts within 2D:4D research, indicating that until now, only a few 2D:4D studies have attained broader interest outside this specific field. Comparative citation analyses show that 2D:4D research presently is commensurate in size and importance to evolutionary psychological jealousy research, but has grown faster than the latter field. In contrast, it is much smaller and has spread more slowly than research about the Implicit Association Test Fifteen conjectures about anticipated trends in 2D:4D research are outlined, appendixed by a first-time bibliography of the entirety of the published 2D:4D literature.
Neuroscience research has identified the involvement of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in cognitive control. Questions remain, however, about its lateralization correlates during Stroop task performance, an experimental cornerstone on which a large amount of cognitive control research is based. After reviewing the literature, we find that three Stroop variants have been used in an attempt to uncover different aspects of cognitive control related to DLPFC involvement. In sum, rapid and sequential up-regulation of the attentional set seems to be related to the left DLPFC. These attentional adjustments are based on participants' expectancies regarding the conflicting nature of the upcoming trial, and not on the conflict itself. In contrast, the right DLPFC is associated with an overall up-regulation of the attentional set when attentional conflict is experienced.
Autism is a highly heritable disorder but the specific genes involved remain largely unknown. The higher prevalence of autism in men than in women, in conjunction with a number of other observations, has led to the suggestion that prenatal brain exposure to androgens may be of importance for the development of this condition. Prompted by this hypothesis, we investigated the potential influence of variation in the androgen receptor (AR) gene on the susceptibility for autism. To this end, 267 subjects with autism spectrum disorder and 617 controls were genotyped for three polymorphisms in exon 1 of the AR gene: the CAG repeat, the GGN repeat and the rs6152 SNP. In addition, parents and affected siblings were genotyped for 118 and 32 of the cases, respectively. Case-control comparisons revealed higher prevalence of short CAG alleles as well as of the A allele of the rs6152 SNP in female cases than in controls, but revealed no significant differences with respect to the GGN repeat. Analysis of the 118 families using transmission disequilibrium test, on the other hand, suggested an association with the GGN polymorphism, the rare 20-repeat allele being undertransmitted to male cases and the 23-repeat allele being overtransmitted to female cases. Sequencing of the AR gene in 46 patients revealed no mutations or rare variants. The results lend some support for an influence of the studied polymorphisms on the susceptibility for autism, but argue against the possibility that mutations in the AR gene are common in subjects with this condition.








P2X(7) receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel, which can induce the opening of large membrane pores. Here, we provide evidence that the receptor induces pore formation in astrocytes cultured from cortex, but not from the hippocampus. Furthermore, P2X(7) receptor activation promptly induces p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation in cortical but not in hippocampal astrocytes. Given the role of p38 MAPK activation in pore opening, these data suggest that defective coupling of the receptor to the enzyme could occur in hippocampal cultures. The different capabilities of the receptor to open membrane pores cause relevant functional consequences. Upon pore formation, caspase-1 is activated and pro-IL1-beta is cleaved and released extracellularly. The receptor stimulation does not result in interleukin-1beta secretion from hippocampal astrocytes, although the pro-cytokine is present in the cytosol of lipopolysaccharide-primed cultures. These results open the possibility that activation of P2X(7) receptors differently influences the neuroinflammatory processes in distinct brain regions.

In order to investigate the role of central and peripheral mechanisms in nasal trigeminal sensitization/desensitization processes, the present work recorded psychophysical (intensity ratings) and psychophysiological (skin conductance) responses to allyl isothiocyanate volatile nasal stimulation--during normal breathing--in monorhinal condition after a controlateral stimulation of the other nostril. Insofar as both nostrils are anatomically separated, modifications in responses can be interpreted as a central regulation process. Results showed that sensitization was clearly related to central mechanisms contrarily to desensitization which depended only of peripheral level.
We report a 58-year-old woman with adult onset Alexander disease. At the age of 54 she noticed numbness in bilateral legs and at 57 she developed left sided spastic gait. Her walking difficulty was gradually worsened and followed by the development of weakness in left arm, dysarthria and dysphagia. Her mother and elder brother also had similar clinical presentations which suggested an autosomal dominant neurological disorder. With MRI findings showing localized atrophy of medulla oblongata and upper cervical cord with hyperintensities on T2-weighted image, diagnosis of adult onset Alexander disease was made. We performed genetic analysis and found novel variant (S398F) in the glial fibrillary acidic protein gene. In case of slowly progressive myelopathy with bulbar palsy of unknown origin, especially those with atrophy limited to medulla oblongata and upper cervical cord, adult onset Alexander disease should be taken into consideration.
Disruption of the Reelin and GABAergic signaling systems have been observed in psychiatric disorders including autism, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depression. Less is known of therapeutic interventions that may help ameliorate the effects of these disruptions. The current study investigated whether chronic administration of psychotropic medications (clozapine, fluoxetine, haloperidol, lithium, olanzapine, and valproic acid) used in the treatment of psychiatric disorders alters levels of Reelin, its receptor Vldlr, downstream molecules Gsk3 beta, Dab-1, and Gad65/67 in rat prefrontal cortex as measured by qRT-PCR and SDS-PAGE and western blotting. qRT-PCR revealed that mRNAs for Reelin, Vldlr, Dab-1, Gsk3 beta, and Gad65 were each significantly altered by at least one of the drugs tested, and in the case of Reelin, Dab-1, and Gsk3 beta, by multiple drugs. To verify our results, we also performed SDS-PAGE and western blotting experiments. Again, several of the protein products for Reelin, Vldlr, Dab-1, Gsk3 beta, Gad65, and Gad67 were also significantly altered by multiple drugs. The present results suggest that the Reelin signaling and GABAergic systems are affected by commonly used psychotropic medications. These changes may help explain the efficacy of these drugs and provide further support for the investigation of the Reelin and GABAergic signaling systems as therapeutic targets for the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases.
As primary targets of a variety of abused drugs G-protein-coupled dopamine receptors in the brain play an important role in mediating the various drug-induced alterations in neural and psychological processes thought to underlie the transition from voluntary drug use to habitual and progressively compulsive drug-taking. This review considers the functional involvement of the five major dopamine receptor subtypes in drug reinforcement and reward and discusses the development of addiction as a series of learning transitions from initial goal-directed behaviour to pathological stimulus-response habits in which drug-seeking behaviours are automatically elicited and maintained by cues and stimuli associated with drug rewards.


Research over the last few decades has firmly established that new neurons are generated in selected areas of the adult mammalian brain, particularly the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation and the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles. The function of adult-born neurons is still a matter of debate. In the case of the hippocampus, integration of new cells in to the existing neuronal circuitry may be involved in memory processes and the regulation of emotionality. In recent years, various studies have examined how the production of new cells and their development into neurons is affected by sleep and sleep loss. While disruption of sleep for a period shorter than one day appears to have little effect on the basal rate of cell proliferation, prolonged restriction or disruption of sleep may have cumulative effects leading to a major decrease in hippocampal cell proliferation, cell survival and neurogenesis. Importantly, while short sleep deprivation may not affect the basal rate of cell proliferation, one study in rats shows that even mild sleep restriction may interfere with the increase in neurogenesis that normally occurs with hippocampus-dependent learning. Since sleep deprivation also disturbs memory formation, these data suggest that promoting survival, maturation and integration of new cells may be an unexplored mechanism by which sleep supports learning and memory processes. Most methods of sleep deprivation that have been employed affect both non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Available data favor the hypothesis that decreases in cell proliferation are related to a reduction in REM sleep, whereas decreases in the number of cells that subsequently develop into adult neurons may be related to reductions in both NREM and REM sleep. The mechanisms by which sleep loss affects different aspects of adult neurogenesis are unknown. It has been proposed that adverse effects of sleep disruption may be mediated by stress and glucocorticoids. However, a number of studies clearly show that prolonged sleep loss can inhibit hippocampal neurogenesis independent of adrenal stress hormones. In conclusion, while modest sleep restriction may interfere with the enhancement of neurogenesis associated with learning processes, prolonged sleep disruption may even affect the basal rates of cell proliferation and neurogenesis. These effects of sleep loss may endanger hippocampal integrity, thereby leading to cognitive dysfunction and contributing to the development of mood disorders.
The cell-microenvironment interaction is critical for cells to perceive environmental cues and co-ordinate signaling cascades to regulate physiological functions. Herein, a soft-lithography technique, micropattern via micromolding in capillaries (MIMIC), is explored to create cell-adhesive micropatterns on glass coverslips. Genetically encoded Src and RhoA fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) biosensors are used to monitor the Src and RhoA activities in nonpatterned cells (stochastically migrating cells, SMCs) and those constrained to grow on micropatterned surfaces (restrictedly migrating cells, RMCs). The results reveal that epidermal growth factor (EGF) induces a decrease of RhoA and an increase of Src activities with biphasic time courses in RMCs. In contrast, the time courses of such activities in SMCs upon EGF stimulation are relatively monophasic. The inhibition of Src activity, actin network, or myosin machinery abolishes the biphasic RhoA response upon EGF stimulation in RMCs. The results indicate that this microenvironment effect on the biphasic RhoA activation in RMCs is mediated by Src and actomyosin machinery. Through the integration of FRET and micropatterning technologies, it is demonstrated that the microenvironment impacts significantly on cell shapes and subsequently the spatiotemporal signaling network of RhoA and Src in living cells. The results help to advance mechanistic understanding of how cells perceive and interpret microenvironments to co-ordinate intracellular molecular signals and ultimately physiological responses.
Effective photojournalism provokes an emotional reaction and leaves a lasting impression upon the viewer. Striking and memorable images are often said to possess 'impact'. Within cognitive neuroscience memorable emotional images evoke a greater amygdala response. Research to date has focused on arousal as a causative factor, while the contribution of appraisal dimensions relating to salience of an item, goal relevance, or impact are yet to be addressed. We explored how differences in ratings of impact influenced amygdala activity to negative emotional images matched for valence, arousal and other factors. Increased amygdala activation was found to high impact when compared to neutral images, or high impact when compared to low impact images (matched for arousal). Our findings demonstrate that the amygdala response to emotional stimuli is not a function of arousal (or valence) alone and accord more with the proposal that the amygdala responds to the significance or relevance of an event.


In the adult subventricular zone (SVZ), astroglial stem cells generate transit-amplifying precursors (TAPs). Both stem cells and TAPs form clones in response to epidermal growth factor (EGF). However, in vivo, in the absence of sustained EGF receptor (EGFR) activation, TAPs divide a few times before differentiating into neuroblasts. The lack of suitable markers has hampered the analysis of stem cell lineage progression and associated functional changes in the neonatal germinal epithelium. Here we purified neuroblasts and clone-forming precursors from the neonatal SVZ using expression levels of EGFR and polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSANCAM). As in the adult SVZ, most neonatal clone-forming precursors did not express the neuroglia proteoglycan 2 (NG2) but displayed characteristics of TAPs, and only a subset exhibited antigenic characteristics of astroglial stem cells. Both precursors and neuroblasts were PSANCAM(+); however, neuroblasts also expressed doublecortin and functional voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels. Neuroblasts and precursors had distinct outwardly rectifying K(+) current densities and passive membrane properties, particularly in precursors contacting each other, because of the contribution of gap junction coupling. Confirming the hypothesis that most are TAPs, cell tracing in brain slices revealed that within 2 days the majority of EGFR(+) cells had exited the cell cycle and differentiated into a progenitor displaying intermediate antigenic and functional properties between TAPs and neuroblasts. Thus, distinct functional and antigenic properties mark stem cell lineage progression in the neonatal SVZ.
It has long been proposed that excitotoxicity contributes to nerve cell death in neurodegenerative diseases. Activin A, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, is expressed by neurons following excitotoxicity. We show for the first time that this activin A expression is essential for neurogenesis to proceed following neurodegeneration. We found that intraventricular infusion of activin A increased the number of newborn neurons in the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1 layers of the normal adult hippocampus and also, following lipopolysaccharide administration, had a potent inhibitory effect on gliosis in vivo and on microglial proliferation in vivo and in vitro. Consistent with the role of activin A in regulating central nervous system inflammation and neurogenesis, intraventricular infusion of follistatin, an activin A antagonist, profoundly impaired neurogenesis and increased the number of microglia and reactive astrocytes following onset of kainic acid-induced neurodegeneration. These results show that inhibiting endogenous activin A is permissive for a potent underlying inflammatory response to neurodegeneration. We demonstrate that the anti-inflammatory actions of activin A account for its neurogenic effects following neurodegeneration because co-administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reversed follistatin's inhibitory effects on neurogenesis in vivo. Our work indicates that activin A, perhaps working in conjunction with other transforming growth factor-beta superfamily molecules, is essential for neurogenesis in the adult central nervous system following excitotoxic neurodegeneration and suggests that neurons can regulate regeneration by suppressing the inflammatory response, a finding with implications for understanding and treating acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
Stem/progenitor cell-based therapies hold promises for repairing the damaged nervous system. However, the efficiency of these approaches for neuronal replacement remains very limited. A major challenge is to develop pretransplant cell manipulations that may promote the survival, engraftment, and differentiation of transplanted cells. Here, we investigated whether overexpression of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) in grafted neural progenitors could improve their integration in the host tissue. We show that FGF-2-transduced progenitors grafted in the early postnatal rat cortex have the distinct tendency to associate with the vasculature and establish multiple proliferative clusters in the perivascular environment. The contact with vessels appears to be critical for maintaining progenitor cells in an undifferentiated and proliferative phenotype in the intact cortex. Strikingly, perivascular clusters of FGF-2 expressing cells seem to supply immature neurons in an ischemic environment. Our data provide evidence that engineering neural progenitors to overexpress FGF-2 may be a suitable strategy to improve the integration of grafted neural progenitor cells with the host vasculature thereby generating neurovascular clusters with a neurogenic potential for brain repair.














A case of double origin of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) is presented, with appearances on both cross-sectional imaging and conventional angiography. An associated aneurysm was found, strengthening the belief that this variation is associated with intracranial aneurysms. Furthermore, this is the first report of a right-sided double-origin PICA in a female patient, which calls into question the previously proposed male and left-sided preponderance of this variation.
Tonic activation of neurokinin-3 (NK(3)) receptors in dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This psychiatric disorder is associated with a dysfunctional activity in VTA projection neurons that can affect cognitive function at the level of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) as well as motor and motivational states controlled in part by mesolimbic output to the nucleus accumbens (Acb). To determine the relevant sites for NK(3) receptor activation within this neuronal network, we used confocal and electron microscopy to examine NK(3) receptors (Cy5; immunogold) and retrograde labeling of fluorogold (FG, FITC; immunoperoxidase) in the VTA of rats receiving either Acb or mPFC injections of FG. Comparison was made with neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptors, which are also present, but less abundant then NK(3) receptors, in dopaminergic and GABAergic VTA neurons. There were no observable differences between NK(3) and NK(1) receptors in their primary locations in the cytoplasm and on the plasma membrane of VTA somata and dendrites with or without FG. Dendrites labeled with FG retrogradely transported from mPFC, however, contained more NK(3) or less NK(1) immunogold particles (plasmalemmal + cytoplasmic) then those retrogradely labeled following FG injection in the Acb. Moreover, only the NK(3) receptors were detected in neuronal nuclei in the VTA and in the nuclei of human HEK-293T NK(3)-transfected cells. The enrichment of NK(3) receptors in mesocortical projection neurons and nuclear distribution of these receptors may provide insight for understanding the selective antipsychotic effectiveness of NK(3) antagonists.
Postweaning social isolation in the rat induces lasting alterations that parallel several of the core symptoms seen in human schizophrenics, including hyperreactivity to novel environments, cognitive impairment, and deficits in sensorimotor gating. The current study determined whether these changes are accompanied by any elevation in the proportion of striatal dopamine receptors in the functional high affinity state (D(2) (High)), as observed in other preclinical models of psychosis. Male Lister hooded rats (20-24 days) were housed in groups of three or alone. On Day 36 postweaning locomotor activity was monitored for 60 min in a novel arena, and on Day 37 novel object discrimination was assessed using a 2 h intertrial interval. Three days later striata were collected, homogenized, washed three times to remove endogenous dopamine, and the proportion of D(2) (High) determined by competition between dopamine and 2.27 nM [(3)H]domperidone. Isolates were significantly more active than group housed controls for both ambulation and rears. Although both groups exhibited comparable levels of familiarization trial object exploration, group housed animals were able to discriminate between novel and familiar objects during the choice trial while isolates were not. Social isolation was associated with a highly significant elevation in the proportion of striatal D(2) (High), equivalent to a 3.3-fold increase (group 15.2% +/- 1.4%, isolate 49.8% +/- 4.8%; P &lt; 0.0001, Student's unpaired t-test). These findings support both the hypothesis that elevated D(2) (High) is a common feature of multiple animal models of psychosis, and the validity of isolation rearing as a neurodevelopmental model of a &quot;schizophrenia-like&quot; state.
Levels of circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and CXCR4-positive cells are decreased in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD); however, their ability to change in response to acute vascular injury remains to be elucidated. Progenitor and CXCR4-positive cells were analysed by flow cytometry from the peripheral blood of 23 healthy controls and 23 patients with CAD, of which 13 patients underwent angiogram and 10 patients received percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with stent implantation. Baseline levels of progenitor and CXCR4-positive cells were substantially reduced in CAD patients compared to controls, although they were still capable of increasing in response to vascular injury. Levels of progenitor and CXCR4-positive cells were increased to a greater extent in the PCI group compared to angiogram patients. At presentation, levels of putative endothelial progenitor and CXCR4-positive cells were found to be negatively correlated with disease severity. A one-year follow-up revealed that out of the cell populations examined, only levels of CXCR4-positive cells were positively correlated with angina frequency in the PCI group, but not in patients receiving angiogram. Baseline levels of progenitor cells are differentially increased depending upon the severity of vascular injury incurred, regardless of a significant deficit in baseline levels in CAD patients. Levels of putative EPCs and CXCR4-positive cells were negatively correlated with disease severity at presentation, however, only CXCR4-positive cells were associated with patient condition in a one-year follow-up.

The growing acceptance of consciousness as a legitimate field of enquiry and the availability of functional imaging has rekindled research interest in the use of hypnosis and suggestion to manipulate subjective experience and to gain insights into healthy and pathological cognitive functioning. Current research forms two strands. The first comprises studies exploring the cognitive and neural nature of hypnosis itself. The second employs hypnosis to explore known psychological processes using specifically targeted suggestions. An extension of this second approach involves using hypnotic suggestion to create clinically informed analogues of established structural and functional neuropsychological disorders. With functional imaging, this type of experimental neuropsychopathology offers a productive means of investigating brain activity involved in many symptom-based disorders and their related phenomenology.
Invasive recording of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA) of behaving animals suggests a role for these neurons in reward learning and novelty processing. In humans, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently the only non-invasive event-related method to measure SN/VTA activity, but it is debated to what extent fMRI enables inference about dopaminergic responses within the SN/VTA. We consider the anatomical and functional parcellation of the primate SN/VTA and find that its homogeneity suggests little variation in the regional specificity of fMRI signals for reward-related dopaminergic responses. Hence, these responses seem to be well captured by the compound fMRI signal from the SN/VTA, which seems quantitatively related to dopamine release in positron emission tomography (PET). We outline how systematic investigation of the functional parcellation of the SN/VTA in animals, new developments in fMRI analysis and combined PET-fMRI studies can narrow the gap between fMRI and dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Since the days of Cajal, the CA1 pyramidal cell has arguably received more attention than any other neuron in the mammalian brain. Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells fire spikes with remarkable spatial and temporal precision, giving rise to the hippocampal rate and temporal codes. However, little is known about how different inputs interact during spatial behavior to generate such robust firing patterns. Here, we review the properties of the rodent hippocampal rate code and synthesize work from several disciplines to understand the functional anatomy and excitation-inhibition balance that can produce the rate-coded outputs of the CA1 pyramidal cell. We argue that both CA3 and entorhinal inputs are crucial for the formation of sharp, sparse CA1 place fields and that precisely timed and dominant inhibition is an equally important factor.

To understand the neural mechanisms underlying humans' exquisite ability at processing briefly flashed visual scenes, we present a computer model that predicts human performance in a Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) task. The model processes streams of natural scene images presented at a rate of 20Hz to human observers, and attempts to predict when subjects will correctly detect if one of the presented images contains an animal (target). We find that metrics of Bayesian surprise, which models both spatial and temporal aspects of human attention, differ significantly between RSVP sequences on which subjects will detect the target (easy) and those on which subjects miss the target (hard). Extending beyond previous studies, we here assess the contribution of individual image features including color opponencies and Gabor edges. We also investigate the effects of the spatial location of surprise in the visual field, rather than only using a single aggregate measure. A physiologically plausible feed-forward system, which optimally combines spatial and temporal surprise metrics for all features, predicts performance in 79.5% of human trials correctly. This is significantly better than a baseline maximum likelihood Bayesian model (71.7%). We can see that attention as measured by surprise, accounts for a large proportion of observer performance in RSVP. The time course of surprise in different feature types (channels) provides additional quantitative insight in rapid bottom-up processes of human visual attention and recognition, and illuminates the phenomenon of attentional blink and lag-1 sparing. Surprise also reveals classical Type-B like masking effects intrinsic in natural image RSVP sequences. We summarize these with the discussion of a multistage model of visual attention.
This article argues that phenomenological description and neurophysiological correlation complement each other in perception research. Whilst phenomena constitute the material, neuronal mechanisms are indispensable for their explanation. Numerous examples of neurophysiological correlates show that the correlation of phenomenology and neurophysiology is fruitful. Phenomena for which neuronal mechanism have been found include: (in area V1) filling-in of real and artificial scotomata, contour integration, figure-ground segregation by orientation contrast, amodal completion, and motion transparency; (in V2) modal completion, border ownership, surface transparency, and cyclopean perception; (in V3) alignment in dotted contours, and filling-in with dynamic texture; (in V4) colour constancy; (in MT) shape by accretion/deletion, grouping by coherent motion, apparent motion in motion quartets, motion in apertures, and biological motion. Results suggest that in monkey visual cortex, occlusion cues, including stereo depth, are predominantly processed in lower areas, whereas mechanisms for grouping and motion are primarily represented in higher areas. More correlations are likely to emerge as neuroscientists strive for a better understanding of visual perception. The paper concludes with a review of major achievements in visual neuroscience pertinent to the study of the phenomena under consideration.
The finding that attention can encompass several non-contiguous items at once challenges the current models of visual search based on a winner-take-all mechanism assuming the selection of a single object. It has been proposed instead that attentional guidance involves mechanisms selecting all relevant items simultaneously. In order to test this hypothesis, we studied attentional allocation during various visual search tasks. We confirmed that attention can indeed select several items concurrently but on the basis of their spatial relation, not relevance. This finding corroborates the view that during visual search, attentional guidance is based on a winner-take-all mechanism.
Scrutiny of the numerous physiology and imaging studies of visual attention reveal that integration of results from neuroscience with the classic theories of visual attention based on behavioral work is not simple. The different subfields have pursued different questions, used distinct experimental paradigms and developed diverse models. The purpose of this review is to use statistical decision theory and computational modeling to relate classic theories of attention in psychological research to neural observables such as mean firing rate or functional imaging BOLD response, tuning functions, Fano factor, neuronal index of detectability and area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC). We focus on cueing experiments and attempt to distinguish two major leading theories in the study of attention: limited resources model/increased sensitivity vs. selection/differential weighting. We use Bayesian ideal observer (BIO) modeling, in which predictive cues or prior knowledge change the differential weighting (prior) of sensory information to generate predictions of behavioral and neural observables based on Gaussian response variables and Poisson process neural based models. The ideal observer model can be modified to represent a number of classic psychological theories of visual attention by including hypothesized human attentional limited resources in the same way sequential ideal observer analysis has been used to include physiological processing components of human spatial vision (Geisler, W. S. (1989). Sequential ideal-observer analysis of visual discrimination. Psychological Review 96, 267-314.). In particular we compare new biologically plausible implementations of the BIO and variant models with limited resources. We find a close relationship between the behavioral effects of cues predicted by the models developed in the field of human psychophysics and their neuron-based analogs. Critically, we show that cue effects on experimental observables such as mean neural activity, variance, Fano factor and neuronal index of detectability can be consistent with the two major theoretical models of attention depending on whether the neuron is assumed to be computing likelihoods, log-likelihoods or a simple model operating directly on the Poisson variable. Change in neuronal tuning functions can also be consistent with both theories depending on whether the change in tuning is along the dimension being experimentally cued or a different dimension. We show that a neuron's sensitivity appropriately measured using the area under the Receive Operating Characteristic curve can be used to distinguish across both theories and is robust to the many transformations of the decision variable. We provide a summary table with the hope that it might provide some guidance in interpreting past results as well as planning future studies.
Human psychophysics and monkey physiology studies have shown that attention modulates early vision - contrast sensitivity and processing. But how can we bridge the effects of attention on perceptual performance to their neural underpinnings? Here we implement a population-coding model that estimates attentional effects on population contrast response given psychophysical data. Model results show that whereas endogenous (sustained, voluntary) attention changes population contrast-response via contrast gain, exogenous (transient, involuntary) attention changes population contrast-response via response gain.
We investigated human oculomotor behaviour in a Go-NoGo saccadic task in which the saccadic response to a peripheral visual target was to be inhibited in a minority of trials (NoGo trials). Different from classical experimental paradigms on the inhibitory control of intended actions, in our task the inhibitory cue was identical to the saccadic target (used in Go trials) in timing, location and shape-the only difference being its colour. By analysing the latency and the metrics of saccades erroneously executed after a NoGo instruction (NoGo-escapes), we observed a characteristic pattern of performance: first, we observed a decrease in the amplitude of NoGo-escapes with increasing latency; second, we revealed a consistent population of long-latency small saccades opposite in direction to the NoGo cue; finally, we found a strong side-specific inhibitory effect in terms of saccadic reaction times, on trials immediately following a NoGo trial. In addition, we manipulated the readiness to initiate a saccade towards the visual target, by introducing a probability bias in the random sequence of target locations. We found that the capacity to inhibit the impending saccade was improved for the most likely target location, i.e. the condition corresponding to the increased readiness for movement execution. Overall, our results challenge the notion of a central inhibitory mechanism independent from movement preparation. More precisely, they indicate that the two mechanisms (action preparation and action inhibition) interact dynamically, possibly sharing spatially-specific mechanisms, and are similarly affected by particular contextual manipulations.
We report a new phenomenon in cross-modal cuing of visual spatial attention-simultaneous auditory peripheral cues are &quot;hyper-effective&quot;-more effective than auditory peripheral (AP), visual central (VC), or visual peripheral (VP) cues that preceded the target with ample time for preparatory orienting. The time courses and mechanisms of visual spatial attention were measured in a four-location Gabor orientation identification task for targets embedded in systematically varying amounts of external noise [Lu, Z. -L., &amp; Dosher, B. A. (1998). External noise distinguishes attention mechanisms. Vision Research, 38 (9), 1183-1198] and for cue-target asynchronies (CTOAs) between 0 and 240ms. Large CTOA pre-cuing improvements in contrast thresholds occurred in high external noise conditions for AP, VC, and VP cues. In low external noise conditions, pre-cuing advantages occurred for visual peripheral (VP) cues, but not for visual central cues (VC), replicating Lu and Dosher [Lu, Z. -L., &amp; Dosher, B. A. (2000). Spatial attention: Different mechanisms for central and peripheral temporal precues? Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 26 (5), 1534-1548]. Auditory peripheral pre-cues (AP) were similar to VP cues at large cue-target delays, but demonstrated a large cross-modal cuing advantage for simultaneous auditory peripheral cues (AP) in both high and low external noise. We conclude that endogenous attention (visual central pre-cuing) excludes external noise, while exogenous attention (both visual and auditory peripheral pre-cuing) enhances the stimulus but also excludes external noise if informative peripheral cues are used.
Directing attention to one of two superimposing surfaces composed of dot fields rotating in opposing directions facilitates processing of brief translations of the attended surface [Valdes-Sosa, M., Bobes, M. A., Rodriguez, V., &amp; Pinilla, T. (1998). Switching attention without shifting the spotlight object-based attentional modulation of brain potentials. Journal of Cognition and Neuroscience, 10(1), 137-151]. Here we used ERP recordings to investigate the mechanisms of endogenous attentional selection of such competing dot surfaces under conditions of dichoptic viewing (one surface to each eye) and monocular viewing (both surfaces to one eye). Under dichoptic conditions, which induced binocular rivalry, translations of the attended surface presented to one eye elicited enhanced visual P1 and N1 ERP components relative to translations of the unattended surface presented to the other eye. In comparison, during monocular viewing the attended surface translations elicited a significantly larger N1 component in the absence of any P1 modulation. These results indicate that processing of the attended surface is biased at an earlier level in extrastriate visual cortex under conditions of inter-ocular versus intra-ocular competition.
NKT cells are defined as cells co-expressing of the natural killer receptors such as NK1.1 or NKR-P1A (CD161) and a T cell receptor (TCR). Although NK1.1(+) TCR(+) lymphocytes are heterogeneous, we focus on two distinct T cell subsets express invariant T cell receptor alpha chains, Valpha14-Jalpha18(Valpha14i) and Valpha19-Jalpha33(Valpha19i). Valpha14i NKT cells (Valpha24i NKT cells for human) are restricted by CD1d and Valpha19i NKT cells (Valpha7.2i NKT cells for human) are restricted by MR1 molecule. These cells emerge as an unique lymphocytes subset to bridge innate and acquired immunity. Here in this review, we discuss on the role of these cells in the regulation of autoimmunity and on the potential of therapeutic target for autoimmune diseases.

The embryonic zebrafish is an excellent research model to examine the neural networks that coordinate locomotive behavior. It demonstrates robust locomotive behavior early in development, its nervous system is relatively simple and accessible compared to mammalian systems, and there are mutants available with specific molecular and motor deficits. We have developed a series of four exercises that provide students with a basic understanding of locomotive behavior development, nervous system organization, development of neurotransmitter responsiveness, and genetics. The first two exercises can be performed in one 3-h laboratory period, and the third and fourth exercises, which build on the first two, can be completed in one or two subsequent periods. In the first exercise, students observe and quantify two distinct behaviors that characterize different developmental stages, spontaneous movement, and touch-evoked tail coiling. In the second, the students use a pharmacological approach to determine if the neurotransmitter glycine is required for the embryo to perform each behavior. In the third, they use simple lesions to assess whether the brain is required for each type of behavior. In the fourth, the students examine bandoneon, a zebrafish motility mutant that has a glycine receptor defect, by observing its behavior during spontaneous movement and touch-evoked tail coiling, performing lesions, and applying pharmacological drugs. These exercises are readily adaptable, such that portions can be omitted or expanded to examine other neurotransmitter systems or later stages of locomotive behavior development.
Zebrafish are ideal for experimental studies in the classroom because, in contrast to chicks or mammals, fish embryos are relatively easy and inexpensive to maintain, and embryonic development can be observed with common classroom equipment. The eight student-developed laboratory exercises described here have been used by students in Neuroscience Research at Sidwell Friends School. This course uses zebrafish as a vertebrate model to study genetics, development, behavior, neurobiology, regeneration, learning, and memory. The students develop protocols through collaboration with the teacher and scientists in specific fields. Through individual research, students develop and perform their own experiments, formulate and test hypotheses, learn basic laboratory and microscopy techniques, collect and analyze data, read original scientific literature, and collaborate with prominent zebrafish researchers.


Natural movements towards a target show metric variations between trials. When movements combine contributions from multiple body-parts, such as head-unrestrained gaze shifts involving both eye and head rotation, the individual body-part movements may vary even more than the overall movement. The goal of this investigation was to develop a general method for both mapping sensory or motor response fields of neurons and determining their intrinsic reference frames, where these movement variations are actually utilized rather than avoided. We used head-unrestrained gaze shifts, three-dimensional (3D) geometry, and naturalistic distributions of eye and head orientation to explore the theoretical relationship between the intrinsic reference frame of a sensorimotor neuron's response field and the coherence of the activity when this response field is fitted non-parametrically using different kernel bandwidths in different reference frames. We measure how well the regression surface predicts unfitted data using the PREdictive Sum-of-Squares (PRESS) statistic. The reference frame with the smallest PRESS statistic was categorized as the intrinsic reference frame if the PRESS statistic was significantly larger in other reference frames. We show that the method works best when targets are at regularly spaced positions within the response field's active region, and that the method identifies the best kernel bandwidth for response field estimation. We describe how gain-field effects may be dealt with, and how to test neurons within a population that fall on a continuum between specific reference frames. This method may be applied to any spatially coherent single-unit activity related to sensation and/or movement during naturally varying behaviors.
The discoveries of neural (NSCs) and brain tumor stem cells (BTSCs) in the adult human brain and in brain tumors, respectively, have led to a new era in neuroscience research. These cells represent novel approaches to studying normal phenomena such as memory and learning, as well as pathological conditions such as Parkinson's disease, stroke, and brain tumors. This new paradigm stresses the importance of understanding how these cells behave in vitro and in vivo. It also stresses the need to use human-derived tissue to study human disease because animal models may not necessarily accurately replicate the processes that occur in humans. An important, but often underused, source of human tissue and, consequently, both NSCs and BTSCs, is the operating room. This study describes in detail both current and newly developed laboratory techniques, which in our experience are used to process and study human NSCs and BTSCs from tissue obtained directly from the operating room.
The H-reflex is one of the most common and useful techniques in the field of motor control. However, the H-reflex technique also involves difficulty in data interpretation when stimulus intensity is high enough to stimulate both sensory and motor fibers (antidromic current). On the other hand, transcutaneous stimulation applied on the spinous processes is able to stimulate the dorsal root, resulting in selective stimulation of only sensory fibers without evoking a direct motor response and antidromic current on the motor fibers. The purpose of this study was to examine the maximal reflex response that can be elicited in the lower leg muscles using transcutaneous spinal stimulation. Seven subjects participated in the study. EMG signals were recorded from triceps surae (SOL, MG, LG) in the prone position. Transcutaneous stimulation was applied both to the spinous process (between T11 and T12, spinal stimulation, SS) and to the popliteal fossa (peripheral stimulation, PS). Using SS and PS, H(max) amplitudes of triceps surae muscles were measured and standardized with M(max). H(max) values in MG and LG by SS (31% and 41%) were significantly greater than those by PS (20% and 23%, respectively). Although not significant, H(max) amplitude in SOL by SS (76%) was also greater than that by PS (60%). It is suggested that transcutaneous stimulation is able to evoke H-reflex without a direct motor response. H(max) amplitudes traditionally measured by stimulation applied to a mixed nerve may underestimate the potential connectivity between the sensory and motor systems in humans.
The reactive tissue response of the brain to chronically implanted materials remains a formidable obstacle to stable recording from implanted microelectrodes. One approach to mitigate this response is to apply a bioactive coating in the form of an ultra-porous silica sol-gel, which can be engineered to improve biocompatibility and to enable local drug delivery. The first step in establishing the feasibility of such a coating is to investigate the effects of the coating on electrode properties. In this paper, we describe a method to apply a thin-film silica sol-gel coating to silicon-based microelectrodes, and discuss the resultant changes in the electrode properties. Fluorescently labeled coatings were used to confirm coating adherence to the electrode. Cyclic voltammetry and impedance spectroscopy were used to evaluate electrical property changes. The silica sol-gel was found to successfully adhere to the electrodes as a thin coating. The voltammograms revealed a slight increase in charge carrying capacity of the electrodes following coating. Impedance spectrograms showed a mild increase in impedance at high frequencies but a more pronounced decrease in impedance at mid to low frequencies. These results demonstrate the feasibility of applying silica sol-gel coatings to silicon-based microelectrodes and are encouraging for the continued investigation of their use in mitigating the reactive tissue response.
It has been shown that increased cerebral noradrenergic activity is closely related to anxiety-related behaviours. Furthermore, the noradrenergic alpha-2 receptor antagonist yohimbine (YOH) increases noradrenaline- (NA) cell firing and release in discrete brain areas involved in the modulation of anxiety such as the locus coeruleus (LC) and amygdala (AMY). In addition, YOH is highly anxiogenic in both humans and laboratory animals. Here we used an in vivo dual methodology to measure concomitantly the extracellular levels of catecholamines in AMY with voltammetry and the cell firing rate in LC with field electrophysiology in anaesthetized rats to characterize the pharmacological effects of YOH. We found that systemic administration of YOH increases both noradrenergic cell firing in the LC and catecholamines release in the AMY. Prior administration of the alpha-2 agonist clonidine prevents these effects on both the electrophysiological and the voltammetric signals, suggesting that YOH effects are mainly mediated by the alpha-2 adrenoceptors. In addition, we found that pre-treatment with the behaviourally active doses of the benzodiazepine (BDZ) anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide (CDE, Librium: BDZ very similar to diazepam) and of the non-BDZ buspirone counteract the effects of YOH on catecholamines release and cell firing. This suggests that the neurochemical and physiological effects of YOH measured in this study might be related to the anxiogenic effects of the drug. Thus, the presented electrophysiological-voltammetric-YOH study may be proposed as in vivo real time model of anxiety and this approach might be suitable for the evaluation of the neurochemical and physiological effects of new anxiolytic compounds.
Electrical impedance tomography (EIT) is a recently developed medical imaging method which has the potential to produce images of fast neuronal depolarization in the brain. The principle is that current remains in the extracellular space at rest but passes into the intracellular space during depolarization through open ion channels. As current passes into the intracellular space across the capacitance of cell membranes at higher frequencies, applied current needs to be below 100 Hz. A method is presented for its measurement with subtraction of the contemporaneous evoked potentials which occur in the same frequency band. Neuronal activity is evoked by stimulation and resistance is recorded from the potentials resulting from injection of a constant current square wave at 1 Hz with amplitude less than 25% of the threshold for stimulating neuronal activity. Potentials due to the evoked activity and the injected square wave are removed by subtraction. The method was validated with compound action potentials in crab walking leg nerve. Resistance changes of -0.85+/-0.4% (mean+/-SD) occurred which decreased from -0.97+/-0.43% to -0.46+/-0.16% with spacing of impedance current application electrodes from 2 to 8 mm but did not vary significantly with applied currents of 1-10 microA. These tallied with biophysical modelling, and so were consistent with a genuine physiological origin. This method appears to provide a reproducible and artefact free means for recording resistance changes during neuronal activity which could lead to the long-term goal of imaging of fast neural activity in the brain.
Synapses can only be morphologically identified by electron microscopy and this is often a very labor-intensive and time-consuming task. When quantitative estimates are required for pathways that contribute a small proportion of synapses to the neuropil, the problems of accurate sampling are particularly severe and the total time required may become prohibitive. Here we present a sampling method devised to count the percentage of rarely occurring synapses in the neuropil using a large sample (approximately 1000 sampling sites), with the strong constraint of doing it in reasonable time. The strategy, which uses the unbiased physical disector technique, resembles that used in particle physics to detect rare events. We validated our method in the primary visual cortex of the cat, where we used biotinylated dextran amine to label thalamic afferents and measured the density of their synapses using the physical disector method. Our results show that we could obtain accurate counts of the labeled synapses, even when they represented only 0.2% of all the synapses in the neuropil.
Rats sweep their vibrissae in a rhythmic and coordinated fashion in order to acquire tactile information from their environment. Measuring vibrissae movement has become a matter of increased attention, from several labs, over the last few years. We describe the design and construction of an inexpensive photoresistive sensor that registers horizontal vibrissae movement. The device consists of an LED array and a light-dependent resistor (LDR) covered by a coating with varying transparency along its axis. When a vibrissa is located in the sensor, it generates a shadowy line over the photosensitive material, thus changing the LDR resistance. These changes are transduced into voltage changes. Our measurements on vibrissa show that this simple and inexpensive sensor effectively monitors the movement of a single vibrissa.
Tau protein plays an important role in stabilising and assembling neuronal microtubules. Pathological changes in expression and aggregation of tau isoforms containing three (3R-tau) and four (4R-tau) microtubule-binding repeat domains are associated with several tauopathies. This paper describes novel sandwich ELISAs for quantification of 3R- and 4R-tau in brain. The assays are constructed using well-characterised isoform-specific antibodies (RD3 and RD4) as capture antibodies and an affinity-purified HRP-anti-tau peptide antibody and biotin-tyramide amplification for detection. For 3R-tau, we achieved a minimal detection limit in buffer of 460 pg mL(-1) and a recovery of 81.0% using 500 pg mL(-1) recombinant 3R-tau spiked in diluted brain homogenate. Mean intra- and inter-assay variation of the 3R-tau ELISA was 8.8 and 10.5%, respectively. For 4R-tau, the detection limit was 780 pg mL(-1) and the recovery of 5 ng mL(-1) spiked recombinant 4R-tau was 86.0% and the mean intra- and inter-assay variation was 10.4 and 15.6%, respectively. With these assays, we showed that in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) brains, 4R-tau is significantly increased in frontal cortex and caudate, the two regions that are usually associated with 4R-tau-dominant pathology. This increase was not observed in occipital lobe, a region that is spared of tau inclusions. No differences in 3R-tau levels were found between PSP and control brains in all regions tested. With this, we have for the first time developed ELISAs for quantification of 3R- and 4R-tau isoforms in pathological samples. These could prove useful in the pathological investigation and differential diagnosis of tauopathies.

The consequences of alcohol use disorders (AUDs) are devastating to individuals and society, yet few treatments are currently available. To identify genes regulating the behavioral effects of ethanol, we conducted a genetic screen in Drosophila and identified a mutant, happyhour (hppy), due to its increased resistance to the sedative effects of ethanol. Hppy protein shows strong homology to mammalian Ste20 family kinases of the GCK-1 subfamily. Genetic and biochemical experiments revealed that the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-signaling pathway regulates ethanol sensitivity in Drosophila and that Hppy functions as an inhibitor of the pathway. Acute pharmacological inhibition of the EGF receptor (EGFR) in adult animals altered acute ethanol sensitivity in both flies and mice and reduced ethanol consumption in a preclinical rat model of alcoholism. Inhibitors of the EGFR or components of its signaling pathway are thus potential pharmacotherapies for AUDs.
Ibn Sina, known as Avicenna in the West, was a celebrated Persian thinker, philosopher, and physician who is remembered for his masterpiece, The Canon of Medicine. The Canon that served as an essential medical encyclopedia for scholars in the Islamic territories and Europe for almost a millennium consisted of 5 books. In the third book, Avicenna described patients with symptoms of carotid hypersensitivity syndrome. These patients, who had excessive yawning, fatigue, and flushing, dropped following pressure on their carotids. Based on such history, it seems that Avicenna was the first to note the carotid sinus hypersensitivity, which presents with vasovagal syncope following compression of the carotid artery. In this paper, we presented a brief account of Avicenna's life and works and discuss his description of the so-called carotid hypersensitivity syncope. Notwithstanding his loyalty to the Greek theory of humoralism, Avicenna set forth his own version of &quot;theory of spirits&quot; to explain the mechanism of this disease. An account of the theory of spirits is also given.
One of the challenges in collecting ground reaction force (GRF) and moment data for gait analysis is to obtain &quot;good hits&quot; when the subject walks past the forceplates. We examined whether centerline-guided walking would significantly increase the chance of good hits and alter gait characteristics. Thirty-five healthy individuals (age: 37+/-13yrs) walked on a walkway with five embedded forceplates at comfortable self-selected speeds under two conditions: (1) free walking and (2) walking along a centerline and avoiding stepping on it. Gait kinematics and GRF were collected using an 8-camera optoelectronic system and five forceplates, respectively. Surface electromyographic (EMG) activity of the rectus femoris, hamstring, gastrocnemius (GAS), and tibialis anterior (TA) were monitored bilaterally. The probability of good hits significantly increased with the centerline-guided walking (p=0.008). Repeated measures MANOVA and follow-up univariate tests revealed no significant differences between the two conditions in any of the spatiotemporal parameters except for a significant increase in step width with centerline walking (p&lt;0.001). Centerline guiding significantly increased peak mediolateral GRF (p&lt;0.001) and hip adduction/abduction and ankle internal/external rotation ranges of motion (p&lt;0.01). In addition, the average EMG activity in GAS and TA during the stance phase significantly increased with the centerline walking (p&lt;0.001). In general, the centerline walking tended to impact women more than men. Centerline-guided walking increases the chance of good hits but biomechanical characteristics of gait in the frontal and transverse planes and EMG activity should be interpreted with caution, especially in women.
Insights into sequential leukocyte-endothelial interactions during leukocyte trafficking have been obtained through experiments using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) under flow conditions. To investigate leukocyte-brain endothelial cell interactions, we developed a dynamic in vitro system, using Transfected Human Brain Microvascular Endothelial Cells (THBMEC) and a parallel plate flow chamber. Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were perfused across confluent THBMEC cultures at a velocity that approximates the rate found in human brain capillaries. Leukocyte-THBMEC interactions were visualized by phase-contrast microscopy, and images were captured on a CCD camera. To simulate inflammatory conditions, we activated THBMEC with the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), which up-regulated chemokine and adhesion molecule expression in THBMEC without affecting the distribution of immunoreactivity for tight junction-associated proteins. PBMC adhesion was enhanced by cytokine-mediated activation of THBMEC. G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) activation was essential for leukocyte-THBMEC interaction, as pertussis toxin (PTX) treatment of PBMC abrogated PBMC adhesion to activated THBMEC. The anti-alpha4 integrin antibody, natalizumab, infused into MS patients, significantly reduced the adhesion of their ex vivo PBMC to activated THBMEC under flow conditions. Further study showed that alternatively spliced fibronectin containing the CS1 region (FN-CS1), but not Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule type 1 (VCAM-1), was the ligand of alpha4 integrin on activated THBMEC. Blocking FN-CS1 abrogated PBMC adhesion on activated THBMEC, while anti-VCAM-1 antibodies had no effect. These results established a novel in vitro dynamic BBB model. We also demonstrated the dependence of leukocyte-endothelial interactions in this model on alpha4 integrins and FN-CS1.
Carriage of HLA-DRB1*15 is the most important genetic risk factor in multiple sclerosis (MS), while CSF-specific oligoclonal immunoglobulin G bands (OCB) constitute the most sensitive biochemical marker for diagnosing MS. We demonstrated in an earlier study the interdependence of HLA-DRB1 genotype and OCB status; the effect of these phenotypic features on MS prognosis remains controversial, however. We investigated by survival analysis the impact of each variable on age at two important MS milestones: onset of clinical symptoms and an Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score of 6.0. Both carriage of HLA-DRB1*15 and the presence of OCB hastened attainment of EDSS 6.0.
The immunological mechanisms underlying autoimmunity are being elucidated through genetic and functional analyses in both humans and rodent models. However, acceptance of models as valid equivalents of human disease is variable, and the validation of defined human candidate molecules in experimental models is hitherto limited. We thus aimed to determine the kinetic expression of several Multiple Sclerosis (MS) candidate genes in the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced rat experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model using susceptible DA and resistant PVG inbred strains. Increased expression of MS candidate genes IL2RA and IL7RA associated with disease susceptibility. Higher expression of these candidate genes and IL18R1 in susceptible rats may lead to enhancement of the disease-driving T(H)1 and T(H)17 pathways. Susceptible DA rats had augmented marker molecules of these pathways and upon restimulation with autoantigen produced increased effector molecules including IFN-gamma, IL-17F and IL-22. The altered T helper cell differentiation pathways led to differences in a MOG-specific proliferative and autoantibody response, which ultimately results in infiltration in the central nervous system and EAE induction. Our results validate the MOG-induced EAE model as having similar mechanisms to human MS and determined the kinetics of several disease mechanisms in relevant tissues.
Despite the high prevalence and clinical significance of bipolar II disorder (BD II), the underlying pathophysiology is not well explored in previous studies. The purpose of the current study was to investigate brain gray matter abnormalities in BD II. High resolution magnetic resonance brain images from 23 BD II patients, 23 sex- and age-matched patients with bipolar I disorder (BD I) and 23 healthy controls were acquired and processed according to the optimized voxel-based morphometry protocol. The processed gray matter tissue volumes were compared among the three groups. Both the BD II and BD I group showed gray matter deficits in the ventromedial prefrontal regions, compared to controls. The BD I group had widespread gray matter reductions in the bilateral frontal, temporal, parietal and parahippocampal cortices, compared to controls. However, gray matter reductions in these regions were not found in the BD II group. With a less conservative statistical threshold, the BD II group showed additional gray matter deficits in the anterior limbic cortices. Our data suggest that gray matter deficits in the ventromedial prefrontal and anterior limbic cortices are common in both BD II and BD I. On the other hand, different pattern of gray matter abnormalities between BD II and BD I found in this study supports that two subtypes may have different neurobiological characteristics.
IL-1beta is a proinflammatory cytokine that contributes to psychological stress responses and has been implicated in various psychiatric disorders most notably depression. Preclinical studies also demonstrate that IL-1beta modulates anxiety- and fear-related behaviors, although these findings are difficult to assess because IL-1beta infusions influence locomotor activity and nociception. Here we demonstrate that IL-1RI null mice exhibit a behavioral phenotype consistent with a decrease in anxiety-related behaviors. This includes significant effects in the elevated plus maze, light-dark, and novelty-induced hypophagia tests compared to wild-type mice, with no differences in locomotor activity. With regard to fear conditioning, IL-1RI null mice showed more freezing in auditory and contextual fear conditioning tests, and there was no effect on pain sensitivity. Taken together, the results indicate that the IL-1beta/IL-1RI signaling pathway induces anxiety-related behaviors and impairs fear memory.
Breathing is controlled by inspiratory pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) networks that remain active in transversal brainstem slices from perinatal rodents. In 600 microm thick preBtC slices, inspiratory-related bursting in physiological (3mM) [K(+)] is depressed by &lt;1mM elevation of superfusate [Ca2+]. Here, we studied underlying cellular mechanisms in whole-cell-recorded neurons of 400 microm thin newborn rat slices with the &lt;200 microm thin preBtC in the middle (&quot;m-preBtC[400]&quot; slices). Extracellular activity in the ventrolateral slice area in 3mM K+ and a most common physiological Ca2+ range (1-1.2mM) stopped spontaneously within 2h (&quot;in vitro apnea&quot;). Contrary, rhythm was stable for &gt;3h at 6-8 bursts/min in 7 mM K+ and 1.2mM Ca2+ solution. In non-pacemaker preBtC inspiratory cells and neighboring inspiratory or tonically active neurons, block or frequency depression by &gt;90% of rhythm in the latter solution by 2-3mM Ca2+ changed neither resting potential nor input resistance. High Ca2+ silenced inspiratory neurons and depressed tonic discharge of non-respiratory neurons. However, in both cell types current injection evoked normal action potentials with unchanged threshold potential. The findings show that m-preBtC[400] slices represent a good compromise between long term viability of rhythmogenic preBtC neurons and minimal modulation of these cells by adjacent tissue, but need to be studied in elevated K+. The lack of postsynaptic K+ channel-mediated hyperpolarization suggests that saturation of surface charges, presynaptic block of transmission and/or inhibition of postsynaptic burst-promoting conductances such as Ca2+ activated non-selective cation channels are involved in inspiratory depression by high Ca2+.
Patients suffering from anxiety disorder may experience a few problems in the inhibition function. Using event-related potentials, the current study investigated the differences between subjects with high versus low trait-anxiety when they tried to inhibit disturbances in novel emotional pictures in an oddball task. The results showed that P3 amplitudes evoked by negative pictures relative to neutral pictures were decreased in subjects with high as well as low anxiety. In the high-anxious group, P3 amplitudes were also decreased in the positive condition relative to the neutral condition, whereas in the low anxious group, P3 amplitudes showed no significant differences between the positive and neutral stimuli. This implies that people with high anxiety may exhibit some degree of over-inhibition in emotional processing as compared to people with low anxiety. These people tend to indiscriminately inhibit all types of disturbing emotional information.

The discovery of a series of pyrrole-sulfonamides as positive allosteric modulators (PAM) of alpha7 nAChRs is described. Optimization of this series led to the identification of 19 (A-867744), a novel type II PAM with good potency and selectivity. Compound 19 showed acceptable pharmacokinetic profile across species and brain levels sufficient to modulate alpha7 nAChRs. In a rodent model of sensory gating, 19 normalized gating deficits. These results suggest that 19 represents a novel class of molecules capable of allosteric modulation of the alpha7 nAChRs.
We disclose the design of a novel series of cyanoguanidines that are potent (IC(50) approximately 10-100 nM) and selective (&gt; or = 100-fold) P2X(7) receptor antagonists against the other P2 receptor subtypes such as the P2Y(2), P2X(4), and P2X(3). We also found that these P2X(7) antagonists effectively reduced nociception in a rat model of neuropathic pain (Chung model). Particularly, analogue 53 proved to be effective in the Chung model, with an ED(50) of 38 micromol/kg after intraperitoneal administration. In addition compound 53 exhibited antiallodynic effects following oral administration and maintained its efficacy following repeated administration in the Chung model. These results suggest an important role of P2X(7) receptors in neuropathic pain and therefore a potential use of P2X(7) antagonists as novel therapeutic tools for the treatment of this type of pain.
In an effort to discover novel druglike NK(1) receptor antagonists a new series of suitably substituted C-phenylpiperazine derivatives was identified by an appropriate chemical exploration of related N-phenylpiperazine analogues, with the specific aim to maximize their in vitro affinity and optimize in parallel their pharmacokinetic profile. Among the compounds synthesized, 2-(S)-(4-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)piperazine-1-carboxylic acid [1-(R)-(3,5-bis-trifluoromethylphenyl)ethyl]methylamide (vestipitant) was identified as one of the most in vitro potent and selective NK(1) receptor antagonists ever discovered, showing appropriate pharmacokinetic properties and in vivo activity. On the basis of its preclinical profile, this compound was selected as a drug candidate.

Neurons recruited for local computations exhibit rhythmic activity at gamma frequencies. The amplitude and frequency of these oscillations are continuously modulated depending on stimulus and behavioral state. This modulation is believed to crucially control information flow across cortical areas. Here we report that in the rat hippocampus gamma oscillation amplitude and frequency vary rapidly, from one cycle to the next. Strikingly, the amplitude of one oscillation predicts the interval to the next. Using in vivo and in vitro whole-cell recordings, we identify the underlying mechanism. We show that cycle-by-cycle fluctuations in amplitude reflect changes in synaptic excitation spanning over an order of magnitude. Despite these rapid variations, synaptic excitation is immediately and proportionally counterbalanced by inhibition. These rapid adjustments in inhibition instantaneously modulate oscillation frequency. So, by rapidly balancing excitation with inhibition, the hippocampal network is able to swiftly modulate gamma oscillations over a wide band of frequencies.
Our understanding of the evolution, formation, and pathological disruption of human brain circuits is impeded by a lack of comprehensive data on the developing brain transcriptome. A whole-genome, exon-level expression analysis of 13 regions from left and right sides of the mid-fetal human brain revealed that 76% of genes are expressed, and 44% of these are differentially regulated. These data reveal a large number of specific gene expression and alternative splicing patterns, as well as coexpression networks, associated with distinct regions and neurodevelopmental processes. Of particular relevance to cognitive specializations, we have characterized the transcriptional landscapes of prefrontal cortex and perisylvian speech and language areas, which exhibit a population-level global expression symmetry. We show that differentially expressed genes are more frequently associated with human-specific evolution of putative cis-regulatory elements. These data provide a wealth of biological insights into the complex transcriptional and molecular underpinnings of human brain development and evolution.
The recent identification of copy-number variation in the human genome has opened up new avenues for the discovery of positional candidate genes underlying complex genetic disorders, especially in the field of psychiatric disease. One major challenge that remains is pinpointing the susceptibility genes in the multitude of disease-associated loci. This challenge may be tackled by reconstruction of functional gene-networks from the genes residing in these loci. We applied this approach to autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and identified the copy-number changes in the DNA of 105 ASD patients and 267 healthy individuals with Illumina Humanhap300 Beadchips. Subsequently, we used a human reconstructed gene-network, Prioritizer, to rank candidate genes in the segmental gains and losses in our autism cohort. This analysis highlighted several candidate genes already known to be mutated in cognitive and neuropsychiatric disorders, including RAI1, BRD1, and LARGE. In addition, the LARGE gene was part of a sub-network of seven genes functioning in glycobiology, present in seven copy-number changes specifically identified in autism patients with limited co-morbidity. Three of these seven copy-number changes were de novo in the patients. In autism patients with a complex phenotype and healthy controls no such sub-network was identified. An independent systematic analysis of 13 published autism susceptibility loci supports the involvement of genes related to glycobiology as we also identified the same or similar genes from those loci. Our findings suggest that the occurrence of genomic gains and losses of genes associated with glycobiology are important contributors to the development of ASD.

Purinergic signaling plays distinct and important roles in the CNS, including the transmission of calcium signals between astrocytes. Gap junction hemichannels are among the mechanisms proposed by which astrocytes might release ATP; however, whether the gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) forms these &quot;hemichannels&quot; remains controversial. Recently, a new group of proteins, the pannexins, have been shown to form nonselective, high-conductance plasmalemmal channels permeable to ATP, thereby offering an alternative for the hemichannel protein. Here, we provide strong evidence that, in cultured astrocytes, pannexin1 (Panx1) but not Cx43 forms hemichannels. Electrophysiological and fluorescence microscope recordings performed in wild-type and Cx43-null astrocytes did not reveal any differences in hemichannel activity, which was mostly eliminated by treating Cx43-null astrocytes with Panx1-short interfering RNA [Panx1-knockdown (Panx1-KD)]. Moreover, quantification of the amount of ATP released from wild-type, Cx43-null, and Panx1-KD astrocytes indicates that downregulation of Panx1, but not of Cx43, prevented ATP release from these cells.
In most CNS regions, the variety of inhibitory interneurons originates from separate pools of progenitors residing in discrete germinal domains, where they become committed to specific phenotypes and positions during their last mitosis. We show here that GABAergic interneurons of the rodent cerebellum are generated through a different mechanism. Progenitors for these interneurons delaminate from the ventricular neuroepithelium of the embryonic cerebellar primordium and continue to proliferate in the prospective white matter during late embryonic and postnatal development. Young postmitotic interneurons do not migrate immediately to their final destination, but remain in the prospective white matter for several days. The different interneuron categories are produced according to a continuous inside-out positional sequence, and cell identity and laminar placement in the cerebellar cortex are temporally related to birth date. However, terminal commitment does not occur while precursors are still proliferating, and postmitotic cells heterochronically transplanted to developing cerebella consistently adopt host-specific phenotypes and positions. However, solid grafts of prospective white matter implanted into the adult cerebellum, when interneuron genesis has ceased, produce interneuron types characteristic of the donor age. Therefore, specification of cerebellar GABAergic interneurons occurs through a hitherto unknown process, in which postmitotic neurons maintain broad developmental potentialities and their phenotypic choices are dictated by instructive cues provided by the microenvironment of the prospective white matter. Whereas in most CNS regions the repertoire of inhibitory interneurons is produced by recruiting precursors from different origins, in the cerebellum it is achieved by creating phenotypic diversity from a single source.
Misalignment of interaural cortical response maps in asymmetric hearing loss evolves from initial gross divergence to near convergence over a 6 month recovery period. The evolution of left primary auditory cortex (AI) interaural frequency map changes is chronicled in squirrel monkeys with asymmetric hearing loss induced by overstimulating the right ear with a 1 kHz tone at 136 dB for 3 h. AI frequency response areas (FRAs), derived from tone bursts presented to the poorer or better hearing ears, are compared at 6, 12, and 24 weeks after acoustic overstimulation. Characteristic frequency (CF) and minimum threshold parameters are extracted from FRAs, and they are used to quantify interaural response map differences. A large interaural CF map misalignment of DeltaCF approximately 1.27 octaves at 6 weeks after overstimulation decreases substantially to DeltaCF approximately 0.62 octave at 24 weeks. Interaural cortical threshold map misalignment faithfully reflects peripheral asymmetric hearing loss at 6 and 12 weeks. However, AI threshold map misalignment essentially disappears at 24 weeks, primarily because ipsilateral cortical thresholds have become unexpectedly elevated relative to peripheral thresholds. The findings document that plastic change in central processing of sound stimuli arriving from the nominally better hearing ear may account for progressive realignment of both interaural frequency and threshold maps.
The dendrites of a number of neuron types function as presynaptic structures, releasing transmitter after action potentials and dendritic spikes. In this regard, dendrites can function like axons, producing discrete outputs after suprathreshold electrical events. However, as the major site of synaptic inputs, dendrites experience ongoing subthreshold fluctuations in membrane potential, raising the question of whether these subthreshold changes can cause changes in transmitter release. Here, we show that mitral cells of the accessory olfactory bulb release glutamate from their dendrites in response to both subthreshold and suprathreshold stimuli. Whereas subthreshold output was typically low under control conditions, it could be enhanced several fold by pharmacological or endogenous activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. These results indicate that presynaptic dendrites can support two distinct forms of output, and can dynamically regulate how electrical activity is coupled to transmitter release.
Excitatory input onto many neurons in the brain occurs onto specialized projections called dendritic spines. Despite their potential importance in neuronal function, direct experimental evidence on electrical signaling in dendritic spines is lacking as their small size makes them inaccessible to standard electrophysiological techniques. Here, we investigate electrical signaling in dendritic spines using voltage-sensitive dye imaging in cortical pyramidal neurons during backpropagating action potentials and synaptic input. Backpropagating action potentials were found to fully invade dendritic spines without voltage loss. The voltage change in dendritic spines during synaptic input ranged from a few millivolts up to approximately 20 mV. During hyperpolarization of the membrane potential, the amplitude of the synaptic voltage in spines was increased, consistent with the expected change resulting from the increased driving force. This observation suggests that voltage-activated channels do not significantly boost the voltage response in dendritic spines during synaptic input. Finally, we used simulations of our experimental observations in morphologically realistic models to estimate spine neck resistance. These simulations indicated that spine neck resistance ranges up to approximately 500 Mohms. Spine neck resistances of this magnitude reduce somatic EPSPs by &lt;15%, indicating that the spine neck is unlikely to act as a physical device to significantly modify synaptic strength.
Adaptor proteins are likely to modulate spatially and temporally the trafficking of a number of membrane proteins, including neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). A yeast two-hybrid screen identified a novel UBX-containing protein, UBXD4, as one of the cytosolic proteins that interact directly with the alpha3 and alpha4 nAChR subunits. The function of UBX-containing proteins is largely unknown. Immunoprecipitation and confocal microscopy confirmed the interaction of UBXD4 with alpha3-containing nAChRs (alpha3* nAChRs) expressed in HEK293 cells, PC12 cells, and rat cortical neurons. Overexpression of UBXD4 in differentiated PC12 cells (dPC12) increased nAChR cell surface expression, especially that of the alpha3beta2 subtype. These findings were corroborated by electrophysiology, immunofluorescent staining, and biotinylation of surface receptors. Silencing of UBXD4 led to a significant reduction of alpha3* nAChRs in rat cortical neurons and dPC12 cells. Biochemical and immunofluorescence studies of endogenous UBXD4 showed that the protein is located in both the ER and cis-Golgi compartments. Our investigations also showed that the alpha3 subunit is ubiquitinated and that UBXD4 can interfere with its ubiquitination and consequent degradation by the proteasome. Our data suggest that UBXD4 modulates the distribution of alpha3* nAChRs between specialized intracellular compartments and the plasma membrane. This effect is achieved by controlling the stability of the alpha3 subunit and, consequently, the number of receptors at the cell surface.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a well known Akt substrate, regulates multiple cellular functions including cell growth and protein synthesis. The current study identifies a novel role of the Akt/mTOR pathway as a regulator of CNS myelination. Previously, we showed that overexpressing constitutively active Akt in oligodendrocytes in a transgenic mouse model induces enhanced CNS myelination, with no changes in the proliferation or survival of oligodendrocyte progenitor or mature cells. The present study focused on the signaling mechanisms regulating this hypermyelination induced by Akt. Activation of mTOR and its downstream substrates (p70S6 kinase and S6 ribosomal protein) was observed in Akt-overexpressing oligodendrocytes. When mTOR signaling was inhibited chronically in vivo with rapamycin starting at 6 weeks of age, the observed hypermyelination was reduced to approximately the amount of myelin seen in wild-type mice. mTOR inhibition had little impact on wild-type myelination between 6 and 12 weeks of age, suggesting that, in normal adults, myelination is relatively complete and is no longer regulated by mTOR signaling. However, when mTOR was chronically inhibited in young adult wild-type mice, myelination was reduced. These results suggest that, during active myelination, the major Akt signal regulating CNS myelination is the mTOR pathway.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) mediates reuptake of dopamine from the synaptic cleft and is a target for widely abused psychostimulants such as cocaine and amphetamine. Nonetheless, little is known about the cellular distribution and trafficking of natively expressed DAT. Here we use novel fluorescently tagged cocaine analogs to visualize DAT and DAT trafficking in cultured live midbrain dopaminergic neurons. The fluorescent tags were extended from the tropane N-position of 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)tropane using an ethylamino-linker. The rhodamine-, OR Green-, or Cy3-labeled ligands had high binding affinity for DAT and enabled specific labeling of DAT in live neurons and visualization by confocal imaging. In the dopaminergic neurons, DAT was uniformly distributed in the plasma membrane of the soma, the neuronal extensions, and varicosities along these extensions. FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching) experiments demonstrated bidirectional movement of DAT in the extensions and indicated that DAT is highly mobile both in the extensions and in the varicosities (immobile fraction less than approximately 30%). DAT was constitutively internalized into vesicular structures likely representing intracellular transporter pools. The internalization was blocked by lentiviral-mediated expression of dominant-negative dynamin and internalized DAT displayed partial colocalization with the early endosomal marker EGFP-Rab5 and with the transferrin receptor. DAT internalization and function was not affected by activation of protein kinase C (PKC) with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) or by inhibition with staurosporine or GF109203X. These data are in contrast to findings for DAT in transfected heterologous cells and challenge the paradigm that trafficking and cellular distribution of endogenous DAT is subject to regulation by PKC.
To investigate the role of human apolipoprotein E (apoE) on Abeta deposition in vivo, we crossed PDAPP mice lacking mouse Apoe to targeted replacement mice expressing human apoE (PDAPP/TRE2, PDAPP/TRE3, or PDAPP/TRE4). We then measured the levels of apoE protein and Abeta peptides in plasma, CSF, and brain homogenates in these mice at different ages. We also quantified the amount of brain Abeta and amyloid burden in 18-month-old mice. In young PDAPP/TRE4 mice that were analyzed at an age before brain Abeta deposition, we observed a significant decrease in the levels of apoE in CSF and brain when compared with age-matched mice expressing either human E2 or E3. The brain levels of Abeta42 in PDAPP/TRE4 mice were substantially elevated even at this very early time point. In older PDAPP/TRE4 mice, the levels of insoluble apoE protein increased in parallel to the dramatic rise in brain Abeta burden, and the majority of apoE was associated with Abeta. In TRE4 only mice, we also observed a significant decrease in the level of apoE in brain homogenates. Since the relative level of apoE mRNA was equivalent in PDAPP/TRE and TRE only mice, it appears that post-translational mechanisms influence the levels of apoE protein in brain (E4 &lt; E3 &lt; E2), resulting in early and dramatic apoE isoform-dependent effects on brain Abeta levels (E4 &gt; E3 &gt; E2) that increase with age. Therapeutic strategies aimed at increasing the soluble levels of apoE protein, regardless of isoform, may effectively prevent and (or) treat Alzheimer's disease.
Pulfrich phenomena are a class of depth illusions generated by an interocular time delay. This may be demonstrated with continuously moving stimuli, stroboscopic displays undergoing apparent motion, or dynamic noise patterns. Previous studies suggest that neurons jointly tuned to motion and disparity may be responsible for the phenomena. Model cells with such joint coding can explain all Pulfrich phenomena in a unified way (N. Qian &amp; R. A. Andersen, 1997). However, the joint-coding idea has been challenged by recent models (J. C. Read &amp; B. G. Cumming, 2005a, 2005c) that focus on the S shaped functions of perceived disparity in stroboscopic Pulfrich effect (M. J. Morgan, 1979). Here we demonstrate fundamental problems with the recent models in terms of causality, physiological plausibility, and definitions for joint and separate coding, and we compare the two coding schemes under physiologically plausible assumptions. We show that joint coding of disparity and either unidirectional or bidirectional motion selectivity can account for the S curves, but unidirectional selectivity is required to explain direction-depth contingency in Pulfrich effects. In contrast, separate coding can explain neither the S curves nor the direction-depth contingency. We conclude that Pulfrich phenomena are logically accounted for by joint encoding of unidirectional-motion and disparity.
There is evidence that early event-related potential components, such as the early posterior negativity (EPN; 200-300 ms), are modulated by emotional words. This study addressed the automaticity of this early response in an emotional Stroop task. The results show that the EPN was modulated by emotional connotation. In addition, an enhanced frontal P3 and an enhanced, more broadly distributed, late positive potential emerged as response to emotional words. The present results suggest that this early event-related potential activity represents the fast and automatic processing of emotional words. Furthermore, as the EPN originates from the posterior visual association cortex, the present results suggest a role of these areas in the automatic processing of emotional connotation.


A new study mapping the functional effects of brain lesions has revealed a surprising map of human intelligence, stimulating a re-evaluation of data from purely correlative methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging.
The tendency to move in rhythmic synchrony with a musical beat (e.g., via head bobbing, foot tapping, or dance) is a human universal [1] yet is not commonly observed in other species [2]. Does this ability reflect a brain specialization for music cognition, or does it build on neural circuitry that ordinarily serves other functions? According to the &quot;vocal learning and rhythmic synchronization&quot; hypothesis [3], entrainment to a musical beat relies on the neural circuitry for complex vocal learning, an ability that requires a tight link between auditory and motor circuits in the brain [4, 5]. This hypothesis predicts that only vocal learning species (such as humans and some birds, cetaceans, and pinnipeds, but not nonhuman primates) are capable of synchronizing movements to a musical beat. Here we report experimental evidence for synchronization to a beat in a sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua galerita eleonora). By manipulating the tempo of a musical excerpt across a wide range, we show that the animal spontaneously adjusts the tempo of its rhythmic movements to stay synchronized with the beat. These findings indicate that synchronization to a musical beat is not uniquely human and suggest that animal models can provide insights into the neurobiology and evolution of human music [6].

Evaluation of baroreflex control of heart rate (HR) has important implications in clinical practice of anesthesia and postoperative care. In this paper, we present a point process method to assess the dynamic baroreflex gain using a closed-loop model of the cardiovascular system. Specifically, the inverse Gaussian probability distribution is used to model the heartbeat interval, whereas the instantaneous mean is identified by a linear or bilinear bivariate regression on the previous R-R intervals and blood pressure (BP) measures. The instantaneous baroreflex gain is estimated in the feedback loop with a point process filter, while the RRBP feedforward frequency response is estimated by a Kalman filter. In addition, the instantaneous cross-spectrum and cross-bispectrum (as well as their ratio) can also be estimated. All statistical indices provide a valuable quantitative assessment of the interaction between heartbeat dynamics and hemodynamics during general anesthesia.
A reduction in dopaminergic innervation of the subventricular zone (SVZ) is responsible for the impaired proliferation of its resident precursor cells in this region in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we show that this effect involves EGF, but not FGF2. In particular, we demonstrate that dopamine increases the proliferation of SVZ-derived cells by releasing EGF in a PKC-dependent manner in vitro and that activation of the EGF receptor (EGFR) is required for this effect. We also show that dopamine selectively expands the GFAP(+) multipotent stem cell population in vitro by promoting their self-renewal. Furthermore, in vivo dopamine depletion leads to a decrease in precursor cell proliferation in the SVZ concomitant with a reduction in local EGF production, which is reversed through the administration of the dopamine precursor levodopa (L-DOPA). Finally, we show that EGFR(+) cells are depleted in the SVZ of human PD patients compared with age-matched controls. We have therefore demonstrated a unique role for EGF as a mediator of dopamine-induced precursor cell proliferation in the SVZ, which has potential implications for future therapies in PD.
Sensory deprivation caused by peripheral injury can trigger functional cortical reorganization across the initially silenced cortical area. It is proposed that intracortical connectivity enables recovery of function within such a lesion projection zone (LPZ), thus substituting lost subcortical input. Here, we investigated retinal lesion-induced changes in the function of lateral connections in the primary visual cortex of the adult rat. Using voltage-sensitive dye recordings, we visualized in millisecond-time resolution spreading synaptic activity across the LPZ. Shortly after lesion, the majority of neurons within the LPZ were subthresholdly activated by delayed propagation of activity that originated from unaffected cortical regions. With longer recovery time, latencies within the LPZ gradually decreased, and activation reached suprathreshold levels. Targeted electrode recordings confirmed that receptive fields of intra-LPZ neurons were displaced to the retinal lesion border while displaying normal orientation and direction selectivity. These results corroborate the view that cortical horizontal connections have a central role in functional reorganization, as revealed here by progressive facilitation of synaptic activity and the traveling wave of excitation that propagates horizontally into the deprived cortical region.
Women in the reproductive age are more vulnerable to develop affective disorders than men. This difference may attribute to anatomical differences, hormonal influences and environmental factors such as stress. However, the higher prevalence in women normalizes once menopause is established, suggesting that ovarian hormones may play an important role in the development of depression in women. Ovarian hormones such as estrogen can pass the brain-blood barrier and bind to cytoplasmatic estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha and ER-beta in different areas of the limbic system. During stress, estrogen can modulate the behavioral and neurobiological response depending on the concentrations of estrogen. In this review we present evidence for disparate effects of chronic stress on neuroplasticity and brain activity in male and female rats. Furthermore, we will demonstrate that effects of social support on coping with stress can be mimicked by social housing of rats and that this model can be used for identification of underlying neurobiological mechanisms, including behavior, phosphorylation of CREB and ERK1/2, and brain activity changes as measured with fos expression. Using cyclic administration of estrogen in ovariectomized female rats we could specifically address effects of different plasma estrogen levels and antidepressants on stress-induced neuroplasticity and activity changes. In this model we also studied effects of estrogen on recovery after chronic stress. We conclude that the female brain has a different innate strategy to handle stress than the male brain and that female animal models are necessary for studying the underlying mechanisms and options for treatment.
Women are more sensitive to most noxious visceral stimuli, both in terms of intensity and frequency. The spinoparabrachial (spino-PBn) pathway is an essential neural circuit for the central relay of viscerosensitive information, but studies characterizing the anatomical and physiological characteristics of this pathway have only been conducted in males. Sex differences in the anatomical and/or physiological organization of the spino-PBn may contribute to the sexually dimorphic incidence rate for visceral pain syndromes. Retrograde labeling and colorectal distention (CRD) induced Fos expression was used to delineate the spino-PBn circuit in male and cycling female Sprague-Dawley rats. The ability of morphine to suppress CRD evoked responses was also examined. Neurons retrogradely labeled from the PBn were localized primarily within the superficial dorsal horn and sacral parasympathetic nucleus of the L5-S1 spinal cord. While no sex differences were noted in either the distribution of spino-PBn neurons or in CRD-induced Fos expression, significantly greater Fos expression was noted specifically in spino-PBn neurons in males compared to females. Morphine selectively attenuated Fos expression in spino-PBn neurons in males, but not females. Subsequent anatomical studies showed significantly reduced mu opioid receptor protein levels and radioligand binding within the PBn of females in comparison to males. Together, these data indicate that there are profound sex differences in how a noxious visceral stimulus and opiates engage the spino-PBn pathway, which may account for the observed clinical differences in visceral pain sensitivity and morphine antinociception.
Males and females learn and remember differently at different times in their lives. These differences occur in most species, from invertebrates to humans. We review here sex differences as they occur in laboratory rodent species. We focus on classical and operant conditioning paradigms, including classical eyeblink conditioning, fear-conditioning, active avoidance and conditioned taste aversion. Sex differences have been reported during acquisition, retention and extinction in most of these paradigms. In general, females perform better than males in the classical eyeblink conditioning, in fear-potentiated startle and in most operant conditioning tasks, such as the active avoidance test. However, in the classical fear-conditioning paradigm, in certain lever-pressing paradigms and in the conditioned taste aversion, males outperform females or are more resistant to extinction. Most sex differences in conditioning are dependent on organizational effects of gonadal hormones during early development of the brain, in addition to modulation by activational effects during puberty and adulthood. Critically, sex differences in performance account for some of the reported effects on learning and these are discussed throughout the review. Because so many mental disorders are more prevalent in one sex than the other, it is important to consider sex differences in learning when applying animal models of learning for these disorders. Finally, we discuss how sex differences in learning continue to alter the brain throughout the lifespan. Thus, sex differences in learning are not only mediated by sex differences in the brain, but also contribute to them.
Previously, a hormone-simulated pregnancy (HSP), and the subsequent 'postpartum' withdrawal in estradiol has been shown to precipitate depressive-like behaviours in the forced swim test in female rats. In this study, we used the HSP and 'postpartum' withdrawal to investigate the impact on sucrose consumption, a model of anhedonia. Rats were assigned to &quot;postpartum&quot;, &quot;postpartum&quot;+EB (estradiol benzoate), &quot;postpartum&quot;+IMI (imipramine; a tricyclic antidepressant), &quot;postpartum&quot;+DPN (diarylpropionitrile; an ERbeta agonist), or ovariectomized (OVX) controls and OVX+IMI treatments. All &quot;postpartum&quot; groups received daily hormone injections (estradiol and progesterone) over 23 days to simulate pregnancy, while IMI groups also received daily injections of imipramine. After Day 23, &quot;postpartum&quot; rats were withdrawn from the hormone regimen (mimicking the postpartum decrease in gonadal hormones), and then received daily injections of compounds indicated (DPN, EB, IMI). Rats were tested for consumption of, and preference for, sucrose weekly at baseline, during 'pregnancy' and on 'Postpartum' Days 2-3. During the 'postpartum' period rats in the &quot;postpartum&quot; group had lower sucrose consumption and preference compared to during late-'pregnancy', but no decrease in 'postpartum' consumption or preference was seen in any other groups except &quot;postpartum&quot;+IMI and a decrease in sucrose preference only in the postpartum+EB group from mid-'pregnancy' to 'postpartum'. The OVX +IMI group had decreased sucrose consumption relative to OVX controls, suggesting a negative effect of imipramine on sucrose consumption. Together, these results suggest an important, though complex, role for gonadal hormones in the behavioral changes accompanying this model of depression.
Estrogens exert many of their behavioral effects by binding to nuclear estrogen receptor (ER) proteins, ERalpha and ERbeta. Recent studies involving ER knockout mice and selective ER agonists suggest that estradiol's anorexigenic effect is mediated via activation of ERalpha. To investigate this hypothesis, we examined whether the presumptive ERalpha antagonist, MPP, could block estradiol's anorexigenic effect. In the first series of experiments, the effects of MPP on food intake and uterine weight were monitored in ovariectomized (OVX) rats treated with either a physiological dose of estradiol benzoate (EB) or a selective ERalpha agonist (PPT). In the final experiment, food intake was monitored following acute administration of MPP in ovarian-intact (cycling) female rats. Contrary to our hypothesis, MPP failed to attenuate either EB's or PPT's ability to decrease food intake and increase uterine weight in OVX rats. However, in ovarian-intact rats, a similar regimen of MPP treatment attenuated the phasic decrease in food intake that is associated with estrus. We conclude that MPP may be a useful tool to investigate the behavioral actions of endogenous estradiol, but may have limited utility in studying the behavioral effects of exogenous estradiol in OVX rats.
The fear conditioning paradigm is used to investigate the roles of various genes, neurotransmitters, and substrates in the formation of fear learning related to contextual and auditory cues. In the brain, nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) functions as a retrograde neuronal messenger that facilitates synaptic plasticity, including the late phase of long-term potentiation (LTP) and formation of long-term memory (LTM). Evidence has implicated NO signaling in synaptic plasticity and LTM formation following fear conditioning, yet little is known about the role of the nNOS gene in fear learning. Using knockout (KO) mice with targeted mutation of the nNOS gene and their wild-type (WT) counterparts, the role of NO signaling in fear conditioning was investigated. Plasma levels of the stress hormone corticosterone were measured to determine the relationship between physiological and behavioral response to fear conditioning. Contextual fear learning was severely impaired in male and female nNOS KO mice compared with WT counterparts; cued fear learning was slightly impaired in nNOS KO mice. Sex-dependent differences in both contextual and cued fear learning were not observed in either genotype. Deficits in contextual fear learning in nNOS KO mice were partially overcome by multiple trainings. A relationship between increase in plasma corticosterone levels following footshock administration and the magnitude of contextual, but not cued freezing was also observed. Results suggest that the nNOS gene contributes more to optimal contextual fear learning than to cued fear learning, and therefore, inhibition of the nNOS enzyme may ameliorate context-dependent fear response.
Normal aging disrupts hippocampal neuroplasticity and learning and memory. Aging deficits were exposed in a subset (30%) of middle-aged mice that performed below criterion on a hippocampal-dependent contextual fear conditioning task. Basal neuronal excitability was comparable in middle-aged and young mice, but learning-related modulation of the post-burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP)--a general mechanism engaged during learning--was impaired in CA1 neurons from middle-aged weak learners. Thus, modulation of neuronal excitability is critical for retention of context fear in middle-aged mice. Disruption of AHP plasticity may contribute to contextual fear deficits in middle-aged mice--a model of age-associated cognitive decline (AACD).

NKCC1 is highly expressed in dorsal root ganglion neurons, where it is involved in gating sensory information. In a recent study, it was shown that peripheral nerve injury results in increased NKCC1 activity, not due to an increase in cotransporter expression, but to increased phosphorylation of the cotransporter (Pieraut, S., Matha, V., Sar, C., Hubert, T., Mchaly, I., Hilaire, C., Mersel, M., Delpire, E., Valmier, J., and Scamps, F. (2007) J. Neurosci. 27, 6751-6759). Our laboratory has also identified two Ste20-like kinases that bind and phosphorylate NKCC1: Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative-stress response 1 (OSR1). In this study, we show that both kinases are expressed at similar expression levels in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion neurons, and that both kinases participate equally in the regulation of NKCC1. Using a novel fluorescence method to assay NKCC1 activity in single cells, we show a 50% reduction in NKCC1 activity in DRG neurons isolated from SPAK knockout mice, indicating that another kinase, e.g. OSR1, is present to phosphorylate and activate the cotransporter. Using a nociceptive dorsal root ganglion sensory neuronal cell line, which expresses the same cation-chloride cotransporters and kinases as native DRG neurons, and gene silencing via short hairpin RNA, we demonstrate a direct relationship between kinase expression and cotransporter activity. We show that inactivation of either kinase significantly affects NKCC1 activity, whereas inactivation of both kinases results in an additive effect. In summary, our study demonstrates redundancy of kinases in the regulation of NKCC1 in dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Natural rewards and drugs of abuse can alter dopamine signaling, and ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons are known to fire action potentials tonically or phasically under different behavioral conditions. However, without technology to control specific neurons with appropriate temporal precision in freely behaving mammals, the causal role of these action potential patterns in driving behavioral changes has been unclear. We used optogenetic tools to selectively stimulate VTA dopaminergic neuron action potential firing in freely behaving mammals. We found that phasic activation of these neurons was sufficient to drive behavioral conditioning and elicited dopamine transients with magnitudes not achieved by longer, lower-frequency spiking. These results demonstrate that phasic dopaminergic activity is sufficient to mediate mammalian behavioral conditioning.

It has been shown that human combination of crossmodal information is highly consistent with an optimal Bayesian model performing causal inference. These findings have shed light on the computational principles governing crossmodal integration/segregation. Intuitively, in a Bayesian framework priors represent a priori information about the environment, i.e., information available prior to encountering the given stimuli, and are thus not dependent on the current stimuli. While this interpretation is considered as a defining characteristic of Bayesian computation by many, the Bayes rule per se does not require that priors remain constant despite significant changes in the stimulus, and therefore, the demonstration of Bayes-optimality of a task does not imply the invariance of priors to varying likelihoods. This issue has not been addressed before, but here we empirically investigated the independence of the priors from the likelihoods by strongly manipulating the presumed likelihoods (by using two drastically different sets of stimuli) and examining whether the estimated priors change or remain the same. The results suggest that the estimated prior probabilities are indeed independent of the immediate input and hence, likelihood.
Drosophila is a premier genetic model for the study of both embryonic development and functional neuroscience. Traditionally, these fields are quite isolated from each other, with largely independent histories and scientific communities. However, the interface between these usually disparate fields is the developmental programs underlying acquisition of functional electrical signaling properties and differentiation of functional chemical synapses during the final phases of neural circuit formation. This interface is a critically important area for investigation. In Drosophila, these phases of functional development occur during a period of &lt;8 hours (at 25 degrees C) during the last third of embryogenesis. This late developmental period was long considered intractable to investigation owing to the deposition of a tough, impermeable epidermal cuticle. A breakthrough advance was the application of water-polymerizing surgical glue that can be locally applied to the cuticle to enable controlled dissection of late-stage embryos. With a dorsal longitudinal incision, the embryo can be laid flat, exposing the ventral nerve cord and body wall musculature to experimental investigation. Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques can then be employed to record from individually-identifiable neurons and somatic muscles. These recording configurations have been used to track the appearance and maturation of ionic currents and action potential propagation in both neurons and muscles. Genetic mutants affecting these electrical properties have been characterized to reveal the molecular composition of ion channels and associated signaling complexes, and to begin exploration of the molecular mechanisms of functional differentiation. A particular focus has been the assembly of synaptic connections, both in the central nervous system and periphery. The glutamatergic neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is most accessible to a combination of optical imaging and electrophysiological recording. A glass suction electrode is used to stimulate the peripheral nerve, with excitatory junction current (EJC) recordings made in the voltage-clamped muscle. This recording configuration has been used to chart the functional differentiation of the synapse, and track the appearance and maturation of presynaptic glutamate release properties. In addition, postsynaptic properties can be assayed independently via iontophoretic or pressure application of glutamate directly to the muscle surface, to measure the appearance and maturation of the glutamate receptor fields. Thus, both pre- and postsynaptic elements can be monitored separately or in combination during embryonic synaptogenesis. This system has been heavily used to isolate and characterize genetic mutants that impair embryonic synapse formation, and thus reveal the molecular mechanisms governing the specification and differentiation of synapse connections and functional synaptic signaling properties.

We proposed a reaction model for investigating interactions between K+ and the palytoxin-sodium-potassium (PTX-Na+/K+) pump complex under conditions where enzyme phosphorylation may occur. The model is composed of (i) the Albers-Post model for Na+/K+-ATPase, describing Na+ and K+ pumping; (ii) the reaction model proposed for Na+/K+-ATPase interactions with its ligands (Na+, K+, ATP, ADP and P) and with PTX. A mathematical model derived for representing the reactions was used to simulate experimental studies of the PTX-induced current, in different concentrations for the pump ligands. The simulations allow interpretation of the simultaneous action of Na+/K+-ATPase phosphorylation and K+ on the PTX-induced channels. The results suggest that(i) phosphorylation increases the PTX toxic effect, increasing its affinity and reducing the K+occlusion rate, and (ii) K+ causes channel blockage, increases the toxin dissociation rate and impedes the induced channel phosphorylation, implying reduction of the PTX toxic effect.
In neuroscience, small-animal studies frequently involve dealing with series of images from multiple modalities such as histology and autoradiography. The consistent and bias-free restacking of multi-modality image series is obligatory as a starting point for subsequent non-rigid registration procedures and for quantitative comparisons with positron emission tomography (PET) and other in vivo data. Up to now, consistency between 2D slices without cross validation using an inherent 3D modality is frequently presumed to be close to the true morphology due to the smooth appearance of the contours of anatomical structures. However, in multi-modality stacks consistency is difficult to assess. In this work, consistency is defined in terms of smoothness of neighboring slices within a single modality and between different modalities. Registration bias denotes the distortion of the registered stack in comparison to the true 3D morphology and shape. Based on these metrics, different restacking strategies of multi-modality rat brain slices are experimentally evaluated. Experiments based on MRI-simulated and real dual-tracer autoradiograms reveal a clear bias of the restacked volume despite quantitatively high consistency and qualitatively smooth brain structures. However, different registration strategies yield different inter-consistency metrics. If no genuine 3D modality is available, the use of the so-called SOP (slice-order preferred) or MOSOP (modality-and-slice-order preferred) strategy is recommended.

There is an increase in the numbers of neural precursors in the SVZ (subventricular zone) after moderate ischaemic injuries, but the extent of stem cell expansion and the resultant cell regeneration is modest. Therefore our studies have focused on understanding the signals that regulate these processes towards achieving a more robust amplification of the stem/progenitor cell pool. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the role of the EGFR [EGF (epidermal growth factor) receptor] in the regenerative response of the neonatal SVZ to hypoxic/ischaemic injury. We show that injury recruits quiescent cells in the SVZ to proliferate, that they divide more rapidly and that there is increased EGFR expression on both putative stem cells and progenitors. With the amplification of the precursors in the SVZ after injury there is enhanced sensitivity to EGF, but not to FGF (fibroblast growth factor)-2. EGF-dependent SVZ precursor expansion, as measured using the neurosphere assay, is lost when the EGFR is pharmacologically inhibited, and forced expression of a constitutively active EGFR is sufficient to recapitulate the exaggerated proliferation of the neural stem/progenitors that is induced by hypoxic/ischaemic brain injury. Cumulatively, our results reveal that increased EGFR signalling precedes that increase in the abundance of the putative neural stem cells and our studies implicate the EGFR as a key regulator of the expansion of SVZ precursors in response to brain injury. Thus modulating EGFR signalling represents a potential target for therapies to enhance brain repair from endogenous neural precursors following hypoxic/ischaemic and other brain injuries.
Connexins, a family of membrane proteins, form gap junction (GJ) channels that provide a direct pathway for electrical and metabolic signaling between cells. We developed a stochastic four-state model describing gating properties of homotypic and heterotypic GJ channels each composed of two hemichannels (connexons). GJ channel contain two &quot;fast&quot; gates (one per hemichannel) oriented opposite in respect to applied transjunctional voltage (V(j)). The model uses a formal scheme of peace-linear aggregate and accounts for voltage distribution inside the pore of the channel depending on the state, unitary conductances and gating properties of each hemichannel. We assume that each hemichannel can be in the open state with conductance gamma(h,o) and in the residual state with conductance gamma(h,res), and that both gamma(h,o) and gamma(h,res) rectifies. Gates can exhibit the same or different gating polarities. Gating of each hemichannel is determined by the fraction of V(j) that falls across the hemichannel, and takes into account contingent gating when gating of one hemichannel depends on the state of apposed hemichannel. At the single-channel level, the model revealed the relationship between unitary conductances of hemichannels and GJ channels and how this relationship is affected by gamma(h,o) and gamma(h,res) rectification. Simulation of junctions containing up to several thousands of homotypic or heterotypic GJs has been used to reproduce experimentally measured macroscopic junctional current and V(j)-dependent gating of GJs formed from different connexin isoforms. V(j)-gating was simulated by imitating several frequently used experimental protocols: 1), consecutive V(j) steps rising in amplitude, 2), slowly rising V(j) ramps, and 3), series of V(j) steps of high frequency. The model was used to predict V(j)-gating of heterotypic GJs from characteristics of corresponding homotypic channels. The model allowed us to identify the parameters of V(j)-gates under which small changes in the difference of holding potentials between cells forming heterotypic junctions effectively modulates cell-to-cell signaling from bidirectional to unidirectional. The proposed model can also be used to simulate gating properties of unapposed hemichannels.
AMPA and kainate receptors mediate fast synaptic transmission. AMPA receptor ligand-binding domains form dimers, which are key functional units controlling ion-channel activation and desensitization. Dimer stability is inversely related to the rate and extent of desensitization. Kainate and AMPA receptors share common structural elements, but functional measurements suggest that subunit assembly and gating differs between these subtypes. To investigate this, we constructed a library of GluR6 kainate receptor mutants and directly measured changes in kainate receptor dimer stability by analytical ultracentrifugation, which, combined with electrophysiological experiments, revealed an inverse correlation between dimer stability and the rate of desensitization. We solved crystal structures for a series of five GluR6 mutants, to understand the molecular mechanisms for dimer stabilization. We demonstrate that the desensitized state of kainate receptors acts as a deep energy well offsetting the stabilizing effects of dimer interface mutants, and that the deactivation of kainate receptor responses is dominated by entry into desensitized states. Our results show how neurotransmitter receptors with similar structures and gating mechanisms can exhibit strikingly different functional properties.
Somatic sensation relies on the transduction of physical stimuli into electrical signals by sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia. Little is known about how and when during development different types of sensory neurons acquire transduction competence. We directly investigated the emergence of electrical excitability and mechanosensitivity of embryonic and postnatal mouse sensory neurons. We show that sensory neurons acquire mechanotransduction competence coincident with peripheral target innervation. Mechanotransduction competence arises in different sensory lineages in waves, coordinated by distinct developmental mechanisms. Sensory neurons that are mechanoreceptors or proprioceptors acquire mature mechanotransduction indistinguishable from the adult already at E13. This process is independent of neurotrophin-3 and may be driven by a genetic program. In contrast, most nociceptive (pain sensing) sensory neurons acquire mechanosensitive competence as a result of exposure to target-derived nerve growth factor. The highly regulated process of mechanosensory acquisition unveiled here, reveals new strategies to identify molecules required for sensory neuron mechanotransduction.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the X-linked gene MECP2. Girls with RTT show dramatic changes in brain function, but relatively few studies have explored the structure of neural circuits. Examining two mouse models of RTT (Mecp2B and Mecp2J), we previously documented changes in brain anatomy. Herein, we use confocal microscopy to study the effects of MeCP2 deficiency on the morphology of dendrites and axons in the fascia dentata (FD), CA1 area of hippocampus, and motor cortex following Lucifer yellow microinjection or carbocyanine dye tracing. At 3 weeks of age, most (33 of 41) morphological parameters were significantly altered in Mecp2B mice; fewer (23 of 39) were abnormal in Mecp2J mice. There were striking changes in the density and size of the dendritic spines and density and orientation of axons. In Mecp2B mice, dendritic spine density was decreased in the FD (approximately 11%), CA1 (14-22%), and motor cortex (approximately 16%). A decreased spine head size (approximately 9%) and an increased spine neck length (approximately 12%) were found in Mecp2B FD. In addition, axons in the motor cortex were disorganized. In Mecp2J mice, spine density was significantly decreased in CA1 (14-26%). In both models, dendritic swelling and elongated spine necks were seen in all areas studied. Marked variation in the type and extent of changes was noted in dendrites of adjacent neurons. Electron microscopy confirmed abnormalities in dendrites and axons and showed abnormal mitochondria. Our findings document widespread abnormalities of dendrites and axons that recapitulate those seen in RTT.
The commissure of the inferior colliculus interconnects the left and right sides of the auditory midbrain and provides the final opportunity for interaction between the two sides of the auditory pathway at the subcortical level. Although the functional properties of the commissure are beginning to be revealed, the topographical organization of its connections is unknown. A combination of neuroanatomical tracing studies, 3D reconstruction, and neuronal density maps was used to study the commissural connections in rat. The results demonstrate that commissural neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus send a divergent projection to the equivalent frequency-band laminae in the central nucleus and dorsal and lateral cortices on the opposite side. The density of this projection, however, is weighted toward a point that matches the position of the tracer injection; consistent with a point-to-point emphasis in the wiring pattern. In the dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus there may be two populations of neurons that project across the commissure, one projecting exclusively to the frequency-band laminae in the central nucleus and the other projecting diffusely to the dorsal cortex. Neurons in the lateral cortex of the inferior colliculus make only a very weak contribution to the commissural pathway. The point-to-point pattern of connections permits interactions between specific regions of corresponding frequency-band laminae, whereas the divergent projection pattern could subserve integration across the lamina.
The role of insulin pathways in olfaction is of significant interest with the widespread pathology of diabetes mellitus and its associated metabolic and neuronal comorbidities. The insulin receptor (IR) kinase is expressed at high levels in the olfactory bulb, in which it suppresses a dominant Shaker ion channel (Kv1.3) via tyrosine phosphorylation of critical N- and C-terminal residues. We optimized a 7 d intranasal insulin delivery (IND) in awake mice to ascertain the biochemical and behavioral effects of insulin to this brain region, given that nasal sprays for insulin have been marketed notwithstanding our knowledge of the role of Kv1.3 in olfaction, metabolism, and axon targeting. IND evoked robust phosphorylation of Kv1.3, as well as increased channel protein-protein interactions with IR and postsynaptic density 95. IND-treated mice had an increased short- and long-term object memory recognition, increased anxiolytic behavior, and an increased odor discrimination using an odor habituation protocol but only moderate change in odor threshold using a two-choice paradigm. Unlike Kv1.3 gene-targeted deletion that alters metabolism, adiposity, and axonal targeting to defined olfactory glomeruli, suppression of Kv1.3 via IND had no effect on body weight nor the size and number of M72 glomeruli or the route of its sensory axon projections. There was no evidence of altered expression of sensory neurons in the epithelium. In mice made prediabetic via diet-induced obesity, IND was no longer effective in increasing long-term object memory recognition nor increasing anxiolytic behavior, suggesting state dependency or a degree of insulin resistance related to these behaviors.
Migration of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) from proliferative zones to their final location in the brain is an essential step in nervous system development. Golli proteins, products of the myelin basic protein gene, can modulate voltage-gated Ca(2+) uptake in OPCs during process extension and retraction. Given the importance of process extension/retraction on movement, the consequences of golli expression on OPC migration were examined in vivo and in vitro using time-lapse imaging of isolated OPCs and acute brain slice preparations from golli KO and golli J37 overexpressing mice (JOE). The results indicated that golli stimulated migration, and this enhanced motility was associated with increases in the activity of voltage operated Ca(2+) channels (VOCCs). Activation of VOCCs by high K(+) resulted in a significant increase in the migration speed of JOE OPCs versus control cells and golli-mediated modulation of OPC migration disappeared in the presence of VOCC antagonists. During migration, OPCs generated Ca(2+) oscillations that were dependent on voltage-calcium influx and both the amplitude and frequency of these Ca(2+) transients correlated positively with the rate of cell movement under a variety of pharmacological treatments. The Ca(2+) transient amplitude and the rate of cell movement were significantly lower in KO cells and significantly higher in JOE cells suggesting that the presence of golli promotes OPC migration by increasing the size of voltage-mediated Ca(2+) oscillations. These data define a new molecule that regulates Ca(2+) homeostasis in OPCs, and are the first to demonstrate that voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels can regulate an OPC function, such as migration.
The repulsive guidance molecule RGMa performs several functions in the developing and adult CNSs. RGMa, through its receptor neogenin, induces growth cone collapse and neurite outgrowth inhibition. Here, we demonstrate that RGMa binding to neogenin leads to the inactivation of Ras, which is required for the RGMa-mediated repulsive function in cortical neurons. This signal transduction is mediated by the Ras-specific GTPase-activating protein (GAP) p120GAP. The SH2 domain of p120GAP interacts with focal adhesion kinase (FAK), which is phosphorylated at Tyr-397. When the cells are stimulated with RGMa, FAK undergoes dephosphorylation at Tyr-397 and is dissociated from p120GAP, and this dissociation is followed by an increase in the interaction between p120GAP and GTP-Ras. In addition, the knockdown of p120GAP prevents RGMa-induced growth cone collapse and neurite outgrowth inhibition. Furthermore, RGMa stimulation induces Akt inactivation through p120GAP, and the expression of the constitutively active Akt prevents RGMa-induced growth cone collapse. Thus, RGMa binding to neogenin regulates p120GAP activity through FAK Tyr-397 dephosphorylation, leading to the inactivation of Ras and its downstream effector Akt, and this signal transduction plays a role in the RGMa-mediated repulsive function.
We investigated the axonal transport of neurofilaments in cultured neurons from two different strains of dilute lethal mice, which lack myosin Va. To analyze the motile behavior, we tracked the movement of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged neurofilaments through naturally occurring gaps in the axonal neurofilament array of cultured superior cervical ganglion neurons from DLS/LeJ dilute lethal mice. Compared with wild-type controls, we observed no statistically significant difference in velocity or frequency of movement. To analyze the pausing behavior, we used a fluorescence photoactivation pulse-escape technique to measure the rate of departure of PAGFP (photoactivatable GFP)-tagged neurofilaments from photoactivated axonal segments in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from DLS/LeJ and dl20J dilute lethal mice. Compared with wild-type controls, we observed a 48% increase in the mean time for neurofilaments to depart the activated regions in neurons from DLS/LeJ mice (p &lt; 0.001) and a 169% increase in neurons from dl20J mice (p &lt; 0.0001). These data indicate that neurofilaments pause for more prolonged periods in the absence of myosin Va. We hypothesize that myosin Va is a short-range motor for neurofilaments and that it can function to enhance the efficiency of neurofilament transport in axons by delivering neurofilaments to their microtubule tracks, thereby reducing the duration of prolonged off-track pauses.
Corticomuscular coherence between the primary motor cortex (M1) and hand muscle electromyograms (EMG) occurs at approximately 20 Hz but is rarely seen at approximately 10 Hz. This is unexpected, because M1 has oscillations at both frequencies, which are effectively transmitted to the spinal cord via the corticospinal tract. We have previously speculated that a specific &quot;neural filter&quot; may selectively reduce coherence at approximately 10 Hz. This would have functional utility in minimizing physiological tremor, which often has a dominant component around this frequency. Recurrent inhibition via Renshaw cells in the spinal cord is a putative neural substrate for such a filter. Here we investigate this system in more detail with a biophysically based computational model. Renshaw cell recurrent inhibition reduced EMG oscillations at approximately 10 Hz, and also reduced corticomuscular coherence at this frequency (from 0.038 to 0.014). Renshaw cell inhibitory feedback also generated synchronous oscillations in the motoneuron pool at approximately 30 Hz. We show that the effects at 10 Hz and 30 Hz can both be understood from the dynamics of the inhibitory feedback loop. We conclude that recurrent inhibition certainly plays an important role in reducing 10 Hz oscillations in muscle, thereby decreasing tremor amplitude. However, our quantitative results suggest it is unlikely to be the only system for tremor reduction, and probably acts in concert with other neural circuits which remain to be elucidated.
Early in development, the cat primary visual cortex (V1) is dominated by inputs driven by the contralateral eye. The pattern then reorganizes into ocular dominance columns that are roughly equally distributed between inputs serving the two eyes. This reorganization does not occur if the eyes are kept closed. The mechanism of this equalization is unknown. It has been argued that it is unlikely to involve Hebbian activity-dependent learning rules, on the assumption that these would favor an initially dominant eye. The reorganization occurs at the onset of the critical period (CP) for monocular deprivation (MD), the period when MD can cause a shift of cortical innervation in favor of the nondeprived eye. In mice, the CP is opened by the maturation of cortical inhibition, which does not occur if the eyes are kept closed. Here we show how these observations can be united: under Hebbian rules of activity-dependent synaptic modification, strengthening of intracortical inhibition can lead to equalization of the two eyes' inputs. Furthermore, when the effects of homeostatic synaptic plasticity or certain other mechanisms are incorporated, activity-dependent learning can also explain how MD causes a shift toward the open eye during the CP despite the drive by inhibition toward equalization of the two eyes' inputs. Thus, assuming similar mechanisms underlie the onset of the CP in cats as in mice, this and activity-dependent learning rules can explain the interocular equalization observed in cat V1 and its failure to occur without visual experience.
Picking up an empty milk carton that we believe to be full is a familiar example of adaptive control, because the adaptation process of estimating the carton's weight must proceed simultaneously with the control process of moving the carton to a desired location. Here we show that the motor system initially generates highly variable behavior in such unpredictable tasks but eventually converges to stereotyped patterns of adaptive responses predicted by a simple optimality principle. These results suggest that adaptation can become specifically tuned to identify task-specific parameters in an optimal manner.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has been implicated in both preparatory attention (i.e., selecting behaviorally relevant stimuli) and in detecting errors. We recorded from the rat ACC and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), which is functionally homologous to the primate dorsolateral PFC, during an attention task. The three-choice serial reaction time task requires a rat to orient toward and divide attention between three brief (300 ms duration) light stimuli presented in random order across nose poke holes in an operant chamber. In both the ACC and mPFC, we found that neural activity was related to the level of preparatory (precue) attention and subsequent correct or incorrect choice, in that the magnitude of the single units' response to the cue was lower on incorrect trials and was not different than baseline on unattended trials. This preparatory neural activity consisted of both excitatory and inhibitory phasic responses. The number of units responding to the cue was similarly graded, in that fewer units exhibited phasic responses to the cue on incorrect and unattended trials, compared with correct trials. Although preparatory activity was found in both the ACC and mPFC, activity after incorrect nose pokes, which may be related to error detection, were only observed in the ACC. Thus, during the same behavioral sequence, the ACC encodes both error-related events and preparatory attention, whereas the mPFC only participates in preparatory attention. The finding of substantial inhibitory activity during the preparatory period suggests a critical role for inhibition of pyramidal cells in PFC-mediated cognitive functions.
Drosophila is a premier genetic model for the study of both embryonic development and functional neuroscience. Traditionally, these fields are quite isolated from each other, with largely independent histories and scientific communities. However, the interface between these usually disparate fields is the developmental programs underlying acquisition of functional electrical signaling properties and differentiation of functional chemical synapses during the final phases of neural circuit formation. This interface is a critically important area for investigation. In Drosophila, these phases of functional development occur during a period of &lt;8 hours (at 25 degrees C) during the last third of embryogenesis. This late developmental period was long considered intractable to investigation owing to the deposition of a tough, impermeable epidermal cuticle. A breakthrough advance was the application of water-polymerizing surgical glue that can be locally applied to the cuticle to enable controlled dissection of late-stage embryos. With a dorsal longitudinal incision, the embryo can be laid flat, exposing the ventral nerve cord and body wall musculature to experimental investigation. This system has been heavily used to isolate and characterize genetic mutants that impair embryonic synapse formation, and thus reveal the molecular mechanisms governing the specification and differentiation of synapse connections and functional synaptic signaling properties.
Brain injury represents a major health problem and may result in chronic inflammation and neurodegeneration. Due to antiinflammatory effects of gold, we have investigated the cerebral effects of metallic gold particles following a focal brain injury (freeze-lesion) in mice. Gold particles 20-45 microm in size or the vehicle (placebo) were implanted in the cortical tissue followed by a cortical freeze-lesioning. At 1-2 weeks post-injury, brains were analyzed by using immunohistochemistry and markers of inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis. This study shows that gold treatment significantly reduces the cerebral levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), oxidative DNA damage (as judged by 8-oxoguanine levels), and pro-apoptotic markers (cleaved caspase-3, cytochrome c leakage), when compared to those of controls. The data presented here points toward gold particles as a tool to modulate the cerebral response to injury.
Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) can be caused by mutations in the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes CHRNA4 and CHRNB2. Recently, a point mutation (alpha2-I279N) associated with sleep-related epilepsy has been described in a third nAChR gene, CHRNA2. We demonstrate here that alpha2-I279N can be co-expressed with the major structural subunit CHRNB2. alpha2-I279N causes a marked gain-of-function effect and displays a distinct biopharmacological profile, including markedly reduced inhibition by carbamazepine and increased nicotine sensitivity.
Due to extensive homologies, monkeys provide a sophisticated animal model of human visual attention. However, for electrophysiological recording in behaving animals simplified stimuli and controlled eye position are traditionally used. To validate monkeys as a model for human attention during realistic free viewing, we contrasted human (n = 5) and monkey (n = 5) gaze behavior using 115 natural and artificial video clips. Monkeys exhibited broader ranges of saccadic endpoints and amplitudes and showed differences in fixation and intersaccadic intervals. We compared tendencies of both species to gaze toward scene elements with similar low-level visual attributes using two computational models--luminance contrast and saliency. Saliency was more predictive of both human and monkey gaze, predicting human saccades better than monkey saccades overall. Quantifying interobserver gaze consistency revealed that while humans were highly consistent, monkeys were more heterogeneous and were best predicted by the saliency model. To address these discrepancies, we further analyzed high-interest gaze targets--those locations simultaneously chosen by at least two monkeys. These were on average very similar to human gaze targets, both in terms of specific locations and saliency values. Although substantial quantitative differences were revealed, strong similarities existed between both species, especially when focusing analysis onto high-interest targets.

To describe the neural substrates of successful episodic long-term memory encoding, we collected functional magnetic-resonance imaging data as participants completed an arbitrary delayed auditory paired-association learning task. During the task, subjects learned predefined but hidden stimulus pairs by trial and error based on visual feedback. Delay period activity represents the retrieval of the relationship between the cue item and its candidate for associates, that is, working memory. Our hypothesis was that the neural substrates of working memory would be related to long-term memory encoding in a performance-dependent manner. Thus, inter-individual variance in performance following a fixed learning set would be associated with differing neural activations during the delay period. The number of learning trials was adjusted such that performance following completion of the learning set varied across subjects. Each trial consisted of the successive presentation of two stimuli (first stimulus and second stimulus [S2]) with a fixed delay interval, allowing extraction of sustained activity during the delay period. Sustained activities during the delay period were found in the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, intraparietal sulcus, and left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, as well as the premotor and pre-supplementary motor areas. The activities did not change in strength across learning, suggesting that these effects represent working memory components. The sustained activity in the ventrolateral prefrontal region was correlated with task performance. Task performance was also positively correlated with the decrement in S2/feedback-related activity during learning in the superior temporal sulcus, a region previously shown to be involved in association learning. These findings are consistent with lesion and neuroimaging studies showing that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex plays an important role in long-term memory encoding, and raise the possibility that working memory processes interact with long-term memory formation as represented by the covariation of activity in the superior temporal sulcus and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex.
We investigated whether direction information is represented in the population-level neural response evoked by the visual motion stimulus, as measured by magnetoencephalography. Coherent motions with varied speed, varied direction, and different coherence level were presented using random dot kinematography. Peak latency of responses to motion onset was inversely related to speed in all directions, as previously reported, but no significant effect of direction on latency changes was identified. Mutual information entropy (IE) calculated using four-direction response data increased significantly (&gt;2.14) after motion onset in 41.3% of response data and maximum IE was distributed at approximately 20 ms after peak response latency. When response waveforms showing significant differences (by multivariate discriminant analysis) in distribution of the three waveform parameters (peak amplitude, peak latency, and 75% waveform width) with stimulus directions were analyzed, 87 waveform stimulus directions (80.6%) were correctly estimated using these parameters. Correct estimation rate was unaffected by stimulus speed, but was affected by coherence level, even though both speed and coherence affected response amplitude similarly. Our results indicate that speed and direction of stimulus motion are represented in the distinct properties of a response waveform, suggesting that the human brain processes speed and direction separately, at least in part.
Retinal cells respond to various experimental stimuli including hypoxia, yet it remains to be investigated whether they react to smoke inhalation. We show here that retinal cells in rats, notably the ganglion cells, Mller cells, astrocytes and blood vessels responded vigorously to a smoke challenge. The major changes included up-regulated expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), aquaporin 4 (AQP4) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS). VEGF expression was localized in the ganglion cells, Mller cells, astrocytes and associated blood vessels. AQP4 was markedly enhanced in both astrocytes and Mller cells. Increase in vascular permeability after smoke exposure was evidenced by extravasation of serum derived rhodamine isothiocyanate which was internalized by Mller cells and ganglion cells. The tracer leakage was attenuated by aminoguanidine and N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) treatment which suppressed retinal tissue NOS and nitric oxide (NO) levels concomitantly. It is suggested that VEGF, AQP4 and NO are involved in increased vascular permeability following acute smoke exposure in which hypoxia was ultimately implicated as shown by blood gases analysis. NOS inhibitors effectively reduced the vascular leakage and hence may ameliorate possible retinal edema in smoke inhalation.
The impact of juvenile stress exposure on astrocyte plasticity was assessed in the precocious rodent Octodon degus. Astrocytes expressing S100ss and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were quantified in the limbic medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), including the anterior cingulate (ACd), precentral medial (PrCm), infra- (IL) and prelimbic (PL) cortex and in the &quot;non-limbic&quot; somatosensory cortex (SSC). At the age of 21 days we compared (i) controls (C), (ii) stressed animals (SSR: separation stress/short reunion), which were exposed to 6 h separation from the family, followed by 1 h reunion with the family and (iii) stressed animals (SER: separation stress/extended reunion), which were stressed like group SSR but exposed to 48 h reunion. The observed glia response was already measurable 7 h after the onset of the stress exposure. Compared to controls SER and SSR animals showed elevated densities of S100ss-IR astrocytes in layers II/III and V-VI of the ACd, IL and PrCm, whereas no significant group differences were observed in the PL and SSC. The SSR group showed significantly decreased density of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes in all mPFC subregions. Only in the ACd the stress-induced changes in glia density were still evident after 48 h reunion with the family. Compared to controls, the length of GFAP-IR processes and the number of ramification points were significantly reduced in all mPFC subregions and in the SSC of the SSR group. In the SSC the stress-evoked changes in GFAP-glia density were opposite compared to the changes seen in the medial prefrontal cortical subregions, whereas the changes in GFAP-labeled processes were comparable to those observed in the mPFC. In summary, these results demonstrate that a single stress episode induces rapid and quite complex region- and cell-specific changes in glial cells, reflected by an upregulation of cytoplasmic (S100ss) and downregulation of cytoskeletal (GFAP) glial protein.
Injury to the cerebellum and brainstem is becoming increasingly recognized in prematurely born infants. The role of infection/inflammation in mediating damage to those structures in the preterm brain is largely unknown. Preterm fetal sheep (70% gestation) received either saline-vehicle (control group; n=11) or Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (100 ng intravenous [i.v.]; lipopolysaccharide [LPS] group; n=9), and were allowed to recover for 3 days before sacrifice. A diffuse pattern of cerebellar white matter damage was observed in all animals exposed to LPS, while focal cerebellar white matter lesions were observed in three out of nine animals, and an intragyral white matter hemorrhage in one animal. Cerebellar white matter injury was associated with a statistically significant loss of oligodendrocyte transcription factor-2-positive oligodendrocytes and increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cell counts. Ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba1)-positive cells which had the morphology of activated microglia were commonly observed in areas of injury. There was no obvious injury to the cerebellar cortex or to cerebellar Purkinje cells, and no obvious injury in any region of the brainstem. These data provide support for a role of infection/inflammation in selective white matter injury in the immature cerebellum, and demonstrate a differential vulnerability of the brainstem and cerebellar white matter to injury at this time.
ATP acts as a neurotransmitter or co-neurotransmitter in many areas of the CNS and peripheral nervous systems; however, little is known about the expression and functional role of purinoceptors (P2) in midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, we investigated P2X receptor expression and regulation of spontaneous firing activity in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) in rats using patch-clamp and Ca(2+)-imaging techniques. In most neurons, application of ATP (1 microM-1 mM) increased firing rate dose-dependently (EC(50)=1.26+/-0.26 microM, n=45). When the P2-receptor agonists such as 2-methylthio-adenosine 5'-triphosphate (2-MeSATP) or ATPgammaS were applied or pressure-applied to the neuron, the firing activity increased together with a rise in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]c), but application of beta,gamma-methylene ATP (P2X(1, 3) agonist) or methylthio-adenosine 5'-diphosphate (P2Y(1) agonist) had no effect. In many neurons, the effect of ATP was abolished by the application of the P2-receptor antagonists, suramin or pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS). When ATP was applied in a Ca(2+)-free solution, there was no detectable change in [Ca(2+)]c, suggesting that ATP does not release Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. In the single-cell reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we found that 65% of dopaminergic neurons expressed mRNAs for P2X receptors; positive amplifications of P2X(6) (57.1%), P2X(2/6) (25.0%), and P2X(4) mRNA (17.9%), respectively. From the above results, we could conclude that ATP modulates firing activities in the rat SNc dopaminergic neurons, possibly via P2X(2), P2X(2/6), and/or P2X(4) receptors.
Recent studies have suggested that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) enhances neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) isolated from rat embryonic day 14.5. However the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. One hypothesis supported by DHA controls the expression level of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, such as hairy and enhancer of split 1 (Hes1), Mash1, neurogenin1, and NeuroD; another is that previous studies in retinal progenitor cells DHA affects the cell cycle. In this study, we show that treatment with DHA under differentiation conditions without basic fibroblast growth factor, (1) increases Tuj-1 and MAP2 positive cells in NSCs, (2) that the expression level of Hes1 mRNA and protein decreased significantly from day 1 to day 4, on the other hand, the NeuroD mRNA expression level increased from day 1 to day 4 after treatment with DHA and (3) decreased the percentage of S-phase cells, which correlated with prolonged expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(kip1), suggesting that DHA enhances neuronal differentiation of NSCs, in part, by controlling the bHLH transcription factors and promoting cell cycle exit. We therefore speculate that DHA is one of the essential key molecules for neuronal differentiation of NSCs.
Pregnenolone sulfate (PS), an endogenously occurring neurosteroid, has been shown to modulate the activity of several neurotransmitter-gated channels, including the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). NMDARs are glutamate-gated ion channels involved in excitatory synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity, and excitotoxicity. To determine the mechanism that controls PS sensitivity of NMDARs, we measured NMDAR responses induced by exogenous agonist application in voltage-clamped HEK293 cells expressing NR1/NR2B NMDARs and cultured rat hippocampal neurons. We report that PS potentiates the amplitude of whole-cell recorded NMDAR responses in cultured hippocampal neurons and HEK293 cells; however, the potentiating effect of PS on NMDAR in outside-out patches isolated from cultured hippocampal neurons and HEK293 cells was lost within 2 min after patch isolation in a neurosteroid-specific manner. The rate of diminution of the PS potentiating effect was slowed by protein phosphatase inhibitors. Treatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with a nonspecific protein kinase inhibitor and a specific protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor diminished PS-induced potentiation, which was recovered by adding a PKA, but not a protein kinase C (PKC), activator. These results suggest that the effect of PS on NMDARs is controlled by cellular mechanisms that are mediated by dephosphorylation/phosphorylation pathways.
Steroid hormones, especially estradiol, facilitate reproductive behaviors in male and female rodents and birds. In green anole lizards estradiol facilitates receptivity in females but, unlike in some other species, is not the activating hormone for courtship and copulatory behavior in males. Instead, testicular androgens directly facilitate male courtship and copulation. Yet, activity of the estradiol synthesizing enzyme aromatase is higher in the brain of male than female green anoles, and it is increased during the breeding compared to the non-breeding season. The functional relevance of these differences in local estradiol production is unknown. They might prime the male forebrain to facilitate production of appropriate sexual behaviors, perhaps by modifying morphology of relevant brain regions. In addition, we recently reported increased expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) in selected brain regions in females compared to males [Beck LA, Wade J (2009b) Sexually dimorphic estrogen receptor alpha mRNA expression in the preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamus of green anole lizards. 55:398-403]. Thus, it is possible that the hormone serves to downregulate its receptor in males to inhibit the expression of estradiol-dependent receptive behaviors. To begin to address these ideas, the present study examines the effects of estradiol treatment, sex, and season on forebrain morphology and ERalpha mRNA abundance in three regions important for anole reproductive behavior-the preoptic area, ventromedial amygdala, and ventromedial hypothalamus. While a number of effects of sex and season on forebrain morphology were detected, direct effects of estradiol treatment on these measures were minimal. ERalpha expression was greatest in the ventromedial hypothalamus, and a large female-biased sex difference was detected in this area alone; it resulted from estradiol-treated animals. These results indicate a sex- and region-specific mechanism by which estradiol can modify ERalpha expression in the green anole and could impact the expression of female-typical receptivity.
Depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition in substantia nigra pars reticulata suggests that burst-like activity but not regular firing suffices to activate presynaptic endocannabinoid CB1 receptors. To more closely determine the type of activity required, we applied gramicidin perforated patch recording under visual control to substantia nigra slices of juvenile mice. We found that evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) were reduced in amplitude by the spontaneous firing of a neuron under study, whereas silencing this neuron enhanced inhibitory responses. Autonomous firing reduced eIPSCs to 78%+/-2% in a time- but not frequency-dependent manner. The phenomenon which we termed firing-induced suppression of inhibition was cannabinoid receptor subtype 1-dependent, whereas adenosine A1 receptors played only a minor role. Depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores abolished the firing-induced suppression of inhibition suggesting that Ca(2+) release from internal stores is necessary for the production of endocannabinoids during autonomous firing. We suggest that the Ca(2+) influx during autonomous activity of pars reticulata neurons suffices to selectively dampen incoming inhibition from striatal neurons because it is amplified by ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores.
Firing of an individual neuron is determined by the activity of its presynaptic input ensemble. In this study we analyzed how presynaptic signals with different dynamics interact to control postsynaptic activity. In the blowfly's visual system we simultaneously recorded in vivo from an identified motion-sensitive neuron and from elements of the presynaptic ensemble. The presynaptic cells themselves are mutually electrically coupled and convey both graded and spike signals to their common postsynaptic target. We elicited spikes in the postsynaptic neuron by voltage-clamping one of the presynaptic neurons to various holding potentials and then analyzed the time course of the holding current. Current transients in the clamped presynaptic cell were found to coincide with postsynaptic spikes. The current transients were highly variable in amplitude and occasionally absent during postsynaptic spiking. These characteristics indicate that the current transients in the voltage-clamped neuron result from spikes in electrically coupled co-members of the presynaptic ensemble. Our results suggest that electrical coupling among presynaptic neurons mediates synchronization of spikes within the cell ensemble. Moreover, our findings demonstrate that the graded response component of the presynaptic cells effectively controls the postsynaptic firing rate on a coarse scale while the precise timing of the postsynaptic spikes is a consequence of spikes superimposed on the graded signals of the presynaptic neurons.
Cell transplantation is a promising therapeutic approach that has the potential to replace damaged host striatal neurons and, thereby, slow down or even reverse clinical signs and symptoms during the otherwise fatal course of Huntington's disease (HD). Open-labeled clinical trials with fetal neural transplantation for HD have demonstrated long-term clinical benefits for HD patients. Here we report a postmortem analysis of an individual with HD 6 months after cell transplantation and demonstrate that cells derived from grafted fetal striatal tissue had developed into graft-derived neurons expressing dopamine-receptor related phosphoprotein (32 kDa) (DARPP-32), neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN), calretinin and somatostatin. However, a fully mature phenotype, considered by the expression of developmental markers, is not reached by engrafted neurons and not all types of interneurons are being replaced at 6 months, which is the earliest time point human fetal tissue being implanted in a human brain became available for histological analysis. Host-derived tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) fibers had already heavily innervated the transplants and formed synaptic contacts with graft-derived DARPP-32 positive striatal neurons. In parallel, the transplants contained a considerable number of immature neuroepithelial cells (doublecortin+, Sox2+, Prox-1+, ss3-tubulin+) that exhibited a pronounced migration into the surrounding host striatal tissue and considerable mitotic activity. Graft-derived astrocytes could also be found. Interestingly, the immunological host response in the grafted area showed localized increase of immunocompetent host cells within perivascular spaces without deleterious effects on engrafted cells under continuous triple immunosuppressive medication. Thus this study provides for a better understanding of the developmental processes of grafted human fetal striatal neurons in HD and, in addition, has implications for stem cell-based transplantation approaches in the CNS.
Functional imaging of the human brain is an increasingly important technique for clinical and cognitive neuroscience research, with functional MRI (fMRI) of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response and electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings of neural oscillations being 2 of the most popular approaches. However, the neural and physiological mechanisms that generate these responses are only partially understood and sources of interparticipant variability in these measures are rarely investigated. Here, we test the hypothesis that the properties of these neuroimaging metrics are related to individual levels of cortical inhibition by combining magnetic resonance spectroscopy to quantify resting GABA concentration in the visual cortex, MEG to measure stimulus-induced visual gamma oscillations and fMRI to measure the BOLD response to a simple visual grating stimulus. Our results demonstrate that across individuals gamma oscillation frequency is positively correlated with resting GABA concentration in visual cortex (R = 0.68; P &lt; 0.02), BOLD magnitude is inversely correlated with resting GABA (R = -0.64; P &lt; 0.05) and that gamma oscillation frequency is strongly inversely correlated with the magnitude of the BOLD response (R = -0.88; P &lt; 0.001). Our results are therefore supportive of recent theories suggesting that these functional neuroimaging metrics are dependent on the excitation/inhibition balance in an individual's cortex and have important implications for the interpretation of functional imaging results, particularly when making between-group comparisons in clinical research.


Flunitrazepam has been reported to trigger cases of extreme violence in man and recently it was shown to heighten aggression in experimental rats. The underlying mechanisms may involve disinhibited/impulsive behavior. Here, tolerance developed to the behavioral disinhibiting effect of flunitrazepam in Vogel's drinking conflict model, both in rats treated with flunitrazepam (0.32 mg/kg/day) for three weeks, as well as in rats treated for six weeks (0.32 mg/kg/day three weeks + 0.56 mg/kg/day three weeks). The results suggest that behavioral disinhibition is of limited importance in the mechanisms underlying the pro-aggressive effect of chronic flunitrazepam administration.
The present series of studies provide validation of a new paradigm that uniquely combines the assessment of the propensity to engage in social investigation with measures of (nonsocial) exploratory activity in rats. Assessment of this social investigation paradigm indicated that (a) rats showed a robust preference for social investigation over nonsocial exploratory activity, (b) female rats showed a greater preference for social investigation than male rats, (c) no signs of habituation in these responses were observed when rats were tested once daily for 4 consecutive days, (d) the preference for social investigation was stable and robust in both the dark and light periods of the daily light cycle for 5 consecutive days, and (e) testing under bright light conditions suppressed social investigation. In addition, acute administration of opiate drugs, low dose morphine (1.0 mg/kg) and naltrexone (1.0 mg/kg) produced a more robust attenuation of social investigation than nonsocial exploratory activity. Amphetamine increased both forms of investigation and haloperidol had the opposite effect, but the overall preference for social investigation over exploratory activity remained largely intact after both amphetamine and haloperidol injection. Together, these findings validate the use of this behavioral task to assess changes in social-motivation and general exploratory activity. Importantly, the task is bi-directionally sensitive to subject characteristics (i.e., sex), drug manipulations which modulate social motivation, and environmental manipulations.
The FGL peptide is a neural cell adhesion molecule-derived fibroblast growth factor receptor agonist. FGL has both neurotrophic and memory enhancing properties. Neonatal phencyclidine (PCP) treatment on postnatal days 7, 9, and 11 has been shown to result in long-lasting behavioral abnormalities, including cognitive impairment relevant to schizophrenia. The present study investigated the effect of FGL on spatial learning and memory deficits induced by neonatal PCP treatment. Rat pups were treated with 30 mg/kg PCP on postnatal days 7, 9, and 11. Additionally, the rats were subjected to a chronic FGL treatment regimen where FGL was administered throughout development. Rats were tested as adults for spatial reference memory, reversal learning, and working memory in the Morris water maze. The PCP-treated rats demonstrated a robust impairment in working memory and reversal learning. However, the long-term memory component of the reference memory task was not affected by PCP. Chronic FGL treatment had no effect on the reversal learning impairment but ameliorated the working memory deficits almost to the levels of the control groups. In conclusion, the results suggest that the neonatal PCP treatment produced deficits in cognition relevant to schizophrenia. Moreover, working memory function was selectively protected by the neurotrophic peptide, FGL.
Functional sensorimotor recovery after transplantation of mesencephalic dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons has been well documented in the rat 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of Parkinson's disease. However, the functional restoration of more specific gait-related patterns such as skilled walking, balance, and individual limb movements have been insufficiently studied. The purpose of this study was to investigate the behavioural effects of intrastriatal DA grafts on different aspects of normal and skilled walking in rats following unilateral 6-OHDA lesions of the medial forebrain bundle. Rats were subjected to drug-induced rotation, detailed footprint analysis, and assessment of skilled walking in the ladder rung walking test prior and after the transplantation of E14 ventral mesencephalon-derived progenitor cells. Good DAergic graft survival, as revealed by immunohistochemistry, was accompanied by a compensation of drug-induced rotational asymmetries. Interestingly, the analysis of walking patterns displayed a heterogeneous graft-induced response in skilled and non-skilled limb use. Grafted animals made fewer errors with their contralateral limbs in skilled walking than the sham-transplanted rats, and they improved their ipsi- and contralateral limb rotation. However, the parameter distance between feet showed a delayed recovery, and the stride length was not affected by the DA grafts at all. These findings indicate that ectopic intrastriatal transplantation of E14 ventral mesencephalon-derived cells promotes recovery of gait balance and stability, but does not ameliorate the shuffling gait pattern associated with 6-OHDA lesions. A full restoration of locomotor gait pattern might require a more complete and organotypic reconstruction of the mesotelencephalic DAergic pathway.
Female zebra finches display a preference for songs of males raised with tutors compared to those from males without tutors. To determine how this behavioral preference may be mediated by auditory perception sites, the social behavior network, and the dopamine reward system, and whether responses of these regions are affected by estradiol, females were treated with hormone or blank implants. An auditory choice test was conducted followed by exposure to tutored or untutored song or silence to examine induction of the immediate early gene, ZENK. Birds spent significantly more time near tutored than untutored song, regardless of estrogen treatment, and estradiol significantly decreased the density of ZENK immunoreactive neurons within the ventromedial hypothalamus. These results suggest that selective neural and behavioral responses can be induced by both high quality vocalizations and estradiol, although they are not necessarily correlated.
Chronic anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) treatment during adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Serotonin (5-HT) modulates aggressive behavior and has been shown to be altered after chronic treatment with AAS. Furthermore, 5-HT type 2 receptors have been implicated in the control of aggression. For example, treatment with 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists suppress the generation of the offensive aggressive phenotype. However, it is unclear whether these receptors are sensitive to adolescent AAS exposure. The current study assessed whether treatment with AAS throughout adolescence influenced the immunohistochemical localization of 5-HT(2A) in areas of the hamster brain implicated in the control of aggression. Hamsters were administered AAS (5.0 mg/kg) each day throughout adolescence, scored for offensive aggression, and then examined for differences in 5-HT(2A)-immunoreactivity (5-HT(2A)-ir). When compared with non-aggressive oil-treated controls, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters showed significant increases in 5-HT(2A)-ir fibers in the lateral portion of the anterior hypothalamus (LAH). Further analysis revealed that AAS treatment also produced a significant increase in the number of cells expressing 5-HT(2A)-ir in the LAH. Together, these results support a role for altered 5-HT(2A) expression and further implicate the LAH as a central brain region important in the control of adolescent AAS-induced offensive aggression.
We propose cost-effective protocols for preparing and resolving the PulseNet universal DNA size standard in contour-clamped homogeneous electric field (CHEF) minichambers. Intact DNA molecules were prepared with protease-free solutions, and electrophoresis separations of the DNA standards needed 5.5h, giving band pattern resolutions similar to those attained with the PulseNet protocols standardized in CHEF chambers.
Schizophrenia, a severe brain disorder that involves hallucinations, disordered thinking and deficiencies in cognition, has been studied for decades in order to determine the early events that lead to this neurological disorder. In this review, we interpret the developmental and genetic models that have been proposed and treatment options associated with these models. Schizophrenia was initially thought to be hereditary based on studies of high incidence in certain families. Additionally, studies on specific genes such as ZDHHC8 and DTNBP1 seem to suggest susceptibility to the onset of this disorder. However, no single gene variation has been linked to schizophrenia, and recent evidence on sporadic cases of schizophrenia refutes genetics as being a singular cause of the disease. In addition, current data suggests neurodevelopmental or environmental causes such as viral infections and prenatal/perinatal complications. Before any brain disorder can be understood, however, multiple cognitive neuroscientific models that accommodate evidence from many biomedical research fields should be considered, and unfortunately, many of these models are in the earliest stages of development. Consequently, it makes us question whether we are any closer to an adequate understanding of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Neuronal axons are guided by attractive and repulsive cues in their local environment. Since the identification of the repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) a (RGMa) as an axon repellent in the visual system, diverse functions, as part of the developing and adult central nervous system (CNS), have been ascribed to it. The binding of RGMa to its receptor neogenin has been shown to induce RhoA activation, leading to inhibitory/repulsive behavior and the collapse of the neuronal growth cone. In this paper, we provide evidence to suggest the involvement of RGMb, another member of the RGM family, in the rat CNS. RGMb inhibits neurite outgrowth in postnatal cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) in vitro. RGMb is expressed by oligodendrocytes and neurons in the adult rat CNS, and the expression of this molecule is upregulated around the site of spinal cord injury. RGMb is present in myelin isolated from an adult rat brain. RGMb and neogenin are coexpressed in CGNs and entorhinal cortex neurons. These findings suggest that RGMb is a myelin-derived inhibitor of axon growth in the CNS. Inhibition of RGMb may provide an alternative approach for the treatment of spinal injuries.








A series of N-((2S,3R)-1-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-3-hydroxy-4-(3-methoxybenzylamino)-butan-2-yl)benzamides has been synthesized as BACE inhibitors. A variety of P2 and P3 substituents has been explored, and these efforts have culminated in the identification of several 1,3,5-trisubstituted phenylcarboxyamides with potent BACE inhibitory activity.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are posttranscriptional modulators of gene expression and play an important role in many developmental processes. We report here that expression of microRNA-145 (miR-145) is low in self-renewing human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) but highly upregulated during differentiation. We identify the pluripotency factors OCT4, SOX2, and KLF4 as direct targets of miR-145 and show that endogenous miR-145 represses the 3' untranslated regions of OCT4, SOX2, and KLF4. Increased miR-145 expression inhibits hESC self-renewal, represses expression of pluripotency genes, and induces lineage-restricted differentiation. Loss of miR-145 impairs differentiation and elevates OCT4, SOX2, and KLF4. Furthermore, we find that the miR-145 promoter is bound and repressed by OCT4 in hESCs. This work reveals a direct link between the core reprogramming factors and miR-145 and uncovers a double-negative feedback loop involving OCT4, SOX2, KLF4, and miR-145.
The neuron-specific K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 maintains the low intracellular chloride concentration required for the fast hyperpolarizing actions of inhibitory neurotransmitters. The KCC2 gene codes for two isoforms, KCC2a and KCC2b, which differ in their N termini. The relative expression and cellular distribution of the two KCC2 protein isoforms are unknown. Here, we characterize an antibody against the KCC2a isoform and show that a previously described antibody against KCC2 is specific for the KCC2b isoform (Hubner, C. A., Stein, V., Hermans-Borgmeyer, I., Meyer, T., Ballanyi, K., and Jentsch, T. J. (2001) Neuron 30, 515-524). Immunostaining of dissociated hippocampal cultures confirms that both KCC2 isoforms are neuron-specific. Immunoblot analysis indicates that KCC2b is the major KCC2 isoform in the adult brain, whereas in the neonatal mouse central nervous system, half of total KCC2 protein is KCC2a. At this stage, the two KCC2 isoforms are largely colocalized and show similar patterns of distribution in the brain. When coexpressed in HEK293 cells, KCC2a and KCC2b proteins form heteromeric complexes. Moreover, the two isoforms can be coimmunoprecipitated from the neonatal brain, suggesting the presence of endogenous KCC2a-KCC2b heteromers. Consistent with this, native gel analysis shows that a substantial part of endogenous KCC2 isoforms in the neonatal brain constitute dimers.
The Ca(2+) release-activated Ca(2+) channel is a principal regulator of intracellular Ca(2+) rise, which conducts various biological functions, including immune responses. This channel, involved in store-operated Ca(2+) influx, is believed to be composed of at least two major components. Orai1 has a putative channel pore and locates in the plasma membrane, and STIM1 is a sensor for luminal Ca(2+) store depletion in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Here we have purified the FLAG-fused Orai1 protein, determined its tetrameric stoichiometry, and reconstructed its three-dimensional structure at 21-A resolution from 3681 automatically selected particle images, taken with an electron microscope. This first structural depiction of a member of the Orai family shows an elongated teardrop-shape 150A in height and 95A in width. Antibody decoration and volume estimation from the amino acid sequence indicate that the widest transmembrane domain is located between the round extracellular domain and the tapered cytoplasmic domain. The cytoplasmic length of 100A is sufficient for direct association with STIM1. Orifices close to the extracellular and intracellular membrane surfaces of Orai1 seem to connect outside the molecule to large internal cavities.
Mitochondrial dysregulation is strongly implicated in Parkinson disease. Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) are associated with familial parkinsonism and neuropsychiatric disorders. Although overexpressed PINK1 is neuroprotective, less is known about neuronal responses to loss of PINK1 function. We found that stable knockdown of PINK1 induced mitochondrial fragmentation and autophagy in SH-SY5Y cells, which was reversed by the reintroduction of an RNA interference (RNAi)-resistant plasmid for PINK1. Moreover, stable or transient overexpression of wild-type PINK1 increased mitochondrial interconnectivity and suppressed toxin-induced autophagy/mitophagy. Mitochondrial oxidant production played an essential role in triggering mitochondrial fragmentation and autophagy in PINK1 shRNA lines. Autophagy/mitophagy served a protective role in limiting cell death, and overexpressing Parkin further enhanced this protective mitophagic response. The dominant negative Drp1 mutant inhibited both fission and mitophagy in PINK1-deficient cells. Interestingly, RNAi knockdown of autophagy proteins Atg7 and LC3/Atg8 also decreased mitochondrial fragmentation without affecting oxidative stress, suggesting active involvement of autophagy in morphologic remodeling of mitochondria for clearance. To summarize, loss of PINK1 function elicits oxidative stress and mitochondrial turnover coordinated by the autophagic and fission/fusion machineries. Furthermore, PINK1 and Parkin may cooperate through different mechanisms to maintain mitochondrial homeostasis.

A device to facilitate high-density seeding of dissociated neural cells on planar multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) is presented in this paper. The device comprises a metal cover with two concentric cylinders-the outer cylinder fits tightly on to the external diameter of a MEA to hold it in place and an inner cylinder holds a central glass tube for introducing a cell suspension over the electrode area of the MEA. An O-ring is placed at the bottom of the inner cylinder and the glass tube to provide a fluid-tight seal between the glass tube and the MEA electrode surface. The volume of cell suspension in the glass tube is varied according to the desired plating density. After plating, the device can be lifted from the MEA without leaving any residue on the contact surface. The device has enabled us to increase and control the plating density of neural cell suspension with low viability, and to prepare successful primary cultures from cryopreserved neurons and glia. The cultures of cryopreserved dissociated cortical neurons that we have grown in this manner remained spontaneously active over months, exhibited stable development and similar network characteristics as reported by other researchers.
Laser interferometry is the technique of choice for studying the smallest displacements of the hearing organ. For low intensity sound stimulation, these displacements may be below 1 nm. This cannot be reliably measured with other presently available techniques in an intact organ of Corti. In a heterodyne interferometer, light is projected against an object of study and motion of the target along the optical axis causes phase and frequency modulations of the back-reflected light. To recover object motion, the reflected light is made to interfere with a reference beam of artificially altered frequency, producing a beating signal. In conventional interferometers, this carrier signal is demodulated with analog electronics. In this paper, we describe a digital implementation of the technique, using direct carrier sampling. In order to obtain the necessary reference signal for demodulation we introduce an additional third light path. Together, this results in lower noise and reduces the cost of the system. Within the hearing organ, different structures may move in different directions. It is therefore necessary to precisely measure the angle of incidence of the laser light, and to precisely localize the anatomical structure where the measurement is performed. Therefore, the interferometer is integrated with a laser scanning confocal microscope that permits us to map crucial morphometric parameters in each experiment. We provide key construction parameters and a detailed performance characterization. We also show that the system accurately measures the diminutive vibrations present in the apical turn of the cochlea during low-level sound stimulation.
Understanding the neural bases for grip force behaviors in both normal and neurologically impaired animals is imperative prior to improving treatments and therapeutic approaches. The present paper describes a novel device for the assessment of power grip forces in squirrel monkeys. The control of grasping and object manipulation represents a vital aspect of daily living by allowing the performance of a wide variety of complex hand movements. However, following neurological injury such as stroke, these grasping behaviors are often severely affected, resulting in persistent impairments in strength, grip force modulation and kinematic hand control. While there is a significant clinical focus on rehabilitative strategies to address these issues, there exists the need for translational animal models. In the study presented here, we describe a simple grip force device designed for use in non-human primates, which provides detailed quantitative information regarding distal grip force dynamics. Adult squirrel monkeys were trained to exceed a specific grip force threshold, which was rewarded with a food pellet. One of these subjects then received an infarct of the M1 hand representation area. Results suggest that the device provides detailed and reliable information on grip behaviors in healthy monkeys and can detect deficits in grip dynamics in monkeys with cortical lesions (significantly longer release times). Understanding the physiological and neuroanatomical aspects of grasping function following neurological injury may lead to more effective rehabilitative interventions.
We developed a method that uses Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) for transcranial optogenetic stimulation. This method is based on scanning a light beam over the brain, thereby photostimulating ChR2-expressing neurons in intact mice. As a proof of principle, we applied this technique to the motor cortex of transgenic mice expressing ChR2 in cortical pyramidal cells. Photostimulation induced limb movements that were time-locked with millisecond precision and could be induced at frequencies up to 20 Hz. By scanning this light beam, we could map the distribution of neurons associated with limb movement. With this approach we could simultaneously define motor maps controlling two limbs and could reproducibly generate such cortical motor maps over periods of weeks. This method allows non-invasive mapping of brain circuitry in living animals and could help define the connection between behavior and brain circuitry.
When humans manipulate an object, the minimal grip force (GF) required to avoid slipping depends on the frictional properties between the fingers and the object. As a consequence, fingertip skin friction plays a critical role during object manipulation. Here, the effects of the normal force and moisture content on the skin's static coefficient of friction (CF) for human fingertips were studied. Ten subjects were asked to pinch an object with a given normal force. Slippage of the object on the fingertips was generated for different ranges of normal force using a linear translation stage. The exerted forces and moisture of the fingertips were then measured, and the static coefficient of friction was calculated as the ratio between the tangential force and normal force at slippage. These results demonstrate that the effects of the normal force and moisture content on the CF exhibit a complex interaction. For a given moisture condition, the CF varies as a power function of the normal force; in contrast, for a given normal force, the CF is described by a &quot;bell-shaped&quot; function of moisture. A global expression of the CF as a function of the normal force and moisture content is derived, and a method is proposed for a continuous measure of the CF. This new method shall be of particular interest in investigating dexterous manipulation.
Measurement of the blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) response with fMRI has revolutionized cognitive neuroscience and is increasingly important in clinical care. The BOLD response reflects changes in deoxy-hemoglobin concentration, blood volume, and blood flow. These hemodynamic changes ultimately result from neuronal firing and synaptic activity, but the linkage between these domains is complex, poorly understood, and may differ across species, cortical areas, diseases, and cognitive states. We describe here a technique that can measure neural and hemodynamic changes simultaneously from cortical microdomains in waking humans. We utilize a &quot;laminar optode,&quot; a linear array of microelectrodes for electrophysiological measures paired with a micro-optical device for hemodynamic measurements. Optical measurements include laser Doppler to estimate cerebral blood flow as well as point spectroscopy to estimate oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin concentrations. The microelectrode array records local field potential gradients (PG) and multi-unit activity (MUA) at 24 locations spanning the cortical depth, permitting estimation of population trans-membrane current flows (Current Source Density, CSD) and population cell firing in each cortical lamina. Comparison of the laminar CSD/MUA profile with the origins and terminations of cortical circuits allows activity in specific neuronal circuits to be inferred and then directly compared to hemodynamics. Access is obtained in epileptic patients during diagnostic evaluation for surgical therapy. Validation tests with relatively well-understood manipulations (EKG, breath-holding, cortical electrical stimulation) demonstrate the expected responses. This device can provide a new and robust means for obtaining detailed, quantitative data for defining neurovascular coupling in awake humans.
Simultaneous acquisition of in vivo electrophysiological and neurochemical information is essential for understanding how endogenous neurochemicals modulate the dynamics of brain activity. However, up to now such a task has rarely been accomplished due to the major technical challenge of operating two independent recording systems simultaneously in real-time. Here we propose a simpler solution for achieving this goal by using only a standard electrochemical technique--amperometry. To demonstrate its feasibility, we compared amperometric signals with simultaneously recorded local field potential (LFP) signals. We found that the high frequency component (HFC) of the amperometric signals did not reflect neurochemical fluctuations, but instead it resembled LFPs in several aspects, including: (1) coherent spectral fluctuations; (2) clear characterization of different brain states; (3) identical hippocampal theta depth profile. As such, our findings provide the first demonstration that both LFP and local neurochemical information can be simultaneously acquired from electrochemical sensors alone.


Due to time and resource constraints, small samples (N=3-7 cases per group) are often used in neurobiological studies that employ multiple techniques. In a simulation study, five statistical tests were used to compare two small samples (treated and control) with an unstable, additive baseline. These five tests differed in the way that they used the baseline variable (B) to adjust or normalize the variable affected by the treatment (Y). We conclude that, if N=3 or 4, the independent t-test on Y-B tends to have the highest power; if N&gt; or =7, ANCOVA on Y with B as the covariate tends to have the highest power; and both tests have comparably high power if N=5 or 6. The Wilcoxon rank-sum test (or, equivalently, the Mann-Whitney test) has precisely zero power if one group has 3 cases and the other has 3 or 4 cases. Some other problems of small-sample analysis are considered.
This study addressed the question of whether radioactive hybridization signal intensities are reduced in combined isotopic and non-isotopic double in situ hybridization (DISH) compared with those in single in situ hybridization (ISH). Non-isotopic digoxigenin (Dig)-labeled hybrids were detected using an alkaline phosphatase (AP) enzymatic reaction which results in nitroblue tetrazolium chloride (NBT)/5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate (BCIP)-salt precipitation that could shield S35-radiation from penetrating to the surface. Sections were plastic coated of with 2% parlodion to prevent a chemical reaction between AP and developer during processing of the photosensitive emulsion, which could further reduce radioactive hybridization signal detection by autoradiography. We used DISH with a hybridization cocktail of radioactive S35- and Dig-labeled GAD67 cRNA probes. In order to avoid competition for the same complementary sequence, the probes were directed towards different sequences of the glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) mRNA, resulting in co-detection of isotopic and non-isotopic hybrids in close to 100% of GAD67 positive cells. Quantitation of autoradiograms showed that there was no reduction of autoradiographic signal intensity from S35-labeled hybrids in the presence of Dig-labeled hybrids. Plastic coating of single or dual hybridized sections did not reduce the radioactive signal intensity. When mRNAs for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits were detected with subunit specific S35-labeled cRNA probes in GAD67 hippocampal interneurons the total numbers of nAChR subunit expressing cells remained the same in single or double hybridized sections even for low abundant mRNAs. Together, these results indicate that combined radioactive and non-radioactive DISH does not interfere with the detection of the radiation signal from the S35-labeled hybrids, and neither specificity nor sensitivity is compromised.
Schwann cells (SCs) and olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) have both been used as cellular transplants to promote spinal cord repair. Both cell types support axonal regeneration and have beneficial effects on functional recovery. A significant difference between SCs and OEG is the effect of these cell types on astrocytes (ACs) present in the neural scar. In contrast to OEG, which associate and intermingle with ACs, SCs and ACs form separate cellular territories. Here, we show that OEG and SCs also interact differently with meningeal cells (MCs), another major cellular component of the neural scar. Whereas OEG intermingle with MCs in cocultures, SCs aggregate into well-defined cell clusters. Our data suggest that (a) soluble factor(s) as well as direct cellular contact are involved in the MC-induced SC clustering. Furthermore, the cluster formation of SCs in coculture with MCs is different from the previously reported segregation of SCs and ACs in coculture. The present results help to understand the differential behavior of both cell types after transplantation in the injured spinal cord and will be important to either determine which cell has optimal capacities to render the scar more permissive for regeneration, or to exploit the transplantation of both cell types in combination.
Nucleotides and nucleosides are known to function as neurotransmitters and neuromodulators but have recently been shown to have a trophic effect on neurons. It has previously been shown, in an animal model for cochlear implants, that local infusion of neurotrophic factors intervenes with the degenerative processes occurring after deafening and protects the auditory spiral ganglion neurons so that electrical responsiveness is maintained. Here we test the hypothesis that nucleosides and nucleotides have a similar effect on the acutely damaged inner ear. Pigmented guinea pigs received a cochlear implant electrode for measuring electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses and a miniosmotic pump for delivering drugs directly to the cochlea. The animals were deafened by a 48-hr infusion with 10% neomycin, followed by 23 days of treatment with primarily UTP, uridine nucleotides, or as control artificial perilymph. Electrically evoked responses were measured weekly, and at the end of the experiment the cochleae were collected and processed for morphological analysis and spiral ganglion neuron counting. Both UTP- and uridine-treated groups showed significantly better response after 23 days of treatment compared with the control group. The densities of spiral ganglion neuron were significantly higher for both treated groups compared with the control group treated with artificial perilymph. The results demonstrate that UTP and uridine rescue auditory neurons and suggest that drugs acting on purinoceptors could be of clinical importance.
The modest capacity of endogenous repair processes in the central nervous system (CNS) justifies the broad interest in the development of effective stem cell based therapies for neurodegenerative disorders and other acute or chronic lesions. Motivated by the ambitious expectation to achieve functional neuronal replacement, several studies have already evidenced a potential benefit of stem cell grafts in animal models of human disorders. Nevertheless, growing evidence suggests that the effects orchestrated by stem cells, in most experimental cases, are not necessarily associated with the generation of new neurons. This hypothesis correlates with the versatile properties of adult and embryonic stem cells. When introduced into the lesioned CNS, nondifferentiated stem cells can have a positive influence through intrinsic neuroprotective capacities related to the production of neurotrophic factors, stimulation of endogenous neurogenesis, and modulation of neuroinflammation. Stem cells are also endowed with a multipotent differentiation profile, suggesting that a positive outcome could result from the replacement of nonneuronal cell types, in particular astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Focusing on adult stem cells, this Review aims at summarizing experimental observations supporting the concept that, in cell-based therapies, stem cells operate not through a unidirectional mechanism (e.g., generating neurons) but rather as cellular mediators of a multitude of biological activities that could provide a favorable outcome for diverse nervous disorders.
Cerebrovascular research suffers from a lack of reliable methods with which to deliver exogenous substances effectively into the central nervous system (CNS) of small experimental animals. Here we describe a novel vessel microport surgical technique for a variety of cerebrovascular applications that is reproducible and well tolerated in mice. The procedure is based on the insertion of a vessel microport into the external carotid artery for substance delivery into the CNS via the internal carotid artery. The method results in selective substance delivery into the ipsilateral hemisphere. Other novel aspects of this surgical technique include the ability to perform multiple injections, study of conscious mice well removed from surgery, and lack of occlusion of the common or internal carotid artery that allows carotid flow to be maintained. The feasibility of this technique has been validated by infusion of HIV Tat protein to induce permeability of the blood-brain barrier and by implantation of tumor cells to establish a brain metastasis model. Thus, the described vessel microport technique can be employed in a variety of cerebrovascular research applications.
Clinical and experimental studies implicate the use of serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor agonists for the reduction of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID). Although raphe nuclei likely play a role in these antidyskinetic effects, an unexplored population of striatal 5-HT1A receptors (5-HT1AR) may also contribute. To better characterize this mechanism, L-DOPA-primed hemiparkinsonian rats received the 5-HT1AR agonist +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 0.1, 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) with or without cotreatment with the 5-HT1AR antagonist WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min after L-DOPA, after which abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), rotations, and forelimb akinesia were quantified. To establish the effects of 5-HT1AR stimulation on L-DOPA-induced c-fos and preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA within the dopamine-depleted striatum, immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, respectively, were used. Finally, to determine the contribution of striatal 5-HT1AR to these effects, L-DOPA-primed hemiparkinsonian rats received bilateral intrastriatal microinfusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 5, or 10 microg/side), WAY100635 (5 microg/side), or both (10 microg + 5 microg/side) 5 min after L-DOPA, after which AIMs and rotations were examined. Systemic +/-8-OH-DPAT dose- and receptor-dependently attenuated L-DOPA-mediated AIMs and improved forelimb akinesia. Striatal c-fos immunoreactivity and PPD mRNA ipsilateral to the lesion were strongly induced by L-DOPA, while +/-8-OH-DPAT suppressed these effects. Finally, intrastriatal infusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT reduced AIMs while coinfusion of WAY100635 reversed its antidyskinetic effect. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that the cellular and behavioral properties of 5-HT1AR agonists are conveyed in part via a population of functional 5-HT1AR within the striatum.
Herein we report the first room temperature Heck reaction of aryl bromides and CH(2)=C(NHP)CO(2)Me (P = Boc or CBz) to form ArCH=C(NHP)CO(2)Me, which are then used for the asymmetric syntheses of alpha-amino acids. We also report the first syntheses of ArCH=C(OCOAr(1))CO(2)Me (Ar(1) = Ph, 4-Cl-Ph) from ArBr and CH(2)=C(OCOAr(1))CO(2)Me by the Heck reaction and subsequent successful asymmetric hydrogenation to afford alpha-hydroxyl esters in excellent chemical yields and good-to-excellent enantioselectivities.
As a major inhibitory neurotransmitter, GABA plays a vital role in the brain by controlling the extent of neuronal excitation. This widespread role is reflected by the ubiquitous distribution of GABA(A) receptors throughout the central nervous system. To regulate the level of neuronal inhibition requires some endogenous control over the release of GABA and/or its postsynaptic response. In this context, Ca(2+) ions are often used as primary or secondary messengers frequently resulting in the activation of protein kinases and phosphatases. One such kinase, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), can target the GABA(A) receptor to cause its phosphorylation. Evidence is now emerging, which is reviewed here, that GABA(A) receptors are indeed substrates for CaMKII and that this covalent modification alters the expression of cell surface receptors and their function. This type of regulation can also feature at inhibitory synapses leading to long-term inhibitory synaptic plasticity. Most recently, CaMKII has now been proposed to differentially phosphorylate particular isoforms of GABA(A) receptors in a synapse-specific context.
Camptocormia becomes increasingly recognized as a disabling symptom associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). We here report six patients with advanced PD in whom continuous bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus produced substantial (mean 78% +/- 9.1% of the thoracolumbar angle) improvement of camptocormia along with other motor symptoms.
In this article, we review the state of the art knowledge concerning structural and functional imaging in multiple system atrophy (MSA). The relative value of imaging modalities in the differential diagnosis of MSA from other parkinsonian syndromes is debated. It is concluded that, although neuroimaging biomarkers provide valuable supportive data alongside clinical assessments, it is not possible to use them as surrogate markers.
We investigated the effect of age and health variables known to modulate cognitive aging on several measures of cognitive performance and brain volume in a cohort of healthy, non-demented persons of Chinese descent aged between 55 and 86 years. 248 subjects contributed combined neuropsychological, MR imaging, health and socio-demographic information. Speed of processing showed the largest age-related decline. Education and plasma homocysteine levels modulated age-related decline in cognitive performance. Total cerebral volume declined at an annual rate of 0.4%/yr. Gray and white matter volume loss was comparable in magnitude. Regionally, there was relatively greater volume loss in the lateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally, around the primary visual cortex as well as bilateral superior parietal cortices. Speed of processing showed significant positive correlation with gray matter volume in several frontal, parietal and midline occipital regions bilaterally. In spite of differences in diet, lifestyle and culture, these findings are broadly comparable to studies conducted in Caucasian populations and suggest generalizability of processes involved in age-related decline in cognition and brain volume.
The functional organization of the cerebellum is reflected in large part by the unique afferent and efferent connectivity of the individual cerebellar lobules. This functional diversity on a relatively small spatial scale makes accurate localization methods for human functional imaging and anatomical patient-based research indispensable. Here we present a probabilistic atlas of the cerebellar lobules in the anatomical space defined by the MNI152 template. We separately masked the lobules on T1-weighted MRI scans (1 mm isotropic resolution) of 20 healthy young participants (10 male, 10 female, average age 23.7 yrs). These cerebella were then aligned to the standard or non-linear version of the whole-brain MNI152 template using a number of commonly used normalization algorithms, or to a previously published cerebellum-only template (Diedrichsen, J., 2006. A spatially unbiased atlas template of the human cerebellum. NeuroImage 33, 127-138.). The resulting average overlap was higher for the cerebellum-only template than for any of the whole-brain normalization methods. The probabilistic maps allow for the valid assignment of functional activations to specific cerebellar lobules, while providing a quantitative measure of the uncertainty of such assignments. Furthermore, maximum probability maps derived from these atlases can be used to define regions of interest (ROIs) in functional neuroimaging and neuroanatomical research. The atlas, made freely available online, is compatible with a number of widely used analysis packages.
Contemporary memory theories often distinguish between contextual recollection and acontextual familiarity as two fundamentally different types of recognition memory. It is currently unclear whether recollection and familiarity are supported by two correspondingly distinct retrieval mechanisms, or whether the same type of retrieval processing supports both phenomena. Electrophysiological findings in humans have widely been cited as support for the former, two-process position, in that late-onset parietal &quot;LPC&quot; potentials have been linked to recollection and earlier frontal &quot;FN400&quot; potentials to familiarity. However, recognition memory is generally studied using conceptually rich stimuli such as words, which leaves open an alternative interpretation that one or both of these electrophysiological signals reflect conceptual processing distinct from recollection and familiarity per se. We tested this hypothesis using conceptually impoverished kaleidoscope images, such that opportunities for conceptual processing were minimized. Recollection-based and familiarity-based recognition in a remember/know paradigm were both indexed by LPC potentials. Old/new amplitude differences were greater for recollection compared to familiarity. Despite ample familiarity-based recognition, FN400 old/new effects were not observed, consistent with the contention that these potentials index conceptual processing rather than familiarity. These results cast doubt on interpretations of prior electrophysiological evidence obtained using conceptually rich stimuli as dissociating neural mechanisms of recollection and familiarity. We also found that neural events during encoding differentially predicted later recollection versus later familiarity. Collectively, these findings suggest that the engagement of distinct encoding processes can preferentially lead to recollection or to familiarity even if one type of retrieval process is responsible for both memory expressions.
Much of what is known about the function of human rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC; lateral Brodmann area 10) has been pieced together from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies over the past decade. Christoff and colleagues previously reported on an fMRI localizer task involving relational integration that reliably engages RLPFC in individual participants (Smith, R., Keramatian, K., and Christoff, K. (2007). Localizing the rostrolateral prefrontal cortex at the individual level. NeuroImage, 36(4), 1387-1396). Here, we report on a modified version of this task that better controls for lower-level processing demands in the relational integration condition. Using identical stimulus arrays for our experimental and control conditions, we find that right RLPFC is sensitive to increasing relational processing demands, without being engaged specifically during relational integration. By contrast, left RLPFC is engaged only when participants must consider the higher-order relationship between two individual relations. We argue that the integration of disparate mental relations by left RLPFC is a fundamental process that supports higher-level cognition in humans.
The aim of this study is to determine whether children and adolescents with treatment-nave obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) present brain structure differences in comparison with healthy subjects, and to evaluate brain changes after treatment and clinical improvement. Initial and 6 months' follow-up evaluations were performed in 15 children and adolescents (age range=9-17 years, mean=13.7, S.D.=2.5; 8 male, 7 female) with DSM-IV OCD and 15 healthy subjects matched for age, sex and estimated intellectual level. An evaluation with psychopathological scales and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was carried out at admission and after 6 months' follow-up. Axial three-dimensional T1-weighted images were obtained in a 1.5 T scanner and analysed using optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and longitudinal VBM approaches. Compared with controls, OCD patients presented significantly less gray matter volume bilaterally in right and left parietal lobes and right parietal white matter (P=0.001 FWE corrected) at baseline evaluation. After 6 months of treatment, and with a clear clinical improvement, the differences between OCD patients and controls in the parietal lobes in gray and white matter were no longer statistically significant. During follow-up in the longitudinal study, an increase in gray matter volume in the right striatum of OCD patients was observed, though the difference was not statistically significant. Children and adolescents with untreated OCD present gray and white matter decreases in lateral parietal cortices, but this abnormality is reversible after clinical improvement.
The neural mechanisms supporting the ability to recognize and respond to fictive outcomes, outcomes of actions that one has not taken, remain obscure. We hypothesized that neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), which monitors the consequences of actions and mediates subsequent changes in behavior, would respond to fictive reward information. We recorded responses of single neurons during performance of a choice task that provided information about the reward values of options that were not chosen. We found that ACC neurons signal fictive reward information and use a coding scheme similar to that used to signal experienced outcomes. Thus, individual ACC neurons process both experienced and fictive rewards.

Precise wiring of the nervous system depends on coordinating the action of conserved families of proteins that direct axons to their appropriate targets. Slit-roundabout repulsion and netrin-deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) (frazzled) attraction must be tightly regulated to control midline axon guidance in vertebrates and invertebrates, but the mechanism mediating this regulation is poorly defined. Here, we show that the Fra receptor has two genetically separable functions in regulating midline guidance in Drosophila. First, Fra mediates canonical chemoattraction in response to netrin, and, second, it functions independently of netrin to activate commissureless transcription, allowing attraction to be coupled to the down-regulation of repulsion in precrossing commissural axons.
Rapidly decoding the emotional content of a face is an important skill for successful social behavior. Several Event Related brain Potential (ERP) have indicated that emotional expressions already influence brain activity as early as 100 ms. Some studies hypothesized that this early brain response to fear depends on coarse-magnocellular inputs, which are primarily driven by Low Spatial Frequency (LSF) cues. Until now however, evidence is inconclusive probably due to the divergent methods used to match luminance and contrast across spatial frequencies and emotional stimuli. In the present study, we measured ERPs to LSF and HSF faces with fearful or neutral expressions when contrast and luminance was matched across SF or not. Our findings clearly show that fearful facial expressions increases the amplitude of P1 (only for contrast-luminance equated images) and N170 in comparison to neutral faces but only in LSF faces, irrespective of contrast or luminance equalization, further suggesting that LSF information plays a crucial role in the early brain responses to fear. Furthermore, we found that, irrespective of luminance or contrast equalization, N170 occurred faster when perceiving LSF faces than HSF faces, again emphasizing the primacy of LSF processing in early face perception.
Neocortical assemblies produce complex activity patterns both in response to sensory stimuli and spontaneously without sensory input. To investigate the structure of these patterns, we recorded from populations of 40-100 neurons in auditory and somatosensory cortices of anesthetized and awake rats using silicon microelectrodes. Population spike time patterns were broadly conserved across multiple sensory stimuli and spontaneous events. Although individual neurons showed timing variations between stimuli, these were not sufficient to disturb a generally conserved sequential organization observed at the population level, lasting for approximately 100 ms with spiking reliability decaying progressively after event onset. Preserved constraints were also seen in population firing rate vectors, with vectors evoked by individual stimuli occupying subspaces of a larger but still constrained space outlined by the set of spontaneous events. These results suggest that population spike patterns are drawn from a limited &quot;vocabulary,&quot; sampled widely by spontaneous events but more narrowly by sensory responses.
Inferior olive neurons regulate plasticity and timing in the cerebellar cortex via the climbing fiber pathway, but direct characterization of the output of this nucleus has remained elusive. We show that single somatic action potentials in olivary neurons are translated into a burst of axonal spikes. The number of spikes in the burst depends on the phase of subthreshold oscillations and, therefore, encodes the state of the olivary network. These bursts can be successfully transmitted to the cerebellar cortex in vivo, having a significant impact on Purkinje cells. They enhance dendritic spikes, modulate the complex spike pattern, and promote short-term and long-term plasticity at parallel fiber synapses in a manner dependent on the number of spikes in the burst. Our results challenge the view that the climbing fiber conveys an all-or-none signal to the cerebellar cortex and help to link learning and timing theories of olivocerebellar function.
The variability of neuronal responses is proportional to the mean in many brain areas, which suggests that neural responses might follow a Poisson distribution. In this issue of Neuron, Maimon and Assad document a surprising violation of Poisson firing. Specifically, they show that there are differences in the amount of periodic structure in spike trains across cortical areas, with multimodal sensory areas being more regular than visual areas.
Recent evidence suggests that music perception, much alike language perception, involves the cognitive processing of concepts, that is abstract general ideas. In a previous study (Daltrozzo and Schn, Conceptual processing in music as revealed by N400 effects on words and musical targets. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, In Press), we reported the effect of the presentation of a musical excerpt (the context) on the perception of a word, while participants judged the conceptual relatedness between the two stimuli. Event-Related Potentials (ERPs) showed a N400 effect: a larger N400 to words judged unrelated to their context compared to related words. In the present experiment, we decided to test the influence of the relatedness task on the N400 effect by using a more implicit task: lexical decision. We recorded behavioral and ERP data while participants were presented 50 related and 50 unrelated pairs (excerpt context/word target). An N400 effect was again observed. However, the N400 effect found with a lexical decision was more than two times smaller than with a relatedness judgment task and was significant in a later latency range: 500 to 650 ms instead of 300 to 550 ms with a relatedness judgment. These differences are interpreted as reflecting the task-induced modulation of explicit (strategic) mechanisms involved in the N400 effect.
Human postmortem studies have demonstrated that fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) expression is decreased in the brain of depressed individuals. It remained unclear, however, whether this is a consequence of the illness or whether FGF2 plays a primary role in the control of mood and emotions. In this series of studies, we first ask whether endogenous FGF2 expression correlates with spontaneous anxiety, a trait associated with vulnerability to severe mood disorders in humans. This is tested in two genetically distinct groups of rats selectively bred to differ dramatically in their response to novelty and anxiety-provoking conditions (HRs = low anxiety/high response to novelty vs LRs = high anxiety/low response to novelty). We demonstrate that high-anxiety LRs have significantly lower levels of hippocampal FGF2 mRNA relative to low-anxiety HRs. We then demonstrate that FGF2 expression is modifiable by environmental factors that alter anxiety--thus, environmental complexity reduces anxiety behavior and induces FGF2 expression in hippocampus, particularly in high-anxiety LRs. Finally, we directly test the role of FGF2 as an anxiolytic and show that a 3 week treatment regimen of peripherally administered FGF2 is highly effective at blunting anxiety behavior, specifically in high-anxiety LRs. This treatment is accompanied by an increase in survival of adult-born hippocampal cells, both neurons and astrocytes, most clearly in LRs. These findings implicate hippocampal FGF2 as a central integrator of genetic and environmental factors that modify anxiety, point to hippocampal neurogenesis and gliogenesis as key in this modulation, and underscore FGF2's potential as a new target for treatment of depression and anxiety disorders.
Although both extrinsic and intrinsic factors have been identified that orchestrate the differentiation and maturation of oligodendrocytes, less is known about the intracellular signaling pathways that control the overall commitment to differentiate. Here, we provide evidence that activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is essential for oligodendrocyte differentiation. Specifically, mTOR regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation at the late progenitor to immature oligodendrocyte transition as assessed by the expression of stage specific antigens and myelin proteins including MBP and PLP. Furthermore, phosphorylation of mTOR on Ser 2448 correlates with myelination in the subcortical white matter of the developing brain. We demonstrate that mTOR exerts its effects on oligodendrocyte differentiation through two distinct signaling complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2, defined by the presence of the adaptor proteins raptor and rictor, respectively. Disrupting mTOR complex formation via siRNA mediated knockdown of raptor or rictor significantly reduced myelin protein expression in vitro. However, mTORC2 alone controlled myelin gene expression at the mRNA level, whereas mTORC1 influenced MBP expression via an alternative mechanism. In addition, investigation of mTORC1 and mTORC2 targets revealed differential phosphorylation during oligodendrocyte differentiation. In OPC-DRG cocultures, inhibiting mTOR potently abrogated oligodendrocyte differentiation and reduced numbers of myelin segments. These data support the hypothesis that mTOR regulates commitment to oligodendrocyte differentiation before myelination.
The retina can function under a variety of adaptation conditions and stimulus paradigms. To adapt to these various conditions, modifications in the phototransduction cascade and at the synaptic and network levels occur. In this paper, we focus on the properties and function of a gain control mechanism in the cone synapse. We show that horizontal cells, in addition to inhibiting cones via a &quot;lateral inhibitory pathway,&quot; also modulate the synaptic gain of the photoreceptor via a &quot;lateral gain control mechanism.&quot; The combination of lateral inhibition and lateral gain control generates a highly efficient transformation. Horizontal cells estimate the mean activity of cones. This mean activity is subtracted from the actual activity of the center cone and amplified by the lateral gain modulation system, ensuring that the deviation of the activity of a cone from the mean activity of the surrounding cones is transmitted to the inner retina with high fidelity. Sustained surround illumination leads to an enhancement of the responses of transient ON/OFF ganglion cells to a flickering center spot. Blocking feedback from horizontal cells not only blocks the lateral gain control mechanism in the outer retina, but it also blocks the surround enhancement in transient ON/OFF ganglion cells. This suggests that the effects of the outer retinal lateral gain control mechanism are visible in the responses of ganglion cells. Functionally speaking, this result illustrates that horizontal cells are not purely inhibitory neurons but have a role in response enhancement as well.
Strong unilateral contractions are accompanied by excitatory effects to the ipsilateral cortex. This activity can even result in overt contractions of muscles in the contralateral limb. We used this inadvertent, associated activity to study whether the cortical presentation of movements is organized in a directional-related or a muscle-related reference frame. We assessed the contralateral activation for the left index finger during a sustained maximal abduction of the right index finger. In the first experiment, both hands were held vertically in a symmetrical orientation, and in the second experiment the hands were in an asymmetrical orientation (left hand, palm downward; right hand, vertical). In both experiments, the direction of the contralateral associated contraction was upward, i.e., in the symmetrical hand orientation the contralateral force increased mainly in abduction direction, whereas in the asymmetrical hand orientation the contralateral force increased in the extension direction. Thus, the contralateral contractions reflected the direction of the target movement rather than simply the activity of the muscles activated on the target side. These observations provide strong evidence that motor commands are organized in an extrinsic, direction-related reference frame, as opposed to an internal muscle-related reference frame.
Central glutamatergic synapses may express AMPA-sensitive glutamate receptors (AMPA-Rs) with distinct gating properties and exhibit different transmission dynamics, which are important for computing various synaptic inputs received at different populations of synapses. However, how glutamatergic synapses acquire AMPA-Rs with distinct kinetics to influence synaptic integration remains poorly understood. Here I report synapse-specific trafficking of distinct AMPA-Rs in rat cortical layer 4 stellate and layer 5 pyramidal neurons. The analysis indicates that in single layer 4 stellate neurons thalamocortical synapses generate faster synaptic responses than intracortical synapses. Moreover, GluR1-containing AMPA-Rs traffic selectively into intracortical synapses, and this process requires sensory experience-dependent activity and slows down transmission kinetics. GluR4-containing AMPA-Rs traffic more heavily into thalamocortical synapses than intracortical synapses, and this process requires spontaneous synaptic activity and speeds up transmission kinetics. GluR2-containing AMPA-Rs traffic equally into both thalamocortical and intracortical synapses, and this process requires no synaptic activity and resets transmission kinetics. Notably, synaptic trafficking of distinct AMPA-Rs differentially regulates synaptic integration. Thus, synapse-specific AMPA-R trafficking coarsely sets and synaptic activity finely tunes transmission kinetics and integration properties at different synapses in central neurons.
Studies of naturally occurring mutant mice, wld(s), showing delayed Wallerian degeneration phenotype, suggest that axonal degeneration is an active process. We previously showed that increased nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-synthesizing activity by overexpression of nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) is the essential component of the Wld(s) protein, the expression of which is responsible for the delayed Wallerian degeneration phenotype in wld(s) mice. Indeed, NMNAT overexpression in cultured neurons provides robust protection to neurites, as well. To examine the effect of NMNAT overexpression in vivo and to analyze the mechanism that causes axonal protection, we generated transgenic mice (Tg) overexpressing NMNAT1 (nuclear isoform), NMNAT3 (mitochondrial isoform), or the Wld(s) protein bearing a W258A mutation, which disrupts NAD-synthesizing activity of the Wld(s) protein. Wallerian degeneration delay in NMNAT3-Tg was similar to that in wld(s) mice, whereas axonal protection in NMNAT1-Tg or Wld(s)(W258A)-Tg was not detectable. Detailed analysis of subcellular localization of the overexpressed proteins revealed that the axonal protection phenotype was correlated with localization of NMNAT enzymatic activity to mitochondrial matrix. Furthermore, we found that isolated mitochondria from mice showing axonal protection expressed unchanged levels of respiratory chain components, but were capable of increased ATP production. These results suggest that axonal protection by NMNAT expression in neurons is provided by modifying mitochondrial function. Alteration of mitochondrial function may constitute a novel tool for axonal protection, as well as a possible treatment of diseases involving axonopathy.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels (h channels) are the molecular basis for the current, I(h), which contributes crucially to intrinsic neuronal excitability. The subcellular localization and biophysical properties of h channels govern their function, but the mechanisms controlling these characteristics, and especially the potential role of auxiliary subunits or other binding proteins, remain unclear. We focused on TRIP8b, an h channel-interacting protein that colocalizes with HCN1 in cortical and hippocampal pyramidal neuron dendrites, and found that it exists in multiple alternative splice variants with distinct effects on h channel trafficking and function. The developmentally regulated splice variants of TRIP8b all shared dual, C terminus-located interaction sites with HCN1. When coexpressed with HCN1 in heterologous cells individual TRIP8b isoforms similarly modulated gating of I(h), causing a hyperpolarizing shift in voltage dependence of channel activation, but differentially upregulated or downregulated I(h) current density and HCN1 surface expression. In hippocampal neurons, coexpression of TRIP8b isoforms with HCN1 produced isoform-specific changes of HCN1 localization. Interestingly, the TRIP8b isoforms most abundant in the brain are those predicted to enhance h channel surface expression. Indeed, shRNA knockdown of TRIP8b in hippocampal neurons significantly reduced native I(h). Thus, although TRIP8b exists in multiple splice isoforms, our data suggest that the predominant role of this protein in brain is to promote h channel surface expression and enhance I(h). Because I(h) expression is altered in models of several diseases, including temporal lobe epilepsy, TRIP8b may play a role in both normal neuronal function and in aberrant neuronal excitability associated with neurological disease.
The corticospinal tract is a predominantly crossed pathway. Nevertheless, the primary motor cortex (M1) is activated bilaterally during unilateral movements and several animal studies showed that M1 has a bilateral motor representation. A better understanding of the uncrossed corticospinal system is especially important for elucidating its role in recovery of limb control after unilateral injury. We used intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) to determine the representation of contralateral and ipsilateral forelimb joints at single M1 sites in the rat. Most sites representing an ipsilateral joint corepresented the same joint contralaterally. We next determined whether ipsilateral responses evoked in one hemisphere depended on the function of M1 in the opposite hemisphere using reversible inactivation and pyramidal tract lesion. Ipsilateral responses were eliminated when the homotopic forelimb area of M1 in the opposite hemisphere was inactivated or when the pyramidal tract on the nonstimulated side was sectioned. To determine the role of transfer between M1 in each hemisphere we sectioned the corpus callosum, which produced a 33% increase in ipsilateral ICMS thresholds. Neither M1 inactivation nor callosal section changed contralateral response thresholds, indicating the absence of tonic excitatory or inhibitory drive to the opposite M1. Finally, ipsilateral responses following M1 inactivation and pyramidal tract lesion could be evoked after systemic administration of the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine, suggesting the presence of latent connections. Our findings show important interactions between the corticospinal systems from each side, especially at the spinal level. This has important implications for recruiting the ipsilateral corticospinal system after injury.
The perception of biological motion is subserved by both a global process that retrieves structural information and a local process that is sensitive to individual limb motions. Here, we present an experiment aimed to characterize these two mechanisms psychophysically. Naive observers were tested on one of two tasks. In a walker detection task designed to address global processing, observers were asked to discriminate coherent from scrambled walkers presented in separate intervals. In an alternate direction discrimination task designed to address primarily local processing, observers were asked to discriminate walking direction from both coherent and spatially scrambled displays. In both tasks, we investigated performance-specificity to human (versus non-human) motion and the effects of mask density and learning on task performance. Performance in the walker detection task was best for the human walker, was susceptible to learning, and was heavily hindered by increasing mask densities. In contrast, performance on the direction discrimination task, in particular for the scrambled walkers, was unaffected by walker type, did not show a learning trend, and was relatively robust to masking noise. These findings suggest that the visual system processes global and local information contained in biological motion via distinct neural mechanisms that have very different properties.


Multisensory information can be crucial, yet in many circumstances we have little, if any, awareness of the effects of multisensory inputs on what appear to be entirely unisensory perceptions. A recent study shows robust effects of auditory input on tactile frequency discriminations and that this auditory cross-sensory interference has specific tuning.


Human social cognition relies on an ability to predict what others will think, feel or do in novel situations. Research in social neuroscience has consistently observed several brain regions that contribute ubiquitously to these abilities, including medial prefrontal cortex and aspects of lateral and medial parietal cortex. Interestingly, parallel work has suggested that this same network of regions subserves several seemingly distinct phenomena-notably, the abilities to remember the past, imagine the future and visualize spatial layouts-suggesting the existence of a common set of cognitive processes devoted to projecting oneself into worlds that differ mentally, temporally or physically from one's current experience. This use of self-projection to understand others' minds requires perceivers to solve three distinct cognitive challenges: (i) generating a simulated facsimile of one's own hypothetical mental states in a given situation, (ii) suppressing one's own current mental states, and (iii) deciding on the appropriateness of simulated states for understanding a particular other person. The present paper reviews recent psychology and neuroscience research aimed at understanding the underlying mechanisms that allow humans to solve each of these cognitive challenges to use self-projection to predict and understand the mental states of others.
We propose that counterfactual representations for reasoning about the past or predicting the future depend on structured event complexes (SECs) in the human prefrontal cortex (PFC; 'What would happen if X were performed in the past or enacted in the future?'). We identify three major categories of counterfactual thought (concerning action versus inaction, the self versus other and upward versus downward thinking) and propose that each form of inference recruits SEC representations in distinct regions of the medial PFC. We develop a process model of the regulatory functions these representations serve and draw conclusions about the importance of SECs for explaining the past and predicting the future.
It is proposed that the human brain is proactive in that it continuously generates predictions that anticipate the relevant future. In this proposal, analogies are derived from elementary information that is extracted rapidly from the input, to link that input with the representations that exist in memory. Finding an analogical link results in the generation of focused predictions via associative activation of representations that are relevant to this analogy, in the given context. Predictions in complex circumstances, such as social interactions, combine multiple analogies. Such predictions need not be created afresh in new situations, but rather rely on existing scripts in memory, which are the result of real as well as of previously imagined experiences. This cognitive neuroscience framework provides a new hypothesis with which to consider the purpose of memory, and can help explain a variety of phenomena, ranging from recognition to first impressions, and from the brain's 'default mode' to a host of mental disorders.
Transgenic mice that model familial (f)ALS, caused by mutations in superoxide dismutase (SOD)1, develop paralysis with pathology that includes the accumulation of aggregated forms of the mutant protein. Using a highly sensitive detergent extraction assay, we traced the appearance and abundance of detergent-insoluble and disulfide cross-linked aggregates of SOD1 throughout the disease course of SOD1-fALS mice (G93A, G37R, and H46R/H48Q). We demonstrate that the accumulation of disulfide cross-linked, detergent-insoluble, aggregates of mutant SOD1 occurs primarily in the later stages of the disease, concurrent with the appearance of rapidly progressing symptoms. We find no evidence for a model in which aberrant intermolecular disulfide bonding has an important role in promoting the aggregation of mutant SOD1, instead, such cross-linking appears to be a secondary event. Also, using both cell culture and mouse models, we find that mutant protein lacking the normal intramolecular disulfide bond is a major component of the insoluble SOD1 aggregates. Overall, our findings suggest a model in which soluble forms of mutant SOD1 initiate disease with larger aggregates implicated only in rapidly progressing events in the final stages of disease. Within the final stages of disease, abnormalities in the oxidation of a normal intramolecular disulfide bond in mutant SOD1 facilitate the aggregation of mutant protein.
Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative pathology that affects the optic nerve producing blindness. This disease is often a consequence of an abnormal increase of intraocular pressure (IOP) due to a reduction in the ability of the eye to drain a transparent fluid termed aqueous humour. The dynamics of the aqueous humour is highly controlled by the autonomic nervous system, mainly the sympathetic, regulating its production and parasympathetic controlling the evacuation of aqueous humour. This has led pharmaceutical companies to develop chemicals which, by acting via different targets can substantially reduce IOP. Parasympathomimetics, adrenergic antagonists, plus eventually adrenergic agonists, are commonly used for the reduction of IOP and therefore for treatment of glaucoma. New substances linked to the nervous system that innervates the eye are emerging as interesting candidates. Nucleotides, commonly costored with catecholamines or acetylcholine or the indole melatonin, present interesting properties reducing IOP. Moreover new technological ideas such as the use of siRNA (small interference RNA) to silence protein expression demonstrate the relevance of this method to approach ocular hypertension and glaucoma from a different point of view. These three main groups of molecules: nucleotides, melatonins and siRNAs, are reviewed since they appear as firm candidates for the treatment of glaucoma in the near future.
This work investigates the somatodendritic shaping of rat oculomotor nucleus motoneurons (Mns) during postnatal development. The Mns were functionally identified in slice preparation, intracellularly injected with neurobiotin, and three-dimensionally reconstructed. Most of the Mns (approximately 85%) were multipolar and the rest (approximately 15%) bipolar. Forty multipolar Mns were studied and grouped as follows: 1-5, 6-10, 11-15, and 21-30 postnatal days. Two phases were distinguished during postnatal development (P1-P10 and P11-P30). During the first phase, there was a progressive increase in the dendritic complexity; e.g., the number of terminals per neuron increased from 26.3 (P1-P5) to 47.7 (P6-P10) and membrane somatodendritic area from 11,289.9 microm(2) (P1-P5) to 19,235.8 microm(2) (P6-P10). In addition, a few cases of tracer coupling were observed. During the second phase, dendritic elongation took place; e.g., the maximum dendritic length increased from 486.7 microm (P6-P10) to 729.5 microm in adult Mns, with a simplification of dendritic complexity to values near those for the newborn, and a slow, progressive increase in membrane area from 19,235.8 microm(2) (P6-P10) to 24,700.3 microm(2) (P21-P30), while the somatic area remained constant. In conclusion, the electrophysiological changes reported in these Mns with maturation (Carrascal et al. [2006] Neuroscience 140:1223-1237) cannot be fully explained by morphometric variations; the dendritic elongation and increase in dendritic area are features shared with other pools of Mns, whereas changes in dendritic complexity depend on each population; the first phase paralleled the establishment of vestibular circuitry and the second paralleled eyelid opening.
Descending projections arising from brainstem serotonergic (5HT) neurons contribute to both facilitatory and inhibitory controls of spinal cord &quot;pain&quot; transmission neurons. Unclear, however, are the brainstem networks that influence the output of these 5HT neurons. To address this question, here we used a novel neuroanatomical tracing method in a transgenic line of mice in which Cre recombinase is selectively expressed in 5HT neurons (ePet-Cre mice). Specifically, we injected the conditional pseudorabies virus recombinant (BA2001) that can replicate only in Cre-expressing neurons. Because BA2001 transports exclusively in a retrograde manner, we were able to reveal a subset of the neurons and circuits that are located upstream of the Cre-expressing 5HT neurons. We show that diverse brainstem regions differentially target the 5HT neurons of the dorsal raphe (DR) and the nucleus raphe magnus of the rostroventral medulla (RVM). Among these are several catecholaminergic and cholinergic cell groups, the periaqueductal gray, several brainstem reticular nuclei, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. We conclude that a brainstem 5HT network integrates somatic and visceral inputs arising from various areas of the body. We also identified a circuit that arises from projection neurons of deep spinal cord laminae V-VIII and targets the 5HT neurons of the NRM, but not of the DR. This spinoreticular pathway constitutes an anatomical substrate through which a noxious stimulus can activate 5HT neurons of the NRM and in turn could trigger descending serotonergic antinociceptive controls.


Communication between the nervous and immune systems is fundamental to animal physiology. However, the complicated anatomy and signaling pathways of these systems in mammals challenge the understanding of the neural-immune interaction at molecular, cellular, and organismic levels. Caenorhabditis elegans has been valuable in this regard because of its simple, well-defined nervous system and accessibility to genetic, molecular, and behavioral analyses. Recent studies in C. elegans have identified neuronal pathways that regulate signaling cascades in innate immune responses, including a neuroendocrine network, a TGF-beta pathway and dopaminergic neurotransmission, illuminating how specific neuronal signaling molecules and circuits control integrative immune responses.
In a recent issue of Nature Neuroscience, Cheng et al. (2009) demonstrate that miR-124, the most abundant of the microRNAs in the adult brain, positively modulates the transitory progression of adult subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenesis.
Neuromodulation with low-frequency stimulation (LFS), of brain structures other than epileptic foci, is effective in inhibiting seizures in animals and patients, whereas selection of targets for LFS requires further investigation. The hippocampal CA(3) subfield is a key site in the circuit of seizure generation and propagation. The present study aimed to illustrate the effects of LFS of the CA(3) region on seizure acquisition and generalization in the rat amygdaloid kindling model of epilepsy. We found that LFS (monophasic square-wave pulses, 1Hz, 100 microA and 0.1ms per pulse) of the CA(3) region significantly depressed the duration of epileptiform activity and seizure acquisition by retarding progression from focal to generalized seizures (GS). Moreover, GS duration was significantly shortened and its latency was significantly increased in the LFS group demonstrating an inhibition of the severity of GS and the spread of epileptiform activity. Furthermore, LFS prevented the decline of afterdischarge threshold (ADT) and elevated GS threshold indicating an inhibition of susceptibility to GS. These results suggest that LFS of the hippocampal CA(3) subfield is anti-epileptogenic and anti-ictogenic. Neuromodulation of CA(3) activity using LFS may be an alternative potential approach for temporal lobe epilepsy treatment.
Parietal and premotor cortex regions are serious contenders for bringing motor intentions and motor responses into awareness. We used electrical stimulation in seven patients undergoing awake brain surgery. Stimulating the right inferior parietal regions triggered a strong intention and desire to move the contralateral hand, arm, or foot, whereas stimulating the left inferior parietal region provoked the intention to move the lips and to talk. When stimulation intensity was increased in parietal areas, participants believed they had really performed these movements, although no electromyographic activity was detected. Stimulation of the premotor region triggered overt mouth and contralateral limb movements. Yet, patients firmly denied that they had moved. Conscious intention and motor awareness thus arise from increased parietal activity before movement execution.

Physical activity and aerobic exercise in particular, promotes health and effective cognitive functioning. To elucidate mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of physical fitness and acute exercise, behavioral and electrophysiological indices of task preparation and response inhibition as a part of executive functions were assessed in a modified version of an Eriksen flanker task subsequent to an acute bout of aerobic exercise and a period of rest, respectively. 35 higher- and lower-fit adolescents between 13 and 14 years of age participated in a controlled cross-over study design. Results indicate that higher-fit individuals show significantly greater CNV amplitudes, reflecting enhanced task preparation processes, as well as decreased amplitudes in N2, indexing more efficient executive control processes. P3 amplitudes associated with the allocation of attentional and memory control neither showed influences of physical fitness nor the acute bout of exercise. Furthermore, acute aerobic exercise was not related to any of the dependent measures. The current findings suggest that physical fitness, but not an acute bout of aerobic exercise enhances cognitive processing by increasing attentional allocation to stimulus encoding during task preparation.
Memory studies in biological systems distinguish three informational processes that are generally sequential--production/acquisition, storage, and retrieval/use. Identification of DNA as a storage form for hereditary information accelerated progress in that field. Assuming the path of successful elucidation in one memory field (heredity) to be heuristic for elucidation in another (brain), then progress in neuroscience should accelerate when a storage form is identified. In the 19th century Ewald Hering and Samuel Butler held that heredity and brain memory both involved the storage of information and that the two forms of storage were the same. Hering specified storage as 'molecular vibrations' but, while making a fuller case, Butler was less committal. In the 20th century, the ablation studies of Karl Lashley failed to identify unique sites for storage of brain information, and Donald Hebb's 'synaptic plasticity' hypothesis of distributed storage over a neuronal network won favor. In the 21st century this has come under attack, and the idea that brain and hereditary information are stored as DNA is advocated. Thus, albeit without attribution, Butler's idea is reinstated. Yet, while the case is still open, the synaptic plasticity and DNA hypotheses have problems. Two broad alternatives remain on the table. Long term memory is located: (1) in the brain, either in some other macromolecular form (e.g. protein, lipid) or in some sub-molecular form (e.g. quantum computing and 'brain as holograph' hypotheses) or (2) outside the brain. The suggestion of the medieval physician Avicenna that the brain 'cupboard' is bare--i.e. the brain is a perceptual, not storage, organ--is consistent with a mysterious 'universe as holograph' model. Understanding how Butler came to contribute could be heuristic for future progress in a field fraught with 'fractionation and disunity'.


Environmental enrichment (EE) was shown recently to accelerate brain development in rodents. Increased levels of maternal care, and particularly tactile stimulation through licking and grooming, may represent a key component in the early phases of EE. We hypothesized that enriching the environment in terms of body massage may thus accelerate brain development in infants. We explored the effects of body massage in preterm infants and found that massage accelerates the maturation of electroencephalographic activity and of visual function, in particular visual acuity. In massaged infants, we found higher levels of blood IGF-1. Massage accelerated the maturation of visual function also in rat pups and increased the level of IGF-1 in the cortex. Antagonizing IGF-1 action by means of systemic injections of the IGF-1 antagonist JB1 blocked the effects of massage in rat pups. These results demonstrate that massage has an influence on brain development and in particular on visual development and suggest that its effects are mediated by specific endogenous factors such as IGF-1.
Slow oscillations at frequencies &lt;1 Hz manifest in many brain regions as discrete transitions between a depolarized up state and a hyperpolarized down state of the neuronal membrane potential. Although up and down states are known to differentially affect sensory-evoked responses, whether and how they are modulated by sensory stimuli are not well understood. In the present study, intracellular recording in anesthetized guinea pigs showed that membrane potentials of nonlemniscal auditory thalamic neurons exhibited spontaneous up/down transitions at random intervals in the range of 2-30 s, which could be entrained to a regular interval by repetitive sound stimuli. After termination of the entraining stimulation (ES), regular up/down transitions persisted for several cycles at the ES interval. Furthermore, the efficacy of weak sound stimuli in triggering the up-to-down transition was potentiated specifically at the ES interval for at least 10 min. Extracellular recordings in the auditory thalamus of unanesthetized guinea pigs also showed entrainment of slow oscillations by rhythmic sound stimuli during slow wave sleep. These results demonstrate a novel form of network plasticity, which could help to retain the information of stimulus interval on the order of seconds.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system has been implicated in the reorganization of adult cortical sensory and motor representations under many, but not all, experimental conditions. It is still not fully understood which types of plasticity require the cholinergic system and which do not. In this study, we examine the hypothesis that the basal forebrain cholinergic system is required for eliciting plasticity associated with complex cognitive processing (e.g., behavioral experiences that drive cortical reorganization) but is not required for plasticity mediated under behaviorally independent conditions. We used established experimental manipulations to elicit two distinct forms of plasticity within the motor cortex: facial nerve transections evoke reorganization of cortical motor representations independent of behavioral experience, and skilled forelimb training induces behaviorally dependent expansion of forelimb motor representations. In animals that underwent skilled forelimb training in conjunction with a facial nerve lesion, cholinergic mechanisms were required for mediating the behaviorally dependent plasticity associated with the skilled motor training but were not necessary for mediating plasticity associated with the facial nerve transection. These results dissociate the contribution of cholinergic mechanisms to distinct forms of cortical plasticity and support the hypothesis that the forebrain cholinergic system is selectively required for modulating complex forms of cortical plasticity driven by behavioral experience.
Genetic variation at the serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) is associated with altered amygdala reactivity and lack of prefrontal regulatory control. Similar regions mediate decision-making biases driven by contextual cues and ambiguity, for example the &quot;framing effect.&quot; We hypothesized that individuals hemozygous for the short (s) allele at the 5-HTTLPR would be more susceptible to framing. Participants, selected as homozygous for either the long (la) or s allele, performed a decision-making task where they made choices between receiving an amount of money for certain and taking a gamble. A strong bias was evident toward choosing the certain option when the option was phrased in terms of gains and toward gambling when the decision was phrased in terms of losses (the frame effect). Critically, this bias was significantly greater in the ss group compared with the lala group. In simultaneously acquired functional magnetic resonance imaging data, the ss group showed greater amygdala during choices made in accord, compared with those made counter to the frame, an effect not seen in the lala group. These differences were also mirrored by differences in anterior cingulate-amygdala coupling between the genotype groups during decision making. Specifically, lala participants showed increased coupling during choices made counter to, relative to those made in accord with, the frame, with no such effect evident in ss participants. These data suggest that genetically mediated differences in prefrontal-amygdala interactions underpin interindividual differences in economic decision making.
The progressive myoclonus epilepsies, featuring the triad of myoclonus, seizures, and ataxia, comprise a large group of inherited neurodegenerative diseases that remain poorly understood and refractory to treatment. The Cystatin B gene is mutated in one of the most common forms of progressive myoclonus epilepsy, Unverricht-Lundborg disease (EPM1). Cystatin B knockout in a mouse model of EPM1 triggers progressive degeneration of cerebellar granule neurons. Here, we report impaired redox homeostasis as a key mechanism by which Cystatin B deficiency triggers neurodegeneration. Oxidative stress induces the expression of Cystatin B in cerebellar granule neurons, and EPM1 patient-linked mutation of the Cystatin B gene promoter impairs oxidative stress induction of Cystatin B transcription. Importantly, Cystatin B knockout or knockdown sensitizes cerebellar granule neurons to oxidative stress-induced cell death. The Cystatin B deficiency-induced predisposition to oxidative stress in neurons is mediated by the lysosomal protease Cathepsin B. We uncover evidence of oxidative damage, reflected by depletion of antioxidants and increased lipid peroxidation, in the cerebellum of Cystatin B knock-out mice in vivo. Collectively, our findings define a pathophysiological mechanism in EPM1, whereby Cystatin B deficiency couples oxidative stress to neuronal death and degeneration, and may thus provide the basis for novel treatment approaches for the progressive myoclonus epilepsies.
Wnts are morphogens that also function as axon guidance molecules. In vivo Wnt5a gradients via Ryk receptors were found to repel cortical axons into developing callosal and corticospinal pathways. Here, using dissociated cortical cultures, we found that bath-applied Wnt5a increased axon outgrowth. In turning assays, Wnt5a gradients simultaneously increased axon outgrowth and induced repulsive turning, a potential mechanism for propelling cortical axons in vivo. We found that axon outgrowth is mediated by Ryk, whereas axon repulsion requires both Ryk and Frizzled receptors. Both receptors mediate Wnt-evoked fluctuations in intracellular calcium, which is required for increased axon outgrowth and repulsion by Wnt5a. However, whereas increased axon outgrowth involves calcium release from stores through IP3 receptors as well as calcium influx through TRP channels, axon repulsion is mediated by TRP channels without involvement of IP3 receptors. These results reveal distinct signaling mechanisms underlying Wnt5a-induced axon outgrowth and repulsive guidance.
Stable brain function relies on homeostatic maintenance of the functional output of individual neurons. In general, neurons function by converting synaptic input to output as action potential firing. To determine homeostatic mechanisms that balance this input-output/synapse-membrane interaction, we focused on nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons and demonstrated a novel form of synapse-to-membrane homeostatic regulation, homeostatic synapse-driven membrane plasticity (hSMP). Through hSMP, NAc neurons adjusted their membrane excitability to functionally compensate for basal shifts in excitatory synaptic input. Furthermore, hSMP was triggered by synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and expressed by the modification of SK-type Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels. Moreover, hSMP in NAc neurons was abolished in rats during a short- (2 d) or long- (21 d) term withdrawal from repeated intraperitoneal injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg/d, 5 d). These results suggest that hSMP is a novel form of synapse-to-membrane homeostatic plasticity and dysregulation of hSMP may contribute to cocaine-induced cellular alterations in the NAc.


Glutamate AMPA receptors (AMPAR) in the nucleus accumbens have an important role in cocaine-induced neuroadaptations. Neuronal pentraxins function in the extracellular matrix to bind AMPAR. Three neuronal pentraxins have been described Narp, NP1 and NPR. Narp and NP1 cluster AMPA receptors, while NPR contributes to removing AMPA receptors during mGluR-dependent long-term depression. We recently demonstrated that each pentraxin contributes to cocaine-induced neuroadaptations in a way that is consistent with its role in AMPAR clustering and trafficking. Thus, Narp and NP1 deletion promoted cocaine-induced place preference and showed blunted AMPA induced locomotion after cocaine withdrawal. In contrast NPR deletion augmented the AMPA response and was without effect on place preference. Consistent with reduced AMPA responsiveness after chronic cocaine in Narp KO mice, GluR1 was reduced in the postsynaptic density (PSD) fraction of Narp KO mice withdrawn from cocaine. These findings will be discussed in light of recent data showing that rats withdrawn from cocaine have marked deficits in developing long-term potentiation and long-term depression.
Alternative splicing in the extracellular ligand binding domain of the AMPA receptors generates two variants, i.e., flip and flop. The flop variant of the GluR2 AMPA receptor is known to desensitize faster than the flip counterpart, whereas the GluR1 flip and flop variants exhibit the same rate of desensitization. However, whether the alternative splicing affects the channel opening kinetic properties of these receptors is unknown. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique, we have characterized the channel opening kinetic mechanism for the flip and flop channels of GluR1 and GluR2, respectively. We find that the flop variant of GluR2 opens the channel, following the binding of glutamate, with the same rate as the flip channel, but closes its channel more rapidly. The difference in the kinetic properties between the two receptor isoforms can be described by a model we proposed previously in which the channel closing rate, a measure of the stability of the open channel state, controls an apparent tendency of the channel to desensitize, most likely, through the closed channel state. Specifically, the flop sequence of GluR2 promotes the channel to close more rapidly and consequently to desensitize with a faster rate than the flip sequence. For GluR1, the alternative splicing does not seem to affect the channel opening kinetics, since the flip and flop variants of GluR1 have the same channel opening rate, and the same channel closing rate. As expected and indeed observed, the flop variant desensitizes with the same rate as the flip variant does. On the basis of these results, we hypothesize that the flip/flop sequence cassette of AMPA receptors, in a sequence-dependent manner, regulates the rate of the channel closing process, in the microsecond time domain, through which it further regulates the channel desensitization in the millisecond time region.

High Content Analysis (HCA) assays combine cells and detection reagents with automated imaging and powerful image analysis algorithms, allowing measurement of multiple cellular phenotypes within a single assay. In this study, we utilized HCA to develop a novel assay for neurotoxicity. Neurotoxicity assessment represents an important part of drug safety evaluation, as well as being a significant focus of environmental protection efforts. Additionally, neurotoxicity is also a well-accepted in vitro marker of the development of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recently, the application of HCA to neuronal screening has been reported. By labeling neuronal cells with betaIII-tubulin, HCA assays can provide high-throughput, non-subjective, quantitative measurements of parameters such as neuronal number, neurite count and neurite length, all of which can indicate neurotoxic effects. However, the role of astrocytes remains unexplored in these models. Astrocytes have an integral role in the maintenance of central nervous system (CNS) homeostasis, and are associated with both neuroprotection and neurodegradation when they are activated in response to toxic substances or disease states. GFAP is an intermediate filament protein expressed predominantly in the astrocytes of the CNS. Astrocytic activation (gliosis) leads to the upregulation of GFAP, commonly accompanied by astrocyte proliferation and hypertrophy. This process of reactive gliosis has been proposed as an early marker of damage to the nervous system. The traditional method for GFAP quantitation is by immunoassay. This approach is limited by an inability to provide information on cellular localization, morphology and cell number. We determined that HCA could be used to overcome these limitations and to simultaneously measure multiple features associated with gliosis - changes in GFAP expression, astrocyte hypertrophy, and astrocyte proliferation - within a single assay. In co-culture studies, astrocytes have been shown to protect neurons against several types of toxic insult and to critically influence neuronal survival. Recent studies have suggested that the use of astrocytes in an in vitro neurotoxicity test system may prove more relevant to human CNS structure and function than neuronal cells alone. Accordingly, we have developed an HCA assay for co-culture of neurons and astrocytes, comprised of protocols and validated, target-specific detection reagents for profiling betaIII-tubulin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). This assay enables simultaneous analysis of neurotoxicity, neurite outgrowth, gliosis, neuronal and astrocytic morphology and neuronal and astrocytic development in a wide variety of cellular models, representing a novel, non-subjective, high-throughput assay for neurotoxicity assessment. The assay holds great potential for enhanced detection of neurotoxicity and improved productivity in neuroscience research and drug discovery.


Male and female zebra finches are highly social and form pair bonds typically associated with reproduction. To determine how these bonds affect a female's behavioral response to future interactions, females were paired with a male for 2 weeks, separated for 48 h, and then exposed to the same or a novel male. Control females were left unpaired and introduced to a novel male. Behaviors, as well as neural ZENK expression, were quantified. Females displayed higher levels of behaviors associated with pair bonds (clumping and preening) toward their mates than novel males, and display of these behaviors was correlated with expression of the immediate early gene ZENK in the nucleus taeniae of one group of females, those interacting with their mates. Behaviors of the stimulus males were largely unaffected, but those interacting with an unpaired female attempted to mount more than those interacting with their mates. The results indicate that the nucleus taeniae may play some role in the maintenance of pair bonds in this species. Additionally, females may provide some signal to influence elements of the behavior of males.
Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) have the potential to survive brain ischemia and participate in neurogenesis after stroke. However, it is not clear how survival responses are initiated in NPCs. Using embryonic mouse NPCs and the in vitro oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) model, we found that angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) could prevent NPCs from OGD-induced apoptosis, as evidenced by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling and annexin V labeling. Ang1 significantly elevated tunica intima endothelial kinase 2 (Tie2) autophosphorylation level, suggesting the existence of functional Tie2 receptors on NPCs. NPCs under OGD conditions exhibited reduction of Akt phosphorylation, decrease of the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, activation of caspase-3, cleavage of PARP, and downregulation of beta-catenin and nestin. Ang1 reversed the above changes concomitantly with significant rising of survival rates of NPCs under OGD, but all these effects of Ang1 could be blocked by either soluble extracellular domain of Tie2 Fc fusion protein (sTie2Fc) or the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-1(4H)-benzopyran-4-one (LY294002). Our findings suggest the existence of an Ang1-Tie2-PI3K signaling axis that is essential in initiation of survival responses in NPCs against cerebral ischemia and hypoxia.
Damage response pathways triggered by mechanical stress might reasonably be expected to be conserved throughout evolution. However, using a nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) reporter mouse we show here that this phylogenetically recent transcription factor plays a major role in the response to mechanosensory stress in the mammalian inner ear. The protective action of NF-kappaB is exerted in neither sensory nor non-sensory epithelial cells, but rather in connective tissue cells within the spiral ligament and spiral limbus. In the spiral ligament, predominantly type I fibrocytes are activated following noise exposure, whereas type II fibrocytes are activated following systemic inflammatory stress. Immune-mediated and acoustic trauma-mediated hearing loss syndromes in humans may in part result from the vulnerability of type II and type I fibrocytes to systemic inflammatory stress and acoustic trauma, respectively. Unexpected cell-specific and stress-specific NF-kappaB activation found in the inner ear in this in vivo study suggest that this approach may have wide applications in demonstrating similar specializations of stress responses in other tissues, including the brain.
In studies of the role of primary afferent nociceptor plasticity in the transition from acute to chronic pain we recently reported that exposure to unpredictable sound stress or a prior inflammatory response induces long-term changes in the second messenger signaling pathway, in nociceptors, mediating inflammatory hyperalgesia; this change involves a switch from a G(s)-cAMP-PKA to a G(i)-PKCepsilon signaling pathway. To more directly study the role of G(i) in mechanical hyperalgesia we evaluated the nociceptive effect of the G(i) activator, mastoparan. Intradermal injection of mastoparan in the rat hind paw induces dose-dependent (0.1 ng-1 microg) mechanical hyperalgesia. The highly selective inhibitors of G(i), pertussis toxin, and of protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon), PKCepsilonV(1-2), both markedly attenuate mastoparan-induced hyperalgesia in stressed rats but had no effect on mastoparan-induced hyperalgesia in unstressed rats. Similar effects were observed, at the site of nociceptive testing, after recovery from carrageenan-induced inflammation. These studies provide further confirmation for a switch to a G(i)-activated and PKCepsilon-dependent signaling pathway in primary mechanical hyperalgesia, induced by stress or inflammation.
Maternal heroin abuse has been shown to result in teratogenic neurobehavioral defects in the offspring, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. This study was designed to explore the role of neuronal apoptosis in the heroin-induced neurobehavioral defects of learning and memory. Pregnant BALB/c mice were treated with either heroin or saline. The animals in the heroin group received heroin subcutaneously at a dosage of 10 mg/kg/day on embryonic days (E) 9-18, while those in the saline group were treated as drug-naive. Offspring were grouped as prenatal heroin exposure (HER), prenatal saline exposure (SAL), and control (CON) groups, according to the maternal treatment regimen. Some of the mice were killed and their hippocampus harvested on postnatal day (P) 14, and the tissue subjected to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry to reveal the mRNA and protein expressions of caspase-3, Bcl-2, and Bax. The Morris water maze was applied to assess the learning and memory capability of the mice at P30; poor maze performances were observed for the animals in the HER group. The results also showed that the mRNA and protein expressions of caspase-3 and Bax were significantly increased, while that of Bcl-2 was markedly decreased in the HER group compared with both the SAL and CON groups. The immunohistochemistry revealed significant caspase-3 immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis (CA) 1 subareas of the hippocampal formation, whereas, no significant changes were seen in subarea CA3. These findings suggest that prenatal heroin exposure during the E9-18 period enhances neuronal apoptosis by altering the expressions of caspase-3, Bcl-2, and Bax in the mouse hippocampus, and leads to impairment in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory.
The current study was conducted to examine the involvement of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors of the amygdala in morphine-induced state-dependent memory retrieval. Male Wistar rats implanted bilaterally with cannulas in the amygdala were submitted to a step-through type passive avoidance task, and tested 24 h after training to measure step-through latency. Post-training s.c. administration of morphine at the doses of 5 and 7.5 mg/kg impaired the memory on the test day, which was restored when the same doses of morphine were used as a pre-test drug. This phenomenon is well known as morphine-induced state-dependent memory retrieval. Bilateral microinjection of the non-selective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, pilocarpine (0.25 and 0.5 microg/side), into the amygdala with an ineffective dose of morphine (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) significantly improved the memory retrieval and mimicked the effects of pre-test administration of a higher dose of morphine. It should be noted that in the animals that received saline after training and tested following intra-amygdala administration of pilocarpine (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 microg/side) and those which received post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg s.c.) and pre-test intra-amygdala microinjection of the same doses of pilocarpine, no significant change was observed in the step-through latencies. On the other hand, pre-test intra-amygdala microinjection of a selective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.125 and 0.25 microg/side) inhibited morphine-induced state-dependent memory retrieval. In addition, no significant changes were seen in memory retrieval of the animals trained before saline treatment and tested following intra-amygdala microinjection of the same doses of scopolamine (0.0625, 0.125 and 0.25 microg/side). Bilateral microinjection of scopolamine into the amygdala reversed the pilocarpine-induced potentiation of the morphine response. In view of the known actions of the drugs used, the present data point to the involvement of amygdala muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in morphine-induced state-dependent memory retrieval.
The cholinergic and glutamatergic systems are known to be downregulated in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients. Galantamine and nefiracetam have been shown to potentiate the phasic activity of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the brain. Stimulation of nAChRs is also known to cause release of various neurotransmitters including glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We have previously reported that nefiracetam and galantamine potentiate the activity of nAChRs. Therefore, nefiracetam and galantamine are hypothesized to cause stimulations of the glutamate and GABA systems via stimulation of nAChRs. The present study was set out to test this hypothesis by measuring the effects of these drugs on spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) and spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded by the whole-cell patch clamp technique from rat cortical neurons in primary cultures. Acetylcholine (ACh) at 30 nM generated a steady inward current and increased the frequency of mEPSCs and mIPSCs. Nefiracetam at 10 nM plus 30 nM ACh increased the frequency of mEPSCs and mIPSCs beyond the levels increased by ACh alone. The potentiating action of nefiracetam was abolished by dihydro-beta-erythroidine. None of these treatments affected the amplitude of mEPSCs or mIPSCs. Galantamine at 1 muM plus ACh did not significantly potentiate the frequency. Nefiracetam at 10 nM had no effect on neurons that did not respond to 30 nM ACh. It was concluded that the nefiracetam released glutamate via stimulation of the alpha4beta2 nAChRs.
Depression and/or anxiety are major comorbidities of epilepsy. However, the contribution of absence epileptic discharges in psychiatric syndromes is inconclusive. This study aimed to clarify the influence of absence seizure in anxiety- and depression-like behaviors using normal Wistar rats and Long-Evans rats with spontaneous spike-wave discharges (SWDs). Anxiety-like behaviors were evaluated by the open field (OF) and elevated plus maze (EPM) tests, and depression-like behaviors by the forced swimming (FS) and sucrose consumption (SC) tests. Long-Evans rats displayed significantly higher frequency and longer duration in the open arms of the EPM and in the center zone of the OF than did Wistar rats. Normalized behavioral indexes by movement also were significantly higher in Long-Evans rats. An excess of SWD numbers was associated with lower indexes and worse movement in the two behavioral tests. Ethosuximide eliminated the seizure frequency-dependent relationship and also significantly increased all indexes of the EPM test. Additionally, Long-Evans rats revealed significantly longer immobility in the FS test and lower consumption of sucrose solution in the SC test than did Wistar rats. Meanwhile, no relationship was found between immobility of the FS test and SWD number. Ethosuximide ameliorated depression-like behavior of Long-Evans rats that was equal to that of Wistar rats. Thus, Long-Evans rats showed seizure frequency-related exacerbation in anxiety-like behavior; and they displayed a depressive propensity. Our data suggest that generalized SWDs may have distinct influences in anxious and depressive behaviors.
Local microenvironment plays an important role in determining the fate choice of stem cells in the central nervous system (CNS). Astrocytes, a major component of local microenvironment in the CNS, have been demonstrated to influence the proliferation and neural differentiation of stem cells including neural stem/progenitor cells, embryonic stem cells and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). However, it has remained to be ascertained if inflammation-activated astrocytes can affect the behavior of BMSCs. To this end, astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) was prepared in this study for treatment of BMSCs. The ACM derived from Wistar rat astrocytes stimulated by lipopolysaccharide for 12, 36 or 72 h, respectively, served as inflammatory ACM (12 h ACM, 36 h ACM and 72 h ACM), while that from unstimulated astrocytes was used as normal control astrocyte-conditioned medium (N-ACM). The results showed that the proliferation and neural differentiation of BMSCs grown in inflammatory ACM were significantly increased compared with those grown in N-ACM. The efficiency of BMSCs exposed to 36 h ACM was significantly greater than that of those exposed to 12 or 72 h ACM. Following neutralization of interleukin-6 (IL-6) of the ACM, both the proliferation and astrocytic differentiation of BMSCs were decreased; on the other hand, the neuronal differentiation was significantly increased. The present findings suggest that inflammation-activated astrocytes can facilitate the proliferation and neural differentiation of BMSCs and activated astrocytes at different phase after CNS injuries might have distinct effects on BMSCs. Moreover, astrocyte-derived IL-6 participates in the proliferation and neural differentiation of BMSCs.
Photoreceptor degeneration is followed by significant morphological changes in the second-order retinal neurons in humans and in several genetic animal models. However, it is not clear whether similar changes occur when photoreceptor degeneration is induced nongenetically, raising the question whether these changes are a general effect of deafferentation independent of the cause of degeneration. We addressed this by inducing selective photoreceptor degeneration with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and studying its effects on inner retinal neurons in a mouse for up to 3 months, using immunocytochemistry and iontophoretic labeling. To develop objective measures of photoreceptor degeneration and of retinal remodeling, we measured several retinal proteins using immunoblot analysis, and quantified gross visual ability of the animal in a visual cliff test. The MNU-induced progressive degeneration of rods and cones was associated with declining levels of postsynaptic density 95 protein in the retina, and with deteriorating visual performance of the animal. Mller glial cells showed enhanced reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein as demonstrated by immunocytochemistry, which also reflected in increased levels of the protein as demonstrated by immunoblotting. Horizontal cells and rod bipolar cells progressively lost their dendritic processes, which correlated with a slight decline in the levels of calbindin and protein kinase C alpha respectively. Horizontal cell axons, immunoreactive for nonphosphorylated neurofilaments, showed sprouting into the inner nuclear layer. Ganglion cells and their synaptic inputs, probed by immunolocalizing beta-III-tubulin, neurofilaments, bassoon and synaptophysin, appeared to be unaffected. These results demonstrate that MNU-induced photoreceptor degeneration leads to retinal remodeling similar to that observed in genetic models, suggesting that the remodeling does not depend on the etiopathology that underlies photoreceptor degeneration.
Low-frequency stimulation applied through indwelling electrodes has been used to depress or depotentiate synaptic efficacy. Moreover it has been reported to inhibit seizure expression and progression when started either during or after seizures. We have recently shown that low-frequency stimulation can also reduce the size of seizure-enlarged movement representations (motor maps) when delivered after 30 afterdischarges that had propagated from the hippocampus to the neocortex. This study was designed to examine the effects of low-frequency stimulation delivered to the corpus callosum on motor map topography when applied during or after each elicited seizure. Specifically, 15 min of 1 Hz stimulation was applied to the corpus callosum either concurrent with or immediately following a neocortical afterdischarge that had propagated from the hippocampus. Long-Evans hooded rats were electrically stimulated twice daily in the right ventral hippocampus until the first neocortical afterdischarge was elicited. Rats then received low-frequency stimulation which began either with the afterdischarge or following each afterdischarge for 20 additional kindling sessions; a sham low-frequency stimulation group was also included. Afterdischarges were recorded from both hippocampal and neocortical sites, and seizure expression was documented. One to six days following the last stimulation session, forelimb movement representations were derived using high-resolution intracortical microstimulation in the left sensorimotor neocortex. Low-frequency stimulation following each kindled seizure, suppressed behavioral seizure severity and hippocampal afterdischarge duration, as well as attenuated kindling-induced motor map expansion.
Estradiol-17beta is released from the ovaries in a cyclic manner during the normal estrous cycle in rats. During the transition from the diestrous to proestrous stage, the 17beta-estradiol increases in blood circulation. We hypothesized that a higher serum level of endogenous 17beta-estradiol would protect hippocampal pyramidal neurons against global cerebral ischemia via activation of the cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB)-mediated signaling cascade. Furthermore, we asked if a single 17beta-estradiol bolus provides protection against ischemia in the absence of endogenous estradiol. To test these hypotheses, rats were subjected to global cerebral ischemia at different stages of the estrous cycle. Ischemia was produced by bilateral carotid occlusion and systemic hypotension. Brains were examined for histopathology at 7 days of reperfusion. Higher serum levels of 17beta-estradiol (at proestrus and estrus stages) correlated with increased immunoreactivity of pCREB in hippocampus and ischemic tolerance. At diestrus, when circulating gonadal hormone concentrations were lowest, the pCREB protein content of hippocampus was reduced and showed the least number of normal neurons after ischemia compared to other stages of the estrous cycle. A similar phosphorylation pattern was also observed for mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMKII) in hippocampus. The cyclic variation in ovarian hormones did not reflect phosphorylation of protein kinase B (Akt). To test the efficacy of a single bolus of 17beta-estradiol before ischemia, ovariectomized rats were treated with 17beta-estradiol (5/10/50 microg/kg) or vehicle (oil) and 48/72/96 h later rats were exposed to cerebral ischemia. A single 17beta-estradiol bolus treatment in ovariectomized rats significantly increased CREB mRNA activation and protected CA1 pyramidal neurons against ischemia. These results suggest that an exogenous bolus of 17beta-estradiol to ovariectomized rats protects hippocampus against ischemia via activation of the CREB pathway in a manner similar to the endogenous estrous cycle.
Olfactory information is initially processed through intricate synaptic interactions between glutamatergic projection neurons and GABAergic interneurons in the olfactory bulb. Although bulbar neurons and networks have been reported to develop even postnatally, much is yet unknown about the glutamatergic neuron development. To address this issue, we studied the postnatal ontogeny of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) in the main olfactory bulb of rats, using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and their combination. In situ hybridization data showed that VGLUT1 mRNA is intensely expressed in differentiating mitral cells and smaller cells of the mitral cell layer (MCL) on postnatal day 1 (P1), and also at lower levels in small- and medium-sized cells, presumably tufted cell populations, of the external plexiform layer (EPL) from P5 onward. VGLUT2 mRNA was expressed in many MCL cell populations on P1, also in small- and medium-sized cells of the EPL at almost the same level as MCL cells between P5 and P7, and became apparently less intense in the MCL than in the EPL from P10 onward. The expression, unlike VGLUT1 mRNA, was also found in small-sized cells of the interglomerular region. In partial agreement with these data, immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that subsets of mitral and EPL cells are stained for VGLUT1 or VGLUT2, with the former cells coexpressing both subtypes until P5. Moreover, a combined fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunohistochemical dual labeling of the P10 bulb revealed that neither VGLUT1 nor VGLUT2 mRNA is expressed in GABAergic or dopaminergic periglomerular cells, implying their expression in other periglomerular cell subclasses, external tufted cells and/or short-axon cells. Thus, the present study suggests that early in the postnatal development distinct glutamatergic bulbar neurons of rats express spatiotemporally either or both of the two VGLUT subtypes as a specific vesicular transport system, specifically contributing to glutamate-mediated neurobiological events.
Peripheral and central diabetic neuropathies were studied in streptozotocin-diabetic rats, using behavioral, biochemical and electrophysiological techniques. Diabetic rats showed thermal hypoalgesia and decreasing motor nerve conduction velocity at 4 and 8 weeks of diabetes. In addition, amplitude of the evoked potential recorded in primary somatosensory cortex after stimulation of the sciatic nerve was markedly reduced at 8 weeks of diabetes. This decrease was accompanied by decreases in GluR2/3 AMPA receptor subunits. These changes seem to be specific to the somatosensory system and to originate in higher centers since they were not present in the hippocampus and were not observed at the level of gracilis nucleus. Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) treatment reversed the reduced thermal sensitivity and peripheral nerve conduction velocity but did not reverse changes in the CNS, suggesting that once initiated, both anomalies may develop independently in this model of diabetic neuropathy. In conclusion, the results indicate that diabetes induces a wide spectrum of alterations in the central somatosensory system that are independent of the decreases in peripheral sensory transmission that could be responsible for the disturbances in somatosensory perception observed in diabetes.
Pyramidal neurons in hippocampal CA1 regions are highly sensitive to cerebral ischemia. Alterations of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission may contribute to the ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration. However, little is known about the changes of GABAergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampus following reperfusion. We examined the GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons 12 and 24 h after transient forebrain ischemia in rats. The amplitudes of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) were increased significantly 12 h after ischemia and returned to control levels 24 h following reperfusion. The potentiation of eIPSCs was accompanied by an increase of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current (mIPSC) amplitude, and an enhanced response to exogenous application of GABA, indicating the involvement of postsynaptic mechanisms. Furthermore, there was no obvious change of the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) of eIPSCs and the frequency of mIPSCs, suggesting that the potentiation of eIPSCs might not be due to the increased presynaptic release. Blockade of adenosine A1 receptors led to a decrease of eIPSCs amplitude in post-ischemic neurons but not in control neurons, without affecting the frequency of mIPSCs and the PPR of eIPSCs. Thus, tonic activation of adenosine A1 receptors might, at least in part, contribute to the enhancement of inhibitory synaptic transmission in CA1 neurons after forebrain ischemia. The transient enhancement of inhibitory neurotransmission might temporarily protect CA1 pyramidal neurons, and delay the process of neuronal death after cerebral ischemia.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated-transcript (CART) peptides are associated with multiple physiological processes, including, feeding, body weight, and the response to drugs of abuse. CART mRNA and peptide levels and the expression of the CART gene appears to be under the control of a number of extra- and intra-cellular factors including the transcription factor, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB). Similar to the effects of CART, Ca(2+) signaling leads to the phosphorylation of CREB and has been associated with both feeding and the actions of psychostimulants; therefore, we hypothesized that Ca(2+) may play a role in CART gene regulation. We used real-time PCR (rtPCR) and GH3 cells to examine the effect of ionomycin, which increases intracellular Ca(2+), on CART mRNA levels. Ionomycin increased CART mRNA in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The effect of ionomycin appeared transient as CART mRNA had returned to control levels 3 h following treatment. Calmidazolium and KN93, inhibitors of calmodulin and Ca(2+)-modulated protein (CaM) kinases respectively, attenuated the effect of ionomycin (10 microM) on CART mRNA levels suggesting a calmodulin-dependent mechanism. Western immunoblotting indicated that ionomycin increased phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB) levels and electrophoretic mobility shift assay/supershift assay using antibodies against pCREB demonstrated increased levels of a CART oligo/pCREB protein complex. Finally, we showed that injection of ionomycin into the rat nucleus accumbens increases CART mRNA levels. To our knowledge, this is the first study providing evidence that the CART gene is, in part, regulated by Ca(2+)/CaM/CREB-dependent cell signaling.
Alcoholism involves compulsive behaviors of alcohol drinking, which is thought to be related at least initially to the rewarding effect of alcohol. It has been shown that mu-opioid receptors play an essential role in drug reward and dependence for many drugs of abuse including alcohol, but the function of delta-opioid receptors (DOR) in drug reward remains largely unknown at present. Previous animal studies using systemic approaches with DOR antagonists or DOR knockout animals have yielded inconsistent results, showing a decrease, an increase or no change in alcohol consumption and behaviors of alcohol reward after DOR inhibition or deletion. In the present study, we used ethanol-conditioned rats to investigate adaptive DOR function in neurons of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), a key brain site for alcohol reward and addiction. We found that functional DOR was absent in glutamate synapses of CeA neurons from control rats, but it emerged and inhibited glutamate synaptic currents in CeA neurons from rats displaying ethanol-induced behavior of conditioned place preference (CPP). Analysis of paired-pulse ratios and miniature glutamate synaptic currents revealed that the recruited DOR was present on glutamatergic presynaptic terminals. Similar induction of functional DOR was also found on GABA synapses. Furthermore, microinjection of a DOR antagonist into the CeA reversed ethanol-induced CPP behavior in rats in vivo. These results suggest that repeated alcohol exposure recruits new functional DOR on CeA glutamate and GABA synapses, which may be involved in the expression or maintenance of ethanol-induced CPP behavior.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), i.e. lymphocytes, monocytes and macrophages are key players in the development of innate and adaptive immune responses. However, little is known about their properties in patients with acute stroke. Experimental procedures: We presently characterized the early time course of PBMC subpopulations in 19 patients with acute ischemic stroke and symptom onset below 6 h compared to 19 age-matched healthy subjects. Immediately after acute ischemic stroke, as well as 1 and 3 days thereafter, PBMC subpopulations (cluster of differentiation [CD]3+, CD14+, CD19+, CD68+) were isolated by magnetic bead system and the expression of proinflammatory (CD40, tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNFalpha]), proapoptotic (caspase-3 [CPP32], poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase [PARP]) and adhesion relevant (CD38) genes was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Furthermore, besides routine parameters, plasma levels of oxidized low-density lipoproteins (oxLDL) were studied. Results: In comparison to healthy subjects, patients revealed (i) twofold elevated plasma oxLDL concentrations, (ii) decreased (15%) blood cholesterol levels, and (iii) a 40% decrease in total number of lymphocytes. Furthermore, the majority of PBMC subpopulations revealed an increased expression of proinflammatory, proapoptotic or adhesion-relevant genes. Significant positive correlations were observed between expression of most of these genes in PBMCs and individual plasma oxLDL concentrations. Conclusion: Elevated expression of proinflammatory, proapoptotic and adhesion genes in subsets of PBMCs after ischemic stroke may contribute to an immunodepressive syndrome, possibly due to increased plasma oxLDL levels.
The basolateral amygdala (BL) is a putative site for regulating anxiety, where inhibition and excitation respectively lead to decreases and increases in anxiety-like behaviors. The BL contains local networks of GABAergic interneurons that are subdivided into classes based on neurochemical content, and are hypothesized to regulate unique functional responses of local glutamatergic projection neurons. Recently it was demonstrated that lesioning a portion of the BL interneuronal population, those interneurons that express neurokinin1 receptors (NK(1r)), resulted in anxiety-like behavior. In the current study, these NK(1r) expressing cells of the BL are further phenotypically characterized, demonstrating approximately 80% co-expression with GABA thus confirming them as GABAergic interneurons. These NK(1r) interneurons also colocalize with two distinct populations of BL interneurons as defined by the neuropeptide content. Of the NK(1r) positive cells, 41.8% are also positive for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and 39.7% of the NK(1r) positive cells are also positive for cholecystokinin (CCK). In addition to enhancing the phenotypic characterization, the extent to which the NK(1r) cells of amygdala nuclei contribute to anxiety-like responses was also investigated. Lesioning the NK(1r) expressing interneurons, with a stable form of substance P (SSP; the natural ligand for NK(1r)) coupled to the targeted toxin saporin (SAP), in the anterior and posterior divisions of the BL was correlated to increased anxiety-like behaviors compared to baseline and control treated rats. Furthermore the phenotypic and regional selectivity of the lesions was also confirmed.
The distribution of immunoreactive neurons with nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI32) was studied in temporal cortical areas in normal subjects and in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). SMI32 immunopositive neurons were localized mainly in cortical layers II, III, V and VI, and were medium to large-sized pyramidal neurons. Patients with AD had prominent degeneration of SMI32 positive neurons in layers III and V of Brodmann areas 38, 36, 35 and 20; in layers II and IV of the entorhinal cortex (Brodmann area 28); and hippocampal neurons. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were stained with Thioflavin-S and with an antibody (AT8) against hyperphosphorylated tau. The NFT distribution was compared to that of the neuronal cytoskeletal marker SMI32 in these temporal cortical regions. The results showed that the loss of SMI32 immunoreactivity in temporal cortical regions of AD brain is paralleled by an increase in NFTs and AT8 immunoreactivity in neurons. The SMI32 immunoreactivity was drastically reduced in the cortical layers where tangle-bearing neurons are localized. A strong SMI32 immunoreactivity was observed in numerous neurons containing NFTs by double-immunolabeling with SMI32 and AT8. However, few neurons were labeled by AT8 and SMI32. These results suggest that the development of NFTs in some neurons results from some alteration in SMI32 expression, but does not account for all, particularly, early NFT-related changes. Also, there is a clear correlation of NFTs with selective population of pyramidal neurons in the temporal cortical areas and these pyramidal cells are specifically prone to formation of paired helical filaments. Furthermore, these pyramidal neurons might represent a significant portion of the neurons of origin of long corticocortical connection, and consequently contribute to the destruction of memory-related input to the hippocampal formation.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is implicated in the initiation of neuropathic pain. Locally administered TNF antagonist etanercept offers a promising new treatment approach to target neuropathic pain. Here we evaluate the distribution and binding specificity for TNF isoforms of locally administered etanercept into injured and uninjured rat sciatic nerve. Distribution and co-localization of etanercept and TNF in the injured and uninjured nerve was evaluated at 1, 24, 48 and 96 h after etanercept local application using immunohistochemistry. In addition, binding specificity of etanercept for TNF isoforms was analyzed using immunoblot assay system in nerve lysates. A new observation was that locally administered etanercept reached the endoneurium of the injured but not the uninjured nerve 1 h after its application and mainly co-localized with TNF-positive structures, morphologically similar to Schwann cells and macrophages. We further noticed that immunoblot analyses for etanercept demonstrated its preferential binding to transmembrane and trimer TNF isoforms. Finally, locally administered etanercept inhibited pain-related behaviors in a rat sciatic nerve crush model. We conclude that locally administered etanercept reaches the endoneurial space in the injured nerve and preferentially binds to transmembrane and bioactive trimer TNF isoforms to modulate neuropathic pain. Locally administered etanercept has potential as a targeted immunomodulating agent to treat local pathogenesis in neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury.
Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha) is a powerful endogenous mitogen and neurotrophic factor, which has previously been shown to induce a massive proliferative response in the brains of Parkinson's disease model rats injured by an acute neurotoxic lesion. We now show that TGFalpha can also produce a massive proliferative response in rat brains subjected to stroke caused by a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), even when the growth factor is administered as late as 4 weeks after injury. This combination of stimuli provokes DNA synthesis, shown by 5'-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation, throughout the ependymal layer and subventricular zone (SVZ) of the forebrain during the 4 weeks of growth factor administration. The newly generated cells migrate preferentially along and ventral to the corpus callosum (CC) and external capsule to the site of the injury where many of them differentiate into several site-appropriate neuronal phenotypes in association with near complete (99%) behavioral recovery. We conclude that the injury response of endogenous neural stem cells as well as behavioral recovery can be significantly enhanced by application of TGFalpha, and that this approach represents a potential therapeutic strategy for chronic stroke and other neurological damage in human patients.
The spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons in the spinal dorsal horn play an important role in transmission and processing of nociceptive sensory information. Although transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptors are present in the spinal cord dorsal horn, their physiological function is not fully elucidated. In this study, we examined the role of TRPV1 in modulating neuronal activity of the STT neurons through excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on STT neurons labeled by a retrograde fluorescent tracer injected into the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus. Capsaicin (1 microM) increased the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSC) without changing the amplitude or decay time constant of mEPSC. In contrast, capsaicin had no distinct effect on GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC). Capsazepine (10 microM), a TRPV1 receptor antagonist, abolished the effect of capsaicin on mEPSCs. Capsazepine itself did not affect the baseline amplitude and frequency of mEPSC. The effect of capsaicin on mEPSC was also abolished by removal of external Ca(2+), but not by treatment with Cd(2+). Furthermore, capsaicin increased the firing activity of the STT neurons and this increase in neuronal activity by capsaicin was abolished in the presence of non-N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) and NMDA receptor antagonists, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX) and (R)-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV). These data suggest that activation of TRPV1 potentiates the glutamate release from excitatory terminals of primary afferent fibers and subsequently increases the neural activity of STT neurons of the rat spinal cord deep dorsal horn.
Repeated, intermittent exposure to the psychomotor stimulants amphetamine and cocaine induces a progressive and enduring augmentation of their locomotor-activating effects, known as behavioral sensitization, which is accompanied by similarly stable adaptations in the dendritic structure of cortico-striatal neurons. We examined whether repeated exposure to the increasingly abused amphetamine derivative 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) also results in long-lasting behavioral and morphological changes in mesocortical (medial prefrontal cortex) and ventral striatal (nucleus accumbens) neurons. Rats received two daily injections of either 5.0 mg/kg (+/-)-MDMA or saline vehicle, approximately 6 h apart, for 3 consecutive days, followed by 4 drug-free days for a total of 3 weeks. Following a 4-week drug-free period, MDMA-pretreated rats displayed behavioral sensitization, as well as large increases in spine density and the number of multiple-headed spines on medium spiny neurons in core and shell subregions of nucleus accumbens. In medial prefrontal cortex, the prelimbic subregion showed increased spine density on distal dendrites of layer V pyramidal neurons, while the anterior cingulate subregion showed a change in the distribution of dendritic material instead. Collectively, our results show that long-lasting locomotor sensitization to MDMA is accompanied by reorganization of synaptic connectivity in limbic-cortico-striatal circuitry. The differential plasticity in cortical subregions, moreover, suggests that drug-induced structural changes are not homogeneous and may be specific to the circuitry underlying long-term changes in drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior.
The distribution and density of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) binding sites have been investigated in the brain of the primates Jacchus callithrix (marmoset) and Macaca fascicularis (macaque) using [(125)I]-PACAP27 as a radioligand. PACAP binding sites were widely expressed in the brain of these two species with particularly high densities in the septum, hypothalamus and habenula. A moderate density of recognition sites was seen in all subdivisions of the cerebral cortex with a heterogenous distribution, the highest concentrations occurring in layers I and VI while the underlying white matter was almost devoid of binding sites. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed intense expression of the mRNAs encoding the short and hop-1 variants of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide-specific receptor (PAC1-R) in the cortex of both marmoset and macaque, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 1 (VPAC1-R) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 2 (VPAC2-R) mRNAs were expressed at a much lower level. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed intense expression of PAC1-R and weak expression of VPAC1-R mRNAs in layer IV of the cerebral cortex. Incubation of cortical tissue slices with PACAP induced a dose-dependent stimulation of cyclic AMP formation, indicating that PACAP binding sites correspond to functional receptors. Moreover, treatment of primate cortical slices with 100 nM PACAP significantly reduced the activity of caspase-3, a key enzyme of the apoptotic cascade. The present results indicate that PACAP should exert the same neuroprotective effect in the brain of primates as in rodents and suggest that PAC1-R agonists may have a therapeutic value to prevent neuronal cell death after stroke or in specific neurodegenerative diseases.
Four experiments examined the disruptive effects of selective lesions in limbic thalamic nuclei on retrosplenial cortex function, as characterized by striking changes in immediate-early gene activity. Major goals were to test the specificity of these retrosplenial changes, to define better their time course, and to assess the spread of retrosplenial dysfunction with time post-surgery. Experiment 1 examined the activity of two immediate-early genes (c-Fos, Zif268) in the retrosplenial cortex after unilateral anterior thalamic nuclei lesions (1, 2, or 8 weeks post-surgery). Marked immediate-early gene hypoactivity in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the thalamic lesion was consistent across these different post-surgical intervals and, hence, across different rat strains. Concurrent processing of brain tissues from rats either 4 weeks or 1 year after anterior thalamic lesions (Experiments 2 and 3) enabled direct comparisons across very different survival times. The results confirmed that over time the immediate-early gene disruption expanded from the superficial laminae to the deep laminae of granular b cortex and to the dysgranular subregion, indicative of more global disruptions to retrosplenial cortex with extended survival. Associated, subtle changes to cell morphometry (size and sphericity) were found in the retrosplenial cortex. In contrast, unilateral lesions in the adjacent laterodorsal thalamic nucleus (Experiment 4) did not significantly alter retrosplenial cortex c-Fos activity, so highlighting the anatomical specificity of the anterior thalamic lesion effects. These findings not only indicate that the impact of anterior thalamic lesions on cognition could be enhanced by retrosplenial cortex dysfunction but they also show that the effects could increase with longer post-insult survival.
Pyramidal neurons in the CA3 region of the hippocampal formation integrate synaptic information arriving in the dendrites within discrete laminar regions. At potentials near or below the resting potential integration of synaptic signals is most affected by the passive properties of the cell and hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(h)). Here we focused specifically on a subset of neurons within the CA3b subregion of the rat hippocampus in order to better understand their membrane response within subthreshold voltage ranges. Using a combined experimental and computational approach we found that the passive properties of these neurons varied up to fivefold between cells. Likewise, there was a large variance in the expression of I(h) channels. However, the contribution of I(h) was minimal at resting potentials endowing the membrane with an apparent linear response to somatic current injection within +/-10 mV. Unlike in CA1 pyramidal neurons, however, I(h) activation was not potentiated in an activity-dependent manner. Computer modeling, based on a combination of voltage- and current-clamp data, suggested that an increasing density of these channels with distance from the soma, compared with a uniform distribution, would have no significant effect on the general properties of the cell because of their relatively lower expression. Nonetheless, temporal summation of excitatory inputs was affected by the presence of I(h) in the dendrites in a frequency- and distance-dependent fashion.
Recent evidence suggests that extracellular ATP modulates retinal processing and could play a role in modulating glial cells during retinal diseases. Here, we evaluated the localization of P2Y(1) receptors in the rat retina using indirect immunofluorescence immunocytochemistry. We observed labeling within defined populations of inner retinal neurons and Mller cell processes and end feet. Double labeling of P2Y(1) receptor with choline acetyltransferase revealed extensive colocalization indicating the expression of this receptor by cholinergic amacrine cells. Ganglion cell labeling for P2Y(1) receptors was also observed. Having established the normal pattern of immunolabeling within the retina, we next examined whether immunolabeling was altered by retinal disease. P2Y(1) receptor immunolabeling of Mller cells was of greater intensity following light-induced retinal degeneration, suggesting that Mller cell gliosis is accompanied by changes in P2Y(1) receptor expression. Overall, these data provide further evidence for a role of extracellular ATP in retinal signaling within subsets of retinal neurons as well as glia.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) are closely associated with the regulation of energy homeostasis, but their roles in diet-induced obesity have not been explored. Using dietary interventions, this study examined regional changes of BDNF and TrkB mRNA expression in different brain regions of diet-induced obese (DIO) and resistant (DR) mice in response to high-fat (HF), energy-restricted pair-feeding and low fat (LF) diets. Using in situ hybridization, DIO mice had significantly decreased levels of BDNF mRNA expression (-32% to -37%) and TrkB (-21% to -23%) in the hippocampus compared to DR mice on an HF diet, but not on energy-restricted pair-feeding and LF diets. In the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH), BDNF expression was decreased in DIO mice on HF (-23%) and energy-restricted pair-feeding (-21%) diets. Furthermore, the VMH BDNF expression was negatively correlated with blood glucose but positively correlated with plasma adiponectin. These findings suggest that decreased hippocampal BDNF and TrkB expression plays an important role in high-fat diet induced obesity. A lower baseline BDNF mRNA expression in the VMH of DIO mice after normalization of body weight may indicate their intrinsic nature or an elevated body weight set point to drive body weight gain.
We studied the stimulus characteristics necessary for the expression of c-fos protein in optokinetic system neurons using immunocytochemistry. Using whole-field visual motion as a stimulus, we found substantial c-fos expression in the optic tectum (TeO), the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) and the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM); in all cases immunostaining was seen only on the side contralateral to the eye viewing whole-field unidirectional motion; the side of the brain contralateral to the eye wearing a diffuser showed no staining. In the nBOR and the LM, different regions showed a remarkable specificity of c-fos expression depending on the direction of visual motion stimulation. Neurons were stained primarily in regions known from previous electrophysiological recordings to be maximally responsive to that direction of motion; little staining was seen after motion orthogonal to the preferred motion direction. Novel, continuous visual motion stimuli, lasting more than 30 min, was required for maximal c-fos expression, suggesting that brief periods of unidirectional optic flow, as would be experienced during normal life, do not stimulate the expression of c-fos. The largest number of neurons was labeled when birds raised from hatching with one eye covered by a diffuser were exposed to full-field visual motion immediately after the diffuser was switched from one eye to the other, so that only the previously naive eye was visually stimulated. We conclude that the expression of c-fos in the optokinetic nuclei is linked to near peak firing rates on the one hand, and the novelty and duration of the visual signals, on the other, supporting the assumption that this expression is mainly related to stimulus contexts leading to neuronal plastic changes.
Inclusions of TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43), a nuclear protein that regulates transcription and RNA splicing, are the defining histopathological feature of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions (FTLD-Us) and sporadic and familial forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In ALS and FTLD-U, aggregated, ubiquitinated, and N-terminally truncated TDP-43 can be isolated from brain tissue rich in neuronal and glial cytoplasmic inclusions. The loss of TDP-43 function resulting from inappropriate cleavage, translocation from the nucleus, or its sequestration into inclusions could play important roles in neurodegeneration. However, it is not known whether TDP-43 fragments directly mediate toxicity and, more specifically, whether their abnormal aggregation is a cause or consequence of pathogenesis. We report that the ectopic expression of a approximately 25-kDa TDP-43 fragment corresponding to the C-terminal truncation product of caspase-cleaved TDP-43 leads to the formation of toxic, insoluble, and ubiquitin- and phospho-positive cytoplasmic inclusions within cells. The 25-kDa C-terminal fragment is more prone to phosphorylation at S409/S410 than full-length TDP-43, but phosphorylation at these sites is not required for inclusion formation or toxicity. Although this fragment shows no biological activity, its exogenous expression neither inhibits the function nor causes the sequestration of full-length nuclear TDP-43, suggesting that the 25-kDa fragment can induce cell death through a toxic gain-of-function. Finally, by generating a conformation-dependent antibody that detects C-terminal fragments, we show that this toxic cleavage product is specific for pathologic inclusions in human TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Cortical GABAergic interneurons, most of which originate in the ganglionic eminences, take distinct tangential migratory trajectories into the developing cerebral cortex. However, the ligand-receptor systems that modulate the tangential migration of distinct groups of interneurons into the emerging cerebral wall remain unclear. Here, we show that netrin-1, a diffusible guidance cue expressed along the migratory routes traversed by GABAergic interneurons, interacts with alpha3beta1 integrin to promote interneuronal migration. In vivo analysis of interneuron-specific alpha3beta1 integrin, netrin-1-deficient mice (alpha3(lox/-)Dlx5/6-CIE, netrin-1(-/-)) reveals specific deficits in the patterns of interneuronal migration along the top of the developing cortical plate, resulting in aberrant interneuronal positioning throughout the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of conditional alpha3(lox/-)Dlx5/6-CIE, netrin-1(-/-) mice. These results indicate that specific guidance mechanisms, such as netrin-1-alpha3beta1 integrin interactions, modulate distinct routes of interneuronal migration and the consequent positioning of groups of cortical interneurons in the developing cerebral cortex.
Since human behavior and perception have evolved within the Earth's gravitational field, humans possess an internal model of gravity. Although gravity is known to influence the visual perception of moving objects, the evidence is less clear concerning the visual perception of static objects. We investigated whether a visual judgment of the stability of human body postures (static postures of a human standing on a platform and tilted in the roll plane) may also be influenced by gravity and by the participant's orientation. Pictures of human body postures were presented in different orientations with respect to gravity and the participant's body. The participant's body was aligned to gravity (upright) or not (lying on one side). Participants performed stability judgments with respect to the platform, imagining that gravity operates in the direction indicated by the platform (that was or was not concordant with physical gravity). Such visual judgments were influenced by the picture's orientation with respect to physical gravity. When pictures were tilted by 90 degrees with respect to physical gravity, the human postures that were tilted toward physical gravity (down) were perceived as more unstable than similar postures tilted away from physical gravity (up). Stability judgments were also influenced by the picture's orientation with respect to the participant's body. This indicates that gravity and the participant's body position may influence the visual perception of static objects.
This article has been withdrawn consistent with Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy). The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause.





Although progression in multiple sclerosis is pathologically dominated by neurodegeneration, the underlying mechanism is unknown. Abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau is implicated in the aetiopathogenesis of some common neurodegenerative disorders. We recently demonstrated the association of insoluble tau with established secondary progressive MS, raising the hypothesis that its accumulation is relevant to disease progression. In order to begin to determine the temporal emergence of abnormal tau with disease progression in MS, we examined tau phosphorylation in cerebral tissue from a rare case of early aggressive MS. We report tau hyperphosphorylation occurring in multiple cell types, with biochemical analysis confirming restriction to the soluble fraction. The absence of sarcosyl-insoluble tau fraction in early disease and its presence in secondary progression raises the possibility that insoluble tau accumulates with disease progression.

Theories that postulate cognitive inhibition are very common in psychology and cognitive neuroscience [e.g., Hasher, L., Lustig, C., &amp; Zacks, R. T. (2007). Inhibitory mechanisms and the control of attention. In A. Conway, C. Jarrold, M. Kane, A. Miyake, A. Towse, &amp; J. Towse (Eds.), Variation in working memory (pp. 227-249). New York, NY: Oxford, University Press], although they have recently been severely criticized [e.g., MacLeod, C. M., Dodd, M. D., Sheard, E. D., Wilson, D. E., &amp; Bibi, U. (2003). In opposition to inhibition. In H. Ross (Ed.), The psychology of learning and motivation (Vol. 43, pp. 163-214). Elsevier Science]. This paper poses and attempts to answer the question whether a research program with cognitive inhibition as its main theoretical assumption is still worth pursuing. We present a set of empirical data from a modified Stroop paradigm that replicates previously reported findings. These findings refer to between-trial effects previously described in the literature on Stroop, negative priming, and inhibition-of-return. Existing theoretical accounts fail to explain all these effects in an integrated way. A repetition-suppression mechanism is proposed in order to account for these data. This mechanism is instantiated as a computational cognitive model. The theoretical implications of this model are discussed.
The possibility that during Chinese reading information is extracted at the beginning of the current fixation was examined in this study. Twenty-four participants read for comprehension while their eye movements were being recorded. A pretarget-target two-character word pair was embedded in each sentence and target word visibility was manipulated in two time intervals (initial 140 ms or after 140 ms) during pretarget viewing. Substantial beginning- and end-of-fixation preview effects were observed together with beginning-of-fixation effects on the pretarget. Apparently parafoveal information at least at the character level can be extracted relatively early during ongoing fixations. Results are highly relevant for ongoing debates on spatially distributed linguistic processing and address fundamental questions about how the human mind solves the task of reading within the constraints of different writing systems.
Important evidence about the information flow between perceptual and motor processes has been obtained from the lateralized readiness potential (LRP) recorded in two-choice go/nogo tasks. Here, we investigated the effect of time pressure on information transmission for one-dimensional stimuli (four squares differing in size). In between- and within-subject designs, respectively, Experiments 1 and 2 showed that under time pressure partial information initiates hand decision and response preparation before complete size information is available. These findings appear to be at odds with the asynchronous discrete coding model. Experiment 3 assessed the mechanisms behind these effects by manipulating the relative difficulty of extracting hand- and go/nogo-specific information from the size of the stimuli. Consistent with asynchronous coding, our results suggest that serial-consecutive processes in extracting partial and full size information may occur also for one-dimensional stimuli. Our data are inconclusive as to the question of discreteness or continuity of information transmission. On a more general level, our data support the notion of flexibility in the coding of perceptual dimensions to adapt performance to environmental conditions.











Cone-rod dystrophy (CRD) is an inherited progressive retinal dystrophy affecting the function of cone and rod photoreceptors. By autozygosity mapping, we identified null mutations in the ADAM metallopeptidase domain 9 (ADAM9) gene in four consanguineous families with recessively inherited early-onset CRD. We also found reduced photoreceptor responses in Adam9 knockout mice, previously reported to be asymptomatic. In 12-month-old knockout mice, photoreceptors appear normal, but the apical processes of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells are disorganized and contact between photoreceptor outer segments (POSs) and the RPE apical surface is compromised. In 20-month-old mice, there is clear evidence of progressive retinal degeneration with disorganized POS and thinning of the outer nuclear layer (ONL) in addition to the anomaly at the POS-RPE junction. RPE basal deposits and macrophages were also apparent in older mice. These findings therefore not only identify ADAM9 as a CRD gene but also identify a form of pathology wherein retinal disease first manifests at the POS-RPE junction.
Amyloid nephropathy is an unusual manifestation of hereditary gelsolin amyloidosis and may present with proteinuria and progressive renal failure. We report the first case of renal transplantation in a patient with hereditary gelsolin amyloidosis complicated by end-stage renal disease. The patient was a 44-year-old man from the Northwest of Iran who had undergone hemodialysis for 1 year. He finally received a living, unrelated renal transplant. During a 6-year posttransplant period, the patient maintained stable allograft function without proteinuria. No significant infectious or cardiac complications were noted. Although a definite conclusion cannot be reached with a single case, this report may indicate that renal transplantation can be successfully attempted in patients with hereditary gelsolin amyloidosis and amyloid nephropathy. Renal transplantation has been performed in various hereditary, primary, and secondary amyloidoses. A brief review of this topic is presented.

Gangliosides may be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and related disorders, although the precise mechanisms governing this involvement remain unknown. In this study, we determined whether changes in endogenous ganglioside levels affect lysosomal pathology in a cellular model of synucleinopathy. For this purpose, dementia with Lewy body-linked P123H beta-synuclein (beta-syn) neuroblastoma cells transfected with alpha-synuclein were used as a model system because these cells were characterized as having extensive formation of lysosomal inclusions bodies. Treatment of these cells with D-threo-1-phenyl-2-decanoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol (PDMP), an inhibitor of glycosyl ceramide synthase, resulted in various features of lysosomal pathology, including compromised lysosomal activity, enhanced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, and increased cytotoxicity. Consistent with these findings, expression levels of lysosomal membrane proteins, ATP13A2 and LAMP-2, were significantly decreased, and electron microscopy demonstrated alterations in the lysosomal membrane structures. Furthermore, the accumulation of both P123H beta-syn and alpha-synuclein proteins was significant in PDMP-treated cells because of the suppressive effect of PDMP on the autophagy pathway. Finally, the detrimental effects of PDMP on lysosomal pathology were significantly ameliorated by the addition of gangliosides to the cultured cells. These data suggest that endogenous gangliosides may play protective roles against the lysosomal pathology of synucleinopathies.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are associated with altered neuronal regulation of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and impairment of norepinephrine release from sympathetic varicosities. The sympathetic innervation of the GI tract modulates motility, blood flow, and secretion, and therefore defective norepinephrine release may contribute to symptom generation in IBD. Accordingly, our aim here was to utilize the mouse model of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS; 5% wt/vol) of IBD to determine how norepinephrine release is reduced during GI inflammation. We hypothesized that the inflammation-induced reduction in norepinephrine release was due to inhibition of voltage-gated Ca(2+) current (I(Ca)) in prevertebral sympathetic neurons. We compared [(3)H]norepinephrine release in the colon and jejunum and I(Ca) amplitude in superior mesenteric ganglion (SMG) neurons from control mice and mice with DSS-induced colitis. Changes to voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels were investigated by fura 2-AM Ca(2+) imaging, perforated patch-clamp electrophysiology, and real-time PCR. Depolarization-induced norepinephrine release from the inflamed colon and uninflamed jejunum was significantly impaired in mice treated with DSS, as was depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx in SMG neurons. Colitis reduced I(Ca) in SMG neurons by inhibiting omega-conotoxin GVIA (300 nM)-sensitive N-type Ca(2+) channels. The omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive component of norepinephrine release was significantly smaller in the colon during colitis. The inhibition of I(Ca) was accompanied by a decrease in mRNA encoding the Ca(2+) channel alpha subunit (CaV 2.2) and a rightward shift in the voltage dependence of activation of I(Ca). These findings suggest that DSS-induced colitis attenuates norepinephrine release in the colon and jejunum due to inhibition of N-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. This may contribute to functional alterations in both inflamed and uninflamed regions of the GI tract during inflammation.
GABA(A) receptor agonists act in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) to reset circadian rhythms during the day but inhibit the ability of light to reset rhythms during the night. In the present study, we examined whether these paradoxical differences in the effect of GABA(A) receptor stimulation on the circadian system are mediated by separate GABA(A) receptor subtypes. 4,5,6,7-Tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP), a GABA(A) receptor agonist, preferentially activates GABA(A) receptors in extrasynaptic locations. THIP, muscimol (a GABA(A) agonist), or vehicle were microinjected into the SCN region of Syrian hamsters free-running in constant darkness during the mid-subjective day, early subjective night, or late subjective night. The subjective night injections were followed by a light pulse or sham control. Behavioral phase shifts of wheel running rhythms and both Period1 (Per1) and Per2 mRNA levels in the SCN were assessed. Animals that received THIP during the subjective day did not exhibit significant phase alterations. During the early and late subjective night, however, THIP abolished the phase-shifting effects of light and the ability of light to increase Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels. The ability of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid to phase-shift wheel running rhythms was also attenuated by THIP. Together these data demonstrate that THIP does not produce phase shifts during the subjective day, but does inhibit the ability of light to produce phase shifts. Thus, extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors appear to play a role in regulating light input to the SCN, while a different population of GABA(A) receptors appears to be responsible for daytime effects of GABA.
The effects of microgravity on the biophysical properties of frog labyrinthine hair cells have been examined by analyzing calcium and potassium currents in isolated cells by the patch-clamp technique. The entire, anesthetized frog was exposed to vector-free gravity in a random positioning machine (RPM) and the functional modification induced on single hair cells, dissected from the crista ampullaris, were subsequently studied in vitro. The major targets of microgravity exposure were the calcium/potassium current system and the kinetic mechanism of the fast transient potassium current, I(A). The amplitude of I(Ca) was significantly reduced in microgravity-conditioned cells. The delayed current, I(KD) (a complex of I(KV) and I(KCa)), was drastically reduced, mostly in its I(KCa) component. Microgravity also affected I(KD) kinetics by shifting the steady-state inactivation curve toward negative potentials and increasing the sensitivity of inactivation removal to voltage. As concerns the I(A), the I-V and steady-state inactivation curves were indistinguishable under normogravity or microgravity conditions; conversely, I(A) decay systematically displayed a two-exponential time course and longer time constants in microgravity, thus potentially providing a larger K(+) charge; furthermore, I(A) inactivation removal at -70 mV was slowed down. Stimulation in the RPM machine under normogravity conditions resulted in minor effects on I(KD) and, occasionally, incomplete I(A) inactivation at -40 mV. Reduced calcium influx and increased K(+) repolarizing charge, to variable extents depending on the history of membrane potential, constitute a likely cause for the failure in the afferent mEPSP discharge at the cytoneural junction observed in the intact labyrinth after microgravity conditioning.
Ethylene glycol (EG)-induced hyperoxaluria is the most commonly employed experimental regimen as an animal model of calcium oxalate (CaOx) stone formation. The variant sensitivity to CaOx among different rat strains has not been fully explored, although the Wistar rat is known to accumulate more CaOx in kidney tissue after low-dose EG exposure than in the Fischer 344 (F344) rats. Supersaturation of CaOx in tubular fluid contributes to the amount of CaOx crystal formation in the kidney. We hypothesized that the urinary supersaturation of CaOx in Wistar rats is higher than that of F344 rats, thereby allowing for greater CaOx crystal deposition in the Wistar rat. Age-matched male Wistar and F344 rats were treated with 0.75% EG or drinking water for 8 wk. Twenty-four-hour urine was collected at 0, 2, 4, 6, and 8 wk for analysis of key electrolytes to calculate the CaOx supersaturation. Plasma oxalate level was also measured. Our data confirmed the different sensitivity to renal toxicity from EG between the two rat strains (Wistar &gt; F344). After EG treatment, the plasma oxalate level and urine oxalate excretion were markedly greater in the Wistar rats than in the F344 rats, while urine calcium was slightly decreased in Wistars. Thus, the CaOx supersaturation in urine of Wistar rats was higher, which led to a greater crystal deposition in kidney in Wistar rats. These studies suggest that during EG treatment, changes in urine electrolytes and in CaOx supersaturation occur to a greater extent in the Wistar rat, in agreement with its greater sensitivity to EG toxicity.
Reports on use of stones as hammers and anvils to open hard nuts by wild capuchin monkeys are scarce and limited to Cebus libidinosus. Here, we report for the first time data on tool use-stones as hammer and anvils to open nuts-in wild C. xanthosternos and a description of new tool using sites for C. libidinosus. Our records were made by visiting anvil sites and by information obtained from local residents. We surveyed three different biomes: Caatinga (dry forest and thorn scrub), Cerrado (Brazilian bush savannah), and Atlantic forest (wet forest), all records of tool use were from Caatinga or transitional areas between habitats. The behavior is suggested to be routinely performed and widespread among several populations. The fruits of six plant species in different localities were opened with hammer stones by C. xanthosternos. Hammer stones were of similar weigh as those described in other studies of C. libidinosus. Conditions found in Caatinga, such as a more frequent use of the ground by the monkeys and/or food scarcity, may play an important role in the acquisition of nut-cracking behavior. The absence of more reports of nut cracking and other forms of tool use in other species of wild Cebus is likely to result from a lack of surveys in very dry and food-limited habitats or intrinsic characteristics of other Cebus species.
Schizophrenia is a brain disease with differing symptomatic presentations, outcomes, and complex genetic mechanisms. A selection of recent work integrating clinical observations, human brain imaging and genetics will be reviewed. While the mechanics of brain dysfunction in schizophrenia remains to be well understood, the emerging evidence suggests that a number of interacting genetic mechanisms in dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems affect fundamental disease-related cognitive brain processes and may do so early in disease neurodevelopment. The availability of new imaging and genetic technologies, and institutional support for research in the translational neurosciences, extends the hope that increased understanding of these brain processes could yield meaningful clinical applications.
Several bacteria of the Clostridium genus (C. botulinum) produce 150 kDa di-chainal protein toxins referred as botulinum neurotoxins or BoNTs. They associate with non-toxic companion proteins and form a complex termed botulinum toxin. BoNTs specifically inhibit vesicular neurotransmitter release. The cellular action of BoNTs can be depicted according to a multi-step model : The toxin's heavy chain mediates binding to specific receptors comprised of a ganglioside moiety and a vesicular protein (SV2 for BoNT type A, synaptotagmin for BoNT type B), followed by endocytotic internalisation of the BoNT/receptor complex. Vesicle recycling induces BoNT internalisation. Upon acidification of vesicles, the light chain of the neurotoxin is translocated into the cytosol. Here, this zinc-endopeptidase cleaves one or two among three synaptic proteins (VAMP-synapto-brevin, SNAP25, and syntaxin). As the three protein targets of BoNT play major role in fusion of synaptic vesicles at the release sites, their cleavage is followed by blockade of neurotransmitter exocytosis. Importantly, as the BoNT receptors and intracellular targets are present in all nerve terminals, the BoNTs are not specific for cholinergic transmission. Duration of their inhibitory action is mainly determined by the the life-time of the toxin's light chain in the cytosol. Sprouting of new nerve-endings, which are retracted when the poisoned nerve terminals have recovered full functionality, may lead to anticipated recovery of the poisoned nerve terminals.
The prototype of a gaze-controlled, head-mounted camera (EyeSeeCam) was developed that provides the functionality for fundamental studies on human gaze behavior even under dynamic conditions like locomotion. EyeSeeCam incorporates active visual exploration by saccades with image stabilization during head, object, and surround motion just as occurs in human ocular motor control. This prototype is a first attempt to combine free user mobility with image stabilization and unrestricted exploration of the visual surround in a man-made technical vision system. The gaze-driven camera is supplemented by an additional wide-angle, head-fixed scene camera. In this scene view, the focused gaze view is embedded with picture-in-picture functionality, which provides an approximation of the foveated retinal content. Such a combined video clip can be viewed more comfortably than the saccade-pervaded image of the gaze camera alone. EyeSeeCam consists of a video-oculography (VOG) device and a camera motion device. The benchmark for the evaluation of such a device is the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), which requires a latency on the order of 10 msec between head and eye (camera) movements for proper image stabilization. A new lightweight VOG was developed that is able to synchronously measure binocular eye positions at up to 600 Hz. The camera motion device consists of a parallel kinematics setup with a backlash-free gimbal joint that is driven by piezo actuators with no reduction gears. As a result, the latency between the rotations of an artificial eye and the camera was 10 msec, which is VOR-like.
The promise of new treatments for Huntington's disease (HD) has intensified interest in markers of preclinical onset and progression. Recent research has shown that elementary saccadic tasks may exhibit subtle preclinical abnormalities. Other studies have shown cognitive dysfunction to be a major component of early-HD phenotype. It was hypothesized that the synergistic combination of an oculomotor response with a cognitively demanding paradigm might therefore offer a functional marker that could be superior both to simpler saccadic paradigms and to conventional cognitive tests. The performance of 12 early-symptomatic HD patients and 17 presymptomatic gene carriers on three saccadic paradigms were studied: prosaccades, color-cued centrally triggered saccades and a second-order conditional rule task on which the direction of the saccade was cued by the combination of central and peripheral cues. Eye movements were recorded using a highly portable, patient-friendly infrared recording device. The analysis of the latency distributions showed that the second-order conditional rule task could discriminate between clinical groups, had a predictive potential within the presymptomatic group and appeared to be more sensitive than easier tasks. The simplicity of portable saccadometry, combined with the sensitivity of a complex oculomotor task, may therefore offer a promising functional marker in HD.
Healthy subjects use the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) to stabilize gaze. Labyrinthine-defective humans without VOR still are, to some extent, able to maintain gaze stability during active eye-head movements. Here it is investigated whether this stabilization is due to anticipatory mechanisms or proprioceptive feedback. The head inertia was increased in humans who have undergone bilateral vestibulectomy (vestibular subjects) and in healthy controls during large gaze shifts. This leads to head oscillations in both groups. Whereas controls compensate for head oscillations and maintain gaze stability, vestibular subjects display gaze oscillations along with head oscillations. This indicates that vestibular subjects mainly use learned, anticipatory mechanisms, and not proprioception, to stabilize gaze.
The perception of the subjective direction of up (subjective visual zenith, SVZ) is influenced by various sensory cues, such as, vestibular and visual input, and by the idiotropic vector, which acts as prior information about self-orientation with respect to gravity. Here, we tested the influence of a subject-fixed visual cue, which was uninformative with respect to the direction of gravity, on SVZ settings in different pitch angles. Our results show that in most subjects the SVZ was influenced by the gravity-unrelated visual cue in a way suggesting that the cue's orientation was memorized in the first trial and used thereafter as reference.
An extensible multiple-model Kalman filter framework for eye tracking and video-oculography (VOG) applications is proposed. The Kalman filter predicts future states of a system on the basis of a mathematical model and previous measurements. The predicted values are then compared against the current measurements. In a correcting step, the predicted state is enhanced by the measurements. In this work, the Kalman filter is used for smoothing the VOG data, for on-line classification of eye movements, as well as for predictive real-time control of a gaze-driven head-mounted camera (EyeSeeCam). With multiple models running in parallel, it was possible to distinguish between fixations, slow-phase eye movements, and saccades. Under the assumption that each class of eye movement follows a distinct model, one can decide which types of eye movement occurred by evaluating the probability for each model.
Vestibulospinal reflexes are important for upright stance and locomotor control. Information from both the vestibular and the proprioceptive system must be combined centrally to guarantee appropriate compensation for a physical disturbance. Recent single-unit recordings from the monkey demonstrated vestibulo-proprioceptive interaction in the fastigial nucleus (deep cerebellar nucleus). The present study investigated whether integration of vestibular and proprioceptive signals is compromised in humans with cerebellar degeneration. Control subjects and patients were exposed to binaural, sinusoidal galvanic vestibular stimulation at 0.16 Hz, while their static head-on-trunk position was systematically altered in the head-horizontal plane from 60 degrees left to 60 degrees right. Controls responded to different head-on-trunk positions with fully compensatory changes in the direction of galvanically induced body sway, keeping it aligned with the head-frontal plane. In patients, this compensatory change was lacking. Findings support the assumption that the cerebellum plays a central role in the integration of vestibular and proprioceptive signals in humans. This form of impaired sensory interaction is probably a clinically important component of cerebellar stance and gait ataxia.
Even though joint action is highly developed in humans, not much is known about motor control in physical joint-action tasks. Here we investigated a physical handover task: one subject sequentially passed wooden cubes to another without communicating verbally. Temporal parameters such as reaction time decreased on a trial-to-trial basis, showing that the efficiency of the task is optimized on-line by implicit negotiation between the partners. In contrast, the spatial position of the handover was found to be invariant and trial-independent. Thus, our results suggest that physical joint-action is guided by on-line adaptation and a priori assumptions.
Humans can discriminate whether a change in the direction of gravito-inertial force (GIF) is caused by body tilt or by linear translation. This ability, attributed to vestibular sensory fusion, is often examined by asking subjects to adjust an indicator to match their subjective earth-fixed vertical (SV). We used two different modalities, visual and haptic, to examine continuous adjustment during different combinations of roll rotation and linear translation on a hexapod motion device. We conclude that, in conditions of combined translational and rotational motion, the modality of indication plays a major role for the perception of verticality of the indicator.
Locomotion control uses proprioceptive, visual, and vestibular signals. Previously, we analyzed the visual contribution with visual motion stimulation in roll while participants kept their heads in a normal upright orientation. In this study we applied the same visual disturbance in a head-upright and a nose-down condition. Random dot patterns were constantly rotated in roll at +/-15 degrees/sec on a computer-driven binocular head-mounted display, while the participants walked a distance of 6 m. The stimulation effect was more pronounced in the nose-down condition. These results are similar to the results of previous galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) studies, suggesting that in terms of the direction of action visual motion stimulation in the roll plane is similar to GVS.
Disorientation may draw attention from other activities and its impact on cognition may cause pilot error and problems of concentration in dizzy patients. Tasks used to study the impact of disorientation include number processing, intelligence scales and Brookes matrices (reproduction of 2xD patterns of numbers vs. nonsensical sentences), and Stroop tasks to probe selective effects on spatial versus verbally-loaded tasks. This variety of tasks has been used to evaluate cognitive performance in numerous scenarios, including visual-vestibular mismatch, vection, spinning, coriolis, balancing, and flight maneuvers. A meta-analysis provides an overview of how spatial disorientation may affect cognition: Substantial individual differences in managing disorientation are to be expected; errors on cognitive tasks occur during the first few experiences of a disorienting situation and subjects rapidly learn to &quot;quarantine&quot; this &quot;novelty effect&quot;; familiarity with and practice on a test gives protection against disorientation; task performance continues to suffer if the protagonist is unaware of disorientation; with disorientation that demands external resolution (e.g., interpretation of instruments) the subject must learn to switch priority to the cognitive task; there is a moderate preferential impact of disorientation on spatial tasks; anxiety of real situations probably exacerbates the impact of disorientation.
It has been demonstrated previously that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to right or left posterior parietal cortex (PPC) disrupts perceptual encoding of whole-body displacement during an angular path integration task using only vestibular cues for its completion. The effects of rTMS applied to right PPC (and left motor cortex as a control) during a vestibular-cued motion-reproduction task (i.e., not requiring path integration) were investigated in 5 subjects. Specifically, subjects were rotated in the dark on a motorized Brny chair with raised cosine velocities of durations 1, 2, and 3 s and peak 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees/s. Subjects were required to actively reproduce the motion profile after every rotation with a chair-bound joystick. It was found that rTMS applied to the right PPC during the passive (encoding) stimulus phase had no effect on angular velocity reproduction when compared to control (motor-cortex rTMS). In contrast, motion-duration reproduction was significantly worse with right PPC (versus control motor cortex) rTMS. The results imply that vestibular-derived cues of motion duration, but not velocity, are encoded in human PPC. It was inferred from these and previous data that human PPC is involved in human path integration and motion-duration perception, but not angular velocity self-motion perception.
Schematic drawings are presented of the major anatomical structures involved, along with their functional excitatory and inhibitory connections as the basis of a hypothetical model of visuospatial neglect. It is assumed that multisensory integration centers for attention and orientation (MSO) are represented in the temporo-parietal cortex of both hemispheres, with the dominant MSO being in the right hemisphere (nondominant hemisphere in right-handedness). A lesion of the dominant MSO will cause a left-sided neglect due to a lack of ipsilateral activation of the visual cortex, which is further enhanced by increased inhibition from the contralateral visual cortex. The nondominant MSO in the left hemisphere might be involved in the manifestation of the less frequent and more transient right-sided neglect and in the plastic mechanisms of gradual recovery from a left-sided neglect or extinction.
Without landmarks, navigation is based on information about self-velocity, which is transformed to position or orientation by a process called path integration. Simple path integration tasks, such as reaching a previously seen goal by blindfolded locomotion, were often considered to be automatic and not influenced by unrelated cognitive activity. However, we recently showed that reproduction of self-motion without landmark cues exhibits systematic dual-task interference. Since these experiments did not exclude that the dual task only interferes with memory for self-motion, we performed two additional experiments testing generic path integration. We show that locomotor homing and reaching predefined goals by active self-motion are affected systematically by a concurrent mental task. The similarity of the effects we found to those reported for duration estimation led us to the hypothesis that subjective time may be used as a temporal basis of path integration. Alternatively, path integration and duration estimation may be based on similar underlying neuronal mechanisms, for example, coincidence detection in neural oscillators.
Human head rotation in roll around an earth-horizontal axis constitutes a vestibular stimulus that, by its rotational component, acts on the semicircular canals (SCC) and that, by its tilt of the gravity vector, also acts on the otoliths. Galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) is thought to resemble mainly a rotation in roll. A superposition of sinusoidal GVS with a natural earth-horizontal roll movement was therefore applied in order to cancel the rotation effects and to isolate the otolith activation. By self-adjusting the amplitude and phase of GVS, subjects were able to minimize their sensation of rotation and to generate the perception of a linear translation. The final adjustments are in the range of a model that predicts SCC activation during natural rotations and GVS. This indicates that the tilt-translation ambiguity of the otoliths is resolved by SCC-otolith interaction. It is concluded that GVS might be able to cancel rotations in roll and that the residual tilt of the gravitoinertial force is possibly interpreted as a linear translation.
Gait adaptation is crucial for coping with varying terrain and biological needs. It is also important that any acquired adaptation is expressed only in the appropriate context. Here we review a recent series of experiments that demonstrate inappropriate expression of gait adaptation. We show that a brief period of walking onto a platform previously experienced as moving results in a large forward sway aftereffect, despite full awareness of the changing context. The adaptation mechanisms involved in this paradigm are extremely fast, just 1-2 discrete exposures to the moving platform result in the motor aftereffect. This aftereffect occurs even if subjects deliberately attempt to suppress it. However, it disappears when the location or method of gait is altered, indicating that aftereffect expression is context dependent. Conversely, making gait self-initiated increases sway during the aftereffect. This aftereffect demonstrates a profound dissociation between knowledge and action. The absence of generalization suggests a relatively simple form of motor learning, albeit involving high-level processing by cortical and cerebellar structures.
The &quot;Short Cognitive Performance Test&quot; (Syndrom Kurztest, SKT) is a cognitive screening battery designed to detect memory and attention deficits. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the SKT as a screening tool for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia. A total of 46 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 82 with MCI, and 56 healthy controls were included in the study. Patients and controls were allocated into two groups according to educational level (&lt; or =8 years or &gt;8 years). ROC analyses suggested that the SKT adequately discriminates AD from non-demented subjects (MCI and controls), irrespective of the education group. The test had good sensitivity to discriminate MCI from unimpaired controls in the sub-sample of individuals with more than 8 years of schooling. Our findings suggest that the SKT is a good screening test for cognitive impairment and dementia. However, test results must be interpreted with caution when administered to less-educated individuals.




Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a Th17-mediated autoimmune disease and an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) contains pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that bind toll-like receptors (TLRs), and is necessary to induce EAE. Upstream TLR signals modify innate and adaptive immune responses in EAE. In detail, the common TLR adaptor molecule MyD88 is necessary for induction of EAE, and mediates activation of peripheral myeloid dendritic cells (mDCs) and differentiation of autoimmune Th17 cells. The stimulatory TLRs have not yet been identified for Th17 cells. TLR4 down regulates disease severity in EAE and Th17 cell responses, but promotes Th1 cell responses, which may inhibit the differentiation of Th17 cells. Moreover, treatment with a TLR4 ligand tolerizes mice and prevents EAE. TLR9 down regulates disease severity in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced EAE, whereas it promotes disease in MOG(35-55)-induced EAE. Thus MyD88, TLR4 and TLR9 modify the disease process in EAE. Both endogenous and CFA-derived TLR ligands are implicated to modulate the disease process.
The tauopathies are a diverse class of devastating neurodegenerative disorders, characterized by the hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of the microtubule binding protein tau. Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a tauopathy that affects children,and is caused by mutations in intracellular lipid and cholesterol trafficking proteins. Loss-of-function mutations in the NPC1gene are responsible for 95 percent of all NPC cases, and lead to progressive neurodegeneration and early death. To assess the extent to which tau affects NPC pathology, we generated mice that lack both NPC1 and tau. NPC1/tau double-null mutants exhibit an exacerbated NPC phenotype, including severe systemic manifestations,and die significantly earlier than NPC1 single-null mutants.Since autophagy has been previously implicated in NPC pathogenesis,we investigated the impact of tau deletion on this pathway.Acute reductions of tau in NPC1-deficient fibroblasts significantly decrease autophagic induction and flux, while having no effect on the autophagic pathway in control cells. Here we propose a model in which tau's normal function is critical to the induction of autophagy in NPC1 deficiency, and suggest that this novel mechanism contributes to cellular dysfunction in the tauopathies.

There is a need for novel anxiolytics, which are effective, but do not cause sedation, tolerance, and rebound anxiety on discontinuation. To investigate a procedure that can be used to assess these characteristics preclinically, rats were initially trained to press a lever at a high rate to obtain food. Once trained, periods of punishment were introduced in which electric shocks were superimposed. The intensity of these electric shocks was increased every 90 s from very low (0.01 mA) to sufficiently high to stop most subjects responding (0.4 mA), so that a complete rate/intensity function was obtained during each punishment period. The benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide, and two novel subtype-selective gamma-aminobutyric acid-A agonists, TP003 and TPA023, significantly increased response rates mildly suppressed by intermediate levels of electric shock without any effect on unpunished response rate. Two clinically anxiogenic agents, yohimbine and flumazenil, reduced the rate of punished responding. Aripiprazole and amphetamine reduced both punished and unpunished responding. Repeated treatment with diazepam 2.5 mg/kg daily for 15 days, initially markedly reduced unpunished response rates, but also increased punished response rates, an effect which became greater with repeated treatment. Abrupt cessation of diazepam treatment produced a reduction in punished responding. Diazepam (5 mg/kg daily) produced a greater reduction in unpunished responding, a smaller increase in punished responding, and a larger and longer lasting reduction in punished rates on withdrawal. In conclusion, the procedure detected anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of drugs, and the sedative side effects, development of tolerance, and rebound-anxiety on discontinuation of a benzodiazepine. This procedure should have utility in the characterization of novel treatments of anxiety.
Despite much research, the cognitive effects of scopolamine hydrobromide, a cholinergic antagonist, remain controversial. Scopolamine affects multiple systems each of which can impact behavior. One way to tease apart the effects of the drug is to determine the effects of low scopolamine doses on different abilities. The present experiments compared the effects of low doses of scopolamine on a single group of rats conducting a battery of behavioral tasks: Morris water maze, radial arm maze, delayed non-matching to position tasks, and fixed ratio 5 bar pressing. The behavioral battery ranged from tasks having little cognitive demand to those thought to be based more on attention and spatial-working memory. Control experiments using additional groups of rats assessing peripheral versus central effects were conducted with both liquid and dry reinforcement and with methyl scopolamine. Furthermore, the 5-choice serial reaction time test assessed scopolamine effects on attention. The data show a wide spectrum of central and peripheral cholinergic involvement. The central effects include attention and motor initiation, both of which impact and interact with the mnemonic function of acetylcholine. These results show that a limited disruption of the central cholinergic system can have profound effects on attention and/or psychomotor control before any measurable mnemonic disruption.
The internal validity of several types of experiments in experimental psychology and neuroscience depends in part on the possibility of controlling or manipulating critical lexical variables such as word frequency of occurrence. Two ways of estimating this variable are (1) objective frequency counts and (2) subjective ratings of word frequency. Each method produces estimates that generally agree (i.e., they are highly correlated) but that disagree substantially concerning the relative frequency of a number of words. To investigate this issue more closely, the global and local agreement of subjective frequency estimates was examined in detail for a pool of 6,202 words drawn from the OMNILEX database of French words (Desrochers, 2006; www.omnilex.uottawa.ca). The results indicated that objective and subjective frequencies are strongly correlated, subjective frequencies share a significant amount of bias variance with other lexical characteristics (e.g., imageability), and the codeterminants of subjective frequency are in an antagonistic relationship with one another. The implications of these results for the selection of lexical stimuli are discussed, and multiple variables to aid in item selection are reported. Supplemental materials for this study may be downloaded from brm.psychonomic-journals.org/content/supplemental.
Lipid droplets (LDs) are ubiquitous in eukaryotic cells, while excess free fatty acids and glucose in plasma are converted to triacylglycerol (TAG) and stored as LDs. However, the mechanism for the generation and growth of LDs in cells is largely unknown. We show here that the LC3 lipidation system essential for macroautophagy is involved in LD formation. LD formation accompanied by accumulation of TAG induced by starvation was largely suppressed in the hepatocytes that cannot execute autophagy. Under starvation conditions, LDs in addition to autophagosomes were abundantly formed in the cytoplasm of these tissue cells. Moreover, LC3 was localized on the surface of LDs and LC3-II (lipidation form) was fractionated to a perilipin (LD marker)-positive lipid fraction from the starved liver. Taken together, these results indicate that the LC3 conjugation system is critically involved in lipid metabolism via LD formation.
Along with a large number of carriers, exchangers and &quot;pumps&quot;, the inner mitochondrial membrane contains ion-conducting channels which endow it with controlled permeability to small ions. Some have been shown to be the mitochondrial counterpart of channels present also in other cellular membranes. The manuscript summarizes the current state of knowledge on the major inner mitochondrial membrane channels, properties, identity and proposed functions. Considerable attention is currently being devoted to two K(+)-selective channels, mtK(ATP) and mtBK(Ca). Their activation in &quot;preconditioning&quot; is considered by many to underlie the protection of myocytes and other cells against subsequent ischemic damage. We have recently shown that in apoptotic lymphocytes inner membrane mtK(V)1.3 interacts with the pro-apoptotic protein Bax after the latter has inserted into the outer mitochondrial membrane. Whether the just-discovered mtIK(Ca) has similar cellular role(s) remains to be seen. The Ca(2+) &quot;uniporter&quot; has been characterized electrophysiologically, but still awaits a molecular identity. Chloride-selective channels are represented by the 107 pS channel, the first mitochondrial channel to be observed by patch-clamp, and by a approximately 400 pS pore we have recently been able to fully characterize in the inner membrane of mitochondria isolated from a colon tumour cell line. This we propose to represent a component of the Permeability Transition Pore. The available data exclude the previous tentative identification with porin, and indicate that it coincides instead with the still molecularly unidentified &quot;maxi&quot; chloride channel.
Central nervous system (CNS) complications resulting from diabetes is a problem that is gaining more acceptance and attention. Recent evidence suggests morphological, electrophysiological and cognitive changes, often observed in the hippocampus, in diabetic individuals. Many of the CNS changes observed in diabetic patients and animal models of diabetes are reminiscent of the changes seen in normal aging. The central commonalities between diabetes-induced and age-related CNS changes have led to the theory of advanced brain aging in diabetic patients. This review summarizes the findings of the literature as they relate to the relationship between diabetes and dementia and discusses some of the potential contributors to diabetes-induced CNS impairments.
Vascular risk factors, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia and obesity, have been associated with an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction, particularly in the elderly. The aim of this systematic review was to compare these risk factors with regard to the nature and magnitude of the associated cognitive decrements. Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies that assessed cognitive functioning in non-demented persons in relation to diabetes/impaired glucose metabolism (k = 36), hypertension (k = 24), dyslipidemia (k = 7) and obesity (k = 6) and that adjusted or matched for age, gender and education were included. When possible, effect sizes (Cohen's d) were computed per cognitive domain. Diabetes and hypertension were clearly associated with cognitive decrements; the results for obesity and dyslipidemia were less consistent. Effect sizes were moderate (median approximately -0.3) for all risk factors. Decline was found in all cognitive domains, although the effects on cognitive speed, mental flexibility and memory were most consistent. Methodological aspects of included studies and implications of these findings are discussed.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) detect a great diversity of extracellular stimuli ranging from hormonal peptides, chemokines, neurotransmitters, lipids, nucleotides, amino acids, biogenic amines to ions. G protein-coupled pathways regulate a rich collection of biological processes involved in normal physiological function of the body as well as in pathological progression of diseases. In addition to their function in postmitotic steady-state tissues, GPCRs have been implicated in the differentiation of stem cells and tissue specific progenitor cells during development. Examples of these include the functions of nucleotides and neuropeptides in neuronal differentiation and axon growth, chemokines in lymphocyte differentiation and activation, and other GPCR-mediated processes in the differentiation of adipocytes, osteoblasts and smooth muscle cells. This review summarizes the recent advances in our understanding of the importance of GPCR-linked signaling cascades in the differentiation of different cell lineages.

Testosterone moderates behavioral and physiological responses to the emotion anger. However, little is known about the effects of testosterone in the human brain in the context of the perception of anger. We used fMRI to measure BOLD responses to anger faces in the amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) as a function of endogenous testosterone levels in 24 participants (10 men). In one task, participants passively viewed anger faces and neutral faces and in another task, participants engaged in an oddball task while viewing anger and neutral faces. Men's, but not women's, amygdala BOLD response to anger faces was negatively correlated with their endogenous testosterone levels in both tasks. Men's, but not women's, vmPFC BOLD response to anger faces was positively correlated with their endogenous testosterone levels in the passive-viewing task. In men, amygdala and vmPFC BOLD responses to anger faces were negatively associated. Our results extend past research by documenting associations between endogenous testosterone levels and BOLD responses to anger faces in the amygdala and vmPFC in men, and our results also support research that documents negative associations between amygdala and vmPFC activity.
We describe the medicinal chemistry programme that led to the identification of the EP(1) receptor antagonist GSK269984A (8h). GSK269984A was designed to overcome development issues encountered with previous EP(1) antagonists such as GW848687X and was found to display excellent activity in preclinical models of inflammatory pain. However, upon cross species pharmacokinetic profiling, GSK269984A was predicted to have suboptimal human pharmacokinetic and was thus progressed to a human microdose study.









Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder with both motor symptoms and cognitive deficits such as executive dysfunction. Over the past 100 years, a growing body of literature has suggested that patients with Parkinson's disease have characteristic personality traits such as industriousness, seriousness and inflexibility. They have also been described as 'honest', indicating that they have a tendency not to deceive others. However, these personality traits may actually be associated with dysfunction of specific brain regions affected by the disease. In the present study, we show that patients with Parkinson's disease are indeed 'honest', and that this personality trait might be derived from dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex. Using a novel cognitive task, we confirmed that patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 32) had difficulty making deceptive responses relative to healthy controls (n = 20). Also, using resting-state (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET, we showed that this difficulty was significantly correlated with prefrontal hypometabolism. Our results are the first to demonstrate that the ostensible honesty found in patients with Parkinson's disease has a neurobiological basis, and they provide direct neuropsychological evidence of the brain mechanisms crucial for human deceptive behaviour.
Human African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness, is caused by the protozoan parasites Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense or Trypanosoma brucei gambiense, and is a major cause of systemic and neurological disability throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Following early-stage disease, the trypanosomes cross the blood-brain barrier to invade the central nervous system leading to the encephalitic, or late stage, infection. Treatment of human African trypanosomiasis currently relies on a limited number of highly toxic drugs, but untreated, is invariably fatal. Melarsoprol, a trivalent arsenical, is the only drug that can be used to cure both forms of the infection once the central nervous system has become involved, but unfortunately, this drug induces an extremely severe post-treatment reactive encephalopathy (PTRE) in up to 10% of treated patients, half of whom die from this complication. Since it is unlikely that any new and less toxic drug will be developed for treatment of human African trypanosomiasis in the near future, increasing attention is now being focussed on the potential use of existing compounds, either alone or in combination chemotherapy, for improved efficacy and safety. The kynurenine pathway is the major pathway in the metabolism of tryptophan. A number of the catabolites produced along this pathway show neurotoxic or neuroprotective activities, and their role in the generation of central nervous system inflammation is well documented. In the current study, Ro-61-8048, a high affinity kynurenine-3-monooxygenase inhibitor, was used to determine the effect of manipulating the kynurenine pathway in a highly reproducible mouse model of human African trypanosomiasis. It was found that Ro-61-8048 treatment had no significant effect (P = 0.4445) on the severity of the neuroinflammatory pathology in mice during the early central nervous system stage of the disease when only a low level of inflammation was present. However, a significant (P = 0.0284) reduction in the severity of the neuroinflammatory response was detected when the inhibitor was administered in animals exhibiting the more severe, late central nervous system stage, of the infection. In vitro assays showed that Ro-61-8048 had no direct effect on trypanosome proliferation suggesting that the anti-inflammatory action is due to a direct effect of the inhibitor on the host cells and not a secondary response to parasite destruction. These findings demonstrate that kynurenine pathway catabolites are involved in the generation of the more severe inflammatory reaction associated with the late central nervous system stages of the disease and suggest that Ro-61-8048 or a similar drug may prove to be beneficial in preventing or ameliorating the PTRE when administered as an adjunct to conventional trypanocidal chemotherapy.
The phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) superfamily hydrolyzes phospholipids to release free fatty acids and lysophospholipids, some of which can mediate inflammation and demyelination, hallmarks of the CNS autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis. The expression of two of the intracellular PLA(2)s (cPLA(2) GIVA and iPLA(2) GVIA) and two of the secreted PLA(2)s (sPLA(2) GIIA and sPLA(2) GV) are increased in different stages of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. We show using small molecule inhibitors, that cPLA(2) GIVA plays a role in the onset, and iPLA(2) GVIA in the onset and progression of EAE. We also show a potential role for sPLA(2) in the later remission phase. These studies demonstrate that selective inhibition of iPLA(2) can ameliorate disease progression when treatment is started before or after the onset of symptoms. The effects of these inhibitors on lesion burden, chemokine and cytokine expression as well as on the lipid profile provide insights into their potential modes of action. iPLA(2) is also expressed by macrophages and other immune cells in multiple sclerosis lesions. Our results therefore suggest that iPLA(2) might be an excellent target to block for the treatment of CNS autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis.
Although beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques are a primary diagnostic criterion for Alzheimer's disease, this pathology is commonly observed in the brains of non-demented older individuals. To explore the importance of this pathology in the absence of dementia, we compared levels of amyloid deposition (via 'Pittsburgh Compound-B' (PIB) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging) to hippocampus volume (HV) and episodic memory (EM) in three groups: (i) normal controls (NC) from the Berkeley Aging Cohort (BAC NC, n = 20); (ii) normal controls (NC) from the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (ADNI NC, n = 17); and (iii) PIB+ mild cognitive impairment subjects from the ADNI (ADNI PIB+ MCI, n = 39). Age, gender and education were controlled for in each statistical model, and HV was adjusted for intracranial volume (aHV). In BAC NC, elevated PIB uptake was significantly associated with smaller aHV (P = 0.0016) and worse EM (P = 0.0086). Within ADNI NC, elevated PIB uptake was significantly associated with smaller aHV (P = 0.047) but not EM (P = 0.60); within ADNI PIB+ MCI, elevated PIB uptake was significantly associated with both smaller aHV (P = 0.00070) and worse EM (P = 0.046). To further understand these relationships, a recursive regression procedure was conducted within all ADNI NC and PIB+ MCI subjects (n = 56) to test the hypothesis that HV mediates the relationship between Abeta and EM. Significant correlations were found between PIB index and EM (P = 0.0044), PIB index and aHV (P &lt; 0.0001), as well as between aHV and EM (P &lt; 0.0001). When both aHV and PIB were included in the same model to predict EM, aHV remained significant (P = 0.0015) whereas PIB index was no longer significantly associated with EM (P = 0.50). These results are consistent with a model in which Abeta deposition, hippocampal atrophy, and EM occur sequentially in elderly subjects, with Abeta deposition as the primary event in this cascade. This pattern suggests that declining EM in older individuals may be caused by Abeta-induced hippocampus atrophy.
Glial activation has recently been discovered to modulate several effects of morphine, including analgesia, tolerance, and dependence. The present studies extend this line of investigation by exploring whether glial activation may also affect extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, a neurochemical corollary of morphine-induced drug reward, during a challenge dose of morphine in experiments both with and without precipitated withdrawal. Morphine or vehicle was administered s.c. for 4 days (starting at 15 mg/kg/day up to 20 mg/kg/day), and the glial activation inhibitor AV411 (7.5 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered twice daily. A challenge dose of morphine (22.5 mg/kg) or saline was then given during dialysis. In the first experiment, naloxone (10 mg/kg) was administered 1h after morphine during dialysis in AV411- or vehicle-treated rats, and behavioral signs of somatic withdrawal were assessed during microdialysis. In the second experiment, using the same dosing regimen, sampling continued 3 h after morphine or saline in AV411- or vehicle-treated rats. NAc DA increased in vehicle-treated rats significantly more than in AV411-treated rats before naloxone treatment, and withdrawal symptoms were significantly reduced in AV411-treated rats. The decrease in morphine-induced NAc DA by AV411 was persistent, lasting 3+h post-morphine. These results indicate that glial activation contributes to the effects of morphine on NAc DA, which is associated with somatic signs of precipitated withdrawal.
To more fully characterize the sickness response in young (3 mo) and older (24 mo) rats, we measured core body temperature (CBT), activity level, and body weight changes for 7 days following a peripheral immune challenge with Escherichia coli. CBT increases were delayed and blunted during the 12h following infection in older rats. Indeed, in aging subjects the initial response was hypothermia, but this was followed by a significant and prolonged elevation in CBT lasting 3 days. Young rats, in contrast, generated a rapid and robust CBT elevation lasting just over a day. Activity level was significantly reduced only on the day of E. coli administration in both young and older rats. Body weight loss was equivalent in both age groups one day after E. coli administration, although there was a trend for older rats to continue losing more weight across the next 6 days than in young rats. This is the first study to examine CBTs in young and older rats for a protracted amount of time, thereby revealing that aging rats do have an exaggerated, albeit delayed, fever which is in keeping with other exaggerated sickness behavioral responses observed in aging rodents.
Studies in humans and in animals indicate that psychological stress can modulate immune responses. Here we demonstrate that exposure to psychological stress (restraint stress) suppresses innate interferon (IFN)-gamma production in mice following an in vivo lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. IFN-gamma signaling was also impaired by stress, as indicated by reduced STAT1 phosphorylation and reduced expression of the IFN-gamma-inducible genes, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and IFN-gamma-inducible protein 10 (IP-10/CXCL10). Furthermore, restraint stress suppressed production of the IFN-gamma inducing cytokine interleukin (IL)-12 and increased production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, which can inhibit both IL-12 and IFN-gamma production. However, using IL-10 knockout mice, we demonstrate that IL-10 does not mediate the suppressive effect of restraint stress on innate IFN-gamma production. Restraint stress increased corticosterone concentrations in serum and spleen, and consistent with a role for glucocorticoids in the immunosuppressive actions of stress, pre-treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone completely blocked the stress-related suppression of innate IFN-gamma production. Addition of exogenous IL-12 to LPS-stimulated spleen cells reversed the suppressive effect of both restraint stress and corticosterone on IFN-gamma production. These data suggest that reduced IL-12 production is a key event in stress-induced suppression of innate IFN-gamma production. Finally, we demonstrate that pre-treatment with the anxiolytic drug chlordiazepoxide prevents the suppressive effect of stress on innate IFN-gamma production, and also attenuates the stress-induced increase in circulating corticosterone concentrations.
MRI appearance of Sturge-Weber Syndrome (SWS) in patients with Tuberous Sclerosis (TSC) has been rarely reported. We describe a new patient with confirmed diagnosis of TSC and MRI appearance of SWS and review the pertinent literature. We discuss these findings on the basis of the new classifications of brain malformations, which take into account the role of neural-crest. The coexistence of signs of both diseases in the same individuals could be explained by common altered pathways that could lead to an anomalous angiogenesis.


In a world that is becoming more multilingual, bilingual aphasia is a clinical problem with a major clinical impact. However, at present we lack causal explanations of the many features of recovery patterns and there is no consensus about the language in which the patient should receive speech therapy. Further advance requires an understanding of the dynamics of recovery. In a novel longitudinal, single-case study, we combine fMRI and dynamic causal modeling to examine the effects of specific language treatment for picture naming on the representation and control of language areas during the course of recovery. Improved performance in the treated language was associated with increased activation in language areas. Consistent with theoretical expectations, causal modeling indicated increased connectedness of the control and language networks for the treated language. This functional approach holds great promise for investigating recovery patterns and the effects of specific language treatment in bilingual aphasic patients.
A central issue in cognitive neuroscience today concerns how distributed neural networks in the brain that are used in language learning and processing can be involved in non-linguistic cognitive sequence learning. This issue is informed by a wealth of functional neurophysiology studies of sentence comprehension, along with a number of recent studies that examined the brain processes involved in learning non-linguistic sequences, or artificial grammar learning (AGL). The current research attempts to reconcile these data with several current neurophysiologically based models of sentence processing, through the specification of a neural network model whose architecture is constrained by the known cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical (CSTC) neuroanatomy of the human language system. The challenge is to develop simulation models that take into account constraints both from neuranatomical connectivity, and from functional imaging data, and that can actually learn and perform the same kind of language and artificial syntax tasks. In our proposed model, structural cues encoded in a recurrent cortical network in BA47 activate a CSTC circuit to modulate the flow of lexical semantic information from BA45 to an integrated representation of meaning at the sentence level in BA44/6. During language acquisition, corticostriatal plasticity is employed to allow closed class structure to drive thematic role assignment. From the AGL perspective, repetitive internal structure in the AGL strings is encoded in BA47, and activates the CSTC circuit to predict the next element in the sequence. Simulation results from Caplan's [Caplan, D., Baker, C., &amp; Dehaut, F. (1985). Syntactic determinants of sentence comprehension in aphasia. Cognition, 21, 117-175] test of syntactic comprehension, and from Gomez and Schvaneveldts' [Gomez, R. L., &amp; Schvaneveldt, R. W. (1994). What is learned from artificial grammars?. Transfer tests of simple association. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 20, 396-410] artificial grammar learning experiments are presented. These results are discussed in the context of a brain architecture for learning grammatical structure for multiple natural languages, and non-linguistic sequences.
fMR-Adaptation, where a pair of identical stimuli elicits a smaller neural response than a pair of dissimilar stimuli has been extensively used to study object identification and classification as well as memory. Thus far this technique has found limited application in evaluating brain areas sensitive to meaning, language and control of language production. These studies are reviewed together with suggestions as to how varying inter-stimulus repetition lag, dimension of interest and evaluating inter-individual differences may shed new light on how different languages are acquired and represented in the brain.
Perceptual training was employed to characterize individual differences in non-native speech sound learning. Fifty-nine adult English speakers were trained to distinguish the Hindi dental-retroflex contrast, as well as a tonal pitch contrast. Training resulted in overall group improvement in the ability to identify and to discriminate the phonetic and the tonal contrasts, but there were considerable individual differences in performance. A category boundary effect during the post-training discrimination of the Hindi but not of the tonal contrast suggests different learning mechanisms for these two stimulus types. Specifically, our results suggest that successful learning of the speech sounds involves the formation of a long-term memory category representation for the new speech sound.
Schizophrenia has been observed to be associated with various abnormalities in cytokines and cytokine receptors that have been one of the recent focal points of immunological research in schizophrenia. Recent reports have showed that IL-3 gene, colony stimulating factor 2 receptor alpha (CSF2RA) and IL-3 receptor alpha (IL3RA) are associated with schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to investigate IL3RA gene variants in schizophrenia among a Chinese population by using a family-based association approach. Our sample included 101 Chinese parent-offspring trios of Han descent. All subjects were genotype for IL3RA-rs6603272 and -rs6645249 using PCR techniques. Single marker analysis showed a significant association for rs6603272 (X(2)=5.15, df=1, P=0.023), but not for the rs6645249. However, there was a significant genotypic association of both the polymorphisms with schizophrenia (for rs6603272, X(2)=6.15, df=2, P=0.046; for rs6645249, X(2)=21.79, df=2, P=1.85e-005). Haplotype TDT was statistically significant (X(2)=5.14, df=1, P=0.023), with the rs6603272(T)-rs6645249(G) haplotype significantly associated with schizophrenia (OR=1.66; 95% CI=1.08-2.55). In conclusion, our family-based association study also revealed a small but significant contribution of the IL3RA variants to susceptibility to schizophrenia in a Chinese population.
In order to enhance understanding of TRPV1 contributions to thermoregulation, we measured the effects of a TRPV1 receptor antagonist, A-889425, on thermoregulatory neurons in the medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus (mPOA) of rats while simultaneously monitoring rectal temperature (T(r)). Administration of A-889425 (4 micromol/kg, i.v.) significantly increased T(r) by 0.42+/-0.02 degrees C in anesthetized rats. Warm-sensitive (WS) neurons in the mPOA increase firing in response to body warming, and when active stimulate heat loss and inhibit heat production. WS neurons were initially inhibited by A-889425. Subsequently, WS neuronal activity diverged, differentiating WS neurons into two subgroups. One group of WS neurons continued to be inhibited during the recording period while another group of &quot;biphasic&quot; WS neurons increased firing as T(r) increased. Cold-sensitive (CS) neurons fire at a higher rate during cooling of the body, and when active, may contribute to heat production. Injection of A-889425 affected CS neurons in a manner opposite to the biphasic WS neurons; activity was initially increased followed by a later decrease. Direct administration of A-889425 into the mPOA (10 and 30 nmol) or spinal cord (30 nmol) did not affect T(r). Disruption of abdominal TRPV1 receptor function by injection of the TRPV1 receptor agonist, resiniferatoxin (20 microg/kg, i.p.), 9-15 days prior to experiments, blocked the effects of systemically injected A-889425 on T(r) and mPOA neuronal activity. These data demonstrate that antagonist block of abdominal TRPV1 receptors indirectly modulates activity of thermoregulatory neurons in the mPOA in a manner that is consistent with producing an acute rise in body temperature.
The recent development of brain atlases with computer graphics templates, and of huge databases of neurohistochemical data on the internet, has forced a systematic re-examination of errors associated with comparing histological features between adjacent sections of the same brain, between brains treated in the same way, and between brains from groups treated in different ways. The long-term goal is to compare as accurately as possible a broad array of data from experimental brains within the framework of reference atlases. Main sources of error, each of which ideally should be measured and minimized, include intrinsic biological variation, linear and nonlinear distortion of histological sections, plane of section differences between each brain, section alignment problems, and sampling errors. These variables are discussed, along with approaches to error estimation and minimization in terms of a specific example-the distribution of neuroendocrine neurons in the rat paraventricular nucleus. Based on the strategy developed here, the main conclusion is that the best long-term solution is a high-resolution 3D computer graphics model of the brain that can be sliced in any plane and used as the framework for quantitative neuroanatomy, databases, knowledge management systems, and structure-function modeling. However, any approach to the automatic annotation of neuroanatomical data-relating its spatial distribution to a reference atlas-should deal systematically with these sources of error, which reduce localization reliability.
Motor imagery is viewed as a window to cognitive motor processes and particularly to motor control. Mental simulation theory [Jeannerod, M., 2001. Neural simulation of action: a unifying mechanism for motor cognition. NeuroImage 14, 103-109] stresses that cognitive motor processes such as motor imagery and action observation share the same representations as motor execution. This article presents an overview of motor imagery studies in cognitive psychology and neuroscience that support and extend predictions from mental simulation theory. In general, behavioral data as well as fMRI and TMS data demonstrate that motor areas in the brain play an important role in motor imagery. After discussing results on a close overlap between mental and actual performance durations, the review focuses specifically on studies reporting an activation of primary motor cortex during motor imagery. This focus is extended to studies on motor imagery in patients. Motor imagery is also analyzed in more applied fields such as mental training procedures in patients and athletes. These findings support the notion that mental training procedures can be applied as a therapeutic tool in rehabilitation and in applications for power training.
Plasticity in the brain reaches far beyond a mere changing of synaptic strengths. Recent time-lapse imaging in the living brain reveals ongoing structural plasticity by forming or breaking of synapses, motile spines, and re-routing of axonal branches in the developing and adult brain. Some forms of structural plasticity do not follow Hebbian- or anti-Hebbian paradigms of plasticity but rather appear to contribute to the homeostasis of network activity. Four decades of lesion studies have brought up a wealth of data on the mutual interdependence of neuronal activity, neurotransmitter release and neuronal morphogenesis and network formation. Here, we review these former studies on structural plasticity in the context of recent experimental studies. We compare spontaneous and experience-dependent structural plasticity with lesion-induced (reactive) structural plasticity that occurs during development and in the adult brain. Understanding the principles of neural network reorganization on a structural level is relevant for a deeper understanding of long-term memory formation as well as for the treatment of neurological diseases such as stroke.
In everyday life, emotional events are perceived by multiple sensory systems. Research has shown that recognition of emotions in one modality is biased towards the emotion expressed in a simultaneously presented but task irrelevant modality. In the present study, we combine visual and auditory stimuli that convey similar affective meaning but have a low probability of co-occurrence in everyday life. Dynamic face-blurred whole body expressions of a person grasping an object while expressing happiness or sadness are presented in combination with fragments of happy or sad instrumental classical music. Participants were instructed to categorize the emotion expressed by the visual stimulus. The results show that recognition of body language is influenced by the auditory stimuli. These findings indicate that crossmodal influences as previously observed for audiovisual speech can also be obtained from the ignored auditory to the attended visual modality in audiovisual stimuli that consist of whole bodies and music.

Parietal neuronal populations have been found which respond bimodally to visual and somatosensory input regarding one's own limbs or even perceived haptic input of a false limb (Graziano et al., Science 290:1782-1785, 2000). Further, neuronal populations have been observed which respond preferentially to visual stimuli presented in spatial congruence with our hands (Graziano, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 96:10418-10421, 1999). In this study, we examined event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by laser dots projected onto or above participants' index and middle fingers during a sustained-attention task. We hypothesized that visual stimuli projected onto the hand would elicit differences in ERP deflections related to sensory gating and categorization in comparison to when projected close to the hand. Participants responded via a footswitch to rare target flashes of light occurring on or directly above the middle finger of the attended hand. We found enhanced amplitudes of the N1 and P3 deflections when the stimuli fell onto the finger tips as opposed to above them. Furthermore, the N1 for unattended stimuli was less suppressed when the lasers were projected onto the fingers. Behaviorally, participants were less accurate to targets when the lasers fell onto the fingers. We conclude that when the lasers appear to &quot;touch&quot; the participants, they act to automatically draw participants' attention. Thus visual stimuli projected onto the fingers of the 'unattended' hand are harder to filter out, leading to decreases in accuracy during task performance.
It is well known that, following an early visual deprivation, the neural network involved in processing auditory spatial information undergoes a profound reorganization. In particular, several studies have demonstrated an extensive activation of occipital brain areas, usually regarded as essentially &quot;visual&quot;, when early blind subjects (EB) performed a task that requires spatial processing of sounds. However, little is known about the possible consequences of the activation of occipitals area on the function of the large cortical network known, in sighted subjects, to be involved in the processing of auditory spatial information. To address this issue, we used event-related transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to induce virtual lesions of either the right intra-parietal sulcus (rIPS) or the right dorsal extrastriate occipital cortex (rOC) at different delays in EB subjects performing a sound lateralization task. Surprisingly, TMS applied over rIPS, a region critically involved in the spatial processing of sound in sighted subjects, had no influence on the task performance in EB. In contrast, TMS applied over rOC 50 ms after sound onset, disrupted the spatial processing of sounds originating from the contralateral hemifield. The present study shed new lights on the reorganisation of the cortical network dedicated to the spatial processing of sounds in EB by showing an early contribution of rOC and a lesser involvement of rIPS.
Over the last year, many reliable genetic associations with complex diseases have been reported including some associations with complex neurological and psychiatric diseases. Many of these disease associations do not map to coding changes in protein open reading frames, but rather are believed to lead to genetic variability in gene expression and splicing. Such effects can be dissected by studies, which use genetic variability in mRNA expression as quantitative traits and regress these traits against genotype.





This review assesses the current opinion towards early palliative care in neurology and discusses the existing evidence base. A comprehensive literature search resulted in 714 publications with 53 being directly relevant to the scope of this review. The current literature reflects primarily expert opinion and describes a growing interest in the early introduction of palliative principles into neurological care. Early initiation of palliative interventions has the potential to improve quality of life, enhance symptom management and assist in advance care planning. Further data is required to determine whether this shift in philosophy has a positive impact on patient care.


Calcium is a key regulator for expression of genes relevant to survival and maturation of newborn neurons. Mammalian hippocampal dentate gyrus generates new granule cells (GCs) throughout adult life. We identified young and mature GCs in hippocampi of young adult mice according to their electrical properties, and investigated contributions of Na/Ca exchanger (NCX), sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA), plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) and mitochondria to Ca(2+) clearance in somata of GCs. Somatic Ca(2+) clearance was increased by about 50% as GCs matured. NCX activity increased proportionally during maturation with its relative contribution kept about 40% both in young and mature GCs. On the other hand, the developmental increases in activities of mitochondria and SERCA resulted in higher contributions to Ca(2+) clearance in mature GCs than in young GCs. Especially mitochondrial function was most highly enhanced during maturation. PMCA activity, however, did not increase during maturation. Low Ca(2+) clearance in immature GCs might facilitate higher Ca(2+) accumulation during network activity, which in turn help survival of young GCs.
Recent work has demonstrated a role for Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange in potentiation of the Ca(2+) entry elicited through the human platelet store-operated channel by controlling a Mn(2+)-impermeable Ca(2+) entry pathway. Here we demonstrate that this involves control over the secretion of dense granules by a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) and so autocrine signalling between platelets. NCX inhibition reduced dense granule secretion. The reduction in SOCE elicited by NCX inhibition could be reversed by the addition of uninhibited donor cells, their releasate alone, or exogenous ADP and 5-HT. The use of specific receptor antagonists indicated that ATP, ADP and 5-HT all played a role in NCX-dependent autocrine signalling between platelets following thapsigargin stimulation, by activating Mn(2+)-impermeable Ca(2+) entry pathways. These data provide further insight into the mechanisms underlying the known interrelationship between platelet Ca(2+) signalling and dense granule secretion, and suggest an important role for the NCX in potentiation of platelet activation via dense granule secretion and so autocrine signalling. Our results caution the interpretation of platelet Ca(2+) signalling studies involving pharmacological or other manipulations that do not assess possible effects on NCX activity and dense granule secretion.
Excessive activation of the AT(1A) receptor (AT(1A)R) by angiotensin II (Ang II) is implicated in the age-related development of hypertension, diabetes, and kidney disease. AT(1A)R-deficient mice live longer and have lower levels of oxidative stress than wild-type mice (Benigni et al., 2009), suggesting a role for AT(1A)R signaling in the aging process.
Hypoglycaemic coma and brain injury are potential complications of insulin therapy. Hippocampal neurons are particularly vulnerable to hypoglycaemic stress leading to memory impairment. In the present article, we have investigated the dopamine (DA) content, homovanillic acid (HVA)/DA turnover ratio, DA D(1) and DA D(2) receptors in the hippocampus of insulin-induced hypoglycaemic (IIH) and streptozotocin induced diabetic rats where brain functions are impaired. The DA content decreased significantly in hippocampus of diabetic, diabetic +IIH and control +IIH rats compared to control. The HVA/DA turnover ratio also increased significantly in diabetic, diabetic +IIH and control +IIH rats compared to control. Scatchard analysis using [(3)H] DA in the hippocampus showed a significant increase in DA receptors of diabetic, diabetic +IIH and control +IIH rats with decreased affinity. Gene expression studies using Real-time PCR showed an increased expression of DA D(1) and DA D(2) receptors in the hippocampus of hypoglycaemic and diabetic rats. Our results indicate that the dopaminergic system is impaired in the hippocampus of hypoglycaemic and hyperglycaemic rats impairing DA related functions of hippocampus. We observed a prominent dopaminergic functional disturbance in the hypoglycaemic condition than in hyperglycaemia compared to control. This dopaminergic dysfunction in hippocampus during hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia is suggested to contribute to cognitive and memory deficits. This will have clinical significance in the treatment of diabetes.

Heterotrimeric G proteins regulate multiple effectors of which some are mediated via the Gbetagamma dimers. There is evidence to suggest that the functions of Gbetagamma dimers are not shared by all possible permutations of Gbetagamma complexes. Here, we report our efforts in defining the formation of distinct Gbetagamma dimers and their functional differences in activating phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) isoforms. Co-immunoprecipitation assays using Cos-7 cells transiently expressing 48 different combinations of Gbeta(1-4) and Ggamma(1-5, 7-13) subunits showed that Gbeta(1) and Gbeta(4) could form dimers with all known Ggamma subunits, whereas several dimers could not be observed for Gbeta(2) and Gbeta(3). All Gbeta(1)gamma and Gbeta(2)gamma dimers significantly stimulated PLCbeta isoforms (PLCbeta(2)&gt; or =PLCbeta(3)&gt;PLCbeta(1)), but Gbeta(3)gamma and Gbeta(4)gamma dimers were poor activators of PLCbeta(1) and exhibited preference for PLCbeta(3) and PLCbeta(2), respectively. All Gbeta subunits revealed to date contain the previously identified PLCbeta(2)-interacting residues, but their neighboring residues in the proposed 3-D structures are different. To test if differences in these neighboring residues affect the interactions with PLCbeta isoforms, we generated several Gbeta(3) mutants by replacing one or more of these residues with their Gbeta(1) counterparts. One of these mutants (M120I, S140A and A141G triple mutant) acquired enhanced PLCbeta(2)-activating functions when co-expressed with different Ggamma subunits, while the corresponding stimulation on PLCbeta(3) was not altered. Taken together, our results show that the exact composition of a Gbetagamma dimer can determine its selectivity for activating PLCbeta isoforms, and certain residues in Gbeta(3) may account for the preferential stimulation of PLCbeta(3) by Gbeta(3)gamma dimers.
The continuing and even expanding use of genetically modified mice to investigate the normal physiology and development of the enteric nervous system and for the study of pathophysiology in mouse models emphasises the need to identify all the neuron types and their functional roles in mice. An investigation that chemically and morphologically defined all the major neuron types with cell bodies in myenteric ganglia of the mouse small intestine was recently completed. The present study was aimed at the submucosal ganglia, with the purpose of similarly identifying the major neuron types with cell bodies in these ganglia. We found that the submucosal neurons could be divided into three major groups: neurons with vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactivity (51% of neurons), neurons with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactivity (41% of neurons) and neurons that expressed neither of these markers. Most VIP neurons contained neuropeptide Y (NPY) and about 40% were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH); 22% of all submucosal neurons were TH/VIP. VIP-immunoreactive nerve terminals in the mucosa were weakly immunoreactive for TH but separate populations of TH- and VIP-immunoreactive axons innervated the arterioles in the submucosa. Of the ChAT neurons, about half were immunoreactive for both somatostatin and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Calretinin immunoreactivity occurred in over 90% of neurons, including the VIP neurons. The submucosal ganglia and submucosal arterioles were innervated by sympathetic noradrenergic neurons that were immunoreactive for TH and NPY; no VIP and few calretinin fibres innervated submucosal neurons. We conclude that the submucosal ganglia contain cell bodies of VIP/NPY/TH/calretinin non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons, VIP/NPY/calretinin vasodilator neurons, ChAT/CGRP/somatostatin/calretinin cholinergic secretomotor neurons and small populations of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons whose targets have yet to be identified. No evidence for the presence of type-II putative intrinsic primary afferent neurons was found.
Active masculinization by fetal testosterone is believed to be a major factor behind sex differentiation of the brain. We tested this hypothesis in a 15O-H2O positron emission tomography study of 11 women with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), a condition with high fetal testosterone, and 26 controls. Two indices of cerebral dimorphism were measured--functional connectivity and cerebral activation by 2 putative pheromones (androstadienone [AND] and estratetraenol [EST]), previously reported to activate the hypothalamic networks in a sex-differentiated manner. Smelling of unscented air was the baseline condition, also used for measurements of functional connectivity from the amygdala. In CAH women and control women AND activated the anterior hypothalamus, and EST the amygdala, piriform, and anterior insular cortex. The pattern was reciprocal in the male controls. Also the functional connections were similar in CAH women and control women, but different in control men. Women displayed connections with the contralateral amygdala, cingulate, and the hypothalamus, men with the basal ganglia, the insular and the sensorimotor cortex. Furthermore, the connections were in CAH and control women more widespread from the left amygdala, in men from the right amygdala. Thus, we find no evidence for masculinization of the limbic circuits in women with high fetal testosterone.
Both emotion and sleep are independently known to modulate declarative memory. Memory can be facilitated by emotion, leading to enhanced consolidation across increasing time delays. Sleep also facilitates offline memory processing, resulting in superior recall the next day. Here we explore whether rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and aspects of its unique neurophysiology, underlie these convergent influences on memory. Using a nap paradigm, we measured the consolidation of neutral and negative emotional memories, and the association with REM-sleep electrophysiology. Subjects that napped showed a consolidation benefit for emotional but not neutral memories. The No-Nap control group showed no evidence of a consolidation benefit for either memory type. Within the Nap group, the extent of emotional memory facilitation was significantly correlated with the amount of REM sleep and also with right-dominant prefrontal theta power during REM. Together, these data support the role of REM-sleep neurobiology in the consolidation of emotional human memories, findings that have direct translational implications for affective psychiatric and mood disorders.
Smooth pursuit eye movements are used to continuously track slowly moving visual objects. A peculiar property of the smooth pursuit system is the nonlinear increase in sensitivity to changes in target motion with increasing pursuit velocities. We investigated the role of the frontal eye fields (FEFs) in this dynamic gain control mechanism by application of transcranial magnetic stimulation. Subjects were required to pursue a slowly moving visual target whose motion consisted of 2 components: a constant velocity component at 4 different velocities (0, 8, 16, and 24 deg/s) and a superimposed high-frequency sinusoidal oscillation (4 Hz, +/-8 deg/s). Magnetic stimulation of the FEFs reduced not only the overall gain of the system, but also the efficacy of the dynamic gain control. We thus provide the first direct evidence that the FEF population is significantly involved in the nonlinear computation necessary for continuously adjusting the feedforward gain of the pursuit system. We discuss this with relation to current models of smooth pursuit.
The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) assesses decision-making under initially ambiguous conditions. Neuropsychological and neuroimaging data suggest, albeit inconsistently, the involvement of numerous prefrontal cortical regions in task performance. To clarify the contributions of different prefrontal regions, we developed and validated a version of the IGT specifically modified for event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. General decision-making in healthy males elicited activation in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Choices from disadvantageous versus advantageous card decks produced activation in the medial frontal gyrus, lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and insula. Moreover, activation in these regions, along with the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) and secondary somatosensory cortex, was positively associated with task performance. Lateral OFC and pre-SMA activation also showed a significant modulation over time, suggesting a role in learning. Striato-thalamic regions responded to wins more than losses. These results both replicate and add to previous findings and help to reconcile inconsistencies in neuropsychological data. They reveal that deciding advantageously under initially ambiguous conditions may require both continuous and dynamic processes involving both the ventral and dorsal prefrontal cortex.
As children become proficient readers, there are substantial changes in the eye movements that subserve reading. Some of these changes reflect universal developmental factors while others may be specific to a particular writing system. This study attempts to disentangle effects of universal and script-dependent factors by comparing the development of eye movements of English and Chinese speakers. Third-grade (English: mean age = 9.1 years, n = 23; Chinese: mean age = 9.4 years, n = 25), fifth-grade (English: mean age = 11.2 years, n = 30; Chinese: mean age = 11.4, n = 25), and undergraduate students (English: n = 26; Chinese: n = 30) read stories in their native language while their eye movements were recorded. Results show a mixture of orthography-dependent factors with others that are remarkably parallel across these two very different writing systems. Orthographic effects are also more pronounced for children than for skilled adult readers. Implications for theories of reading eye movements and reading development are discussed.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that developmental differences exist in the use of learning strategies in primary school children. Serial and subjective clustering in a multitrial Pictorial Verbal Learning Test (PVLT) were compared in 79 children aged 6-12. Correlation analyses indicated that serial clustering yielded better performance when information was presented on the initial trials of the test. Subjective clustering was superior when information was presented repeatedly, i.e., after three or more trials. Analyses of variance indicated that subjective clustering was used more often in older children with repeated presentations. On the other hand, there was no increase in the use of serial clustering with age and with repeated presentations. The findings imply that training in the use of proper strategies could have benefit for children who use an inefficient learning strategy and/or have a learning problem. In addition, they point to the importance of the factor &quot;age&quot; in relation to the way information is presented to children.
Aicardi syndrome is an X-linked dominant disorder characterized by the pathognonomic association of three clinical signs: agenesis of the corpus callosum, infantile spasms, and chorioretinal lacunae. This is a severe syndrome with an estimated survival rate of 76% at 6 years and 40% at 14 years and a maximum developmental level like a 12-month-old baby in 91% of cases. We illustrate a case of Aicardi syndrome with bilateral, small chorioretinal lacunae, infantile spasms with a typical hypsarrhythmia, defects of thoracic vertebra and bilateral absence of the 12th rib associated with an arachnoid cyst of the quadrigeminal cistern, and presence of the corpus callosum with a favorable outcome.

Mutation of the atlastin gene (SPG3A) is responsible for approximately 10% of autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia (AD-HSP) cases. The goal of this study was to identify novel disease causing atlastin mutations. Atlastin nucleotide variations were detected by direct sequencing of all 14 exons in 70 autosomal dominant (AD), 16 single sibship and 14 sporadic spastic paraplegia patients. Six mis-sense mutations (four of which were novel) were identified in six unrelated AD-HSP kindreds in exons 4, 7 and 8 of the atlastin gene. One kindred with a novel mutation showed variability in clinical phenotype and age of onset. Mutations are predicted to decrease GTPase activity, cause morphological abnormalities of the endoplasmic reticulum and prevent maturation of the Golgi complex resulting in impaired vesicle trafficking. Our study significantly adds to the spectrum of mutations and clinical phenotype of SPG3A. We advocate that all spastin mutation negative AD-HSP kindreds should be screened for pathogenic atlastin mutations regardless of age of onset or phenotypic complexity.


Basic animal studies and human imaging studies have contributed to our understanding of the psychobiology of love and attachment. There are overlaps and distinctions in the neuronal circuitry of maternal love, romantic love, and long-term attachment. In these circuits, important molecules, which have been demonstrated to play a role in the psychobiology of social bonding include dopamine, serotonin, opioids, oxytocin, and vasopressin. Particular genetic and environmental variations contribute to social-bonding phenotypes, consistent with an evolutionary perspective on the value of these behaviors. Advances in the psychobiology of social bonds have led to hypotheses about the pharmacotherapy of disorders of attachment.

A major problem in visual neuroscience is to distinguish neuronal activity which is directly related to the conscious percept. The word &quot;directly&quot; is used here as opposed to an indirect relationship, as is for example the case with activity in the retina, which is produced by a stimulus in the outside world and will eventually lead to the perception of this stimulus. As for the word &quot;related&quot;, it is used to mean activity which creates the perceptual experience or, even more extremely, activity that is the perceptual experience. The distinction between the two (is vs. creates) is not straightforward, although there might be some differences between them. Philosophers would argue that they have a different phenomenology, the percept existing only for the perceiving person, whereas the underlying neuronal activation exists for all to observe. One could go on to argue that it is actually not the neuronal activation that &quot;everybody&quot; observes, but each one observes his own percept of it, which is also unique and subjective. Still, the content of this percept and the one of the original stimulus are quite different. The purpose of the present review is not to dig deep into such philosophical issues, but rather to give an overview of neuroscientific approaches trying to locate the neural correlate of conscious perception.
Animal models of episodic memory-the ability to recall events from the past along with relevant spatial, temporal and other contextual detail-have been criticized on the grounds that it is difficult to determine if animals engage in the &quot;mental time travel&quot; that accompanies episodic recall in humans. It is possible that animals rely on mechanisms different from those operative in humans. We have added a new dimension to these concerns by showing that a test widely considered to measure episodic memory in humans could be constructed such that it measures nonconscious (implicit) memory under certain test parameters. The same parameters are common in tests frequently used to study recognition in nonhuman animals. In particular, recognition was driven by implicit memory when (1) recognition decisions could not be guided by semantic information, and (2) decisions were made with relatively high automaticity. These findings suggest that nonhuman animals may rely on implicit memory processing in many episodic-memory testing circumstances, as semantic content is minimal and automaticity is likely after the extended practice usually required. Identifying factors that promote and discourage recognition based on implicit memory is therefore necessary for creating accurate cognitive and neurobiological models of memory processing in humans and other animals.



The transcription factor gene Sox9 plays various roles in development, including differentiation of the skeleton, gonads, glia, and heart. Other functions of Sox9 remain enigmatic. Because Sox9 protein regulates expression of target genes, the identification of Sox9 targets should facilitate an understanding of the mechanisms of Sox9 action. To help identify Sox9 targets, we used microarray expression profiling to compare wild-type embryos to mutant embryos lacking activity for both sox9a and sox9b, the zebrafish co-orthologs of Sox9. Candidate genes were further evaluated by whole-mount in situ hybridization in wild-type and sox9 single and double mutant embryos. Results identified genes expressed in cartilage (col2a1a and col11a2), retina (calb2a, calb2b, crx, neurod, rs1, sox4a and vsx1) and pectoral fin bud (klf2b and EST AI722369) as candidate targets for Sox9. Cartilage is a well-characterized Sox9 target, which validates this strategy, whereas retina represents a novel Sox9 function. Analysis of mutant phenotypes confirmed that Sox9 helps regulate the number of Mller glia and photoreceptor cells and helps organize the neural retina. These roles in eye development were previously unrecognized and reinforce the multiple functions that Sox9 plays in vertebrate development.
The Zic1 transcription factor plays multiple roles during early development, for example, in patterning the early neural plate and formation of the neural crest, somites, and cerebellum. To identify direct downstream target genes of Zic1, a microarray screen was conducted in Xenopus laevis that identified 85 genes upregulated twofold or more. These include transcription factors, receptors, enzymes, proteins involved in retinoic acid signaling, and an aquaglyceroporin (aqp-3b), but surprisingly no genes known to be involved in cell proliferation. We show that both aqp-3 and aqp-3b were expressed in adult tissues, while during early embryonic development, only aqp-3b was transcribed. During neurula stages, aqp-3b was expressed specifically in the neural folds. This pattern of aqp-3b expression closely resembled that of NF-protocadherin (NFPC), which is involved in cell adhesion and neural tube closure. Aqp-3b may also be involved in neural tube closure, since mammalian Aqp-3 promotes cell migration and proliferation.
Protocadherins constitute the largest subgroup within the cadherin superfamily of cell surface molecules. In this study, we report the molecular cloning and expression analysis of the non-clustered protocadherin-17 (pcdh17) in the embryonic zebrafish nervous system. The zebrafish Pcdh17 protein is highly conserved, exhibiting 73% sequence homology with the human protein. The zebrafish pcdh17 gene consists of four exons spread over 150 kb, and this organization is highly conserved throughout vertebrates. Pcdh17 message is first detectable by 6 h postfertilization in the developing embryo, and the expression is maintained throughout development. Zebrafish embryos express pcdh17 in all of the major subdivisions of the central nervous system, including the telencephalon, diencephalon, mesencephalon, and rhombencephalon. Analysis of the genomic sequence upstream of pcdh17 in several species reveals a pattern of paired CpG islands. While the CpG islands in zebrafish are further upstream than in other teleosts, alignment of the identified sequences reveals a high degree of conservation, suggesting that the sequences may be important for the regulation of pcdh17 expression.
Notch proteins are definitely recognized as key regulators of the neuronal fate during embryo development, but their function in the adult brain is still largely unknown. We have previously demonstrated that Notch pathway stimulation increases microtubules stability followed by the remodeling of neuronal morphology with neurite varicosities loss, thicker neuritis, and enlarged growth cones. Here we show that the neurite remodeling is a dynamic event, dependent on transcription and translation, and with functional implications. Exposure of differentiated human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells to the Notch ligand Jagged1 induces varicosities loss all along the neurites, accompanied by the redistribution of presynaptic vesicles and the decrease in neurotransmitters release. As evaluated by time lapse digital imaging, dynamic changes in neurite morphology were rapidly reversible and dependent on the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. In fact, it was prevented by the inhibition of the proteolytic gamma-secretase enzyme or the transcription machinery, and was mimicked by the transfection of the intracellular domain of Notch. One hour after treatment with Jagged1, several genes were downregulated. Many of these genes encode proteins that are known to be involved in protein synthesis. These data suggest that in adult neurons, Notch pathway activates a transcriptional program that regulates the equilibrium between varicosities formation and varicosities loss in the neuronal presynaptic compartment involving the expression and redistribution of both structural and functional proteins.
Animal models can serve to explore neural mechanisms underlying the effects of stressful early experiences on behaviors supporting attachment. Neonatal rats primarily use olfaction for attachment, and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) may be a key transcription target in olfactory association learning. In this experiment, neonatal male and female rats were isolated individually for 3 hr daily in the first week of life while their dams were left with partial litters (Early Deprivation, ED) or remained undisturbed (Control). At 1 week of age, subjects were tested using a 2-day classical conditioning paradigm. The conditioned group (O/M) was exposed to a novel odor paired with a milk infusion. Three additional groups included an unpaired odor and milk exposure group (O/M unP), an odor exposure alone group (O/NM), and neither an odor nor a milk group (NO/NM). Learning the odor association, as revealed in a position preference for the novel odor, was accompanied by an increase in hippocampal BDNF in O/M subjects from undisturbed Control litters. BDNF levels were also positively related to degree of preference for the odor in the O/M Control group. ED subjects did not make the classically conditioned odor association and did not show an increase in hippocampal BDNF. ED increased BDNF levels in the olfactory bulb compared to Controls regardless of training group; individual levels were not correlated with performance because samples were pooled. These results suggest that changes in the transcription of BDNF may underlie some of the long-term consequences of the early stress of maternal separation.
Early adolescence is often marked by changes in school context, family relationships, and developmental processes. In the context of these changes, academic performance often declines, while at the same time the long-term implications of academic performance increase. In promoting achievement across elementary and secondary school levels, the significant role of families, family-school relations, and parental involvement in education has been highlighted. Although there is a growing body of literature focusing on parental involvement in education during middle school, this research has not been systematically examined to determine which types of involvement have the strongest relation with achievement. The authors conducted a meta-analysis on the existing research on parental involvement in middle school to determine whether and which types of parental involvement are related to achievement. Across 50 studies, parental involvement was positively associated with achievement, with the exception of parental help with homework. Involvement that reflected academic socialization had the strongest positive association with achievement. Based on the known characteristics of the developmental stage and tasks of adolescence, strategies reflecting academic socialization are most consistent with the developmental stage of early adolescence.

Reproductive function is controlled by GnRH cells and their steroid-sensitive regulatory inputs. The proper maturation of this system is critical to sexual development and maintenance of adult function. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these developmental changes, and the potential roles of gonadal hormones in sculpting these processes, have not been fully explored. We performed a developmental profile from postnatal day (P) 1 through P60 of a network of five genes in the preoptic area (POA) that are critical to reproduction in male Sprague Dawley rats. GnRH, estrogen receptors-alpha, and -beta, androgen receptor (AR), and progesterone receptor (PR) mRNAs in the POA were assayed, and serum hormones were measured, in developing male rats. We also used a Taqman low-density array to identify candidate genes that may be important in development. Of the five targeted genes, only AR and PR changed robustly (7- and 3- to 4-fold increases, respectively) during development. All of the gonadal serum hormones changed markedly and with very different patterns from their receptor mRNAs: testosterone decreased from P1 to P30 and then increased to P60; progesterone peaked on P30; and estradiol decreased from P1 to P30. Using the Taqman low-density array, we identified several genes that changed dramatically in the POA with development, particularly G protein-coupled receptor 30, IGF-I, vitamin D receptor, estrogen-related receptor-alpha, and thyroid receptor-alpha. Our data demonstrate developmental stage-specific changes in neuroendocrine genes, particularly AR and PR. Moreover, the relationships between hormones and their corresponding receptors undergo dynamic changes across development in male rats.
Animals shipped from commercial suppliers to laboratories are exposed to a wide variety of stressors. Female C57Bl6/J mice shipped during the peripubertal/adolescent period (6 wk old) display lower levels of female sexual behavior in response to estradiol and progesterone injections after ovariectomy when tested in adulthood than female mice shipped in adulthood (12 wk old). These shipping-induced reductions in female sexual behavior appear to be limited to a vulnerable period around the time of puberty. Likewise, male mice shipped at 6 wk of age express lower levels of masculine sexual behavior in response to testosterone treatment as adults than do mice shipped when 12 wk old. RIA of corticosterone levels in response to behavior testing revealed that, upon first exposure to testing, mice shipped at 6 wk of age have reduced corticosterone levels. These results suggest that during the peripubertal/adolescent period, mice of both sexes are susceptible to the effects of stressors associated with shipping. Furthermore, they suggest that stress during this period has enduring, negative influences on behavioral responses to estradiol and progesterone in females and to testosterone in males, and it induces changes in response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. These results suggest that age at shipping is a critical variable that may influence many endocrinological studies, and they suggest that the peripubertal/adolescent period is a period of vulnerability to some stressors.
Dehydrated rats exhibit a rapid inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis after rehydration. Drinking activates vagal afferents that project to neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). We hypothesized that when dehydrated rats drink, vagal afferents stimulate NTS neurons initiating inhibition of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity. Experiments assessed NTS activity by measuring Fos expression. Rats were water restricted for 1 or 6 d, limiting access to water to 30 min/d in the morning. Drinking after single or repeated restriction increased Fos, demonstrating increased NTS activity. We next examined the contribution of the vagus by comparing hormonal responses after total subdiaphragmatic vagotomy or sham surgery. Water restriction for 6 d increased plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP), ACTH, and adrenal and plasma corticosterone in both groups. In sham rats, drinking reduced plasma AVP, ACTH, adrenal and plasma corticosterone by 7.5 min. In total subdiaphragmatic vagotomy rats, whereas drinking reduced plasma AVP, ACTH, and adrenal corticosterone, drinking did not reduce plasma corticosterone. To identify the source of vagal activity, hormonal responses to restriction-induced drinking were measured after common hepatic branch vagotomy (HBV). Although pituitary hormonal responses were not affected by HBV, the adrenal and plasma corticosterone responses to water restriction were reduced; in addition, drinking in HBV rats decreased adrenal corticosterone without changing plasma corticosterone. These data indicate that an intact vagus is necessary to reduce plasma corticosterone when water-restricted rats drink and that the common hepatic vagal branch contributes to the response. These findings implicate the vagus in augmenting rapid removal of circulating corticosterone during relief from stress.
In female rats, estradiol (E(2)) and suckling induce prolactin (PRL) secretion. This involves inhibition of hypothalamic dopaminergic tone and stimulation by a PRL-releasing hormone, possibly oxytocin (OT). Infusing an OT antagonist (OTA) i.v., we evaluated the role of OT on suckling- and E(2)-induced PRL secretion. Three days after parturition at 0900 h, lactating dams were fitted with 24-h osmotic minipumps filled with saline or OTA. On d 5 of lactation, pups were separated from their dams for 6 h. Immediately or 20 min after the resumption of suckling, dam trunk blood was collected. Also, ovariectomized (OVX) rats were treated with E(2) (OVE) and OTA at 1000 h on d 1. Blood samples were obtained from 1300 to 2100 h on d 2 for PRL measurements. Additionally, OVX rats were evaluated on d 2 after receiving progesterone (P(4)). OTA blocked suckling and E(2)-induced release of PRL but not that induced by E(2)+P(4). Pups from treated dams failed to gain weight when allowed to nurse for 20 min on d 5 but gained more than 7 g when nursed on d 7 of lactation, indicating that the OTA was active 48 h later. Western blot analysis showed that E(2) treatment increased OT receptors in the anterior pituitary when compared with OVX animals. No further increase was observed in response to the P(4), suggesting that the enhancing effect of P(4) on E(2)-induced PRL release may act through mechanisms independent of OT. These data demonstrate the role of OT in the control of suckling and steroid-induced PRL secretion.
Vehicle exhaust from traffic is a widespread air pollutant. The use of 3-wheel auto-rickshaws powered by a 2-stroke engine is widespread in south Asia; exhaust from these vehicles may cause different types of toxicities resulting in different pathologies. The aim of this study was to explore the association between exposure to 2-stroke auto-rickshaw smoke solution (2SARSS) and wound healing. The in vivo model of wound healing was customized to evaluate different stages of wound healing: dermal matrix regeneration, re-epithelialization, and neovascularization. A total of 72 adult mice were divided into 8 groups and exposed to 2SARSS for 12 days. A highly significant reduction (p&lt;0.001) in wound closure was observed among all 2SARSS-treated groups at day 8 post-wounding. Histological examination revealed a significant delay in the outcome of re-epithelialization, dermal matrix regeneration, and maturation of collagen bundles among all 2SARSS-exposed wounds. Delayed activation of neovascularization was seen in the 2SARSS-treated groups at day 12 post-wounding. The Abbot curve, angular spectrum, and several other 3D surface parameters of reverse wound topographies revealed a highly significant reduction (p&lt;0.001) in angiogenesis. These results demonstrate that application of 2SARSS causes a substantial delay in the progression of angiogenesis, resulting in delayed onset of wound healing. These observations validate the damaging effects of 2SARSS on wound healing. Thus, people who are directly or indirectly exposed to this toxic exhaust are expected to have delayed wound healing, which could result in chronic wounds.
Lateral temporal epilepsies are still a poorly studied group of conditions, covering lesional and nonlesional cases. Within nonlesional cases, autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy (ADLTE) is a well-defined, albeit rare, condition characterized by onset in adolescence or early adulthood of lateral temporal seizures with prominent auditory auras sometimes triggered by external noises, normal conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), good response to antiepileptic treatment, and overall benign outcome. The same phenotype is shared by sporadic and familial cases with complex inheritance. Mutations in the LGI1 gene are found in about 50% of ADLTE families and 2% of sporadic cases. LGI1 shows no homology with known ion channel genes. Recent findings suggest that LGI1 may exert multiple functions, but it is not known which of them is actually related to lateral temporal epilepsy.
The classification of idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGEs) is still controversial, with special reference to absence epilepsy syndromes. Strict, well-defined criteria for syndromic definitions are necessary to delineate homogeneous conditions; however, this approach may leave a considerable group of patients unclassified, leading to the effort to categorize them in possible distinct subsyndromes. In this report, we review some of these possible IGE subsyndromes, such as IGE with absences of early childhood, IGE with phantom absences, and perioral myoclonia with absences, briefly commenting on the issues regarding their recognition as individual entities.
Recent progress in the genetics of epilepsies may potentially provide important insights into biologic processes underlying epileptogenesis. However, the genetic etiology underlying epilepsy remains largely unknown, and the impact of available genetic data on the nosology of epilepsy is still limited. Therefore, at present, classification of epileptic disorders should be mainly based on electroclinical features. In the future, it is likely that the investigation of familial traits will lead to the definition of novel syndromes and that genotype-phenotype correlations in inherited conditions will shed light on the variable expressivity of epileptic disorders. Moreover, the discovery of new epilepsy genes may allow assessment of whether different phenotypes are etiologically linked.





Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) 2A (calpainopathy) is the most frequent form of LGMD in many European countries. The increasing demand for a molecular diagnosis makes the identification of strategies to improve gene mutation detection crucial. We conducted both a quantitative analysis of calpain-3 protein in 519 muscles from patients with unclassified LGMD, unclassified myopathy and hyperCKemia, and a functional assay of calpain-3 autolytic activity in 108 cases with LGMD and normal protein quantity. Subsequently, screening of CAPN3 gene mutations was performed using allele-specific tests and simplified SSCP analysis. We diagnosed a total of 94 LGMD2A patients, carrying 66 different mutations (six are newly identified). The probability of diagnosing calpainopathy was very high in patients showing either a quantitative (80%) or a functional calpain-3 protein defect (88%). Our data show a high predictive value for reduced-absent calpain-3 or lost autolytic activity. These biochemical assays are powerful tools for otherwise laborious genetic screening of cases with a high probability of being primary calpainopathy. Our multistep diagnostic approach is rational and highly effective. This strategy has improved the detection rate of the disease and our extension of screening to presymptomatic phenotypes (hyperCKemia) has allowed us to obtain early diagnoses, which has important consequences for patient care and genetic counseling.

Brain injury induces gliosis and scar formation; its principal cell types are mainly astrocytes and some oligodendrocytes. The origin of the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the scar remains unclear together with the underlying mechanism of their fate choice. We examined the response of oligodendrocyte transcription factor (Olig)2(+) glial progenitors to acute brain injury. Both focal cortical (mechanical or excitotoxic) and systemic (kainic acid-induced seizure or lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation) injury caused cytoplasmic translocation of Olig2 (Olig2(TL)) exclusively in affected brain regions as early as 2 h after injury in two-thirds of Olig2(+) cells. Many of the proliferating Olig2(+) cells reacting to injury co-expressed chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan neuron/glia antigen 2 (NG2). Using 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) tracing protocols, proliferating Olig2(TL)GFAP(+)BrdU(+) cells were observed from 2 days post-lesion (dpl). Immature oligodendrocytes were also seen from 2 dpl and all of them retained Olig2 in the nucleus (Olig2(Nuc)). From 5 dpl Olig2(TL)NG2(+)GFAP(+) cells were observed in the wound and some of them were proliferative. From 5 dpl NG2(+)RIP(+) cells were also seen, all of which were Olig2(Nuc) and some of which were also BrdU(+). Our results suggest that, in response to brain injury, NG2(+) progenitors may generate a subpopulation of astrocytes in addition to oligodendrocytes and their fate choice was associated with Olig2(TL) or Olig2(Nuc). However, the NG2(+)GFAP(+) phenotype was only seen within a limited time window (5-8 dpl) when up to 20% of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) cells co-expressed NG2. We also observed Olig2(TL)GFAP(+) cells that appeared after injury and before the NG2(+)GFAP(+) phenotype. This suggests that not all astrocytes are derived from an NG2(+) population.
Substantial evidence suggests that brain regions that have been disproportionately used during waking will require a greater intensity and/or duration of subsequent sleep. For example, rats use their whiskers in the dark and their eyes during the light, and this is manifested as a greater magnitude of electroencephalogram (EEG) slow-wave activity in the somatosensory and visual cortex during sleep in the corresponding light and dark periods respectively. The parsimonious interpretation of such findings is that sleep is distributed across local brain regions and is use-dependent. The fundamental properties of sleep can also be experimentally defined locally at the level of small neural assemblies such as cortical columns. In this view, sleep is orchestrated, but not fundamentally driven, by central mechanisms. We explore two physiological markers of local, use-dependent sleep, namely, an electrical marker apparent as a change in the size and shape of an electrical evoked response, and a metabolic marker evident as an evoked change in blood volume and oxygenation delivered to activated tissue. Both markers, applied to cortical columns, provide a means to investigate physiological mechanisms for the distributed homeostatic regulation of sleep, and may yield new insights into the consequences of sleep loss and sleep pathologies on waking brain function.
Since the discovery of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (also known as paradoxical sleep; PS), it is accepted that sleep is an active process. PS is characterized by EEG rhythmic activity resembling that of waking with a disappearance of muscle tone and the occurrence of REMs, in contrast to slow-wave sleep (SWS, also known as non-REM sleep) identified by the presence of delta waves. Here, we review the most recent data on the mechanisms responsible for the genesis of SWS and PS. Based on these data, we propose an updated integrated model of the mechanisms responsible for the sleep-wake cycle. This model introduces for the first time the notion that the entrance and exit of PS are induced by different mechanisms. We hypothesize that the entrance from SWS to PS is due to the intrinsic activation of PS-active GABAergic neurons localized in the posterior hypothalamus (co-containing melanin-concentrating hormone), ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and the dorsal paragigantocellular reticular nucleus. In contrast, the exit from PS is induced by the inhibition of these neurons by a PS-gating system composed of GABAergic neurons localized in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and just ventral to it, and waking systems such as the pontine and medullary noradrenergic neurons and the hypothalamic hypocretin neurons. Finally, we review human neurological disorders of the network responsible for sleep and propose hypotheses on the mechanisms responsible for REM behavior disorder and narcolepsy.
Here we report on The Satellite Symposium on Sleep Function that was held in Lausanne during 6(th) FENS forum and brought together neuroscientists from basic and clinical sleep research. We illustrate the principal questions that arose during this interdisciplinary gathering and introduce the contents of nine review articles on aspects of sleep that are contained in this Special Issue of the European Journal of Neuroscience.
Arachidonic acid (AA) is a free fatty acid membrane-permeable second messenger that is liberated from cell membranes via receptor- and Ca(2+)-dependent events. We have shown previously that extremely low [AA](i) (1 pm) inhibits the postsynaptic voltage-gated K(+) current (I(A)) in hippocampal neurons. This inhibition is blocked by some antioxidants. The somatodendritic I(A) is mediated by Kv4.2 gene products, whereas presynaptic I(A) is mediated by Kv1.4 channel subunits. To address the interaction of AA with these alpha-subunits we studied the modulation of A-currents in human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with either Kv1.4 or Kv4.2 rat cDNA, using whole-cell voltage-clamp recording. For both currents 1 pm [AA](i) inhibited the conductance by &gt; 50%. In addition, AA shifted the voltage dependence of inactivation by -9 (Kv1.4) and +6 mV (Kv4.2), respectively. Intracellular co-application of Trolox C (10 microm), an antioxidant vitamin E derivative, only slowed the effects of AA on amplitude. Notably, Trolox C shifted the voltage dependence of activation of Kv1.4-mediated I(A) by -32 mV. Extracellular Trolox for &gt; 15 min inhibited the AA effects on I(A) amplitudes as well as the effect of intracellular Trolox on the voltage dependence of activation of Kv1.4-mediated I(A). Extracellular Trolox further shifted the voltage dependence of activation for Kv4.2 by +33 mV. In conclusion, the inhibition of maximal amplitude of Kv4.2 channels by AA can explain the inhibition of somatodendritic I(A) in hippocampal neurons, whereas the negative shift in the voltage dependence of inactivation apparently depends on other neuronal channel subunits. Both AA and Trolox potently modulate Kv1.4 and Kv4.2 channel alpha-subunits, thereby presumably tuning presynaptic transmitter release and postsynaptic somatodendritic excitability in synaptic transmission and plasticity.
Damage to the frontal lobe can cause severe decision-making impairments. A mechanism that may underlie this is that neurons in the frontal cortex encode many variables that contribute to the valuation of a choice, such as its costs, benefits and probability of success. However, optimal decision-making requires that one considers these variables, not only when faced with the choice, but also when evaluating the outcome of the choice, in order to adapt future behaviour appropriately. To examine the role of the frontal cortex in encoding the value of different choice outcomes, we simultaneously recorded the activity of multiple single neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) while subjects evaluated the outcome of choices involving manipulations of probability, payoff and cost. Frontal neurons encoded many of the parameters that enabled the calculation of the value of these variables, including the onset and offset of reward and the amount of work performed, and often encoded the value of outcomes across multiple decision variables. In addition, many neurons encoded both the predicted outcome during the choice phase of the task as well as the experienced outcome in the outcome phase of the task. These patterns of selectivity were more prevalent in ACC relative to OFC and LPFC. These results support a role for the frontal cortex, principally ACC, in selecting between choice alternatives and evaluating the outcome of that selection thereby ensuring that choices are optimal and adaptive.
Pineal melatonin is synthesized with daily and seasonal rhythms following the hypothalamic clock-driven release of norepinephrine (NE). The pineal gland of rats and mice, like the biological clock, expresses a number of clock genes. However, the role of pineal clock elements in pineal physiology is still unknown. We examined the expression and regulation of several clock genes (Per1, Cry2, Bmal1 and Rev-erb alpha) under different lighting conditions or following adrenergic treatments in the Syrian hamster, a seasonal rodent. We found that Per1 and Cry2 genes were similarly regulated by the nocturnal release of NE: levels of Per1 and Cry2 mRNA displayed a nocturnal increase that was maintained after 2 days in constant darkness (DD) but abolished after 2 days under constant light (LL), a condition that suppresses endogenous NE release, or after an early night administration of the adrenergic antagonist propranolol. In contrast, Bmal1 and Rev-erb alpha exhibited a different pattern of expression and regulation. mRNA levels of both clock genes displayed a marked daily variation, maintained in DD, with higher values at midday for Bmal1 and at day/night transition for Rev-erb alpha. Remarkably, the daily variation of both Bmal1 and Rev-erb alpha mRNA was maintained in LL conditions and was not affected by propranolol. This study confirms the daily regulation of Per1 and Cry2 gene expression by NE in the pineal gland of rodents and shows for the first time that a second set of clock genes, Bmal1 and Rev-erb alpha are expressed with a circadian rhythm independent of the hypothalamic clock-driven noradrenergic signal.

Processing of vestibular information at the cortical and subcortical level is essential for head and body orientation in space and self-motion perception, but little is known about the neural dynamics of the brain regions of the vestibular system involved in this task. Neuroimaging studies using both galvanic and caloric stimulation have shown that several distinct cortical and subcortical structures can be activated during vestibular information processing. The insular cortex has been often targeted and presented as the central hub of the vestibular cortical system. Since very short pulses of cold water ear irrigation can generate a strong and prolonged vestibular response and a nystagmus, we explored the effects of this type of caloric stimulation for assessing the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) dynamics of neural vestibular processing in a whole-brain event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment. We evaluated the spatial layout and the temporal dynamics of the activated cortical and subcortical regions in time-locking with the instant of injection and were able to extract a robust pattern of neural activity involving the contra-lateral insular cortex, the thalamus, the brainstem and the cerebellum. No significant correlation with the temporal envelope of the nystagmus was found. The temporal analysis of the activation profiles highlighted a significantly longer duration of the evoked BOLD activity in the brainstem compared to the insular cortex suggesting a functional de-coupling between cortical and subcortical activity during the vestibular response.
Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is considered an animal model for anorexia nervosa (AN). By scheduled feeding and voluntary wheel running, it mimics severe body weight loss and increased physical activity in AN. Pharmacological, genetic and imaging studies implicate dopamine and serotonin in the regulation of feeding behavior, food-anticipatory activity, and food reward. Previous studies propose that the nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays an important role in these food-related processes. Here we determined dopamine and serotonin levels in the NAc upon exposure to the ABA model. Surprisingly, the release of dopamine and serotonin in the NAc were not increased during the initiation of food-anticipatory behavior in ABA rats. Dopamine release in the NAc was increased during feeding behavior in ABA rats. During ABA, levels of serotonin were low and circadian activity is blunted. We conclude that during the early stages of development of food-anticipatory activity, increased dopamine does not trigger hyperactivity.

Intramedullary spinal cord abscess (ISCA) in children is extremely a rare infection of the central nervous system (CNS); and probably a devastating neurological condition. Clinical awareness of patients at risk is crucial for early diagnosis and intervention; as this entity is one of the treatable conditions of paraparesis. Association with congenital neuro-ectodermal abnormality in children is frequent. This pathology highlights the importance of complete neurological checks of infants as a part of their routine physical examination and early management of patients with congenital dermal sinus, prophylactic surgical resection of such a congenital anomaly is recommended by most authors to prevent serious infections of the CNS. However, once the abscess is established; immediate surgical drainage along side adequate antibiotics should be instituted. This may guarantee improving neurological outcome. In this communication, the authors present their experience with four cases of ISCA in children treated successfully with surgical drainage, intravenous antibiotics and neuro rehabilitation between 2001 and 2006 and discuss their results. We concluded that early diagnosis and treatment is essential; before a devastating mechanico-vascular insult of the spinal cord is established from rapid formation of the abscess and a swift expansion of the spinal cord within the limited intraspinal space.

Most object manipulation tasks involve a series of actions demarcated by mechanical contact events, and gaze is typically directed to the locations of these events as the task unfolds. Here, we examined the timing of gaze shifts relative to hand movements in a task in which participants used a handle to contact sequentially five virtual objects located in a horizontal plane. This task was performed both with and without visual feedback of the handle position. We were primarily interested in whether gaze shifts, which in our task shifted from a given object to the next about 100 ms after contact, were predictive or triggered by tactile feedback related to contact. To examine this issue, we included occasional catch contacts where forces simulating contact between the handle and object were removed. In most cases, removing force did not alter the timing of gaze shifts irrespective of whether or not vision of handle position was present. However, in about 30% of the catch contacts, gaze shifts were delayed. This percentage corresponded to the fraction of contacts with force feedback in which gaze shifted more than 130 ms after contact. We conclude that gaze shifts are predictively controlled but timed so that the hand actions around the time of contact are captured in central vision. Furthermore, a mismatch between the expected and actual tactile information related to the contact can lead to a reorganization of gaze behavior for gaze shifts executed greater than 130 ms after a contact event.
The representation of the body in the brain is continuously updated with regard to peripheral factors such as position or movement of body parts. In the present study, we investigated the effects of arm posture on the mental rotation of hands and feet. Sixteen right-handed and ten left-handed participants verbally judged the laterality of visually presented pictures of hands and feet in two different postural conditions. In one condition they placed their right hand on their right knee and their left hand behind the back, in the other condition the hand position was reversed. For right-handed participants response times for the laterality judgment of right hands increased when participants kept their right hand behind the back. This was not found for images of the left hand nor for images of the feet. For the left-handed participants, there was no effect of arm posture on hand or feet stimulus judgments. Thus, the body-part posture effect on mental rotation was found to be specific for the side and the body part for which the posture was modified only in right-handed participants, but it was absent for left-handed participants. For both samples, we also found a progressive disruption of the mental rotation function depending on the view from which the body parts were seen (i.e. dorsal, thumb/big toe, palm/plantar, little finger/toe). Posture and view effects on body parts representations are discussed with respect to proprioception, handedness, visual familiarity and the influence of anatomical joint constraints on motor imagery.
TrkB is an important receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NT4, members of the neurotrophin family. TrkB signaling is crucial in many activity-dependent and activity-independent processes of neural development. Here, we investigate the role of trkB signaling in the development of two distinct, organizational features of retinal projections--the segregation of crossed and uncrossed retinal inputs along the &quot;lines of projection&quot; that represent a single point in the visual field and the &quot;retinotopic&quot; mapping of retinofugal axons within their cerebral targets. Using anterograde tracing, we obtained quantitative measures of the distribution of retinal projections in the dorsal nucleus of the lateral geniculate body (LGd) and superior colliculus (SC) of wild-type mice and mice homozygous for constitutive null mutation (knockout) of the full-length trkB receptor (trkB(FL)(-/-)). In trkB(FL)(-/-) mice, uncrossed retinal projections cluster normally but there is a topographic expansion in the distribution of these clusters across the SC. By contrast, the absence of trkB signaling has no significant effect on the segregation of crossed and uncrossed retinal projections along the lines of projection in LGd or SC. We conclude that the normal topographic organization of uncrossed retinal projections depends upon trkB signaling, whereas the segregation of crossed and uncrossed retinal projections is trkB-independent. We also found that in trkB(FL)(-/-) mice, neuronal number was reduced in the LGd and SC and in the caudate-putamen. Previous studies by ourselves and others have shown that the number of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) is unchanged in trkB(FL)(-/-) mice. Together, these results demonstrate that there is no matching of the numbers of RGCs with neuronal numbers in the LGd or SC.
Red wine contains antioxidants and is at moderate amounts believed to exert certain positive health effects. Resveratrol is one of the most studied antioxidants in red wine and has been suggested to activate the longevity- and metabolism-associated histone deacetylase SIRT1. Here we show that relatively low concentrations of resveratrol (0.5-3 microM) specifically inhibited neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells in a SIRT1-dependent manner whereas higher concentrations of resveratrol (&gt; or =10 microM) induced a SIRT1-independent cell death. Surprisingly, using a cell based assay, we found that small amounts of red wine (1-5% v/v)--but not white wine--induced a massive and rapid cell death of various cell types, including neural stem cells and several cancer cell lines. This red wine-induced cell death was ethanol-, SIRT1- and resveratrol-independent but associated with increased oxidative stress and inhibition of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) activity. The TrxR inhibition correlated with the red color (absorbance at 520 nm) of the wines demonstrating that pigment components of red wine can exert profound cellular effects. Our results unveil important roles for SIRT1 and TrxR in resveratrol and red wine-mediated effects on progenitor and cancer cells, and demonstrate that cellular responses to red wine may be more complex than generally appreciated.
Recent findings have challenged the traditional view that the thalamus is the primary driving source of generalized spike-wave discharges (SWDs) characteristic for absence seizures, and indicate a leading role for the cortex instead. In light of this we investigated the effects of thalamic lesions on SWDs and sleep spindles in the WAG/Rij rat, a genetic model of absence epilepsy. EEG was recorded from neocortex and thalamus in freely moving rats, both before and after unilateral thalamic ibotenic acid lesions. Complete unilateral destruction of the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN) combined with extensive destruction of the thalamocortical relay (TCR) nuclei, resulted in the bilateral abolishment of SWDs and ipsilateral abolishment of sleep spindles. A suppression of both types of thalamocortical oscillations was found when complete or extensive damage to the RTN was combined with minor to moderate damage to the TCR nuclei. Lesions that left the rostral pole of the RTN and part of the TCR nuclei intact, resulted in an ipsilateral suppression of sleep spindles, but a large increase of bilateral SWDs. These findings demonstrate that the thalamus in general and the RTN in particular are a prerequisite for both the typical bilateral 7-11 Hz SWDs and natural occurring sleep spindles in the WAG/Rij rat, but suggest that different intrathalamic subcircuits are involved in the two types of thalamocortical oscillations. Whereas the whole RTN appears to be critical for the generation of sleep spindles, the rostral pole of the RTN seems to be the most likely part that generates SWDs.
Peripheral nerve injuries induce plastic changes on primary afferent fibers and on the spinal circuitry, which are related to the emergence of neuropathic pain. In this study we compared three models of sciatic nerve injury in the rat with different degrees of damage and impact on regeneration capability: crush nerve injury, chronic constriction injury (CCI) and spared nerve injury (SNI). All three models were characterized by means of nerve histology, in order to describe the degenerative and regenerative process of injured axons. Nociceptive responses were evaluated by mechanical and thermal algesimetry tests. Crush animals displayed higher withdrawal thresholds on the ipsilateral paw compared to the contralateral during the time of denervation, while CCI and SNI animals showed mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. Central plasticity was evaluated by immunohistochemical labeling of non-peptidergic (IB4-positive) and peptidergic (substance P-positive) nociceptive C-fibers on L4-L6 spinal cord sections. After crush nerve injury and SNI, we observed progressive and sustained reduction of IB4 and SP immunolabeling at the sciatic projection territory in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, which affected only the tibial and peroneal nerves projection areas in the case of SNI. After CCI, changes on SP-immunoreactivity were not observed, and IB4-immunoreactive area decreased initially but recovered to normal levels on the second week post-injury. Thus, nociceptive responses depend on the type of injury, and the immunoreactivity pattern of afferent fibers at the spinal cord display changes less pronounced after partial than complete sciatic nerve injury. Although signs of neuropathic pain appear in all three lesion models, nociceptive responses and central plasticity patterns differ between them.
In rodents, spatial learning and memory tests require navigation, whereas in nonhuman primates these tests generally do not involve a navigational component, thus assessing nonhomologous neural systems. To allow closer parallels between rodent and primate studies, we developed a navigational spatial learning and memory task for nonhuman primates and assessed the performance of elderly (19-25 years) female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). The animals were allowed to navigate in a room containing a series of food ports. After they learned to retrieve food from the ports, a single port was repeatedly baited and the animals were tested until they learned the correct location. The location of the baited port was then changed (shift position). We also determined whether test performance was associated with circadian activity measured with accelerometers. Performance measures included trials to criterion, search strategies, and several indices of circadian activity. Animals learned the task as reflected in their search strategies. Correlations were found between the number of initial or shift trials and circadian activity parameters including day activity, dark:light activity ratio, sleep latency, and wake bouts. Thus, disruptions in circadian rhythms in nonhuman primates are associated with poorer performance on this novel test. These data support the usefulness of this spatial navigational test to assess spatial learning and memory in rhesus monkeys and the importance of circadian activity in performance.
The use-dependent specification of neural circuits occurs during post-natal development with a conspicuous influence of environmental factors, such as malnutrition that interferes with the major steps of brain maturation. Serotonin (5-HT), derived exclusively from the essential aminoacid tryptophan, is involved in mechanisms of development and use-dependent plasticity of the central nervous system. We studied the effects of the nutritional restriction of tryptophan in the plasticity of uncrossed retinotectal axons following a retinal lesion to the contralateral retina during the critical period in pigmented rats. Litters were fed through their mothers with a low tryptophan content diet, based on corn and gelatin, a complemented diet with standard tryptophan requirements for rodents or standard laboratory diet. The results suggest a marked reduction in the plasticity of intact axons into denervated territories in the tryptophan restricted group in comparison to control groups. Tryptophan complementation between PND10-21 completely restored retinotectal plasticity. However, the re-introduction of tryptophan after the end of the critical period (between PND28-P41) did not restore the sprouting ability of uncrossed axons suggesting a time-dependent effect to the reversion of plasticity deficits. Tryptophan-restricted animals showed a reduced activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 and altered expressions of phosphorylated forms of ERK1/2 and AKT. Our results demonstrate the influence of this essential aminoacid as a modulator of neural plasticity during the critical period through the reduction of serotonin content which alters plasticity-related signaling pathways and matrix degradation.


Genetic and biological studies provide strong evidence that the deposition of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) contributes to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abeta is generated from amyloid-beta precursor protein by beta- and gamma-secretases, which are plausible molecular targets for AD treatment. Thus, drugs that regulate the production of Abeta by inhibiting or modulating secretase activity could provide effective therapeutics for AD. Both secretases are transmembrane proteases: beta-site amyloid-beta precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1, the main neuronal beta-secretase, is a single span transmembrane aspartyl protease; gamma-secretase is a multiprotein complex comprising four core subunits that are all transmembrane proteins: presenilin, nicastrin, anterior pharynx-defective 1 and presenilin enhancer 2. Molecular biochemical, enzymological and genetic analyses reveal the molecular mechanisms of these secretases in the generation of Abeta. Moreover, extensive drug screening and development have enabled some secretase inhibitors and modulators to advance into late-Phase clinical trials. This review focuses on recent progresses in beta- and gamma-secretase biology, including the proteolytic mechanism, regulation and composition of these enzymes. Moreover, this review discusses the recent development of inhibitors, and provides a direction for the effective treatment of AD through inhibition/modulation of beta- and gamma-secretase activities.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays an important role in HIV trafficking into the brain and the development of the central nervous system complications in HIV infection. Tight junctions are the main structural and functional elements that regulate the BBB integrity. Exposure of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hCMEC/D3 cell line) to HIV-infected monocytes resulted in decreased expression of tight junction proteins, such as junctional adhesion molecule-A (JAM)-A, occludin, and zonula occludens (ZO)-1. Control experiments involved exposure to uninfected monocytes. Alterations of tight junction protein expression were associated with increased endothelial permeability and elevated transendothelial migration of HIV-infected monocytes across an in vitro model of the BBB. Notably, overexpression of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha or PPARgamma attenuated HIV-mediated dysregulation of tight junction proteins. With the use of exogenous PPARgamma agonists and silencing of PPARalpha or PPARgamma, these protective effects were connected to down-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) and proteasome activities. Indeed, the HIV-induced decrease in the expression of JAM-A and occludin was restored by inhibition of MMP activity. Moreover, both MMP and proteasome inhibitors attenuated HIV-mediated altered expression of ZO-1. The present data indicate that down-regulation of MMP and proteasome activities constitutes a novel mechanism of PPAR-induced protections against HIV-induced disruption of brain endothelial cells.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by neuropathological accumulations of amyloid beta(1-42) [A beta(1-42)], a cleavage product of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Recent studies have highlighted the role of APP in A beta-mediated toxicity and have implicated the G-protein system; however, the exact mechanisms underlying this pathway are as yet undetermined. In this context, we sought to investigate the role of calcium upregulation following APP-dependent, A beta-mediated G-protein activation. Initial studies on the interaction between APP, A beta and Go proteins demonstrated that the interaction between APP, specifically its C-terminal -YENPTY- region, and Go was reduced in the presence of A beta. Cell death and calcium influx in A beta-treated cells were shown to be APP dependent and to involve G-protein activation because these effects were blocked by use of the G-protein inhibitor, pertussis toxin. Collectively, these results highlight a role for the G-protein system in APP-dependent, A beta-induced toxicity and calcium dysregulation. Analysis of the APP:Go interaction in human brain samples from Alzheimer's disease patients at different stages of the disease revealed a decrease in the interaction, correlating with disease progression. Moreover, the reduced interaction between APP and Go was shown to correlate with an increase in membrane A beta levels and G-protein activity, showing for first time that the APP:Go interaction is present in humans and is responsive to A beta load. The results presented support a role for APP in A beta-induced G-protein activation and suggest a mechanism by which basal APP binding to Go is reduced under pathological loads of A beta, liberating Go and activating the G-protein system, which may in turn result in downstream effects including calcium dysregulation. These results also suggest that specific antagonists of G-protein activity may have a therapeutic relevance in Alzheimer's disease.
Pathogenic bacteria continuously encounter multiple forms of stress in their hostile environments, which leads to DNA damage. With the new insight into biology offered by genome sequences, the elucidation of the gene content encoding proteins provides clues toward understanding the microbial lifestyle related to habitat and niche. Campylobacter jejuni, Haemophilus influenzae, Helicobacter pylori, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the pathogenic Neisseria, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus are major human pathogens causing detrimental morbidity and mortality at a global scale. An algorithm for the clustering of orthologs was established in order to identify whether orthologs of selected genes were present or absent in the genomes of the pathogenic bacteria under study. Based on the known genes for the various functions and their orthologs in selected pathogenic bacteria, an overview of the presence of the different types of genes was created. In this context, we focus on selected processes enabling genome dynamics in these particular pathogens, namely DNA repair, recombination and horizontal gene transfer. An understanding of the precise molecular functions of the enzymes participating in DNA metabolism and their importance in the maintenance of bacterial genome integrity has also, in recent years, indicated a future role for these enzymes as targets for therapeutic intervention.
Current information technology practices in neuroscience make it difficult to understand the organization of the brain across spatial scales. Subcellular junctional connectivity, cytoarchitectural local connectivity, and long-range topographical connectivity are just a few of the relevant data domains that must be synthesized in order to make sense of the brain. However, due to the heterogeneity of the data produced within these domains, the landscape of multiscale neuroscience data is fragmented. A standard framework for neuroscience data is needed to bridge existing digital data resources and to help in the conceptual unification of the multiple disciplines of neuroscience. Using our efforts in building ontologies for neuroscience as an example, we examine the benefits and limits of ontologies as a solution for this data integration problem. We provide several examples of their application to problems of image annotation, content-based retrieval of structural data, and integration of data across scales and researchers.
At the single-neuron level, precisely timed spikes can either constitute firing-rate codes or spike-pattern codes that utilize the relative timing between consecutive spikes. There has been little experimental support for the hypothesis that such temporal patterns contribute substantially to information transmission. By using grasshopper auditory receptors as a model system, we show that correlations between spikes can be used to represent behaviorally relevant stimuli. The correlations reflect the inner structure of the spike train: a succession of burst-like patterns. We demonstrate that bursts with different spike counts encode different stimulus features, such that about 20% of the transmitted information corresponds to discriminating between different features, and the remaining 80% is used to allocate these features in time. In this spike-pattern code, the what and the when of the stimuli are encoded in the duration of each burst and the time of burst onset, respectively. Given the ubiquity of burst firing, we expect similar findings also for other neural systems.
In vertebrates, BMPs are known to induce epidermal fate at the expense of neural fate. To further explore the molecular mechanisms of epidermal differentiation, we have developed an expression cloning system for isolating cDNAs that encode intrinsic proteins with epidermal-inducing activity. Under our conditions, 92.5% of the dissociated animal cap cells treated with the conditioned medium from H(2)O-injected control oocytes differentiated into neural tissue, which developed neural fibers and expressed a neural marker (NCAM). In contrast, when dissociated animal cap cells were treated with the supernatant collected from the culture of BMP-4 mRNA-injected oocytes, the microcultures differentiated into epidermal tissue, which developed cilium. The cells expressed an epidermal marker (keratin), but not NCAM. Using the dissociated animal cap cells in a functional screening system, we cloned a cDNA encoding a novel polypeptide, Xenopus zygote arrest 2 (Xzar2). Over-expression of Xzar2 caused anterior defects and suppressed expressions of the neural markers. The epidermalization-promoting activity of Xzar2 was substantially not affected by over-expression of the BMP signaling antagonists Smad6 and 7, and a dominant negative receptor for BMP (tBR). Our results suggest that Xzar2 is involved in epidermal fate determination mainly through signaling pathways distinct from that of BMP-Smad during early embryogenesis.
A small experimental cryolesion to the right parietal cortex of juvenile mice causes late-onset global brain atrophy with memory impairments, reminiscent of cognitive decline, and progressive brain matter loss in schizophrenia. However, the cellular events underlying this global neurodegeneration are not understood. Here we show, based on comprehensive stereological analysis, that early unilateral lesion causes immediate and lasting bilateral increase in the number of microglia in cingulate cortex and hippocampus, consistent with a chronic low-grade inflammatory process. Whereas the total number of neurons and astrocytes in these brain regions remain unaltered, pointing to a non- gliotic neurodegeneration (as seen in schizophrenia), the subgroup of parvalbumin-positive inhibitory GABAergic interneurons is increased bilaterally in the hippocampus, as is the expression of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme GAD67. Moreover, unilateral parietal lesion causes a decrease in the expression of synapsin1, suggesting impairment of presynaptic functions/neuroplasticity. Reduced expression of the myelin protein cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase, reflecting a reduction of oligodendrocytes, may further contribute to the observed brain atrophy. Remarkably, early intervention with recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO), a hematopoietic growth factor with multifaceted neuroprotective properties (intraperitoneal injection of 5000 IU/kg body weight every other day for 3 weeks), prevented all these neurodegenerative changes. To conclude, unilateral parietal lesion of juvenile mice induces a non- gliotic neurodegenerative process, susceptible to early EPO treatment. Although the detailed mechanisms remain to be defined, these profound EPO effects open new ways for prophylaxis and therapy of neuropsychiatric diseases, e.g. schizophrenia.
Headache is a common disorder in the general population. It is often highly debilitating for the people affected and highly costly to society. Although we know much about primary headaches, little is known about secondary headaches which, however,are a frequent occurrence in the general population. A study conducted on Denmark's general population found a lifetime prevalence rate of 22% for headache forms attributed to disorder of homeostasis, including fasting headache.The purpose of this review was to analyze literature data on fasting headache, in order to evaluate its possible pathophysiological mechanisms and to suggest therapeutic strategies.We considered only English-language articles published in scientific journals and searched for these articles on PubMed using &quot;headache,&quot; &quot;fasting,&quot; &quot;Yom Kippur,&quot; &quot;Ramadan,&quot; &quot;hypoglycemia,&quot;and &quot;caffeine withdrawal&quot; as key words, with no limitations to the year of publication. In most cases, fasting headache has the same clinical features as tension-type headache and the probability of onset increases directly with the duration of fasting.Hypoglycemia and caffeine withdrawal have been especially implicated as causative factors, but much remains to be understood about this topic.

We present the case of a 34-year-old man with a 2-year history of pain related to efforts in heavy lifting, beginning in the right ear and radiating to the neck and to the vertex. He underwent multiple negative neuroimaging examinations, until a 3-dimensional computerized tomography scan of the pharyngeal region evidenced an elongated styloid process. A diagnosis of Eagle's syndrome was made. The excision of the elongated styloid process was performed, resulting in complete and lasting pain relief. We focus on Eagle's syndrome and in particular on this atypical presentation.
Metabotropic serotonin receptors such as 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors shape the level, selectivity, and timing of auditory responses in the inferior colliculus (IC). Less is known about the effects of ionotropic 5-HT3 receptors, which are cation channels that depolarize neurons. In the present study, the influence of the 5-HT3 receptor on auditory responses in vivo was explored by locally iontophoresing a 5-HT3 receptor agonist and antagonists onto single neurons recorded extracellularly in mice. Three main findings emerge from these experiments. First, activation of the 5-HT3 receptor can either facilitate or suppress auditory responses, but response suppressions are not consistent with 5-HT3 effects on presynaptic GABAergic neurons. Both response facilitations and suppressions are less pronounced in neurons with high precision in response latency, suggesting functional differences in the role of receptor activation for different classes of neuron. Finally, the effects of 5-HT3 activation vary across repetition rate within a subset of single neurons, suggesting that the influence of receptor activation sometimes varies with the level of activity. These findings contribute to the view of the 5-HT3 receptor as an important component of the serotonergic infrastructure in the IC, with effects that are complex and neuron-selective.
Traumatic brain injury represents a leading cause of morbidity in young individuals and there is an imperative need for neuroprotective treatments limiting the neurologic impairment following such injury. It has recently been demonstrated that bio-liberated gold ions liberated from small metallic gold implants reduce inflammation and neuronal apoptosis, while generating an increased neuronal stem cell response following focal brain damage. In this study mice were subjected to a unilateral traumatic cryo-lesion with concomitant injection of 25-45 microm gold particles near the lesion. Placebo-treated mice subjected to cryo-lesion served as controls. The effects of gold-treatment were investigated by examining gold-induced growth factor expression (VEGF and FGF) in the first two weeks after the insult, and the extent of the neurostimulatory effect of gold was explored by comparing cell proliferation in the subventricular zone as judged by immunohistochemical staining for CDC47. Vimentin staining revealed a decrease in activated microglia and a transient astrogliosis in response to the gold liberation. Moreover, gold ions significantly increase the expression of VEGF and FGF following trauma and a significant increase in cell proliferation in both the ipsilateral and the contralateral subventricular zone was found in response to gold-treatment. In conclusion: we confirmed the previously demonstrated anti-inflammatory effect of bio-liberated gold ions, and further show that metallic gold increases growth factor expression and adult neurogenesis.


The hormonal regulation of sexual behavior has been the topic of study for over 50 years and yet controversies persist regarding the importance of early versus late events and the identity of the critical neural and cellular substrates. We have taken a mechanistic approach toward the masculinizing actions of the gonadal steroid estradiol, as a means to understand how organization of the neuroarchitechture during a perinatal sensitive period exerts enduring influences on adult behavior. We have identified important roles for prostaglandins, FAK and paxillin, PI3 kinase and glutamate, and determined that cell-to-cell signaling is a critical component of the early organizational events. We have further determined that the mechanisms mediating different components of sexual behavior are distinct and regionally specific. The multitude of mechanisms by which the steroid estradiol, exerts divergent effects on the developing nervous system provides for a multitude of phenotypes which can vary significantly both within and between the sexes.
Sex differences in motivation are apparent for the motivation to engage in sexual behavior, the motivation to take drugs of abuse, and the motivation to engage in parental behavior. In both males and females there is an increase in NAcc DA associated with motivated behaviors. Here it proposed that sex differences in the regulation of DA activity in the ascending mesolimbic projections may underlie sex differences in motivation. In particular, sex differences in the neuroendocrine regulation of this brain system play a role in the expression of sex differences in motivated behaviors. Here it is proposed that sexual differentiation of motivation is mediated, at least in part, by a novel mechanism in which ovarian hormones secreted at puberty in the female actively feminize the DA system.
After proposing the organizational hypothesis from research in prenatally androgenized guinea pigs (Phoenix, C.H., Goy, R.W., Gerall, A.A., Young, W.C., 1959. Organizational action of prenatally administered testosterone propionate on the tissues mediating mating behavior in the female guinea pig. Endocrinology 65, 369-382.), the same authors almost immediately extended the hypothesis to a nonhuman primate model, the rhesus monkey. Studies over the last 50 years have verified that prenatal androgens have permanent effects in rhesus monkeys on the neural circuits that underlie sexually dimorphic behaviors. These behaviors include both sexual and social behaviors, all of which are also influenced by social experience. Many juvenile behaviors such as play, mounting, and vocal behaviors are masculinized and/or defeminized, and aspects of adult sexual behavior are both masculinized (e.g. approaches, sex contacts, and mounts) and defeminized (e.g. sexual solicits). Different behavioral endpoints have different periods of maximal susceptibility to the organizing actions of prenatal androgens. Aromatization is not important, as both testosterone and dihydrotestosterone are equally effective in rhesus monkeys. Although the full story of the effects of prenatal androgens on sexual and social behaviors in the rhesus monkey has not yet completely unfolded, much progress has been made. Amazingly, a large number of the inferences drawn from the original 1959 study have proved applicable to this nonhuman primate model.
Debate on the relative contributions of nature and nurture to an individual's gender patterns, sexual orientation and gender identity are reviewed as they appeared to this observer starting from the middle of the last century. Particular attention is given to the organization-activation theory in comparison to what might be called a theory of psychosexual neutrality at birth or rearing consistency theory. The organization-activation theory posits that the nervous system of a developing fetus responds to prenatal androgens so that, at a postnatal time, it will determine how sexual behavior is manifest. How organization-activation was or was not considered among different groups and under which circumstances it is considered is basically understood from the research and comments of different investigators and clinicians. The preponderance of evidence seems to indicate that the theory of organization-activation for the development of sexual behavior is certain for non-human mammals and almost certain for humans. This article also follows up on previous clinical critiques and recommendations and makes some new suggestions.
The 1959 publication of the paper by Phoenix et al. was a major turning point in the study of sexual differentiation of the brain. That study showed that sex differences in behavior, and by extension in the brain, were permanently sexually differentiated by testosterone, a testicular secretion, during an early critical period of development. The study placed the brain together in a class with other major sexually dimorphic tissues (external genitalia and genital tracts), and proposed an integrated hormonal theory of sexual differentiation for all of these non-gonadal tissues. Since 1959, the organizational-activational theory has been amended but survives as a central concept that explains many sex differences in phenotype, in diverse tissues and at all levels of analysis from the molecular to the behavioral. In the last two decades, however, sex differences have been found that are not explained by such gonadal hormonal effects, but rather because of the primary action of genes encoded on the sex chromosomes. To integrate the classic organizational and activational effects with the more recently discovered sex chromosome effects, we propose a unified theory of sexual differentiation that applies to all mammalian tissues.
The 1959 publication of &quot;Organizing action of prenatally administered testosterone propionate on the tissues mediating mating behavior in the female guinea pig&quot; by Charles H. Phoenix, Robert W. Goy, Arnold A. Gerall, and William C. Young transformed how sex differences in mating behavior were thought to develop. Previous work provided extensive evidence that steroid hormones activated patterns of male and female sexual behavior, but only activated the behavioral patterns typical of a given sex. The 1959 paper explained this phenomenon by arguing that androgens, or their metabolites, acting at specific time(s) during development sexually dimorphically organized the tissues mediating mating behavior, which were activated by appropriate hormonal stimulation in adulthood. Thus, exposure to steroids at specific time(s) permanently altered the structure or function of the organism. The exact hormone, exact timing, exact mechanism, and exact tissues were unspecified in the article. The last two paragraphs of the discussion illustrate the investigators' unresolved views. The first proposes that the 'organization' was likely to be functional and not evident in visible structure, whereas the next paragraph argues that behavioral change implies structural change and thus structural changes are the likely consequence of steroid actions. These unresolved issues have produced extensive work in the intervening 50 years. The papers in this issue mark the 50th anniversary of this landmark paper and reflect the scope and relevance of the issues raised in the original paper and demonstrate the progress that has been made in understanding the Organizational Hypothesis and its impact on sexual differentiation.
Our &quot;Organizing Action&quot; paper published in 1959 put forward the concept that prenatal exposure to testosterone masculinized the behavior of genetic female guinea pigs. Specifically, we proposed that testosterone or some metabolite acted on the central nervous tissues in which patterns of sexual behavior are organized. We later went on to demonstrate similar effects in rhesus monkeys by showing that play behavior by female monkeys prenatally treated with testosterone was masculinized as well. These findings support the organizing actions of androgens as a general process of sexual differentiation.
Recent theories of selective attention assume that the more attention is required by a task, the earlier are irrelevant stimuli filtered during perceptual processing. Previous functional MRI studies have demonstrated that primary visual cortex (V1) activation by peripheral distractors is reduced by higher task difficulty at fixation, but it remains unknown whether such changes affect initial processing in V1 or subsequent feedback. Here we manipulated attentional load at fixation while recording peripheral visual responses with high-density EEG in 28 healthy volunteers, which allowed us to track the exact time course of attention-related effects on V1. Our results show a modulation of the earliest component of the visual evoked potential (C1) as a function of attentional load. Additional topographic and source localization analyses corroborated this finding, with significant load-related differences observed throughout the first 100 ms post-stimulus. However, this effect was observed only when stimuli were presented in the upper visual field (VF), but not for symmetrical positions in the lower VF. Our findings demonstrate early filtering of irrelevant information under increased attentional demands, thus supporting models that assume a flexible mechanism of attentional selection, but reveal important functional asymmetries across the VF.
Functional localizers that contrast brain signal when viewing faces versus objects are commonly used in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of face processing. However, current protocols do not reliably show all regions of the core system for face processing in all subjects when conservative statistical thresholds are used, which is problematic in the study of single subjects. Furthermore, arbitrary variations in the applied thresholds are associated with inconsistent estimates of the size of face-selective regions-of-interest (ROIs). We hypothesized that the use of more natural dynamic facial images in localizers might increase the likelihood of identifying face-selective ROIs in individual subjects, and we also investigated the use of a method to derive the statistically optimal ROI cluster size independent of thresholds. We found that dynamic facial stimuli were more effective than static stimuli, identifying 98% (versus 72% for static) of ROIs in the core face processing system and 69% (versus 39% for static) of ROIs in the extended face processing system. We then determined for each core face processing ROI, the cluster size associated with maximum statistical face-selectivity, which on average was approximately 50 mm(3) for the fusiform face area, the occipital face area, and the posterior superior temporal sulcus. We suggest that the combination of (a) more robust face-related activity induced by a dynamic face localizer and (b) a cluster-size determination based on maximum face-selectivity increases both the sensitivity and the specificity of the characterization of face-related ROIs in individual subjects.
Recent studies have demonstrated small-world properties in both functional and structural brain networks that are constructed based on different parcellation approaches. However, one fundamental but vital issue of the impact of different brain parcellation schemes on the network topological architecture remains unclear. Here, we used resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to investigate the influences of different brain parcellation atlases on the topological organization of brain functional networks. Whole-brain fMRI data were divided into ninety and seventy regions of interest according to two predefined anatomical atlases, respectively. Brain functional networks were constructed by thresholding the correlation matrices among the parcellated regions and further analyzed using graph theoretical approaches. Both atlas-based brain functional networks were found to show robust small-world properties and truncated power-law connectivity degree distributions, which are consistent with previous brain functional and structural networks studies. However, more importantly, we found that there were significant differences in multiple topological parameters (e.g., small-worldness and degree distribution) between the two groups of brain functional networks derived from the two atlases. This study provides quantitative evidence on how the topological organization of brain networks is affected by the different parcellation strategies applied.
We propose a novel methodical approach to lesion analyses involving high-resolution MR images in combination with probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps. 3D-MR images of the whole brain and the manually segmented lesion mask are spatially normalized to the reference brain of a stereotaxic probabilistic cytoarchitectonic atlas using a multiscale registration algorithm based on an elastic model. The procedure is demonstrated in three patients suffering from aperceptive tactile agnosia of the right hand due to chronic infarction of the left parietal cortex. Patient 1 presents a lesion in areas of the postcentral sulcus, Patient 3 in areas of the superior parietal lobule and adjacent intraparietal sulcus, and Patient 2 lesions in both regions. On the basis of neurobehavioral data, we conjectured degradation of sequential elementary sensory information processing within the postcentral gyrus, impeding texture recognition in Patients 1 and 2, and disturbed kinaesthetic information processing in the posterior parietal lobe, causing degraded shape recognition in the patients 2 and 3. The involvement of Brodmann areas 4a, 4p, 3a, 3b, 1, 2, and areas IP1 and IP2 of the intraparietal sulcus was assessed in terms of the voxel overlap between the spatially transformed lesion masks and the 50%-isocontours of the cytoarchitectonic maps. The disruption of the critical cytoarchitectonic areas and the impaired subfunctions, texture and shape recognition, relate as conjectured above. We conclude that the proposed method represents a promising approach to hypothesis-driven lesion analyses, yielding lesion-function correlates based on a cytoarchitectonic model. Finally, the lesion-function correlates are validated by functional imaging reference data.
We investigated the safety and neuroregenerative potential of an adeno-associated virus (AAV2) containing human glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in an MPTP primate model of Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic function was evaluated by positron emission tomography with 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-m-tyrosine (FMT) before and after AAV2-GDNF or phosphate-buffered saline infusion bilaterally into the putamen. FMT uptake was significantly increased bilaterally in the putamen of AAV2-GDNF but not phosphate-buffered saline-treated animals 6 months after infusion, indicating increased dopaminergic activity in the nigrostriatal pathways. AAV2-GDNF-treated animals also showed clinical improvement without adverse effects. These findings are consistent with our previous report in aged nonhuman primates that showed evidence of enhanced use of striatal dopamine and dopaminergic nigrostriatal innervation. Clinical improvement and evidence of functional recovery in the nigrostriatal pathway, and the absence of adverse effects, support the safety of this approach for the delivery of GDNF over a 6-month period.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that patients who have major depressive disorder show alterations in immunologic markers including increases in proinflammatory cytokine activity and inflammation. Inflammation of the central nervous system is a pathologic hallmark of multiple sclerosis (MS). Patients affected by this disease also show a high incidence of depression. Accumulating evidence from animal studies suggests that some aspects of depression and fatigue in MS may be linked to inflammatory markers. This article reviews the current knowledge in the field and illustrates how the sickness behavior model may be applied to investigate depressive symptoms in inflammatory neurologic diseases.
The last decade has seen numerous advances in the treatment of multiple sclerosis with six immunotherapeutic agents licensed for use. Although these therapeutic agents have powerful effects upon the inflammatory phase of disease, they have limitations in treating the progression of disability and in their safety profile. This review focuses on our current understanding of first- and second-line treatments for multiple sclerosis, including combination therapies, and also discusses the most promising novel therapeutic strategies on the horizon. Such agents include orally administered immunosuppressive drugs, monoclonal antibodies, antigen-specific tolerance, and neural protection and repair strategies. The challenge ahead lies in the delivery of potent drugs to inhibit inflammation and neurodegeneration while limiting side effects. Further elucidation of the pathophysiology of disease may provide new clinical targets and disease-relevant biomarkers that, in combination with proteomics, may help personalize treatment to individual patients.
The present study aimed to investigate the time-course and distribution of [(3)H]-corticosterone in urine, feces and blood of male Sprague-Dawley rats after intravenous administration of a low dose (1 microCi), and to investigate whether different intravenous routes of administration may affect the dynamics of excreted [(3)H]-corticosterone in the feces. One microCi [(3)H]-corticosterone was injected intravenously either through the tail vein in manually restrained rats or through a jugular vein catheter three days after surgical implantation. Urine and feces were collected at different time points over 78 h from the rats injected in the tail vein, and blood and feces were collected over 48 h from rats injected in the jugular vein. In the blood, radioactivity peaked immediately and decreased rapidly within 90 minutes. The radioactivity was excreted in urine within six h and in feces after at least 12 h. Sixty percent of the radioactivity was detected in the urine and 40% in feces during the study period of 78 h. The detected amount of radioactivity in feces was higher and displayed a more pronounced peak 12 h after injection when the substance was administered through a jugular vein catheter compared to tail vein injection. The data obtained in the present study may serve as an important benchmark when choosing time points for fecal collection for quantification of corticosterone or corticosterone metabolites as a non-invasive measure of preceding HPA-axis activation.
Many neurodegenerative diseases result due to the accumulation of misfolded proteins as amyloid fibrils. Although the protein components of these fibrils from different disease states differ considerably, they appear to share common structure. Among these conformational disorders, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and prion diseases exhibit significant overlap in their mechanism of pathogenesis. The present report demonstrates that antibodies directed against the prion protein repeat motif, Tyr-Tyr-Arg motif, recognize recombinantly expressed human amyloid beta (A beta) aggregates in enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. In addition, these antibodies dissociate the preformed aggregates of A beta in vitro. These findings illustrate an important property of conformation dependent antibodies viz., they specifically recognize the protein deposits associated with pathology and not the protein in normal tissue. These antibodies may benefit the development of approaches towards prevention and treatment of protein misfolding diseases.
Voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs), predominantly the 'neonatal' splice form of Na(v)1.5 (nNa(v)1.5), are upregulated in metastatic breast cancer (BCa) and potentiate metastatic cell behaviours. VGSCs comprise one pore-forming alpha subunit and one or more beta subunits. The latter modulate VGSC expression and gating, and can function as cell adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The aims of this study were (1) to determine which beta subunits were expressed in weakly metastatic MCF-7 and strongly metastatic MDA-MB-231 human BCa cells, and (2) to investigate the possible role of beta subunits in adhesion and migration. In both cell lines, the beta subunit mRNA expression profile was SCN1B (encoding beta1)&gt;SCN4B (encoding beta4)&gt;SCN2B (encoding beta2); SCN3B (encoding beta3) was not detected. MCF-7 cells had much higher levels of all beta subunit mRNAs than MDA-MB-231 cells, and beta1 mRNA was the most abundant. Similarly, beta1 protein was strongly expressed in MCF-7 and barely detectable in MDA-MB-231 cells. In MCF-7 cells transfected with siRNA targeting beta1, adhesion was reduced by 35%, while migration was increased by 121%. The increase in migration was reversed by tetrodotoxin (TTX). In addition, levels of nNa(v)1.5 mRNA and protein were increased following beta1 down-regulation. Stable expression of beta1 in MDA-MB-231 cells increased functional VGSC activity, process length and adhesion, and reduced lateral motility and proliferation. We conclude that beta1 is a novel cell adhesion molecule in BCa cells and can control VGSC (nNa(v)1.5) expression and, concomitantly, cellular migration.
The early postnatal period has been suggested to be the vulnerable time for structural and functional reorganization of sensory systems, and painful stimuli at this time may alter neuronal circuits, thereby leading to changes in an individual's response to pain later in life. In the present study, we examined whether inflammatory experience in the early life can affect pain responses to subsequent noxious insults later in life. The two groups of neonatal rats, treated with an inflammatory irritant and untreated, were subjected to inflammation and peripheral nerve injury in adulthood. Neonatal inflammation was induced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, 25 microl) into the hindpaw or tail of newborn rat pups. Adult rats which had suffered from neonatal paw inflammation at P0 were subjected to re-injection of CFA into the paw neonatally exposed to CFA or L5 spinal nerve ligation. Paw thickness and histology of inflamed paw were examined to assess the neonatal inflammation. Adult animals whose tail had been subjected to CFA injection on P3 received tail-innervating nerve injury. The results showed that the neonatal CFA-treated rats suffered from chronic inflammation, confirmed by persistent increase of paw thickness and histological result of inflamed paw. These animals showed enhanced pain responses to re-inflammatory challenge by injection of CFA (200 microl) into the neonatally inflamed paw 8 weeks after birth compared with the neonatally untreated animals. However, neuropathic pain on the hindpaw and the tail which had been induced by peripheral nerve injury in the neonatal CFA-treated group were not different from those of the untreated group. The present data suggest that early neonatal long-lasting inflammation differentially affects pain responses later in life, depending on the types of subsequent noxious insults.



An animal model of depression combining genetic vulnerability and early-life stress (ELS) was prepared by submitting the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats to a standard paradigm of maternal separation. We analysed hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity in vivo and ionotropic receptors for glutamate in FSL rats, in their controls Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats, and in both lines subjected to ELS. A strong inhibition of long-term potentiation (LTP) and lower synaptic expression of NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor were found in FSL rats. Remarkably, ELS induced a remodelling of synaptic plasticity only in FSL rats, reducing inhibition of LTP; this was accompanied by marked increase of synaptic NR1 subunit and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA receptors. Chronic treatment with escitalopram inhibited LTP in FRL rats, but this effect was attenuated by prior ELS. The present results suggest that early gene-environment interactions cause lifelong synaptic changes affecting functional and molecular aspects of plasticity, partly reversed by antidepressant treatments.


The authors examined the long-term stability of resting regional EEG alpha asymmetry and power (i.e., markers of affective style) in a sample of 15 stable community outpatients with schizophrenia. We found that resting frontal EEG alpha asymmetry and power both remained stable over a 36-month interval before and after controlling for patients' positive and negative symptoms. This same pattern was not evidenced in the posterior EEG sites. These findings provide preliminary evidence of a putative psychophysiological trait marker of affective style in stable community outpatients with schizophrenia.



This study addressed how manipulating certain aspects of the envelopes of high-frequency stimuli affects sensitivity to envelope-based interaural temporal disparities (ITDs). Listener's threshold ITDs were measured using an adaptive two-alternative paradigm employing &quot;raised-sine&quot; stimuli [John, M. S., et al. (2002). Ear Hear. 23, 106-117] which permit independent variation in their modulation frequency, modulation depth, and modulation exponent. Threshold ITDs were measured while manipulating modulation exponent for stimuli having modulation frequencies between 32 and 256 Hz. The results indicated that graded increases in the exponent led to graded decreases in envelope-based threshold ITDs. Threshold ITDs were also measured while parametrically varying modulation exponent and modulation depth. Overall, threshold ITDs decreased with increases in the modulation depth. Unexpectedly, increases in the exponent of the raised-sine led to especially large decreases in threshold ITD when the modulation depth was low. An interaural correlation-based model was generally able to capture changes in threshold ITD stemming from changes in the exponent, depth of modulation, and frequency of modulation of the raised-sine stimuli. The model (and several variations of it), however, could not account for the unexpected interaction between the value of raised-sine exponent and its modulation depth.
Because of the poor spectral resolution in cochlear implants (CIs), fundamental frequency (F0) cues are not well preserved. Chinese-speaking CI users may have great difficulty understanding speech produced by competing talkers, due to conflicting tones. In this study, normal-hearing listeners' concurrent Chinese syllable recognition was measured with unprocessed speech and CI simulations. Concurrent syllables were constructed by summing two vowels from a male talker (with identical mean F0's) or one vowel from each of a male and a female talker (with a relatively large F0 separation). CI signal processing was simulated using four- and eight-channel noise-band vocoders; the degraded spectral resolution may limit listeners' ability to utilize talker and/or tone differences. The results showed that concurrent speech recognition was significantly poorer with the CI simulations than with unprocessed speech. There were significant interactions between the talker and speech-processing conditions, e.g., better tone and syllable recognitions with the male-female condition for unprocessed speech, and with the male-male condition for eight-channel speech. With the CI simulations, competing tones interfered with concurrent-tone and syllable recognitions, but not vowel recognition. Given limited pitch cues, subjects were unable to use F0 differences between talkers or tones for concurrent Chinese syllable recognition.
The current study adapted the Garner paradigm for diagnosing separable versus integral perceptual dimensions to the eye-blink classical conditioning paradigm using rabbits. Specifically, this study examined the ability of rabbits to categorize stimuli based on one auditory dimension while ignoring a second, irrelevant dimension by displaying an appropriate eye-blink for bilaterally conditioned discriminative responses. Tones used in training varied along two dimensions, starting frequency and magnitude of frequency sweep upwards from the start. Rabbits first learned to categorize along a single dimension (blinking one eye for one category response and the other eye for the other response) and then continued to categorize tones in a second phase in which the irrelevant dimension was varied. The variation of the irrelevant dimension did not disrupt performance, indicating that rabbits perceive these dimensions as separable.

Learning and memory are interdependent processes. Memories are learned, and cumulative learning requires memory. It is generally accepted that learning contributes to psychopathology and consequently to pertinent memory formation. Neuroscience and psychological research have established that memory is an active reconstructive process that is influenced by thoughts, feelings, and behaviors including post-event information. Recent research on the treatment of anxiety disorders using medications (i.e., d-cyclcloserine) to alter neurological systems associated with memory used in conjunction with behavior therapy suggests that memory is part of a central mechanism in the etiology and maintenance of these conditions. The main thesis of this article is that learning-based interventions create new memories that may modify existing ones. This raises the possibility of using such memory modifications to measure intervention outcome. A connectionist context for understanding this phenomenon and informing intervention is provided, with specific reference to post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder. Recommendations for future research examining the role of memory change in treatment outcome are suggested.
Psychometric properties of the Diagnostic Interview for Social and Communication Disorders schedule (DISCO) have only been studied in the UK. The authorised Swedish translation of the tenth version of the DISCO (DISCO-10) was used in interviews with close relatives of 91 Swedish patients referred for neuropsychiatrical assessment. Validity analysis compared DISCO-10-algorithm diagnoses with clinical diagnoses and with Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised (ADI-R) algorithm diagnoses in 57 cases. Good-excellent inter-rater reliability was demonstrated in 40 cases of children and adults. The criterion validity was excellent when compared with clinical diagnoses and an investigator-based diagnostic interview. The DISCO-10 has good psychometric properties. Advantages over the ADI-R include valuable information of the broader autism phenotype and co-existing problems for clinical practice and research.
TrkA receptor signaling is essential for nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced survival and differentiation of sensory neurons. To identify possible effectors or regulators of TrkA signaling, yeast two-hybrid screening was performed using the intracellular domain of TrkA as bait. We identified muc18-1-interacting protein 2 (Mint2) as a novel TrkA-binding protein and found that the phosphotyrosine binding domain of Mint2 interacted with TrkA in a phosphorylation- and ligand-independent fashion. Coimmunoprecipitation assays showed that endogenous TrkA interacted with Mint2 in rat tissue homogenates, and immunohistochemical evidence revealed that Mint2 and TrkA colocalized in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Furthermore, Mint2 overexpression inhibited NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in both PC12 and cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons, whereas inhibition of Mint2 expression by RNA interference facilitated NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. Moreover, Mint2 was found to promote the retention of TrkA in the Golgi apparatus and inhibit its surface sorting. Taken together, our data provide evidence that Mint2 is a novel TrkA-regulating protein that affects NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, possibly through a mechanism involving retention of TrkA in the Golgi apparatus.
Accumulation of the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide derived from the proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) is the defining pathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease. We previously demonstrated that the C-terminal 37 amino acids of lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) robustly promoted Abeta generation independent of FE65 and specifically interacted with Ran-binding protein 9 (RanBP9). In this study we found that RanBP9 strongly increased BACE1 cleavage of APP and Abeta generation. This pro-amyloidogenic activity of RanBP9 did not depend on the KPI domain or the Swedish APP mutation. In cells expressing wild type APP, RanBP9 reduced cell surface APP and accelerated APP internalization, consistent with enhanced beta-secretase processing in the endocytic pathway. The N-terminal half of RanBP9 containing SPRY-LisH domains not only interacted with LRP but also with APP and BACE1. Overexpression of RanBP9 resulted in the enhancement of APP interactions with LRP and BACE1 and increased lipid raft association of APP. Importantly, knockdown of endogenous RanBP9 significantly reduced Abeta generation in Chinese hamster ovary cells and in primary neurons, demonstrating its physiological role in BACE1 cleavage of APP. These findings not only implicate RanBP9 as a novel and potent regulator of APP processing but also as a potential therapeutic target for Alzheimer disease.
In near-infrared spectroscopy, concentration changes in oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin are calculated from the changes in the attenuation of the measurement light. This is done by solving a linear equation based on the modified Lambert-Beer law. To solve this equation, we need to know the partial optical pathlengths in the activated region in the brain. Because they are difficult to know, a wavelength-independent constant or a wavelength-dependent total optical pathlength has been substituted for these values in actual measurements. This kind of substitution inevitably produces errors, called cross-talk, when calculating concentration changes. In this paper, we propose a new cross-talk measure for dual and triple wavelength measurements, and analyze it over various wavelength combinations. The results indicate that constant substitution is not inferior to total path-length substitution in dual wavelength measurements, and that total path-length substitution is very effective for triple wavelength measurements.
In medulloblastomas, which are highly malignant cerebellar tumors of the childhood genotoxic treatments such as cisplatin or gamma-irradiation are frequently associated with DNA damage, which often associates with unfaithful DNA repair, selection of new adaptations and possibly tumor recurrences. Therefore, better understanding of molecular mechanisms which control DNA repair fidelity upon DNA damage is a critical task. Here we demonstrate for the first time that estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) can contribute to the development of genomic instability in medulloblastomas. Specifically, ERbeta was found highly expressed and active in mouse and human medulloblastoma cell lines. Nuclear ERbeta was also present in human medulloblastoma clinical samples. Expression of ERbeta coincided with nuclear translocation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1), which was previously reported to interfere with the faithful component of DNA repair when translocated to the nucleus. We demonstrated that ERbeta and IRS-1 bind each other, and the interaction involves C-terminal domain of IRS-1 (aa 931-1233). Following cisplatin-induced DNA damage, nuclear IRS-1 localized at the sites of damaged DNA, and interacted with Rad51--an enzymatic component of homologous recombination directed DNA repair (HRR). In medulloblastoma cells, engineered to express HRR-DNA reporter plasmid, ER antagonist, ICI 182,780, or IRS mutant (931-1233) significantly increased DNA repair fidelity. These data strongly suggest that both molecular and pharmacological interventions are capable of preventing ERbeta-mediated IRS-1 nuclear translocation, which in turn improves DNA repair fidelity and possibly counteracts accumulation of malignant mutations in actively growing medulloblastomas.
Functional neuroimaging signals are generated, in part, by increases in cerebral blood flow (CBF) evoked by mediators, such as nitric oxide and arachidonic acid derivatives that are released in response to increased neurotransmission. However, it is unknown whether the vascular and metabolic responses within a given brain area differ when local neuronal activity is evoked by an activity in the distinct neuronal networks. In this study we assessed, for the first time, the differences in neuronal responses and changes in CBF and oxygen consumption that are evoked after the activation of two different inputs to a single cortical area. We show that, for a given level of glutamatergic synaptic activity, corticocortical and thalamocortical inputs evoked activity in pyramidal cells and different classes of interneurons, and produced different changes in oxygen consumption and CBF. Furthermore, increases in stimulation intensities either turned off or activated additional classes of inhibitory interneurons immunoreactive for different vasoactive molecules, which may contribute to increases in CBF. Our data imply that for a given cortical area, the amplitude of vascular signals will depend critically on the type of input, and that a positive blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal may be a consequence of the activation of both pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons.
Critical closing pressure (CCP) is an arterial pressure threshold below which small arterial vessels collapse. Our aim was to compare different methods to estimate CCP in the cerebrovascular circulation using the relationships between transcranial Doppler flow velocity (FV), laser-Doppler flux (LDF), and arterial blood pressure (ABP). A total of 116 experiments in rabbits were analyzed retrospectively. At the end of each recording, cardiac arrest (CA) was induced. Arterial blood pressure in femoral artery, basilar artery FV, cortical blood LDF, intracranial pressure (ICP) was recorded. Critical closing pressure was estimated using linear regression between decreasing mean ABP values, FV, and LDF during CA. In addition, CCP was calculated from FV waveform just before CA. The correlation between CCP evaluated using LDF and FV during CA was 0.98 (P&lt;0.0001). The correlation between CCP measured during CA and CCP estimated from the transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) waveform was weaker (R=0.39; P&lt;0.001), with CCP calculated from waveform being significantly greater than CCP from CA (median difference 9 mm Hg; P&lt;0.003). Critical closing pressures obtained from FV waveform and CA correlated with mean ICP before CA (R=0.40; P=0.001). In conclusion strong correlation exists between CCP values obtained by means of FV and LDF during cardiac arrest. However, predictions of CCP using TCD waveform analysis show substantial differences from values of CCP recorded during cardiac arrest.
It has been proposed that proinflammatory mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of brain edema in acute liver failure (ALF). The aim of this study was to assess the contribution of cerebral inflammation to the neurologic complications of ALF and to assess the antiinflammatory effect of mild hypothermia. Upregulation of CD11b/c immunoreactivity, consistent with microglial activation, was observed in the brains of ALF rats at coma stages of encephalopathy. Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) mRNAs were increased two to threefold in the brains of ALF rats compared with that in sham-operated controls. The magnitude of increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the brain was correlated with the progression of encephalopathy and the onset of brain edema. Significant increases in IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha levels were also found in the sera and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of these animals. Mild hypothermia delayed the onset of encephalopathy, prevented brain edema, and concomitantly attenuated plasma, brain, and CSF proinflammatory cytokines. These results show that experimental ALF leads to increases in brain production of proinflammatory cytokines, and afford the first direct evidence that central inflammatory mechanisms play a role in the pathogenesis of the cerebral complications of ALF. Antiinflammatory agents could be beneficial in the management of these complications.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) prevents entry of circulating substances into the brain. The circumventricular organs (CVOs) lack a BBB and have a direct communication with the circulation blood. One of the CVOs, the area postrema (AP), which has a close relationship with the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMX), plays a role in controlling the entry of blood-borne substances to neurons of the brainstem. To clarify the cellular localization of protein components of the BBB in the brainstem AP-NTS region, we used antisera to--(1) Tight junctions: claudin-5 and zona occludens-1 (ZO-1). (2) Endothelial cells: (a) all endothelial cells--rat endothelial cell antigen-1 (RECA-1) and (b) endothelial cells at BBB--endothelial barrier antigen (EBA), glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) and transferrin receptor (TfR). (3) Basal lamina--laminin. (4) Vascular smooth muscle cells--smooth muscle actin (SMA). (5) Pericytes--chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2). (6) Glial cells: (a) astrocytes--glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), (b) tanycytes--dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDA (DARPP-32), and (c) microglia--CD11b. Neuronal cell bodies in the NTS were visualized by antisera to neuropeptide Y (NPY) and alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), two peptides regulating energy balance. This study provides a detailed analysis of the cellular localization of BBB proteins in the AP and NTS and shows the existence of vessels in the dorsomedial aspect of the NTS that lack immunoreactivity for the BBB markers EBA and TfR. Such vessels may represent a route of entry for circulating substances to neurons in the NTS that inter alia regulate energy balance.
The aim of this study was to analyze the impact of physical and social stress on the avian forebrain morphology. Therefore, we used laying hens kept in different housing systems from puberty (approximately 16 weeks old) until the age of 48 weeks: battery cages, small littered ground pen, and free range system. Cell body sizes and catecholaminergic and serotonergic innervation patterns were investigated in brain areas expected to be sensitive to differences in environmental stimulation: hippocampal substructures and the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL), a functional analogue of the prefrontal cortex. Our analysis shows both structures differing in the affected morphological parameters. Compared to battery cage hens, hens in the free range system developed larger cells in the dorsomedial hippocampus. Only these animals exhibited an asymmetry in the tyrosine hydroxylase density with more fibres in the left dorsomedial hippocampus. We assume that the higher spatial complexity of the free range system is the driving force of these changes. In contrast, in the NCL the housing systems affected only the serotonergic innervation pattern with highest fibre densities in free range hens. Moreover hens of the free range system displayed the worst plumage condition, which most likely is caused by feather pecking causing an altered serotonergic innervation pattern. Considering the remarkable differences between the three housing conditions, their effects on hippocampal structures and the NCL were surprisingly mild. This observation suggests that the adult brain of laying hens displays limited sensitivity to differences in social and physical environment induced post-puberty, which warrants further studies.
The opioid system is known to play a role in various aspects of learning and memory in diverse species of mammals and birds. Earlier studies have localized the endogenous opioids, met- and leu-enkephalin, in the song control regions of male zebra finches (Taenopygia guttata), a sexually dimorphic species of songbirds wherein only males sing. Recent research has shown that levels of enkephalin increase in some of the song control regions during singing and that blocking opioid receptors with the antagonist naloxone decreases the frequency of singing in songbirds. However, the distribution of receptors specific to the opioid system has not been studied in zebra finches. In the present study, we used reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to demonstrate that the song control regions lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN), Area X, MSt (medial striatum), HVC and RA (robust nucleus of the arcopallium) expressed higher levels of mu-OR mRNA compared to delta-OR mRNA. In situ hybridization was used to demonstrate that neither LMAN nor Area X could be delineated from the surrounding brain regions [anterior nidopallium (ANP) and MSt, respectively], based on OR mRNA expression. However, HVC and RA neurons expressed marginally higher levels of mu-OR mRNA compared to the posterior nidopallium, which was confirmed by immunohistochemical localization. We also found that the dorsolateral subdivision of DLM (dorsolateral nucleus of the medial thalamus) demonstrated high levels of mu-OR immunoreactivity. Our results suggest that the ORs may be involved in modulating different aspects of vocalization and/or gating auditory input, as well as motor control.


In spite of an increasing focus on the assessment and treatment of sexual offenders over the past two decades, much debate persists as to the effectiveness of treatment in reducing recidivism. Given the dearth of research on offenders' perspectives in this area and the potential for offenders' views to inform the development of effective treatment, we consider the views of 35 adult male child sexual abusers on the prison treatment program. Focusing on a number of key themes, namely victim empathy, strategies for desistence, group or individual treatment, motivation, and postprogram support. In doing so, the extent to which this work furthers knowledge in this area and future research directions was considered.

Neuropathy and myopathy can cause weakness during critical illness. To determine whether reduced excitability of peripheral nerves, rather than degeneration, is the mechanism underlying acute neuropathy in critically ill patients, we prospectively followed patients during the acute phase of critical illness and early recovery and assessed nerve conduction. During the period of early recovery from critical illness, patients recovered from neuropathy within days. This rapidly reversible neuropathy has not to our knowledge been previously described in critically ill patients and may be a novel type of neuropathy. In vivo intracellular recordings from dorsal root axons in septic rats revealed reduced action potential amplitude, demonstrating that reduced excitability of nerve was the mechanism underlying neuropathy. When action potentials were triggered by hyperpolarizing pulses, their amplitudes largely recovered, indicating that inactivation of sodium channels was an important contributor to reduced excitability. There was no depolarization of axon resting potential in septic rats, which ruled out a contribution of resting potential to the increased inactivation of sodium channels. Our data suggest that a hyperpolarized shift in the voltage dependence of sodium channel inactivation causes increased sodium inactivation and reduced excitability. Acquired sodium channelopathy may be the mechanism underlying acute neuropathy in critically ill patients.

In the past, response was considered to be the goal of depression treatment. However, studies demonstrated that achieving response was not sufficient for sustaining long-term recovery, so remission (or total elimination of symptoms) became the ultimate aim of treatment. Recently, research has indicated a need to elevate treatment goals from remission to the achieving of wellness-the full restoration of premorbid levels of functioning and quality of life. Strategies such as incorporating objective measures into clinical practice and collaborating with patients throughout therapy will increase the likelihood of attaining wellness.
In the retina of adult teleosts, stem cells are sustained in two specialized niches: the ciliary marginal zone (CMZ) and the microenvironment surrounding adult Mller glia. Recently, Mller glia were identified as the regenerative stem cells in the teleost retina. Secreted signaling molecules that regulate neuronal regeneration in the retina are largely unknown. In a microarray screen to discover such factors, we identified midkine-b (mdkb). Midkine is a highly conserved heparin-binding growth factor with numerous biological functions. The zebrafish genome encodes two distinct midkine genes: mdka and mdkb. Here we describe the cellular expression of mdka and mdkb during retinal development and the initial, proliferative phase of photoreceptor regeneration. The results show that in the embryonic and larval retina mdka and mdkb are expressed in stem cells, retinal progenitors, and neurons in distinct patterns that suggest different functions for the two molecules. Following the selective death of photoreceptors in the adult, mdka and mdkb are coexpressed in horizontal cells and proliferating Mller glia and their neurogenic progeny. These data reveal that Mdka and Mdkb are signaling factors present in the retinal stem cell niches in both embryonic and mature retinas, and that their cellular expression is actively modulated during retinal development and regeneration.
Bartering of commodities between individuals is a hallmark of human behavior that is not commonly seen in other species. This is difficult to explain because barter is mutually beneficial and appears to be within the cognitive capabilities of many species. It may be that other species do not recognize the gains of trade, or that they do not experience conditions (e.g., low risk) in which barter is most beneficial. To answer these questions, the authors instituted a systematic study of chimpanzees' ability to barter with each other when doing so materially benefited them. Using tokens derived from symbols they had used since infancy, pairs of adult chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) could trade between themselves to obtain tokens needed to get foods. Chimpanzees flexibly used the tokens to obtain foods from an experimenter; however, they did not spontaneously trade with their partner. After extensive training, chimpanzees engaged in accurate trade behavior as long as an experimenter enforced the structure of the interaction; however, trade between partners disappeared when this enforcement was removed. The authors discuss possible reasons for these findings as well as implications for the evolution of barter across the primate lineage.
In temperate zones, day length changes markedly across the year, and in many mammals these photoperiodic variations are associated with physiological adaptations. However, the influence of this environmental variable on human behavior and physiology is less clear, and the potential underlying mechanisms are unknown. To address this issue, we examined the effect of changing photoperiods on adrenal gland function in ovariectomized female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), both in terms of steroid hormone output and in terms of gene expression. The animals were sequentially exposed to the following lighting regimens, which were designed to simulate photoperiods associated with winter, spring/autumn and summer respectively: 8 h light:16 h darkness (short days), 12 h light:12 h darkness and 16 h light:8 h darkness (long days). Remote 24-h serial blood sampling failed to disclose any effect of photoperiod on mean or peak plasma levels of cortisol or dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. However, there was a marked phase-advancement of both hormonal rhythms in short days, which was reflected as a similar phase-advancement of the daily motor activity rhythm. Gene microarray analysis of the adrenal gland transcriptome revealed photoperiod-induced differences in the expression of genes associated with homeostatic functions, including: development, lipid synthesis and metabolism, and immune function. Taken together, the results indicate that in primates, both circadian adrenal physiology and gene expression are influenced by seasonal changes in day length, which may have implications for adrenal-regulated physiology and behavior.
Echolocating bats emit sonar pulses and listen to returning echoes to probe their surroundings. Bats adapt their echolocation call design to cope with dynamic changes in the acoustic environment, including habitat change or the presence of nearby conspecifics/heterospecifics. Seven pairs of big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus, were tested in this study to examine how they adjusted their echolocation calls when flying and competing with a conspecific for food. Results showed that differences in five call parameters, start/end frequencies, duration, bandwidth and sweep rate, significantly increased in the two-bat condition compared with the baseline data. In addition, the magnitude of spectral separation of calls was negatively correlated with the baseline call design differences in individual bats. Bats with small baseline call frequency differences showed larger increases in call frequency separation when paired than those with large baseline call frequency differences, suggesting that bats actively change their sonar call structure if pre-existing differences in call design are small. Call design adjustments were also influenced by physical spacing between two bats. Calls of paired bats exhibited the largest design separations when inter-bat distance was shorter than 0.5 m, and the separation decreased as the spacing increased. All individuals modified at least one baseline call parameter in response to the presence of another conspecific. We propose that dissimilarity between the time-frequency features of sonar calls produced by different bats aids each individual in segregating echoes of its own sonar vocalizations from the acoustic signals of neighboring bats.
This study investigated the role of auditory selective attention capacities as a possible mediator of the well-established association between verbal short-term memory (STM) and vocabulary development. A total of 47 6- and 7-year-olds were administered verbal immediate serial recall and auditory attention tasks. Both task types probed processing of item and serial order information because recent studies have shown this distinction to be critical when exploring relations between STM and lexical development. Multiple regression and variance partitioning analyses highlighted two variables as determinants of vocabulary development: (a) a serial order processing variable shared by STM order recall and a selective attention task for sequence information and (b) an attentional variable shared by selective attention measures targeting item or sequence information. The current study highlights the need for integrative STM models, accounting for conjoined influences of attentional capacities and serial order processing capacities on STM performance and the establishment of the lexical language network.
The goal of the current research was to explore whether monkeys possess conceptual precursors necessary for understanding zero. We trained rhesus monkeys on a nonsymbolic numerical matching-to-sample task, and on a numerical ordering task. We then introduced nondifferentially reinforced trials that contained empty sets to determine whether monkeys would treat empty sets as numerical values. All monkeys successfully matched and ordered the empty sets without any training. Accuracy showed distance effects, indicating that they treated empty sets as values on a numerical continuum.

The neurotropic coronavirus JHM strain of mouse hepatitis virus persists in oligodendroglia despite the presence of virus-specific CD8 T cells. Expression of programmed death 1 (PD-1) and B7-H1 were studied during acute and persistent infection to examine whether this negative regulatory mechanism contributes to CNS viral persistence. The majority of CNS-infiltrating CD8 T cells expressed PD-1, with the highest levels on virus-specific CD8 T cells. Moreover, despite control of infectious virus, CD8 T cells within the CNS of persistently infected mice maintained high PD-1 expression. Analysis of virus-susceptible target cells in vivo revealed that B7-H1 expression was regulated in a cell type-dependent manner. Oligodendroglia and microglia up-regulated B7-H1 following infection; however, although B7-H1 expression on oligodendroglia was prominent and sustained, it was significantly reduced and transient on microglia. Infection of mice deficient in the IFN-gamma or IFN-alpha/beta receptor demonstrated that B7-H1 expression on oligodendroglia is predominantly regulated by IFN-gamma. Ab blockade of B7-H1 on oligodendroglia in vitro enhanced IFN-gamma secretion by virus-specific CD8 T cells. More efficient virus control within the CNS of B7-H1-deficient mice confirmed inhibition of CD8 T cell function in vivo. Nevertheless, the absence of B7-H1 significantly increased morbidity without altering demyelination. These data are the first to demonstrate glia cell type-dependent B7-H1 regulation in vivo, resulting in adverse effects on antiviral CD8 T cell function. However, the beneficial role of PD-1:B7-H1 interactions in limiting morbidity highlights the need to evaluate tissue-specific intervention strategies.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are integral membrane proteins, hence it is not surprising that a number of their structural and functional features are modulated by both proteins and lipids. The impact of interacting proteins and lipids on the assembly and signalling of GPCRs has been extensively investigated over the last 20-30 years, and a further impetus has been given by the proposal that GPCRs and/or their immediate signalling partners (G proteins) can partition within plasma membrane domains, termed rafts and caveolae, enriched in glycosphingolipids and cholesterol. The high content of these specific lipids, in particular of cholesterol, in the vicinity of GPCR transmembranes can affect GPCR structure and/or function. In addition, most GPCRs are post-translationally modified with one or more palmitic acid(s), a 16-carbon saturated fatty acid, covalently bound to cysteine(s) localised in the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic tail. The insertion of palmitate into the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane can create a fourth loop, thus profoundly affecting GPCR structure and hence the interactions with intracellular partner proteins. This review briefly highlights how lipids of the membrane and the receptor themselves can influence GPCR organisation and functioning.
The aim was to examine long-term mental health and posttraumatic stress symptomatology in a Swedish tourist population after exposure to the 2004 Southeast Asian tsunami. Data from 4822 returned questionnaires 14 months after the disaster were analyzed. Respondents were categorized into 3 subgroups: (1) danger-to-life exposure group (having been caught or chased by the waves), (2) nondanger-to-life exposure group (exposed to other disaster-related stressors), and (3) low exposure group. Main outcome measures were General Health Questionnaire-12 and Impact of Event Scale-22-Revised. Danger-to-life exposure was an important factor in causing more severe posttraumatic stress symptoms and in affecting mental health. Female gender, single status, and former trauma experiences were associated with greater distress. Other factors related to more severe symptoms were loss of relatives, physical injuries, viewing many dead bodies, experiencing life threat, and showing signs of cognitive confusion. Disaster exposure has a substantial impact on survivors, which stresses the need for long-lasting support.
Despite the implication of fronto-striatal circuits in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), there is a lack of information on the role of these regions, especially the thalamus, in the heterogeneity of ADHD. We assessed the (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy profile in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC)-thalamic-striatal regions bilaterally in three groups of subjects (age range 18-24 years old): ADHD inattentive type (ADHD-I; n = 9), ADHD combined type (ADHD-C; n = 10) and non-ADHD controls (n = 12). The peaks of N-acetylaspartate, Choline (Cho), myo-inositol (mI), creatine (Cr) and glutamate-glutamine-GABA (Glx) to Cr were calculated. Subjects with ADHD-C showed lower mI/Cr ratio in the right VMPFC than controls, higher Cho/Cr ratio in the left thalamus-pulvinar than the ADHD-I group and higher Glx/Cr ratio in left putamen than individuals with ADHD-I and controls. This metabolic profile suggests a disruption of fronto-striato-thalamic structures in the ADHD-C as a result of lower neuronal energetic metabolism.
In this review we analyse the evolution of the neurotransmission phenomenon, whose nature have had three basic historical interpretations; a first, of an humoral nature, formulated by the classical Greeks (Alexandrian School), and which lasted, thanks to the work of Galen, until the sixteenth century (the theory of spiritus animalis); a second, purely mechanical one, developed on the basis of Cartesian conceptions, and which dominated in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries; and finally, the electrochemical interpretation, which emerged in the nineteenth century, coinciding with the coming of age of numerous scientific disciplines, such as microscopic anatomy (Cajal), physiology (Sherrington), pharmacology (Bernard, Schmiedeberg) or experimental chemistry (Hensing). This latest interpretation can be broken down into an electrical hypothesis, dominant in the nineteenth century (Galvani, Du Bois-Reymond), and the current chemical hypothesis, which can be dated back to 1904, thanks to the research and the research by Elliott (chemical mediators) and Langley (receptive substances) on sympathetic stimulation. Finally, we describe the process of the discovery of the different neurotransmitters and neuroreceptors, and analyse the new interpretations postulated in relation to the neurotransmission concept at the dawn of the twenty-first century.
Although the potential of adult neural stem cells to repair damage via cell replacement has been widely reported, the ability of endogenous stem cells to positively modulate damage is less well studied. We investigated whether medium conditioned by adult hippocampal stem/progenitor cells altered the extent of excitotoxic cell death in hippocampal slice cultures. Conditioned medium significantly reduced cell death following 24 h of exposure to 10 microM NMDA. Neuroprotection was greater in the dentate gyrus, a region neighboring the subgranular zone where stem/progenitor cells reside compared with pyramidal cells of the cornis ammonis. Using mass spectrometric analysis of the conditioned medium, we identified a pentameric peptide fragment that corresponded to residues 26-30 of the insulin B chain which we termed 'pentinin'. The peptide is a putative breakdown product of insulin, a constituent of the culture medium, and may be produced by insulin-degrading enzyme, an enzyme expressed by the stem/progenitor cells. In the presence of 100 pM of synthetic pentinin, the number of mature and immature neurons killed by NMDA-induced toxicity was significantly reduced in the dentate gyrus. These data suggest that progenitors in the subgranular zone may convert exogenous insulin into a peptide capable of protecting neighboring neurons from excitotoxic injury.
GABAergic striatal neurons are compromised in basal ganglia pathologies and we analysed how insult nature determined their patterns of injury and recruitment of the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway during programmed cell death (PCD). Stressors affecting targets implicated in striatal neurodegeneration [3-morpholinylsydnoneimine (SIN-1), 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), NMDA, 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), and staurosporine (STS)] were compared in cultured GABAergic neurons from murine striatum by analyzing the progression of injury and its correlation with mitochondrial involvement, the redistribution of intermembrane space (IMS) proteins, and patterns of protease activation. Stressors produced PCD exhibiting slow-onset kinetics with time-dependent annexin-V labeling and eventual DNA fragmentation. IMS proteins including cytochrome c were differentially distributed, although stressors except STS produced early redistribution of apoptosis-inducing factor and Omi, suggestive of early recruitment of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent signaling. In general, Bax mobilization to mitochondria appeared to promote IMS protein redistribution. Caspase 3 activation was prominent after STS, whereas NMDA and SIN-1 produced mainly calpain activation, and 3-NP and DHPG elicited a mixed profile of protease activation. PCD and redistribution of IMS proteins in striatal GABAergic neurons were canonical and insult-dependent, reflecting differential interplay between the caspase cascade and alternate cell death pathways.
Ischemia occurs in the brain as the result of stroke and other related injuries and few therapies are effective. If more is understood then potential treatments could be investigated. It was previously reported that 14-3-3gamma could be up-regulated by ischemia in astrocyte to protect cells from ischemia-induced apoptosis. In this study, we attempted to uncover the mechanism responsible for this 14-3-3gamma up-regulation in primary culture of astrocytes under ischemic-like conditions. It was found that in vitro ischemia may activate PI3K/Akt and MAPK signaling pathways. Astrocyte cultures were treated with LY294002 (PI3K inhibitor), U0126 (ERK inhibitor), SB203580 (p38 inhibitor) and SP600125 (JNK inhibitor). Only SP600125 could inhibit the ischemia-induced 14-3-3gamma up-regulation in astrocytes. At the same time, we observed an ischemia-induced nuclear translocation of p-c-Jun, a major downstream component of JNK. Inhibition of AP-1 with curcumin also inhibited 14-3-3gamma up-regulation indicating that ischemia-induced up-regulation of 14-3-3gamma in astrocyte involves activation of the JNK/p-c-Jun/AP-1 pathway.
The phenomenon of spreading depression (SD) involves waves of profound neuronal and glial depolarization that spread throughout brain tissue. Under many conditions, tissue recovers full function after SD has occurred, but SD-like events are also associated with spread of injury following ischemia or trauma. Initial large cytosolic Ca2+ increases accompany all forms of SD, but persistently elevated Ca2+ loading is likely responsible for neuronal injury following SD in tissues where metabolic capacity is insufficient to restore ionic gradients. Ca2+ channels are also involved in the propagation of SD, but the channel subtypes and cation fluxes differ significantly when SD is triggered by different types of stimuli. Ca2+ influx via P/Q type channels is important for SD generated by localized application of high K+ solutions. In contrast, SD-like events recorded in in vitro ischemia models are not usually prevented by Ca2+ removal, but under some conditions, Zn2+ influx via L-type channels contributes to SD initiation. This review addresses different roles of Ca2+ in the initiation and consequences of SD, and discusses recent evidence that selective chelation of Zn2+ can be sufficient to prevent SD under circumstances that may have relevance for ischemic injury.
Glutathione in the mitochondria is an important determinant of cellular responses to oxidative stress. Mitochondrial glutathione is maintained by uptake from the cytosol, a process that has been little studied in brain cells. In the present study, measurements using isolated rat brain mitochondria showed a rapid uptake of [3H]-glutathione that was strongly influenced by the mitochondrial glutathione content. [3H]-glutathione incorporated into the mitochondria was not rapidly released. Uptake was inhibited by substrates and inhibitors for several known mitochondrial anion transporters. Citrate, isocitrate and benzene-1,2,3-tricarboxylate were particularly effective inhibitors, suggesting a possible role for a tricarboxylate carrier in the glutathione transport. The properties of uptake differed greatly from those reported previously for mitochondria from kidney and liver. In astrocytes in primary culture, diethylmaleate or hydrogen peroxide treatment resulted in depletion of cytosolic and mitochondrial glutathione. The pattern of restoration of glutathione content in the presence of glutathione precursors following treatment with diethylmaleate was consistent with uptake into mitochondria being controlled primarily by the glutathione gradient between the cytosol and mitochondria. However, following hydrogen peroxide treatment, recovery of glutathione in the mitochondria initially preceded comparable proportional restoration in the cytosol, suggesting the possibility of additional controls on glutathione uptake in some conditions.
Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) senses metabolic stress and integrates diverse physiological signals to restore energy balance. Multiple functions are indicated for AMPK in the CNS. While all neurons sense their own energy status, some integrate neuro-humoral signals to assess organismal energy balance. A variety of disease states may involve AMPK, so determining the underlying mechanisms is important. We review the impact of altered AMPK activity under physiological (hunger, satiety) and pathophysiological (stroke) conditions, as well as therapeutic manipulations of AMPK that may improve energy balance.

Adrenal chromaffin cells synthesize and secrete catecholamines and neuropeptides that may regulate hormonal and paracrine signaling in stress and also during inflammation. The aim of our work was to study the role of the cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) on catecholamine release and synthesis from primary cell cultures of human adrenal chromaffin cells. The effect of IL-1beta on neuropeptide Y (NPY) release and the intracellular pathways involved in catecholamine release evoked by IL-1beta and NPY were also investigated. We observed that IL-1beta increases the release of NPY, norepinephrine (NE), and epinephrine (EP) from human chromaffin cells. Moreover, the immunoneutralization of released NPY inhibits catecholamine release evoked by IL-1beta. Moreover, IL-1beta regulates catecholamine synthesis as the inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase decreases IL-1beta-evoked catecholamine release and the cytokine induces tyrosine hydroxylase Ser40 phosphorylation. Moreover, IL-1beta induces catecholamine release by a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent mechanism, and by nitric oxide synthase activation. Furthermore, MAPK, protein kinase C (PKC), protein kinase A (PKA), and nitric oxide (NO) production are involved in catecholamine release evoked by NPY. Using human chromaffin cells, our data suggest that IL-1beta, NPY, and nitric oxide (NO) may contribute to a regulatory loop between the immune and the adrenal systems, and this is relevant in pathological conditions such as infection, trauma, stress, or in hypertension.
Previous studies have reported that selective sigma-1 agonists may improve cognitive abilities in experimental animals possibly via a cholinergic mechanism. However, the issue of a direct action on to sigma-1 receptors in memory-related brain areas has been much less investigated. The newly synthetised compound methyl(1R,2S/1S,2R)-2-[4-hydroxy-4-phenylpiperidin-1-yl)methyl]-1-(4-methylphenyl) cyclopropanecarboxylate [(+/-)-PPCC] has recently been shown to possess high affinity for the sigma-1 receptor where it specifically acts as an agonist. Here, the functional effects of (+/-)-PPCC were investigated in rat models of mild or severe cognitive dysfunction based on a sub-total (&lt;or= 70-80%) or complete (&gt;or= 90-95%) central cholinergic depletion induced by different doses of the selective immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin injected intraventricularly. At 5-6 weeks post-surgery, the lesioned animals exhibited dose-dependent deficits in reference memory, as assessed using the Morris water maze task, whereas working memory abilities, evaluated using the radial arm water maze task, appeared equally impaired in the two dose groups. Daily treatment with (+/-)-PPCC significantly improved both reference and working memory performance in all lesioned animals but it did not affect intact or sham-lesioned subjects. In a separate test, treatment with (+/-)-PPCC reversed the learning deficits induced by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine sulphate in both control and mild-lesioned rats. The effect was blocked in lesioned, but not normal animals by pre-treatment with the sigma-1 antagonist N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(dimethylamino)ethylamine. The results suggest that (+/-)-PPCC may efficiently ameliorate perturbed cognitive abilities, and that these anti-amnesic effects most probably occur via a direct interaction of the compound with sigma-1 receptors.
The combination of bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7) and neurotrophins (e.g. brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF) protects septal neurons during hypoglycemic stress. We investigated the signaling mechanisms underlying this synergistic protection. BMP7 (5 nM) increased phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of BMP-responsive Smads 1/5/8 within 30 min in cultures of rat embryonic septal neurons. BDNF (100 ng/mL) enhanced the BMP7-induced increase in phospho-Smad levels in both nucleus and cytoplasm; this effect was more pronounced after a hypoglycemic stress. BDNF increased both Akt and Erk phosphorylation, but pharmacological blockade of these kinase pathways (with wortmannin and U0126, respectively) did not reduce the Smad phosphorylation produced by the BMP7 + BDNF combination. Inhibitors of casein kinase II (CK2) activity reduced the (BMP7 + BDNF)-induced Smad phosphorylation, and this trophic factor combination increased CK2 activity in hypoglycemic cultures. These findings suggest that BDNF can increase BMP-dependent Smad phosphorylation via a mechanism requiring CK2.
Glutamate, acting through its N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors in the hypothalamus, regulates reproductive neuroendocrine functions via direct and indirect actions upon gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones. Previous studies indicate that the NMDA receptor subunit NR2b undergoes changes in protein and gene expression in the hypothalamus in general, and on GnRH neurones in particular, during reproductive ageing. In the present study, we examined whether the NR2b-expressing cell population, both alone and in association with the NR1 subunit (i.e. the latter subunit is necessary for a functional NMDA receptor), is altered as a function of age and  or steroid hormone treatment. Studies focused on the anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) nucleus of the hypothalamus, a region critically involved in the control of reproduction. Young (3-5 months), middle-aged (9-12 months), and aged (approximately 22 months) female rats were ovariectomised and, 1 month later, they were treated sequentially with oestradiol plus progesterone, oestradiol plus vehicle, or vehicle plus vehicle, then perfused. Quantitative stereologic analysis of NR2b-immunoreactive cell numbers in the AVPV showed an age-associated decrease in the density of NR2b-immunoreactive cells, but no effect of hormone treatment. In a second study, immunofluorescent double labelling of NR2b and NR1 was analysed by confocal microscopy of fraction volume, a semi-quantitative measure of fluorescence intensity. No effect of ageing was detected for immunofluorescent NR1 or NR2b alone, whereas the NR2b fraction volume increased in the oestradiol plus vehicle group. With ageing, the fraction volume of the NR2b/NR1-colocalised subunits increased. Together with the stereology results, this suggests that, although fewer cells express the NR2b subunit in the ageing AVPV, a greater percentage of these subunits are co-expressed with NR1. Our results suggest that the subunit composition of NMDA receptors in the AVPV undergo both age- and hormonal-regulation, which may be related to previous observations of changes in functional responses of reproductive neuroendocrine systems to NMDA receptor modulators with ageing.
Rapid but often transient changes in mitotic and apoptotic activity are important components of the pituitary response to changes in the hormonal environment. For example, bilateral adrenalectomy and orchidectomy each result in a wave of increased mitosis lasting approximately 1 week, mediated by the same population of trophically active and, to a large extent, endocrinologically inactive cells. By contrast to these tonic inhibitors of pituitary trophic activity, reports of a progressive increase in lactotroph numbers during pregnancy suggest that oestrogen is a potent and persistent pituitary mitogen. By comparing the amplitude and duration of male rat anterior pituitary mitotic responses to oestrogen treatment, to adrenalectomy, and to a combination of the two, the present study aimed to further clarify the characteristics of the oestrogen-induced trophic response, in particular whether lactotrophs are the predominant cell type involved. Adrenalectomy produced a wave of increased mitotic activity, which resolved within 7 days as expected, whereas oestrogen induced a significant increase in mitotic activity, which was sustained for the 14-day duration of the study. The trophic effects of combining adrenalectomy and oestrogen treatment were not additive in that the statistically insignificant upward trend in mitotic index during the first few days compared to oestrogen treatment alone was entirely abolished by oestrogen pre-treatment. The increase in mitotic activity in lactotrophs induced by oestrogen either with or without adrenalectomy did not result in an increase in the relative size of the prolactin-positive compared to prolactin-negative pituitary parenchymal cell numbers by the end of the study. Despite the marked increase in the lactotroph population that is reported during pregnancy, these data indicate that at least the early (i.e. within 2 weeks) mitotic response to pharmacological doses of oestrogen increases mitotic activity in the lactotroph subpopulation by only 5-8% relative to other cellular subpopulations. Unexpectedly, the mitotic response to oestrogen principally occurs in non-prolactin-containing cells and results in the recruitment, amongst other trophically responsive populations, of the entire subpopulation of prolactin-, adrenocorticotrophic hormone- and luteinising hormone-negative cells that respond mitotically to adrenalectomy. Oestrogen therefore has a previously unrecognised non-cell type-specific trophic effect in the pituitary that obscures the relative expansion of the lactotroph population by inducing concurrent increases in numbers of prolactin-negative cells, the nature of which at least in part remains to be determined.


Distinct patterns of microRNA expression have been observed in glioblastomas. The functional significance of some of these microRNAs is beginning to emerge. This data indicates that microRNAs play roles in multiple hallmark biological characteristics of glioblastoma, including cell proliferation, invasion, glioma stem cell behavior, and angiogenesis. Research in this area is quickly gathering pace and is illuminating important aspects of the disease that may ultimately lead to novel therapeutic interventions, as well as diagnostic and prognostic tools for brain tumors.
Gray matter (GM) lesions are recognized as important components of the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS), and involvement of the deep gray matter (DGM) is suggested by magnetic resonance imaging. The aims of this study were to determine the frequency and distribution of lesions and characterize the inflammatory and neurodegenerative changes in DGM of MS patients. Histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and morphometry were performed on whole coronal sections of 14 MS and 12 control (6 normal, 6 from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients) brains. Demyelinating lesions were frequent in MS DGM; most often in the thalamus and caudate, but they were also seen in the putamen, pallidum, claustrum, amygdala, hypothalamus, and substantia nigra. Most DGM lesions involved both GM and white matter. Inflammation in active DGM lesions was similar to that in lesions only in white matter but was less intense, and there was a preponderance of activated microglia, scarce myelin-laden macrophages, and a lesser extent of axonal damage. Neuronal loss was observed both in DGM lesions and nondemyelinated DGM with neuron atrophy in nondemyelinated DGM. In conclusion, demyelination and neurodegenerative changes are common in MS DGM and may contribute to clinical impairment. Inflammation in DGM lesions is intermediate between the destructive inflammation of white matter lesions and the minimal inflammation of cortical lesions. We hypothesize that alterations of glutamate reuptake mechanisms may contribute to these differences.
We investigated the contribution of Schwann cell-derived ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) to the pathogenesis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) and addressed the question as to whether it plays a role in the development of axonal damage observed in the disease, with aging. Ciliary neurotrophic factor was underexpressed in experimental CMT1A but not in other models of hereditary neuropathies. Sciatic nerve crush experiments and dosage of CNTF at different time points showed that expression of this trophic factor remained significantly lower in CMT1A rats than in normal controls; moreover, in uninjured CMT1A sciatic nerves CNTF levels further decreased with ageing, thus paralleling the molecular signs of axonal impairment, that is increased expression of non-phosphorylated neurofilaments and amyloid precursor protein. Administration of CNTF to dorsal root ganglia cultures reduced dephosphorylation of neurofilaments in CMT1A cultures, without improving demyelination. Taken together, these results provide further evidence that the production of CNTF by Schwann cells is markedly reduced in CMT1A. Moreover, the observations suggest that trophic support to the axon is impaired in CMT1A and that further studies on the therapeutic use of trophic factors or their derivatives in experimental and human CMT1A are warranted.
Compared with rigid objects, grasping and lifting compliant objects presents additional uncertainties. For any static grasp, forces at the fingertips depend on factors including the locations of the contact points and the contact forces must be coordinated to maintain equilibrium. For compliant objects, the locations and orientations of the contact surfaces change in a force-dependent manner, thus changing the force requirements. Furthermore, every force adjustment then results in additional changes in object shape. This study characterized force and muscle activation patterns in this situation. Fingertip forces were measured as subjects grasped and lifted a 200-g object using their thumb, index, and ring fingers. A spring was sometimes placed under the index and/or ring finger contact surface. Surface electromyographic activity was recorded from ten hand muscles and one proximal arm muscle. The patterns of grip (normal) force and muscle activity were similar across conditions during the load and lift phases, but their amplitude depended on whether the contact surface was compliant. Specifically, the grip force increased smoothly during the load phase of the task under all conditions. To the contrary, the tangential contact (load) force did not increase monotonically when one or more of the contact surfaces were compliant, resulting in a decoupling of the grip and load forces.
The adult mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) is unique in that olfactory sensory neurons project directly, without prior thalamic relay, to the OB. This review discusses evidence for the direct involvement of the OB in odor perception and its modulation by olfactory experience. We first discuss recent data showing that the OB exhibits a high level of plasticity in response to olfactory experience including exposure, enrichment, and learning. We next review evidence showing that, in return, experimental manipulation of the OB neural network changes how odorants are processed and perceived. We finally review in more detail a few experiments showing a tight correlation between the modulation of OB neural processing and odor perception. We argue that the OB has evolved to be an adapting network, allowing animals to adjust olfactory computations to changing environments.
Under physiological conditions N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation requires coincidence of presynaptic glutamate release and postsynaptic depolarization due to the voltage-dependent block of these receptors by extracellular Mg(2+). Therefore spontaneous neurotransmission in the absence of action potential firing is not expected to lead to significant NMDA receptor activation. Here we tested this assumption in layer IV neurons in neocortex at their resting membrane potential (approximately -67 mV). In long-duration stable recordings, we averaged a large number of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs, &gt;100) before or after application of dl-2 amino 5-phosphonovaleric acid, a specific blocker of NMDA receptors. The difference between the two mEPSC waveforms showed that the NMDA current component comprises approximately 20% of the charge transfer during an average mEPSC detected at rest. Importantly, the contribution of the NMDA component was markedly enhanced at membrane potentials expected for the depolarized up states (approximately -50 mV) that cortical neurons show during slow oscillations in vivo. In addition, partial block of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor component of the mEPSCs did not cause a significant reduction in the NMDA component, indicating that potential AMPA receptor-driven local depolarizations did not drive NMDA receptor activity at rest. Collectively these results indicate that NMDA receptors significantly contribute to signaling at rest in the absence of dendritic depolarizations or concomitant AMPA receptor activity.
The cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) signaling pathway has been shown to be important in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, although its direct and downstream signaling effects are not well understood. Using an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning, we report that PKA has a critical role in initiating a signaling cascade that results in synaptic delivery of glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1)- and GluR4-containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) in abducens motor neurons during conditioning. PKA and the Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMKs) II and IV are activated early in conditioning and are required for acquisition and expression of conditioned responses (CRs). cAMP-response-element-binding protein (CREB) is also activated early in conditioning but is blocked by coapplication of inhibitors to PKA and the CaMKs, suggesting that CREB is downstream of those signaling cascades. Moreover, evidence suggests that PKA activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase, which is also required for conditioning. Imaging studies after conditioning further indicate that colocalization of GluR1 AMPAR subunits with the synaptic marker synaptophysin requires PKA, but is insensitive to the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) inhibitor d,l-AP5. PKA activation also leads to synaptic localization of GluR4 subunits that, unlike GluR1, is dependent on NMDARs and is mediated by CaMKII. Together with previous studies, our findings support a two-stage model of AMPAR synaptic delivery during acquisition of classical conditioning. The first stage involves synaptic incorporation of GluR1-containing AMPARs that serves to activate silent synapses. This allows a second stage of NMDAR- and protein kinase C-dependent delivery of GluR4 AMPAR subunits that supports the acquisition of CRs.
The hippocampal formation is needed to encode episodic memories, which may be consciously recalled at some future time. This review examines recent advances in understanding recollection in the context of spatiotemporally organized relational memory coding and discusses predictions and challenges for future research on conscious remembering.
The relation between the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal, which forms the basis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and underlying neural activity is not well understood. We performed high-resolution fMRI in patients scheduled for implantation with depth electrodes for seizure monitoring while they navigated a virtual environment. We then recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and neural firing rate directly from the hippocampal area of the same subjects during the same task. Comparing BOLD signal changes with 396 LFP and 185 neuron recordings in the hippocampal area, we found that BOLD signal changes correlated positively with LFP power changes in the theta-band (4-8 Hz). This correlation, however, was largely present for parahippocampal BOLD signal changes; BOLD changes in the hippocampus correlated weakly or not at all with LFP power changes. We did not find a significant relationship between BOLD activity and neural firing rate in either region, which could not be accounted for by a lesser tendency for neurons to respond or a greater tendency for neurons to habituate to the task. Strengthening the idea of a dissociation between LFP power and neural firing rate in their relation to the BOLD signal, simultaneously recorded LFP power and neural firing rate changes were uncorrelated across electrodes. Together, our results suggest that the BOLD signal in the human hippocampal area has a more heterogenous relationship with underlying neural activity than has been described previously in other brain regions.
Glutamatergic synaptic currents elicited in second-order neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS) by activation of chemosensory and other visceral afferent fibers are severely reduced following 10 days of chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH). The mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. A strong candidate for producing the inhibition is dopamine, which is also released from the presynaptic terminals and which we have shown exerts a tonic presynaptic inhibition on glutamate release. We postulated that tonic activation of the D2 receptors inhibits presynaptic calcium currents to reduce transmitter release and that in CIH this occurs in conjunction with an increase in the dopamine inhibitory response due to the increase in presynaptic D2 receptors or an increase in dopamine release further suppressing the evoked excitatory postsynaptic current (eEPSC). Thus we predicted that blockade of the D2 receptors would return the EPSC to values of animals maintained under normoxic conditions. We found that dopamine and quinpirole, the selective D2-like agonist, inhibit calcium currents via the D2 receptors by acting on the N-type calcium channel in presynaptic neurons and their nTS central terminals. However, in brain slice studies from CIH animals, although the D2 antagonist sulpiride increased the CIH-reduced amplitude of synaptic currents, EPSCs were not restored to normal levels. This indicates that while the dopamine inhibitory effect remains intact in CIH, most of the reduction in the eEPSC amplitude occurs via alternative mechanisms.
We have asked how sensory adaptation is represented in the response of a population of visual motion neurons and whether the neural adaptation could drive behavioral adaptation. Our approach was to evaluate the effects of about 10 s of motion adaptation on both smooth-pursuit eye movements and the responses of neuron populations in extrastriate middle temporal visual area (MT) in awake monkeys. Stimuli for neural recordings consisted of patches of 100% correlated dot textures. There was a wide range of effects across neurons, but on average adaptation reduced the amplitude and width of the direction tuning curves of MT neurons, without large changes in the preferred direction. The effects were greatest when the direction of the adapting stimulus corresponded to the preferred direction of the MT neuron under study. Adaptation also reduced the amplitude of speed-tuning curves, again with the greatest effect when the adapting speed was equal to the preferred speed. The adapted tuning curves were shifted toward lower preferred speeds as the adapting speed increased. We constructed populations of model MT neurons based on our experimental sample and showed that the effects of adaptation on the direction and speed of pursuit eye movements were predicted when a variant of vector averaging decoded the responses of a subset of the neural population. We conclude that the effects of motion adaptation on the responses of MT neurons can support behavioral adaptation in pursuit eye movements.
Processing incoming sensory information and transforming this input into appropriate motor responses is a critical and ongoing aspect of our moment-to-moment interaction with the environment. While the neural mechanisms in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) that support the transformation of sensory inputs into simple eye or limb movements has received a great deal of empirical attention-in part because these processes are easy to study in nonhuman primates-little work has been done on sensory-motor transformations in the domain of speech. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and multivariate analysis techniques to demonstrate that a region of the planum temporale (Spt) shows distinct spatial activation patterns during sensory and motor aspects of a speech task. This result suggests that just as the PPC supports sensorimotor integration for eye and limb movements, area Spt forms part of a sensory-motor integration circuit for the vocal tract.
AQP9 is an aquaglyceroporin that serves important functions in peripheral organs, including the liver. Reflecting the lack of AQP9 knockout mice, uncertainties still prevail regarding the localization and roles of AQP9 in the central nervous system. Here we present a comprehensive analysis of AQP9 gene expression in brain, based on a quantitative and multipronged approach that includes the use of animals with targeted deletion of the AQP9 gene. We show by real-time PCR that AQP9 mRNA concentration in rat and mouse brain is approximately 3% and approximately 0.5%, respectively, of that in rat and mouse liver, the organ with the highest level of AQP9. By blue native gel analysis it could be demonstrated that the brain contains tetrameric AQP9, corresponding to the functional form of AQP9. The band corresponding to the AQP9 tetramer was absent in AQP9 knockout brain and liver. Immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization analyses with AQP9 knockout controls show that subpopulations of nigral neurons express AQP9 both at the mRNA and at the protein levels and that populations of cortical cells (including hilar neurons in the hippocampus) contain AQP9 mRNA but no detectable AQP9 immunosignal. The present data provide conclusive evidence for the presence of tetrameric AQP9 in brain and for the expression of AQP9 in neurons.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the leading cause of blindness in adults. In diabetes, there is activation of microglial cells and a concomitant release of inflammatory mediators. However, it remains unclear how diabetes triggers an inflammatory response in the retina. Activation of P2 purinergic receptors by adenosine triphosphate (ATP) may contribute to the inflammatory response in the retina, insofar as it has been shown to be associated with microglial activation and cytokine release. In this work, we evaluated how high glucose, used as a model of hyperglycemia, considered the main factor in the development of DR, affects the extracellular levels of ATP in retinal cell cultures. We found that basal extracellular ATP levels were not affected by high glucose or mannitol, but the extracellular elevation of ATP, after a depolarizing stimulus, was significantly higher in retinal cells cultured in high glucose compared with control or mannitol-treated cells. The increase in the extracellular ATP was prevented by application of botulinum neurotoxin A or by removal of extracellular calcium. In addition, degradation of exogenously added ATP was significantly lower in high-glucose-treated cells. It was also observed that, in retinal cells cultured under high-glucose conditions, the changes in the intracellular calcium concentrations were greater than those in control or mannitol-treated cells. In conclusion, in this work we have shown that high glucose alters the purinergic signaling system in the retina, by increasing the exocytotic release of ATP and decreasing its extracellular degradation. The resulting high levels of extracellular ATP may lead to inflammation involved in the pathogenesis of DR.


Compelling evidence shows that after root avulsion motoneurons attempt to survive and regenerate before dying. In order to study these mechanisms, unilateral avulsion of L4-L5 spinal roots was performed in adult rats, and the ventral spinal cords were studied from 3 to 28 days post-operation (dpo). Electrophysiological results indicated complete denervation of L4-L5 muscles in the injured limb without functional effects on the contralateral hindlimb. Estimated cell counts showed progressive loss of avulsed motoneurons; at 28 dpo, the number of surviving motoneurons averaged 13% (+/-3), 22% (+/-0.9), and 29% (+/-0.7) in samples stained with cresyl violet, immunostained for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and for SMI32, respectively. Regarding glial reactivity, we found an early microglial response, with the highest increase of isolectin B4 (IB4) and Iba1 expression at 3 days, and a slower and progressive response of astrocytes, shown by increasing expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) during the 28 days studied. Accumulation of phosphorylated (RT97+) and non-phosphorylated (SMI32+) neurofilaments was observed in the soma of axotomized motoneurons from 3 dpo. RT97 expression was present in approximately 80% (+/-3.7) of surviving motoneurons at 7 dpo, and it was related to the regenerative response of motoneurons, as revealed by decreased ChAT expression and co-localization with GAP43. Intense SMI32 immunostaining was observed during the first week after avulsion, appearing in 37% (+/-0.9) of surviving motoneurons, but it was not associated with GAP43 expression. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expression in motoneurons was markedly reduced from the second week after avulsion. This study presents a detailed description of motoneuron reaction after root avulsion, which suggests an early time-window during the first 2 weeks for attempts to repair the injury and promote motoneuron survival and regeneration.
Stroke is an important cause of mortality and long-term morbidity in children. The aetiology of stroke in childhood differs from that of adults, with vasculopathies and congenital heart disease being the most commonly identified risk factors. Recognition and diagnosis are often delayed, limiting access to acute medical interventions such as thrombolysis. Optimal management of stroke in children is still not known and existing guidelines are at the level of expert consensus. Interdisciplinary childhood stroke programmes are required to meet the needs of this population and to contribute to the development of evidence-based therapies.

Carisoprodol is a frequently prescribed muscle relaxant. In recent years, this drug has been increasingly abused. The effects of carisoprodol have been attributed to its metabolite, meprobamate, a controlled substance that produces sedation via GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Given the structural similarities between carisoprodol and meprobamate, we used electrophysiological and behavioral approaches to investigate whether carisoprodol directly affects GABA(A)R function. In whole-cell patch-clamp studies, carisoprodol allosterically modulated and directly activated human alpha1beta2gamma2 GABA(A)R function in a barbiturate-like manner. At millimolar concentrations, inhibitory effects were apparent. Similar allosteric effects were not observed for homomeric rho1 GABA or glycine alpha1 receptors. In the absence of GABA, carisoprodol produced picrotoxin-sensitive, inward currents that were significantly larger than those produced by meprobamate, suggesting carisoprodol may directly produce GABAergic effects in vivo. When administered to mice via intraperitoneal or oral routes, carisoprodol elicited locomotor depression within 8 to 12 min after injection. Intraperitoneal administration of meprobamate depressed locomotor activity in the same time frame. In drug discrimination studies with carisoprodol-trained rats, the GABAergic ligands pentobarbital, chlordiazepoxide, and meprobamate each substituted for carisoprodol in a dose-dependent manner. In accordance with findings in vitro, the discriminative stimulus effects of carisoprodol were antagonized by a barbiturate antagonist, bemegride, but not by the benzodiazepine site antagonist, flumazenil. The results of our studies in vivo and in vitro collectively suggest the barbiturate-like effects of carisoprodol may not be due solely to its metabolite, meprobamate. Furthermore, the functional traits we have identified probably contribute to the abuse potential of carisoprodol.
The actions of colchicine were examined with the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique and radioligand binding assays in mouse and human 5-hydroxytryptamine(3A) receptors (5-HT(3A)Rs) expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Colchicine inhibited 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-evoked currents in oocytes expressing mouse 5-HT(3A)Rs, with an IC(50) of 59.5 +/- 3 microM. In contrast to the mouse receptor, coapplication of colchicine with 5-HT (&lt;1 microM) strongly enhanced 5-HT-evoked currents in oocytes expressing human 5-HT(3A)Rs. Colchicine applied alone did not induce a detectable current. In the presence of 0.5 microM 5-HT, the potentiation was concentration-dependent and reached the maximum (approximately 100%) when 750 microM colchicine was applied. However, colchicine-dependent inhibition can be observed at 5-HT concentrations &gt; 1 microM. In oocyte membranes expressing mouse or human receptors, binding studies with colchicine (25 nM-1 mM) revealed no displacement of 1-methyl-N-((1R,3r,5S)-9-methyl-9 azabicyclo [3.3.1]nonan-3yl)-1H-indazole-3 carboxamide ([(3)H]BRL-43694), suggesting that actions of colchicine do not occur at the ligand binding domain. Functional effects of colchicine on both receptors occurred in the absence of preincubation and after cold temperature incubation, suggesting that the microtubule-depolymerizing effects of colchicine play no role in modulation of receptor function. Studies with interspecies chimeric receptors demonstrated that the distal one third of the N terminus is responsible for the bidirectional modulation by colchicine. Collectively, these results suggest that colchicine modulates receptor function through loops C and/or F through a gating mechanism.
The mammalian neuropeptide, melanin-concentrating hormone, interacts with two G protein-coupled receptors, melanin-concentrating hormone receptor (MCHR) 1 and MCHR2; however, only MCHR1 is expressed in rats and mice. In the present study, we evaluated MCHR1 antagonism in preclinical models believed to be predictive of antiobesity and antidepressant activity. Central activity of the selective MCHR1 antagonist, GW803430 [6-(4-chloro-phenyl)-3-[3-methoxy-4-(2-pyrrolidin-1-yl-ethoxy)-phenyl]-3H-thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-one], was evaluated using ex vivo binding with autoradiography. Effective doses of GW803430 (1 and 3 mg/kg p.o.) were correlated with antiobesity activity in a 14-day study of diet-induced obese rats. GW803430 was evaluated subsequently for antidepressant-like effects in mice and rats. Acute and subchronic administration reduced immobility time in the mouse forced-swim test at doses of 3 (acute) and 3 and 10 (chronic) mg/kg p.o., an effect that was absent in MCHR1(-/-) mice. Combined subeffective doses of GW803430 (0.3 and 1 mg/kg p.o.) and imipramine (5 mg/kg) produced a robust antidepressant-like response. The compound was also active in the tail suspension test at a dose of 10 mg/kg p.o. GW803430 (30 mg/kg p.o.) significantly reduced submissive behaviors at weeks 2 and 3, a model of submissive behavior that may predict antidepressant onset. GW803430 decreased marble burying in mice at doses of 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg p.o., an assay that detects anxiolytic-like effects. Thus, GW803430 produces robust antiobesity and antidepressant-like effects in rats and mice at doses that compete for central MCHR1 in vivo. As such, MCHR1 should be considered as a promising target for future drug discovery efforts.

In the neocortex, most excitatory, glutamatergic synapses are established during the first 4-5 weeks after birth. During this period profound changes in the properties of synaptic transmission occur. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) at immature synaptic connections are profoundly and progressively reduced in response to moderate to high frequency (5-100 Hz) stimulation. With maturation, this frequency-dependent depression becomes progressively weaker and may eventually transform into a weak to moderate EPSP facilitation. In parallel to changes in the short-term plasticity, a reduction in the synaptic reliability occurs at most glutamatergic neocortical synapses: immature synapses show a high probability of neurotransmitter release as indicated by their low failure rate and small EPSP amplitude variation. This high reliability is reduced in mature synapses, which show considerably higher failure rates and more variable EPSP amplitudes. During early neocortical development synaptic vesicle pools are not yet fully differentiated and their replenishment may be slow, thus resulting in EPSP amplitude depression. The decrease in the probability of neurotransmitter release may be the result of an altered Ca(2+) control in the presynaptic terminal with a reduced Ca(2+) influx and/or a higher Ca(2+) buffering capacity. This may lead to a lower synaptic reliability and a weaker short-term synaptic depression with maturation.
Melatonin participates in circadian, seasonal and reproductive physiology. Melatonin also acts as a potent endogenous antioxidant by scavenging free radicals and upregulating antioxidant pathways. The placenta expresses melatonin receptors and melatonin protects against oxidative damage induced in rat placenta by ischemia-reperfusion. One of the most common complications in pregnancy is a reduction in fetal nutrient delivery, which is known to promote oxidative stress. However, whether melatonin protects placental function and fetal development in undernourished pregnancy is unknown. Here, we investigated the effects of maternal treatment with melatonin on placental efficiency, fetal growth, birth weight and protein expression of placental oxidative stress markers in undernourished pregnancy. On day 15 of pregnancy, rats were divided into control and undernourished pregnancy (35% reduction in food intake), with and without melatonin treatment (5 microg/mL drinking water). On day 20 of gestation, fetal biometry was carried out, the placenta was weighed and subsequently analyzed by Western blot for xanthine oxidase, heat shock protein (HSP) 27 and 70, catalase, manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPx-1). A separate cohort was allowed to deliver to assess effects on birth weight. Maternal undernutrition led to a fall in placental efficiency, disproportionate intrauterine growth retardation and a reduction in birth weight. Maternal treatment with melatonin in undernourished pregnancy improved placental efficiency and restored birth weight, and it increased the expression of placental Mn-SOD and catalase. The data show that in pregnancy complicated by undernutrition, melatonin may improve placental efficiency and birth weight by upregulating placental antioxidant enzymes.
The HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder occurs in approximately one-third of infected individuals. It has persisted in the current era of antiretroviral therapy, and its study is complicated by the lack of biomarkers for this condition. Since the cerebrospinal fluid is the most proximal biofluid to the site of pathology, we studied the cerebrospinal fluid in a nonhuman primate model for HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder. Here we present a simple and efficient liquid chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach that utilizes small amounts of cerebrospinal fluid. First, we demonstrate the validity of the methodology using human cerebrospinal fluid. Next, using the simian immunodeficiency virus-infected monkey model, we show its efficacy in identifying proteins such as alpha-1-antitrypsin, complement C3, hemopexin, IgM heavy chain, and plasminogen, whose increased expression is linked to disease. Finally, we find that the increase in cerebrospinal fluid proteins is linked to increased expression of their genes in the brain parenchyma, revealing that the cerebrospinal fluid alterations identified reflect changes in the brain itself and not merely leakage of the blood-brain or blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers. This study reveals new central nervous system alterations in lentivirus-induced neurological disease, and this technique can be applied to other systems in which limited amounts of biofluids can be obtained.


Animal studies have shown the role of oxytocin in affiliation and attachment, and recent evidence suggests that oxytocin is also involved in human models of approach behaviour, possibly by modulating the processing of emotionally valenced stimuli. Although oxytocin administration has been reported to decrease neural responses to facial emotional information, the effects on a wider range of behavioural measures of emotional processing shown to be sensitive to antidepressant manipulation have not been examined. The aim of this study was to investigate whether intranasally administered oxytocin affects the processing of positive and negative affective information in healthy male volunteers across tasks measuring attention, perception and memory. Twenty-nine male healthy volunteers were randomly allocated to receive a single dose of oxytocin nasal spray (24 UI) or placebo. 50 min later, participants completed a battery of psychological tests measuring emotional processing. A single dose of intranasally administered oxytocin slowed reaction time to correctly identify fearful facial expressions and reduced the misclassification of positive emotions as negative ones. These effects occurred in the absence of significant differences in subjective ratings of mood and anxiety. These results suggest that oxytocin modulates emotion processing in healthy male volunteers. This action may contribute to the emerging role of the neuropeptide in promoting affiliative and approach behaviours by reducing the salience of potentially ambiguous and threatening social stimuli.
Prior studies have suggested that stroke care is more fragmented in rural or neurologically underserved areas. The purpose of this study was to determine the availability of diagnostic and treatment services for acute stroke care in Iowa and to identify factors influencing care. Each of the 118 facilities in Iowa with emergency departments was surveyed by telephone. This survey consisted of 10 questions, focusing on the existence of pre-hospital and emergency room acute stroke protocols and the availability of essential personnel and diagnostic and treatment modalities essential for acute stroke care. Of the 118 hospitals with emergency departments, 109 (92.4%) had CT available. Within the subset having CT capabilities, 89.9% (98/109) had intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (IV t-PA) available. Of those facilities with both CT and IV t-PA, 46% (45/98) had around-the-clock in-house physician coverage. Further, 31% (14/45) of sites with CT, t-PA, and an in-house physician had a radiology technician on site. Only 12% (14/118) of centers could offer all essential components. Despite 88% of Iowa hospitals not providing all of these components, only 31% of these hospitals reported protocols for stabilization and immediate transfer of acute stroke patients. These findings indicate that the development of a stroke system is still in its infancy in Iowa. Collaborative efforts are needed to address barriers in rural Iowa and to assist facilities in providing the best possible care. Creativity will be paramount in establishing a functional statewide system to ensure optimum care for all Iowans.

The role of attention in perceptual learning has been a topic of controversy. Sensory psychophysicists/physiologists and animal learning psychologists have conducted numerous studies to examine this role; but because these two types of researchers use two very different lines of approach, their findings have never been effectively integrated. In the present article, we review studies from both lines and use exposure-based learning experiments to discuss the role of attention in perceptual learning. In addition, we propose a model in which exposure-based learning occurs only when a task-irrelevant feature is weak. We hope that this article will provide new insight into the role of attention in perceptual learning to the benefit of both sensory psychophysicists/physiologists and animal learning psychologists.
Conditioned taste aversions (CTAs) may be acquired when an animal consumes a novel taste (CS) and then experiences the symptoms of poisoning (US). This aversion may be extinguished by repeated exposure to the CS alone. However, following a latency period in which the CS is not presented, the CTA will spontaneously recover (SR). In the current study we employed an explicitly unpaired extinction procedure (EU-EXT) to determine if it could thwart SR of a CTA. Sprague-Dawley rats acquired a strong CTA after 3 pairings of saccharin (SAC the CS) and Lithium Chloride (LiCl the US). CTA acquisition was followed by extinction (EXT) training consisting of either (a) CS-only exposure (CSO) or, (b) exposure to saccharin and Lithium Chloride on alternate days (i.e., explicitly unpaired: EU). Both extinction procedures resulted in &gt;/= 90% reacceptance of SAC, although the EU extinction procedure (EU-EXT) significantly decreased the time necessary for rats to reach this criterion (compared to CSO controls). Rats were subsequently tested for SR of the CTA upon re-exposure to SAC following a 30-day latency period of water drinking. Rats that acquired a CTA and then underwent the CSO extinction procedure exhibited a significant suppression of SAC drinking during the SR test (as compared to their SAC drinking at the end of extinction). However, animals in the EU-EXT group did not show such suppression in drinking compared to CSO controls. These data suggest that the EU-EXT procedure may be useful in reducing both time to extinction and the spontaneous recovery of fears.
Emphysema is the major component of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which is the fourth leading cause of death in the world. Several epidemiologic studies suggest that genetic factors may have an important role in the pathogenesis of emphysema. We analyzed the gene expression profiles of chromosomal aberrations using array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) in 32 patients with emphysema to identify the candidate genes that might be causally involved in the pathogenesis of emphysema. Copy number gains and losses were detected in chromosomal regions, and the corresponding genes were confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Several frequently altered loci were found, including a gain at 5p15.33 (60% of the study subjects), and a loss at 7q22.1 (31% of the study subjects). DNA gains were identified at a high frequency at 1p, 5p, 11p, 12p, 15q, 17p, 18q, 21q, and 22q, whereas DNA losses were frequently found at 7q and 22q. We found that the fold change levels were highest at the CYP4B1 (1p33), JUN (1p32.1), NOTCH2 (1p12-p11.2), SDHA (5p15.33), KCNQ1 (11p15.5-p15.4), NINJ2 (12p13.33), PCSK6 (15q26.3), ABR (17p13.3), CTDP1 (18q23), RUNX1 (21q22.12) and HDAC10 (22q13.33) gene loci. We also observed losses in the MUC17 (7q22.1), COMT (22q11.21) and GSTT1 (22q11.2) genes. These studies show that array CGH is a useful tool for the identification of gene alterations in cases of emphysema and that the aforementioned genes might represent potential candidate genes involved in the pathogenesis of emphysema.
We present a fast and informative technique for determining colors that differentiate white matter pathways generated by deterministic diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) based on streamline termination coordinate (TC) locations in native space. In particular, terminations coordinates are mapped to a standard stereotactic space and colors are generated using a fast eigenmapping approach designed to provide a single eigenvector representing both TCs. This eigenvector is then colored by mapping the vector x-coordinate to the red channel, the y-coordinate to the green channel, and the z-coordinate to the blue channel. This visualization technique generates a TC color (TCC) map and represents a novel technique for white matter anatomical visualization that does not require explicit white matter pathway segmentation. TCC maps of the pons, cerebral peduncle, thalamus, arcuate fasciculus, and corpus callosum are demonstrated and shown to correspond well with known white matter anatomy. Furthermore, TCC maps are consistent between subjects and may be modulated by the eigenvalue of the TCC map or streamline length to provide additional visual contrast. Finally, these color maps may be generated from deterministic or probabilistic tractography data that are computed from either diffusion tensor or high angular resolution diffusion-weighted MRI acquisitions.
The clinical literature has extensively documented diverse, potentially debilitating, side-effects of pharmaceutical dosages of morphine and morphine congeners administered for management of acute and chronic pain. Paradoxically, morphine is capable of engendering state-dependent hyperalgesic responses that appear to be functionally linked to secondary activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors coupled to Ca++-evoked nitric oxide (NO) production. Similar biochemical events have been associated with the development of morphine tolerance. Recent lines of complementary evidence support both the existence and biological importance of cellular regulatory pathways mediated by endogenously synthesized, chemically authentic morphine. Cellular &quot;morphinergic&quot; signaling is mediated by cognate six-transmembrane helical domain (TMH) micro3 and micro4 opiate receptors linked to activation of constitutive NO synthase (cNOS). Based on the compelling association of both endogenous and exogenous morphine activation with enhanced NO production, we advance a hypothesis that morphine administered as a pharmaceutical/xenobiotic agent adversely perturbs normative &quot;morphinergic&quot;/NO signaling within discrete cellular microdomains. Accordingly, pharmaceutical and/or physiological disruption of basic metabolic events regulated by &quot;morphinergic&quot;/NO signaling is proposed to account for state-dependent morphine-mediated hyperalgesia, tolerance development, and related disruptive cellular adaptations.

Hepatic glucose production and relative Krebs cycle fluxes (indexed to a citrate synthase flux of 1.0) were evaluated with [U-(13)C]glycerol tracer in 5 fed healthy controls and 5 Type 1a glycogen storage disease (GSD1a) patients. Plasma glucose, hepatic glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) and glutamine (13)C-isotopomers were analyzed by (13)C NMR via blood sampling and chemical biopsy. In healthy subjects, 35+/-14% of plasma glucose originated from hepatic G6P while GSD1a patients had no detectable G6P contribution. Compared to controls, GSD1a patients had an increased fraction of acetyl-CoA from pyruvate (0.5+/-0.2 vs. 0.3+/-0.1, p&lt;0.01), and increased pyruvate recycling fluxes (14.4+/-3.8 vs. 8.7+/-2.8, p&lt;0.05). Despite negligible gluconeogenic flux, net anaplerotic outflow was not significantly different from controls (2.2+/-0.8 vs. 1.3+/-0.5). The enrichment of lactate with (13)C-isotopomers derived from the Krebs cycle suggests that lactate was the main anaplerotic product in GSD1a patients.

The interruption of the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate oligosaccharides has deleterious consequences on the central nervous system in children or in animals with mucopolysaccharidosis type III (Sanfilippo syndrome). Behavioural manifestations are prominent at disease onset, suggesting possible early synaptic defects in cortical neurons. We report that synaptophysin, the most abundant protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane, was detected at low levels in the rostral cortex of MPSIII type B mice as early as 10 days after birth. This defect preceded other disease manifestations, was associated with normal neuron and synapse density and corrected after gene transfer inducing re-expression of the missing lysosomal enzyme. Clearance of heparan sulfate oligosaccharides in cultured embryonic MPSIIIB cortical neurons or treatment with proteasome inhibitors restored normal synaptophysin levels indicating that heparan sulfate oligosaccharides activate the degradation of synaptophysin by the proteasome with consequences on synaptic vesicle components that are relevant to clinical manifestations.
Nogo-A has been identified in the central nervous system as an inhibitor for axonal regeneration. Previous works have mainly focused on Nogo-A in oligodendrocytes and the roles of neuronal intracellular Nogo-A remain elusive. To gain deep insight into the physiological functions of Nogo-A, a yeast two-hybrid screening was performed with Nogo-66 as bait. We identified a new interaction between Nogo-66 and necdin. Mutagenesis analysis revealed that the central region of necdin was indispensable for the interaction of necdin with Nogo-66. The interaction was further confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation in neural tissues and cultured cortical neurons. Morphological evidence showed that Nogo-A and necdin highly colocalized in rat cortical and dorsal root ganglia neurons. Ectopic expression of Nogo-A in HEK293 cells led to retention of necdin from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Furthermore, overexpression of Nogo-A in PC12 cells and cultured cortical neurons inhibited necdin-accelerated neurite outgrowth. Meanwhile, necdin was found to be significantly sequestered in the cytoplasm of PC12 cells stably overexpressing Nogo-A. Together, these data suggest that Nogo-A is a novel necdin binding protein and inhibits necdin-accelerated neuronal neurite outgrowth by sequestering necdin in the cytoplasm.
The phylum Platyhelminthes is a diverse group of flatworms that includes parasites with serious impacts on human health, animal husbandry, aquaculture and wildlife management. Here we present degenerate primers for the barcode region of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) gene in flatworms. Although amplicons were obtained from a wide taxonomic range in the Cestoda and Trematoda, COI fragments from many taxa in these classes did not amplify. Primers specific to trematodes in the family Diplostomidae were also developed. Amplification success was much higher with diplostomid-specific primers and sequences were obtained from 504 of 585 specimens of Diplostomum and Tylodelphys. Sequences from the barcode region resolved all specimens to the species level, with mean divergence between congeners of 19% (3.9-25%). Because many of our specimens were small, we initially amplified part of the nuclear small subunit ribosomal (r) RNA gene to evaluate the quality and quantity of DNA in our specimens. Short sequences (~380 nt) of this gene were recovered from most specimens and can be used to distinguish specimens at the family level and often the generic level. We suggest that rRNA genes could be used to screen samples of completely unknown taxonomy, after which specific COI primers could be used to obtain species-level identifications.
In addition to producing analgesia, opioids have also been proposed to regulate glucose homeostasis by altering insulin secretion. A considerable controversy exists, however, regarding the contribution of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR-1) to insulin secretion dynamics. We employed congenic C57BL/6J MOR-1 knockout (KO) mice to clarify the role of MOR in glucose homeostasis. We first found that both sexes of MOR-1 KO mice weigh more than wild-type mice throughout postnatal life and that this increase includes preferentially increased fat deposition. We also found that MOR-1 KO mice exhibit enhanced glucose tolerance that results from insulin hypersecretion that reflects increased beta-cell mass and increased secretory dynamics in the MOR-1 mutant mice compared with wild type. Analysis of the isolated islets indicated that islet insulin hypersecretion is mediated directly by MOR expressed on islet cells via a mechanism downstream of ATP-sensitive K(+) channel activation by glucose. These findings indicate that MOR-1 regulates body weight by a mechanism that involves insulin secretion and thus may represent a novel target for new diabetes therapies.
The final step in production of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin is catalyzed by aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). AADC deficiency is a debilitating genetic condition that results in a deficit in these neurotransmitters, and manifests in infancy as a severe movement disorder with developmental delay. Response to current treatments is often disappointing. We have reviewed the literature to look for improvements to the current treatment strategy and also for new directions for AADC deficiency treatment. There may be differences in the mode of action, side-effect risk and effectiveness between different dopamine agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors currently used for AADC deficiency treatment. The range of these drugs used requires re-evaluation as some may have greater efficacy than others. Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, the AADC cofactor may stabilize AADC and could increase AADC activity. Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate could have advantages as a treatment instead of pyridoxine. Atypical neuroleptics and peripheral AADC inhibitors both increase AADC activity in vivo and could be a future direction for AADC deficiency treatment and related conditions. Parkinson's disease gene therapy to deliver and express the human AADC gene in striatum is being tested in humans. Consequently gene therapy for AADC deficiency could be a realistic aim however an animal model of AADC deficiency is important for further progression.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of magnetically labeled stem cells has become a valuable tool in the understanding and evaluation of experimental stem cell-based therapies of degenerative central nervous system disorders. This comprehensive study assesses the impact of magnetic labeling of both human and rodent stem cell-containing populations on multiple biologic parameters as maintenance of stemness and oxidative stress levels. Cells were efficiently magnetically labeled with very small superparamagnetic iron oxide particles. Only under the condition of tailored labeling strategies can the impact of magnetic labeling on vitality, proliferation, pluripotency, and oxidative stress levels be minimized. In a rat model of Parkinson disease, magnetically labeled mouse embryonic stem cells were tracked by high-field MRI for 6 months. Significant interindividual differences concerning the spatial distribution of cells became evident. Histologically, transplanted green fluorescent protein-positive iron oxide-labeled cells were clearly identified. No significant increase in oxidative stress levels at the implantation site and no secondary uptake of magnetic label by host phagocytotic cells were observed. Our study strongly suggests that molecular MRI approaches must be carefully tailored to the respective cell population to exert minimal physiologic impact, ensuring the feasibility of this imaging approach for clinical applications.

Over the last years significant progress has been made in non-viral gene delivery mediated by cationic liposomes. However, the results obtained are still far from being satisfactory regarding transfection efficiency, particularly when compared to that achieved using viral vectors. We have previously demonstrated that association of transferrin with cationic liposomes significantly improves transfection in a large variety of cells, both in vitro and in vivo. In this work, several strategies have been explored in order to further improve transfection mediated by transferrin-associated lipoplexes. To this regard, the effect on transfection of pre-condensation of DNA with polyethylenimine of low MWs (2.7, 2.0 and 0.8 KDa) at various N/P ratios, lipid composition, cationic lipid/DNA (+/-) charge ratio and the presence of a surfactant in the lipoplexes was investigated. Two different modes for preparing the liposomes were tested and the extent of cell association of their complexes with DNA as well as their capacity to protect the carried DNA were evaluated. Our results show that complexes generated from cationic liposomes prepared by the ethanol injection method in which the carried DNA was pre-condensed with low MW polyethylenimine are highly efficient in mediating transfection. The differential modulating effect observed upon association of transferrin to various liposome formulations on transfection mediated by the polyethylenimine-complexes suggests that these complexes enter into the cells through different pathways (involving clathrin versus caveolin), most likely by taking advantage of their intrinsic biophysical properties to escape from the endosome to the cytosol.
Bipolar affective disorder is a heritable, relatively common, severe mood disorder with lifetime prevalence up to 4%. We report the results of a genome-wide linkage analysis conducted on a cohort of 35 Australian bipolar disorder families which identified evidence of significant linkage on chromosome 15q25-26 and suggestive evidence of linkage on chromosomes 4q, 6q and 13q. Subsequent fine-mapping of the chromosome 15q markers, using allele frequencies calculated from our cohort, gave significant results with a maximum two-point LOD score of 3.38 and multipoint LOD score of 4.58 for marker D15S130. Haplotype analysis based on pedigree-specific, identical-by-descent allele sharing, supported the location of a bipolar susceptibility gene within the Z(max-1) linkage confidence interval of 17 cM, or 6.2 Mb, between markers D15S979 and D15S816. Non-parametric and affecteds-only linkage analysis further verified the linkage signal in this region. A maximum NPL score of 3.38 (P=0.0008) obtained at 107.16 cM (near D15S130), and a maximum two-point LOD score of 2.97 obtained at marker D15S1004 (affecteds only), support the original genome-wide findings on chromosome 15q. These results are consistent with four independent positive linkage studies of mood and psychotic disorders, and raise the possibility that a common gene for susceptibility to bipolar disorder, and other psychiatric disorders may lie in this chromosome 15q25-26 region.


Even though injection of corticosteroids into the carpal tunnel alleviates the symptoms of mild to moderately severe carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), it has not gained universal popularity due to its invasiveness. This study was designed to investigate the effectiveness of dexamethasone iontophoresis as a noninvasive method of treating CTS. We carried out a double-blind randomized controlled trial comparing six sessions of iontophoresis with 0.4% dexamethasone sodium phosphate with distilled water in 17 patients. Outcome measures including nerve conduction studies, the Levine Self-Assessment Questionnaire, and the Semmes-Weinstein Monofilaments were done monthly for 6 months after intervention. Most of the outcome measures did not show any significant change following treatment. Although there was subjective improvement of symptom severity scores in the treatment group as quantified by the Levine Self-Assessment Questionnaire, similar improvement was also observed in the control group (P &lt; 0.05). Although corticosteroid iontophoresis is feasible in clinical settings and is well-tolerated by patients, iontophoresis of 0.4% dexamethasone was not effective in the treatment of mild to moderate CTS. Muscle Nerve 39: 627-633, 2009.
A neuroscientific experiment typically generates a large amount of data, of which only a small fraction is analyzed in detail and presented in a publication. However, selection among noisy measurements can render circular an otherwise appropriate analysis and invalidate results. Here we argue that systems neuroscience needs to adjust some widespread practices to avoid the circularity that can arise from selection. In particular, 'double dipping', the use of the same dataset for selection and selective analysis, will give distorted descriptive statistics and invalid statistical inference whenever the results statistics are not inherently independent of the selection criteria under the null hypothesis. To demonstrate the problem, we apply widely used analyses to noise data known to not contain the experimental effects in question. Spurious effects can appear in the context of both univariate activation analysis and multivariate pattern-information analysis. We suggest a policy for avoiding circularity.
We recently showed that improved perceptual performance on a visual motion direction-discrimination task corresponds to changes in how an unmodified sensory representation in the brain is interpreted to form a decision that guides behavior. Here we found that these changes can be accounted for using a reinforcement-learning rule to shape functional connectivity between the sensory and decision neurons. We modeled performance on the basis of the readout of simulated responses of direction-selective sensory neurons in the middle temporal area (MT) of monkey cortex. A reward prediction error guided changes in connections between these sensory neurons and the decision process, first establishing the association between motion direction and response direction, and then gradually improving perceptual sensitivity by selectively strengthening the connections from the most sensitive neurons in the sensory population. The results suggest a common, feedback-driven mechanism for some forms of associative and perceptual learning.
In contrast with conventional NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity, the synaptic events controlling the plasticity of GluR2-lacking Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) remain unclear. At parallel fiber synapses onto cerebellar stellate cells, Ca(2+) influx through AMPARs triggers a switch in AMPAR subunit composition, resulting in loss of Ca(2+) permeabilty. Paradoxically, synaptically induced depolarization will suppress this Ca(2+) entry by promoting polyamine block of CP-AMPARs. We therefore examined other mechanisms that may control this receptor regulation under physiological conditions. We found that activation of both mGluRs and CP-AMPARs is necessary and sufficient to drive an AMPAR subunit switch and that by enhancing mGluR activity, GABA(B)R activation promotes this plasticity. Furthermore, we found that mGluRs and GABA(B)Rs are tonically activated, thus setting the basal tone for EPSC amplitude and rectification. Regulation by both excitatory and inhibitory inputs provides an unexpected mechanism that determines the potential of these synapses to show dynamic changes in AMPAR Ca(2+) permeability.
The processing of synaptic potentials by neuronal dendrites depends on both their passive cable properties and active voltage-gated channels, which can generate complex effects as a result of their nonlinear properties. We characterized the actions of HCN (hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation) channels on dendritic processing of subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in mouse CA1 hippocampal neurons. The HCN channels generated an excitatory inward current (I(h)) that exerted a direct depolarizing effect on the peak voltage of weak EPSPs, but produced a paradoxical hyperpolarizing effect on the peak voltage of stronger, but still subthreshold, EPSPs. Using a combined modeling and experimental approach, we found that the inhibitory action of I(h) was caused by its interaction with the delayed-rectifier M-type K(+) current. In this manner, I(h) can enhance spike firing in response to an EPSP when spike threshold is low and can inhibit firing when spike threshold is high.
Pleasant touch sensations may begin with neural coding in the periphery by specific afferents. We found that during soft brush stroking, low-threshold unmyelinated mechanoreceptors (C-tactile), but not myelinated afferents, responded most vigorously at intermediate brushing velocities (1-10 cm s(-1)), which were perceived by subjects as being the most pleasant. Our results indicate that C-tactile afferents constitute a privileged peripheral pathway for pleasant tactile stimulation that is likely to signal affiliative social body contact.
Dysregulation of Akt signaling is important in a broad range of diseases that includes cancer, diabetes and heart disease. The role of Akt signaling in brain disorders is less clear. We found that global ischemia in intact rats triggered expression and activation of the Akt inhibitor CTMP (carboxyl-terminal modulator protein) in vulnerable hippocampal neurons and that CTMP bound and extinguished Akt activity and was essential to ischemia-induced neuronal death. Although ischemia induced a marked phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Akt, phosphorylated Akt was not active in post-ischemic neurons, as assessed by kinase assays and phosphorylation of the downstream targets GSK-3beta and FOXO3A. RNA interference-mediated depletion of CTMP in a clinically relevant model of stroke restored Akt activity and rescued hippocampal neurons. Our results indicate that CTMP is important in the neurodegeneration that is associated with stroke and identify CTMP as a therapeutic target for the amelioration of hippocampal injury and cognitive deficits.
Hair cells detect vibrations of their stereociliary bundle by activation of mechanically sensitive transducer channels. Although evidence suggests the transducer channels are near the stereociliary tops and are opened by force imparted by tip links connecting contiguous stereocilia, the exact channel site remains controversial. We used fast confocal imaging of fluorescence changes reflecting calcium entry during bundle stimulation to localize the channels. Calcium signals were visible in single stereocilia of rat cochlear inner hair cells and were up to tenfold larger and faster in the second and third stereociliary rows than in the tallest first row. The number of functional stereocilia was proportional to transducer current amplitude, indicating that there were about two channels per stereocilium. Comparable results were obtained in outer hair cells. The observations, supported by theoretical simulations, suggest there are no functional mechanically sensitive transducer channels in first row stereocilia and imply the channels are present only at the bottom of the tip links.
Traditional descriptions of the cortical cholinergic input system focused on the diffuse organization of cholinergic projections and the hypothesis that slowly changing levels of extracellular acetylcholine (ACh) mediate different arousal states. The ability of ACh to reach the extrasynaptic space (volume neurotransmission), as opposed to remaining confined to the synaptic cleft (wired neurotransmission), has been considered an integral component of this conceptualization. Recent studies demonstrated that phasic release of ACh, at the scale of seconds, mediates precisely defined cognitive operations. This characteristic of cholinergic neurotransmission is proposed to be of primary importance for understanding cholinergic function and developing treatments for cognitive disorders that result from abnormal cholinergic neurotransmission.
Information transfer at chemical synapses occurs when vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane and release neurotransmitter. This process is stochastic and its likelihood of occurrence is a crucial factor in the regulation of signal propagation in neuronal networks. The reliability of neurotransmitter release can be highly variable: experimental data from electrophysiological, molecular and imaging studies have demonstrated that synaptic terminals can individually set their neurotransmitter release probability dynamically through local feedback regulation. This local tuning of transmission has important implications for current models of single-neuron computation.
The type 2 serotonin (5-HT(2)) receptor subfamily is known to couple to phosphoinositide hydrolysis (PI) and the subsequent mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+), as well as the release of arachidonic acid (AA). Less is known of 5-HT(2)-mediated activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) signaling. The present study measured the relative efficacies and potencies of 5-HT agonists to activate ERK2 in non-neuronal cells expressing recombinant human 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B), and 5-HT(2C(ISV)) receptors. 5-HT agonists stimulated ERK2 activity via all three 5-HT(2) subtypes. There were no meaningful differences in the potencies or relative efficacies of these agonists to affect ERK2 activity vs. PI accumulation or Ca(2+) mobilization, suggesting that these pathways may be sequentially linked. Indeed, ERK2 activity was very sensitive to PKC inhibition and calcium chelation and insensitive to tyrosine kinase and PI-3-kinase inhibition. 5-HT(2) receptors efficiently couple to MAPK activation via sequential PI hydrolysis, and Ca(2+) mobilization. This profile differs from reports of &quot;agonist-directed trafficking of receptor stimulus&quot; between PI/Ca(2+) and AA pathways activated by 5-HT(2) receptors.
There has recently been a great deal of interest in inferring network connectivity from the spike trains in populations of neurons. One class of useful models that can be fit easily to spiking data is based on generalized linear point process models from statistics. Once the parameters for these models are fit, the analyst is left with a nonlinear spiking network model with delays, which in general may be very difficult to understand analytically. Here we develop mean-field methods for approximating the stimulus-driven firing rates (in both the time-varying and steady-state cases), auto- and cross-correlations, and stimulus-dependent filtering properties of these networks. These approximations are valid when the contributions of individual network coupling terms are small and, hence, the total input to a neuron is approximately gaussian. These approximations lead to deterministic ordinary differential equations that are much easier to solve and analyze than direct Monte Carlo simulation of the network activity. These approximations also provide an analytical way to evaluate the linear input-output filter of neurons and how the filters are modulated by network interactions and some stimulus feature. Finally, in the case of strong refractory effects, the mean-field approximations in the generalized linear model become inaccurate; therefore, we introduce a model that captures strong refractoriness, retains all of the easy fitting properties of the standard generalized linear model, and leads to much more accurate approximations of mean firing rates and cross-correlations that retain fine temporal behaviors.
T. Kohonen's self organizing map (SOM) may be considered as a plausible structure for modelling pattern recognition processes in the brain. Neighborhood preservation corresponds closely to what is called somatotopy in the neurosciences, and the context specificity of mappings observed (e. g. in malfunctions of the brain) becomes easily explicable in the framework of the SOM. However, there are two features which impair the aptitude of the classical SOM for neurophysiological models: the adaptation procedure is explicitly time dependent and the procedure consumes the whole set of disposable neurons. Because of the latter property, a SOM cannot learn different tasks, adapting one subset of neurons to a data set Chi(1) and another to a subsequently presented data set Chi(2). The present paper describes a modified SOM which avoids the drawbacks mentioned above. Its adaptation procedure is time independent. When the training sequence consists of data from successive data clusters Chi(k) each cluster is mapped to a subset G(k) of the neuron set G while the other neurons are left almost unchanged. The behavior of the resulting DCNG-SOM is demonstrated in several experiments.
Behaviour and fMRI brain activation patterns were compared during encoding and recognition tasks in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (n=14) and normal controls (NC) (n=14). Deep (natural vs. man-made) and shallow (color vs. black and white) decisions were made at encoding and pictures from each condition were presented for yes/no recognition 20 min later. MCI showed less inferior frontal activation during deep (left only) and superficial encoding (bilaterally) and in both medial temporal lobes (MTL). When performance was equivalent (recognition of words encoded superficially), MTL activation was similar for the two groups, but during recognition testing of deeply encoded items NC showed more activation in both prefrontal and left MTL region. In a region of interest analysis, the extent of activation during deep encoding in the parahippocampi bilaterally and in left hippocampus correlated with subsequent recognition accuracy for those items in controls but not in MCI, which may reflect the heterogeneity of activation responses in conjunction with different degrees of pathology burden and progression status in the MCI group.
Postural stability becomes compromised with advancing age, but the neural mechanisms contributing to instability have not been fully explicated. Accordingly, this quantitative physiological and MRI study of sex differences across the adult age range examined the association between components of postural control and the integrity of brain structure and function under different conditions of sensory input and stance stabilization manipulation. The groups comprised 28 healthy men (age 30-73 years) and 38 healthy women (age 34-74 years), who completed balance platform testing, cognitive assessment, and structural MRI. The results supported the hypothesis that excessive postural sway would be greater in older than younger healthy individuals when standing without sensory or stance aids, and that introduction of such aids would reduce sway in both principal directions (anterior-posterior and medial-lateral) and in both the open-loop and closed-loop components of postural control even in older individuals. Sway reduction with stance stabilization, that is, standing with feet apart, was greater in men than women, probably because older men were less stable than women when standing with their feet together. Greater sway was related to evidence for greater brain structural involutional changes, indexed as ventricular and sulcal enlargement and white matter hyperintensity burden. In women, poorer cognitive test performance related to less sway reduction with the use of sensory aids. Thus, aging men and women were shown to have diminished postural control, associated with cognitive and brain structural involution, in unstable stance conditions and with diminished sensory input.
Changes in the ability of neuronal networks to undergo structural remodeling may be involved in the age-associated cognitive decline. The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) declines dramatically during postnatal development, but persists in several regions of the young-adult rat telencephalon, where it participates, through its anti-adhesive properties, in neuronal structural plasticity. However, PSA-NCAM expression during aging has only been studied in the dentate gyrus and the piriform cortex layer II, where it is strongly downregulated in adult (middle-aged) individuals. Using immunohistochemistry, we have observed that in most of the telencephalic areas studied the number of PSA-NCAM expressing cells and the intensity of PSA-NCAM expression in the neuropil remains stable during aging. Old rats only show decreases in the number of PSA-NCAM expressing cells in the lateral amygdala and retrosplenial cortex, and in neuropil expression of stratum lucidum. Given the role of PSA-NCAM in neuronal plasticity, the present results indicate that, even during aging, many regions of the CNS may display neurite, spine or synaptic remodeling.
PKC signaling is critical for the non-toxic degradation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and inhibition of GSK3beta, which controls phosphorylation of tau protein in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus the misregulation of PKC signaling could contribute to the origins of AD. Bryostatin, a potent PKC modulator, has the potential to ameliorate both the neurodegeneration and the recent memory loss associated with AD. As reported herein bryostatin and a potent synthetic analog (picolog) are found to cause stimulation of non-amyloidogenic pathways by increasing alpha-secretase activity and thus lowering the amount of toxic Abeta produced. Both bryostatin and picolog increased the secretion of the alpha-secretase product (s-APP-alpha) of APP at sub-nanomolar to nanomolar concentrations. A peripheral AD-Biomarker has previously been autopsy-validated. This Biomarker, based on bradykinin-induced differential phosphorylation of Erk1 and Erk2, has been used here to test the therapeutic efficacy both for bryostatin and picolog. Both of these PKC activators are then shown to convert the AD Erk1/2 phenotype of fibroblasts into the phenotype of &quot;normal&quot; control skin fibroblasts. This conversion occurred for both the abnormal Erk1/2 phenotype induced by application of Abeta(1-42) to the fibroblasts or the phenotype observed for fibroblasts of AD patients. The Abeta(1-42)-induction, and PKC modulator reversal of the AD Erk1/2 biomarker phenotype demonstrate the AD-Biomarker's potential to monitor both disease progression and treatment response. Additionally, this first demonstration of the therapeutic potential in AD of a synthetically accessible bryostatin analog warrants further preclinical advancement.
This study addressed the influence of propylthiouracil (PTU)-induced hypothyroidism on postnatal and adult neurogenesis. PTU was administered from birth to postnatal day 10 (P10) or P21, leading to decreased neural stem cell/progenitor proliferation in the dentate gyrus, as well as significantly fewer granule cells and reduced hippocampal volume. Upon P22 PTU withdrawal, plasma thyroid hormone levels were normal by P90, there was no difference in the number of dentate gyrus or subventricular proliferating cells, but brain weight was smaller. In addition, dentate gyrus density of surviving BrdU-labeled cells increased, with no changes to the olfactory bulb. Quantitative PCR revealed decreased FGF-2, NGF, Wnt3a, and VEGF-A hippocampal expression during PTU treatment, with recovery in adulthood. Pro-apoptotic Bax was up-regulated, and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 was down-regulated, during PTU treatment, both of which were normalized in the adult brain. In contrast, apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) was down-regulated in the adult. These results suggest that mechanisms in the adult brain attempt to compensate for decreased neurogenesis due to postnatal hypothyroidism.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has an important role in brain plasticity. Early research has shown that EE increases the response strength of neurons in the auditory cortex, but it remains unknown whether EE can influence the process of spatial localization in the auditory system. In this study, we raised rats in enriched and standard conditions from postnatal day 10 to day 56. By testing behavioral tasks via auditory cues, we have shown that EE improved the number of correct scores, but decreased the reaction time and azimuth deviation in behavioral performance of sound-azimuth discrimination. By in vivo extracellular recording, we have shown that EE enhanced the directional sensitivity of neurons in the primary auditory cortex. For example, EE rats had a smaller spatial receptive field, sharper frequency tuning curve and directional selective curve of auditory neurons compared with normal rats. Our findings indicate that early exposure to EE increases directional sensitivity. These results provide an insight into developmental plasticity in the auditory system.
Neurogenesis continues to occur throughout life in the mammalian hippocampus. Previous research has suggested that the production of new neurons in the hippocampus during adulthood may be related to hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. However, the exact relationship between adult neurogenesis and learning and memory remains unclear. Here we investigated whether learning strategy selection is related to cell proliferation or to survival of new neurons in the hippocampus of adult male rats. We trained rats on alternating blocks of hippocampus-dependent (hidden platform) and hippocampus-independent (visible platform) versions of the Morris water task with the platform always in the same position. Following training, rats were given a probe session during which the platform was visible and in a novel location. Preferred strategy was determined by observing the initial swim path. Rats were classified as place strategy (hippocampus-dependent) users if they swam to the old platform location. Cue strategy (hippocampus-independent) users were classified as those rats that swam initially to the visible platform. Our results indicate that rats that preferentially used a place strategy had significantly lower cell proliferation than cue strategy users. However, there was no significant difference in cell survival or number of immature neurons between strategy user groups. These results suggest that low levels of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus may be conducive or coincident with more efficient memory processing in the hippocampus.
We previously showed that 24h after learning, mice significantly remembered the first (D1) but not the second (D2) discrimination in a serial spatial task and that an acute stress delivered 5min before the test phase reversed this memory retrieval pattern. A first experiment evaluated the effects of dorsal hippocampus (HPC) or prefrontal cortex (PFC) lesions, these two brain areas being well-known for their involvement in serial and spatial memory processes. For this purpose, six independent groups of mice were used: non-lesioned (controls), PFC or HPC-lesioned animals, submitted or not to an acute stress (electric footshocks; 0.9mA). Results show that (i) non-stressed controls as well as PFC-lesioned mice (stressed or not) remembered D1 but not D2; (ii) stressed controls and HPC-lesioned mice (stressed or not) remembered D2 but not D1; (iii) stress significantly increased plasma corticosterone in controls and PFC-lesioned mice, but not in HPC-lesioned mice which already showed a significant plasma corticosterone increase in non-stressed condition. Since data from this first experiment showed that stress inhibited the hippocampal-dependent D1 memory retrieval, a second experiment evaluated the behavioral effect of intrahippocampal corticosterone injection in non-stressed mice. Results show that intrahippocampal corticosterone injection induced a reversal of serial memory retrieval pattern similar to that induced by acute stress. Overall, our study shows that (i) in non-stress condition, the emergence of D1 is HPC-dependent; (ii) in stress condition, the emergence of D2 requires the PFC integrity; moreover, intrahippocampal corticosterone injection mimicked the effects of stress in the CSD task.
Stress hormones released by an experience can modulate memory strength via the basolateral amygdala, which in turn acts on sites of memory storage such as the cerebral cortex [McGaugh, J. L. (2004). The amygdala modulates the consolidation of memories of emotionally arousing experiences. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 27, 1-28]. Stimuli that acquire behavioral importance gain increased representation in the cortex. For example, learning shifts the tuning of neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) to the frequency of a conditioned stimulus (CS), and the greater the level of CS importance, the larger the area of representational gain [Weinberger, N. M. (2007). Associative representational plasticity in the auditory cortex: A synthesis of two disciplines. Learning &amp; Memory, 14(1-2), 1-16]. The two lines of research suggest that BLA strengthening of memory might be accomplished in part by increasing the representation of an environmental stimulus. The present study investigated whether stimulation of the BLA can affect cortical memory representations. In male Sprague-Dawley rats studied under urethane general anesthesia, frequency receptive fields were obtained from A1 before and up to 75min after the pairing of a tone with BLA stimulation (BLAstm: 100 trials, 400ms, 100Hz, 400microA [+/-16.54]). Tone started before and continued after BLAstm. Group BLA/1.0 (n=16) had a 1s CS-BLAstm interval while Group BLA/1.6 (n=5) has a 1.6s interval. The BLA/1.0 group did develop specific tuning shifts toward and to the CS, which could change frequency tuning by as much as two octaves. Moreover, its shifts increased over time and were enduring, lasting 75min. However, group BLA/1.6 did not develop tuning shifts, indicating that precise CS-BLAstm timing is important in the anesthetized animal. Further, training in the BLA/1.0 paradigm but stimulating outside of the BLA did not produce tuning shifts. These findings demonstrate that the BLA is capable of exerting highly specific, enduring, learning-related modifications of stimulus representation in the cerebral cortex. These findings suggest that the ability of the BLA to alter specific cortical representations may underlie, at least in part, the modulatory influence of BLA activity on strengthening long-term memory.
Local axonal degeneration is a common pathological feature of peripheral neuropathies and neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke; however, the underlying molecular mechanism is not known. Here, we analyzed the gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mouse, which displays the dying-back-type of axonal degeneration in sensory neurons, to find the molecules involved in the mechanism of axonal degeneration. The gad mouse is analogous to a null mutant of ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1). UCH-L1 is a deubiquitinating enzyme expressed at high levels in neurons, as well as testis and ovary. In addition, we recently discovered a new function of UCH-L1-namely to bind to and stabilize mono-ubiquitin in neurons, and found that the level of mono-ubiquitin was decreased in neurons, especially in axons of the sciatic nerve, in gad mice. The low level of ubiquitin suggests that the target proteins of the ubiquitin proteasome system are not sufficiently ubiquitinated and thus degraded in the gad mouse; therefore, these proteins may be the key molecules involved in axonal degeneration. To identify molecules involved in axonal degeneration in gad mice, we compared protein expression in sciatic nerves between gad and wild-type mice at 2 and 12 weeks old, using two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. As a result, we found age-dependent accumulation of several proteins, including glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and 14-3-3, in gad mice compared with wild-type mice. Histochemical analyses demonstrated that GAPDH and 14-3-3 were localized throughout axons in both gad and wild-type mice, but GAPDH accumulated in the axons of gad mice. Recently, it has been suggested that a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the accumulation of intracellular and extracellular protein aggregates, and it has been reported that oxidative stress causes the aggregation of GAPDH. Furthermore, histochemical analysis demonstrated that sulfonated GAPDH, a sensor of oxidative stress that elicits cellular dysfunction, was expressed in the axons of gad mice, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, a major marker of oxidative stress, was also only detected in gad mice. Our findings suggest that GAPDH may participate in a process of the dying-back-type of axonal degeneration in gad mice and may provide valuable insight into the mechanisms of axonal degeneration.
Ubiquitin (Ub) carboxy terminal hydrolase (UCH)-L1 and UCH-L3 are two of the deubiquitinating enzymes expressed in the brain. Both gad mice, which lack UCH-L1 expression and Uchl3 knockout mice exhibit neurodegeneration, although at distinct areas. These phenotypes indicate the importance of UCH-L1 and UCH-L3 in the regulation of the central nervous system. However, molecular substrates and the molecular regulators of UCH-L1 and UCH-L3 remain poorly identified. Here we show that Ub dimers interact non-covalently with UCH-L3 in vitro and in cells. These interactions were not observed with UCH-L1 in cells. In vitro, K48-linked Ub dimers pronouncedly inhibited the hydrolase activity of UCH-L3, while mono-Ub, a previously identified interacting protein, inhibited the hydrolase activity of UCH-L1. These results indicate that mono-Ub and Ub dimers may regulate the enzymatic functions of UCH-L1 and UCH-L3, respectively, in vivo.
Three-dimensional pharmacophore models were generated for retinoid X receptor (RXR(gamma)) agonists using quantitative approach (CATALYST HypoRefine). One optimal pharmacophore model for selective RXR(gamma) agonists was determined through careful validation processes. The best quantitative model (Hypo-1) had five features and five excluded volumes: three hydrophobic aliphatic groups (HAL1, HAL2, and HAL3), one hydrophobic aromatic ring (HAR), and one hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA). The model was validated using a wide range of test molecules. It could predict agonist activity and identify highly potent molecules. The present results are valuable to discover and develop specific RXR(gamma) agonists with desired biological activities.
The circadian clock system plays multiple roles in our bodies, and clock genes are expressed in various brain regions, including the lateral subventricular zone (SVZ) where neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) persist and postnatal neurogenesis continues. However, the functions of clock genes in adult NSPCs are not well understood. Here, we first investigated the expression patterns of Clock and Bmal1 in the SVZ by immunohistochemistry and then verified how the expression levels of 17 clock and clock-related genes changed during differentiation of cultured adult NSPCs using quantitative RT-PCR. Finally, we used RNAi to observe the effects of Clock and Bmal1 on neuronal differentiation. Our results revealed that Clock and Bmal1 were expressed in the SVZ and double-stained with the neural progenitor marker Nestin and neural stem marker GFAP. In cultured adult NSPCs, the clock genes changed their expression patterns during differentiation, and interestingly, Bmal1 started endogenous oscillation. Moreover, gene silencing of Clock or Bmal1 by RNAi decreased the percentages of neuronal marker Map2-positive cells and expression levels of NeuroD1 mRNA. These findings suggest that clock genes are involved in the neuronal differentiation of adult NSPCs and may extend our understanding of various neurological/psychological disorders linked to adult neurogenesis and circadian rhythm.
Exposure to nitrogen-oxygen mixture at high pressure induces narcosis, which can be considered as a first step toward general anaesthesia. Narcotic potencies of inert gases are attributed to their lipid solubility. Nitrogen narcosis induces cognitive and motor disturbances that occur from 0.3 MPa in man and from 1 MPa in rats. Neurochemical studies performed in rats up to 3 MPa have shown that nitrogen pressure decreases striatal dopamine release like argon, another inert gas, or nitrous oxide, an anaesthetic gas. Striatal dopamine release is under glutamatergic and other amino acid neurotransmission regulations. The aim of this work was to study the effects of nitrogen at 3 MPa on striatal amino acid levels and to compare to those of 3 MPa of helium which is not narcotic at this pressure, by using a new technique of microdialysis samples extraction under hyperbaric conditions, in freely moving rats. Amino acids were analysed by HPLC coupled to fluorimetric detection in order to appreciate glutamate, aspartate, glutamine and asparagine levels. Nitrogen-oxygen mixture exposure at 3 MPa decreased glutamate, glutamine and asparagine concentrations. In contrast, with helium-oxygen mixture, glutamate and aspartate levels were increased during the compression phase but not during the stay at maximal pressure. Comparison between nitrogen and helium highlighted the narcotic effects of nitrogen at pressure. As a matter of fact, nitrogen induces a reduction in glutamate and in other amino acids that could partly explain the decrease in striatal dopamine level as well as the motor and cognitive disturbances reported in nitrogen narcosis.
Glucose metabolism is essential for normal brain function and plays a vital role in synaptic transmission. Recent evidence suggests that ATP synthesized locally by glycolysis, particularly via glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase/3-phosphoglycerate kinase, is critical for synaptic transmission. We present evidence that ATP generated by synaptic vesicle-associated pyruvate kinase is harnessed to transport glutamate into synaptic vesicles. Isolated synaptic vesicles incorporated [(3)H]glutamate in the presence of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and ADP. Pyruvate kinase activators and inhibitors stimulated and reduced PEP/ADP-dependent glutamate uptake, respectively. Membrane potential was also formed in the presence of pyruvate kinase activators. &quot;ATP-trapping&quot; experiments using hexokinase and glucose suggest that ATP produced by vesicle-associated pyruvate kinase is more readily used than exogenously added ATP. Other neurotransmitters such as GABA, dopamine, and serotonin were also taken up into crude synaptic vesicles in a PEP/ADP-dependent manner. The possibility that ATP locally generated by glycolysis supports vesicular accumulation of neurotransmitters is discussed.
In the current paper, we describe methodologies for single subject differential diagnosis of degenerative brain disorders using multivariate principal component analysis (PCA) of functional imaging scans. An automated routine utilizing these methods is applied to positron emission tomography (PET) brain data to distinguish several discrete parkinsonian movement disorders with similar clinical manifestations. Disease specific expressions of voxel-based spatial covariance patterns are predetermined using the Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM/PCA) and a scalar measure of the manifestation of each pattern in prospective subject images is subsequently derived. Scores are automatically compared to reference values generated for each pathological condition in a corresponding set of patient and control scans. Diagnostic outcome is optimized using strategies such as the derivation of patterns in a voxel subspace that reflects contrasting image characteristics between conditions, or by using an independent patient population as controls. The prediction models for two, three and four way classification problems using direct scalar comparison as well as classical discriminant analysis are assessed in a composite training population comprised of three different patient classes and normal controls, and validated in a similar independent test population. Results illustrate that highly accurate diagnosis can often be achieved by simple comparison of scores utilizing optimized patterns.
Functional MRI (fMRI) has become one of the leading methods for brain mapping in neuroscience. Recent advances in fMRI analysis were used to define the default state of brain activity, functional connectivity and basal activity. Basal activity measured with fMRI raised tremendous interest among neuroscientists since synchronized brain activity pattern could be retrieved while the subject rests (resting state fMRI). During recent years, a few signal processing schemes have been suggested to analyze the resting state blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal from simple correlations to spectral decomposition. In most of these analysis schemes, the question asked was which brain areas &quot;behave&quot; in the time domain similarly to a pre-specified ROI. In this work we applied short time frequency analysis and clustering to study the spatial signal characteristics of resting state fMRI time series. Such analysis revealed that clusters of similar BOLD fluctuations are found in the cortex but also in the white matter and sub-cortical gray matter regions (thalamus). We found high similarities between the BOLD clusters and the neuro-anatomical appearance of brain regions. Additional analysis of the BOLD time series revealed a strong correlation between head movements and clustering quality. Experiments performed with T1-weighted time series also provided similar quality of clustering. These observations led us to the conclusion that non-functional contributions to the BOLD time series can also account for symmetric appearance of signal fluctuations. These contributions may include head motions, the underling microvasculature anatomy and cellular morphology.
The successes of PET and fMRI in non-invasively localizing sensory functions had encouraged efforts to transform the subjective concepts of cognitive psychology into objective physical measures. The assumption was that mental functions could be decomposed into non-overlapping, context-independent modules that are operated on by separable areas of a computer-like brain. The failures of cognitive modularity and of a very localized phrenology are generally, but not universally, accepted; but in their place, and usually not distinguished from the original revolutionary hopes of clarification, experimental results are being interpreted in terms of rather flexible definitions of both cognitive concepts and the degree of localization. In an alternative approach, we have connected fMRI, (13)C MRS, and electrophysiology measurements of brain energy to connect with observable properties of mental life (i.e., awareness). We illustrate this approach with a sensory stimulation experiment; the degree of localization found in BOLD signals was related to the global energy of the brain which, when manipulated by anesthetics, affected the degree of awareness. The influence of brain energy upon functional imaging maps is changing the interpretations of neuroimaging experiments, from psychological concepts generating computer-like responses to empirical responses dominated by the high brain energy and signaling at rest. In our view &quot;baseline&quot; is an operational term, an adjective that defines a property of a state of the system before it is perturbed by a stimulus. Given the dependence of observable psychological properties upon the &quot;baseline&quot; energy, we believe that it is unnecessarily limiting to define a particular state as the baseline.
Chronic daily headache (CDH) represents a therapeutic challenge for many clinicians. Treatment strategies should be aimed at correctly identifying the presence of CDH. In addition, an effective prophylactic regimen should be initiated; the presence of medication overuse must be addressed, and the offending medication being overused must be discontinued. Aside from analgesic overuse, other modifiable risk factors associated with the development of chronic migraine and CDH must be addressed including obesity and caffeine use and the effective management of comorbid conditions such as depression, anxiety, and sleep-related breathing disorders.
A rare complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunting (VPS) is bowel perforation by the peritoneal catheter of the shunt tube. Rarer still is the peroral extrusion of such a perforated shunt. A two-month-old infant with history of neonatal meningitis, presented with a large head, bulging fontanelle, and hydrocephalus. A VPS was inserted. The child was doing well till the age of eight months, when following vomiting, the peritoneal end of the shunt came out through the mouth. The shunt was removed and antibiotics started. At follow up after 12 months, the child was doing well. Peroral extrusion of the shunt tube needs prompt treatment, including removal of the extruded shunt tube, and attention to bowel perforation and possible cerebrospinal fluid infection. The reported patient is younger than the five cases reported earlier. Strategies in the management of this complication are reviewed. An individualized approach is essential for the successful treatment of this rare complication.
Painful ophthalmoplegia is a rare pathologic condition caused by non-specific inflammation of the cavernous sinus, but other causes such as tumours, vasculitis, basal meningitis, neurosarcoidosis, diabetes can be responsible for the syndrome. Aim of this study is a review of the cases of painful ophthalmoplegia admitted to our Institute in the last 20 years in order to verify the incidence of symptomatic versus benign forms in a clinical case series, with particular focus on the cases in which a long term (at least 4 years) and detailed follow-up did not revealed spread of any systemic disease or other presumed causes for painful ophthalmoplegia. Twenty-three patients were retrospectively studied, 12 patients (52%) were classified as benign forms and their disease course was again evaluated and 11 cases (48%) were designated as symptomatic. The present study suggests that in the clinical practice the incidence of benign forms among the painful ophthalmoplegias is more elevate than the symptomatic ones and underlines the need of a specific nosography for benign forms.
Subjects suffering from migraine with aura (MwA) present an altered cerebral autoregulation during migraine attacks. It is still unclear whether MwA sufferers present a normal autoregulation during attack-free periods. In this study, we characterized cerebral autoregulation in the frequency domain by analyzing the spontaneous oscillations superimposed on the cerebral hemodynamic signals, as detected by near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Ten healthy women (age: 38.4 +/- 9.5 years) and ten women suffering from MwA (age: 35.2 +/- 10.5 years) underwent NIRS recording in resting conditions and during breath-holding (BH). Being the NIRS signals during BH nonstationary, we used the Choi-Williams time-frequency distribution to perform spectral analysis. We considered 256 s of signals and quantified the variation in the power of the very-low frequencies (VLF: 20-40 mHz) and of the low frequencies (LF: 40-140 mHz) as response to BH. Results showed that BH increases the power in the LF band both in healthy and MwA subjects. Considering the signal of the deoxygenated hemoglobin, the average power increase in the LF band was equal to 20% +/- 15.4% for the healthy group and significantly lower, 4.8% +/- 8.3%, in the MwA group (Student's t test, P &lt; 0.02). No significant difference was observed in the VLF band or in the oxygenated hemoglobin signal power variations of the LF and VLF bands. The resulting data reveal a possible impairment in the carbon dioxide-regulatory mechanism in MwA subjects.
The question in the title of this article arises from ambiguities in the diagnostic criteria for chronic migraine (CM) included in the 2004 International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd Edition (ICHD-II), and in the 2006 revision. More broadly speaking, it also arises from the fact that to date the general subject of chronic daily headaches (CDH) has not been approached in a correct and appropriate way. For all its limitations, ICHD-II has unquestionable merits and remains a fundamental tool. However, it is a tool that gets a snapshot picture of headache; so, it is not applicable to a dynamic form that evolves from and is transformed by a chain of events. If these events are ignored, there will be no accurate interpretation of the final clinical picture. Today, we still do not have any classification of headache syndromes to complement ICHD-II. Currently, then, the only way to approach the CDH issue is to put patients at the center and to focus on their life histories. If we reason strictly in terms of diagnostic classification criteria, which for this headache subtype are artificial and ambiguous, we may have trouble finding an answer to the title question. However, if we reason in broader clinical terms, putting at the center of our reasoning not only headache features, but patients with all their histories, the answer can only be that CM and chronic tension-type headache are two different clinical entities.

Mutations in the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor (RYR1) gene have been associated with a wide range of phenotypes including the malignant hyperthermia (MH) susceptibility trait, Central Core Disease (CCD) and other congenital myopathies characterized by early onset and predominant proximal weakness. We report a patient presenting at 77 years with a predominant axial myopathy associated with prominent involvement of spine extensors, confirmed on MRI and muscle biopsy, compatible with a core myopathy. RYR1 mutational analysis revealed a novel heterozygous missense mutation (c.119G&gt;T; p.Gly40Val) affecting the RYR1 N-terminus, previously predominantly associated with MH susceptibility. This case expands the spectrum of RYR1-related phenotypes and suggests that MH-related RYR1 mutations may give rise to overt neuromuscular symptoms later in life, with clinical features not typically found in CCD due to C-terminal hotspot mutations. Late-onset congenital myopathies may be under-recognised and diagnosis requires a high degree of clinical suspicion.
A panel of novel D2 and D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonists, partial agonists and full agonists have been evaluated for the ability to attenuate L-dopa-associated abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) unilaterally lesioned male Sprague Dawley rats, which is an animal model of L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). LID is often observed in patients with Parkinson's Disease following chronic treatment with L-dopa. The intrinsic activity of these dopaminergic compounds was determined using a forskolin-dependent adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay with transfected HEK 293 cells expressing either the human D2Long or D3 dopamine receptor subtype. For the initial experiments the 5-HT1A receptor selective partial agonist buspirone was used to verify our ability to quantitate changes in total AIMs and AIMs minus locomotor scores. Two D2 dopamine receptor selective antagonists, SV 156 and SV 293, were evaluated and found to minimally attenuate AIM scores in these animals. Four members of our WC series of D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds of varying intrinsic activity at the D3 dopamine receptor subtype, WC 10, WC 21, WC 26 and WC 44, were also evaluated and found to attenuate AIM scores in a dose dependent manner. The in vivo efficacy of the compounds increased when they were administered simultaneously with L-dopa, as compared to when the compounds were administered 60 min prior to the L-dopa/benserazide. It was also found that the D3 receptor antagonist WC 10 could inhibit the involuntary movements after they had achieved maximum intensity. Unlike the D1-like dopamine receptor selective agonist SKF 81297 and the D2-like dopamine receptor agonist bromocriptine which can precipitate abnormal involuntary movements in these unilaterally lesioned animals, abnormal involuntary movements were not observed after administration of our D3 receptor selective agonist WC 44. In addition, we evaluated the effect of these four D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds for their effect on a) spontaneous locomotion and b) coordination and agility using a rotarod apparatus. We also used a cylinder test to assess the effect of L-dopa on spontaneous and independent use of each of the rat's forelimbs in the presence or absence of test compound. The results of these studies suggest that substituted phenylpiperazine D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds are potential pharmacotherapeutic agents for the treatment of L-dopa-associated dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease.
The D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonist PG01037 has been evaluated for the ability to attenuate L-dopa-associated abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in unilaterally lesioned male Sprague-Dawley rats, which is a model of L-dopa-dependent dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease. The intrinsic activity of PG01037 was determined using a) a forskolin-dependent adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay with transfected HEK 293 cells expressing either the human D2Long or D3 dopamine receptor subtype and b) an assay for agonist-associated mitogenesis. For the initial experiments, the 5-HT1A receptor selective partial agonist buspirone was used as a positive control to verify our ability to quantitate changes in total AIMs and AIMs minus locomotor scores. Subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of PG01037 was found to have minimal effect on AIMs score. However, it was observed that the in vivo efficacy of PG01037 increased when administered by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection 15 min after L-dopa/benserazide administration, as compared to a 60 min, 30 min or 0 min pretreatment. It was also found that i.p. administration of PG01037 could inhibit involuntary movements after they had achieved maximum intensity. PG01037 was found to attenuate AIM scores in these animals in a dose dependent manner with IC(50) value equal to a) 7.4 mg/kg following L-dopa/benserazide administration (8 mg/kg each, i.p.) and b) 18.4 mg/kg following the administration of apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg, s.c.). However, PG01037 did not effectively inhibit SKF 81297-dependent abnormal involuntary movements. Rotarod studies indicate that PG01037 at a dose of 10 mg/kg did not adversely affect motor coordination of the unilaterally lesioned rats. Evaluation of lesioned rats using a cylinder test behavioral paradigm indicated that PG01037 did not dramatically attenuate the beneficial effects of L-dopa. These studies suggest that D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonists are potential pharmacotherapeutic candidates for the treatment of L-dopa-associated dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease.
Persistent inflammatory nociception increases levels of endogenous opioids with affinity for delta opioid receptors in the ventromedial medulla and enhances the antinociceptive effects of the mu opioid receptor (MOPr) agonist [D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) [Hurley, R.W., Hammond, D.L., 2001. Contribution of endogenous enkephalins to the enhanced analgesic effects of supraspinal mu opioid receptor agonists after inflammatory injury. J. Neurosci. 21, 2536-2545]. It also increases levels of endogenous opioids that act at MOPr elsewhere in the CNS [Zangen, A., Herzberg, U., Vogel, Z., Yadid, G., 1998. Nociceptive stimulus induces release of endogenous beta-endorphin in the rat brain. Neuroscience 85, 659-662]. This study tested the hypothesis that a sustained release of endogenous opioids leads to a downregulation of MOPr in the locus coeruleus (LC) and induces a state of endogenous opioid tolerance. Four days after injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the left hindpaw of the rat, both the magnitude and duration of the antinociception produced by microinjection of DAMGO in the right LC were reduced. Saturation isotherms demonstrated a 50% decrease in MOPr B(max) in homogenates of the LC from CFA-treated rats; K(d) was unchanged. Receptor autoradiography revealed that this decrease was bilateral. The decreased efficacy of DAMGO in CFA-treated rats most likely results from a decreased number of MOPr in the LC. Microinjection of the MOPr antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP) in the LC did not exacerbate hyperalgesia in the ipsilateral hindpaw or produce hyperalgesia in the contralateral hindpaw of CFA-treated rats. The downregulation in MOPr is therefore unlikely to result from the induction of endogenous opioid tolerance in the LC. These results indicate that persistent inflammatory nociception alters the antinociceptive actions of MOPr agonists in the CNS by diverse mechanisms that are nucleus specific and likely to have different physiological implications.
The effect of aging on interval timing was examined using a choice time production task, which required participants to choose a key response based on the location of the stimulus, but to delay responding until after a learned time interval. Experiment 1 varied attentional demands of the response choice portion of the task by varying difficulty of stimulus-response mapping. Choice difficulty affected temporal accuracy equally in both age groups, but older participants' response latencies were more variable under more difficult response choice conditions. Experiment 2 tested the contribution of long-term memory to differences in choice time production between age groups over 3 days of testing. Direction of errors in time production between the two age groups diverged over the 3 sessions, but variability did not differ. Results from each experiment separately show age-related changes to attention and memory in temporal processing using different measures and manipulations in the same task.
Optic ataxia (OA) is generally thought of as a disorder of visually guided reaching movements that cannot be explained by any simple deficit in visual or motor processing. In this paper we offer a new perspective on optic ataxia; we argue that the popular characterisation of this disorder is misleading and is unrepresentative of the pattern of reaching errors typically observed in OA patients. We begin our paper by reviewing recent neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and functional brain imaging studies that have led to the proposal that the medial parietal cortex in the vicinity of the parietal-occipital junction (POJ) - the key anatomical site associated with OA - represents reaching movements in eye-centred coordinates, and that this ability is impaired in optic ataxia. Our perspective stresses the importance of the POJ and superior parietal regions of the human PPC for representing reaching movements in both extrinsic (eye-centred) and intrinsic (postural) coordinates, and proposes that it is the ability to simultaneously represent multiple spatial locations that must be directly compared with one another that is impaired in non-foveal OA patients. In support of this idea we review recent fMRI and behavioural studies conducted by our group that have investigated the anatomical correlates of posturally guided movements, and the movements guided by postural cues in patients presenting with optic ataxia.
Current models of the visual pathways have difficulty incorporating the human inferior parietal lobe (IPL) into dorsal or ventral streams. Some recent proposals have attempted to integrate aspects of IPL function that were not hitherto dealt with well, such as differences between the left and right hemisphere and the role of the right IPL in responding to salient environmental events. However, we argue that these models also fail to capture adequately some important findings regarding the functions of the IPL. Here we critically appraise existing proposals regarding the functional architecture of the visual system, with special emphasis on the role of this region, particularly in the right hemisphere. We review evidence that shows the right IPL plays an important role in two different, but broadly complementary, aspects of attention: maintaining attentive control on current task goals as well as responding to salient new information or alerting stimuli in the environment. In our view, findings from functional imaging, electrophysiological and lesion studies are all consistent with the view that this region is part of a system that allows flexible reconfiguration of behaviour between these two alternative modes of operation. Damage to the right IPL leads to deficits in both maintaining attention and also responding to salient events, impairments that contribute to hemineglect, the classical syndrome that follows lesions of this region.
Milner and Goodale (1995) [Milner, A. D., &amp; Goodale, M. A. (1995). The visual brain in action. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press] proposed a functional division of labor between vision-for-perception and vision-for-action. Their proposal is supported by neuropsychological, brain-imaging, and psychophysical evidence. However, it has remained controversial in the prediction that actions are not affected by visual illusions. Following up on a related review on pointing (see Bruno et al., 2008 [Bruno, N., Bernardis, P., &amp; Gentilucci, M. (2008). Visually guided pointing, the Mller-Lyer illusion, and the functional interpretation of the dorsal-ventral split: Conclusions from 33 independent studies. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 32(3), 423-437]), here we re-analyze 18 studies on grasping objects embedded in the Mller-Lyer (ML) illusion. We find that median percent effects across studies are indeed larger for perceptual than for grasping measures. However, almost all grasping effects are larger than zero and the two distributions show substantial overlap and variability. A fine-grained analysis reveals that critical roles in accounting for this variability are played by the informational basis for guiding the action, by the number of trials per condition of the experiment, and by the angle of the illusion fins. When all these factors are considered together, the data support a difference between grasping and perception only when online visual feedback is available during movement. Thus, unlike pointing, grasping studies of the Mller-Lyer (ML) illusion suggest that the perceptual and motor effects of the illusion differ only because of online, feedback-driven corrections, and do not appear to support independent spatial representations for vision-for-action and vision-for-perception.
There is a strong link between tobacco consumption and mood disorders. It has been suggested that afflicted individuals smoke to manage mood, however, there is evidence indicating that tobacco consumption can induce negative mood. This study was designed to investigate whether nicotine exposure during adolescence influences emotionality/behavioral functioning later in life. Adolescent (postnatal days, PD 30-44) male rats were treated with twice-daily injections of nicotine (0, 0.16, 0.32, or 0.64 mg/kg) for 15 consecutive days, and their behavioral reactivity to various behavioral paradigms (the elevated plus maze (EPM), sucrose preference, locomotor activity in the open field, and forced swim test (FST) was assessed 24 h (short term) or 1-month (long term) after exposure. Separate groups of adult rats received nicotine (0.32 mg/kg) to control for age-dependent effects. We report that nicotine exposure during adolescence-but not adulthood-leads to a depression-like state manifested in decreased sensitivity to natural reward (sucrose), and enhanced sensitivity to stress- (FST) and anxiety-eliciting situations (EPM) later in life. Our data show that behavioral dysregulation can emerge 1 week after drug cessation, and that a single day of nicotine exposure during adolescence can be sufficient to precipitate a depression-like state in adulthood. We further demonstrate that these deficits can be normalized by subsequent nicotine (0.32 mg/kg) or antidepressant (ie fluoxetine or bupropion; 10 mg/kg) treatment in adulthood. These data suggest that adolescent exposure to nicotine results in a negative emotional state rendering the organism significantly more vulnerable to the adverse effects of stress. Within this context, our findings, together with others indicating that nicotine exposure during adolescence enhances risk for addiction later in life, could serve as a potential model of comorbidity.
The amplitude of the acoustic startle response is increased when elicited in the presence of brief cues that predict shock (fear-potentiated startle) and also when elicited during sustained exposure to bright light (light-enhanced startle). Although both effects are thought to reflect fear or anxiety, their neuroanatomical substrates differ. Although fear-potentiated startle is disrupted by reversible inactivation of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) but not the closely related bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), light-enhanced startle is disrupted by BNST inactivation but not by CeA inactivation. Intraventricular infusions of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) also increase startle (CRF-enhanced startle) and this effect is mediated by CRF receptors within the BNST, with no involvement of the CeA. Together, these observations suggest that CeA- and BNST-dependent fear and anxiety may be differentially sensitive to CRF receptor blockade. We tested this by orally administering the novel, potent, and selective CRF-R1 antagonist GSK876008 to rats before CRF-enhanced, light-enhanced, or fear-potentiated startle testing. GSK876008 disrupted CRF-enhanced startle with a linear dose-response curve, and light-enhanced startle with a U-shaped dose-response curve, but did not disrupt fear-potentiated startle to a visual stimulus at any dose tested, and even augmented the response in some animals. GSK876008 also disrupted shock-related 'baseline' startle increases, which may have reflected context conditioning (shown elsewhere to also be BNST-dependent). Overall, these results suggest that short-duration CeA-dependent threat responses can be pharmacologically dissociated from longer duration BNST-dependent responses in terms of their sensitivity to CRF1 receptor antagonists.
The neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) plays a critical role in the proper functioning of the stress response system through its actions on its receptors, CRF receptor 1 (CRF1) and CRF receptor 2 (CRF2), located at multiple anatomical sites. Clinical data indicate that stress response dysfunctions, such as excessive CRF activity and hyperstimulation of CRF1, are present in a range of stress-related disorders, including depression and anxiety disorders. Our previous work along with that of other laboratories has demonstrated that mice deficient in CRF2 (CRF2-/-) display increased anxiety and depression-like behaviors. In this study, we found CRF2-/- mice display increased hippocampal levels of activated (phosphorylated) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)/ERK kinase (MEK), extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), and ribosomal protein S6 kinases 1 (RSK1). These changes can be explained by overactive hippocampal CRF1, in view of the finding that the application of the nonselective CRF receptor antagonist [Glu(11,16)] astressin ([Glu(11,16)]Ast) into the dorsal hippocampus of mutant mice returned the levels of the phosphorylated proteins to baseline. Moreover, inhibition of the hippocampal MEK/ERK pathway with the specific MEK inhibitor U0126, decreased depression-like behaviors in the forced swim test and tail suspension test of CRF2-/- mice. Similarly, treatment with [Glu(11,16)]Ast reversed depression phenotype of CRF2-/- mice without affecting the phenotype of wild-type littermates. Our results support an involvement of CRF receptors in the development of depression, such that elevated hippocampal CRF1 activity, in the absence of CRF2, produces a depression-dominated phenotype through the activation of the MEK/ERK pathway.
Although progress has been made identifying neural mechanisms underlying ethanol's primary reinforcing effects, few studies have examined the mechanisms mediating ethanol-induced conditioned effects. A recent lesion study suggests that expression of ethanol-conditioned behaviors depends upon an intact amygdala and nucleus accumbens core. However, specific mechanisms within these nuclei are unknown. In the present experiments, we used site-specific microinfusions of dopamine and NMDA receptor antagonists to examine the roles of accumbens and amygdala in the expression of ethanol conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. In experiments 1 and 2, a D1/D2/D3 receptor antagonist (flupenthixol) was infused into accumbens or amygdala before testing, whereas experiment 3 used pretest infusions of an NMDA antagonist (AP-5) to examine the role of intra-accumbens NMDA receptors. Dopamine antagonism of accumbens was without effect, but intra-amygdala infusions of flupenthixol blocked CPP expression. Moreover, this effect was dependent upon dopamine antagonism within the basolateral nucleus but not the central nucleus of the amygdala. Antagonism of NMDA receptors in accumbens also blocked CPP expression. The present findings suggest that expression of the ethanol-conditioned response depends upon amygdala dopamine and accumbens NMDA receptors. These are the first studies in any species to show a role for amygdala dopamine receptors and the first studies in mice to implicate accumbens NMDA receptors in ethanol-induced conditioned effects.
Neural mechanisms of cognitive control enable us to initiate, coordinate and update behaviour. Central to successful control is the ability to suppress actions that are no longer relevant or required. In this article, we review the contribution of cognitive neuroscience, molecular genetics and clinical investigations to understanding how response inhibition is mediated in the human brain. In Section 1, we consider insights into the neural basis of inhibitory control from the effects of neural interference, neural dysfunction, and drug addiction. In Section 2, we explore the functional specificity of inhibitory mechanisms among a range of related processes, including response selection, working memory, and attention. In Section 3, we focus on the contribution of response inhibition to understanding flexible behaviour, including the effects of learning and individual differences. Finally, in Section 4, we propose a series of technical and conceptual objectives for future studies addressing the neural basis of inhibition.
Processes that engage frontal cortex and the basal ganglia are responsible for the prevention of planned movements. Here, we review the role of primary motor cortex (M1) in this function. M1 receives and integrates input from a range of cortical and subcortical sites. It is also the final cortical processing site for voluntary motor commands, before they descend to the spinal cord. Inhibitory networks within M1 may be an important mechanism for the prevention or suppression of movement. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used to evaluate corticospinal excitability and intracortical inhibition in humans, during the performance of a range of movement selection and prevention tasks. This review explores how M1 intracortical inhibition is selectively reduced to initiate desired voluntary movements, while movement prevention is associated with rapid, non-selective recruitment of inhibition within M1. The relationship between deficient intracortical inhibition and behavioural inhibition is also explored. Examples of neuropathology are reviewed, including focal dystonia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and Tourette syndrome. The strengths and limitations of TMS in the study of movement prevention are also discussed. While the precise functional links between M1 neuronal populations and the fronto-basal-ganglia network activated by movement prevention have yet to be elucidated, it is clear that M1 plays a critical role in the final processing stage of response inhibition.
This paper evaluates neuroimaging of cognitive control as an endophenotype for investigating the role of dopamine genes in ADHD. First, this paper reviews both data-driven and theory-driven approaches from genetics and neuroimaging. Several viable candidate genes have been implicated in ADHD, including the dopamine DRD4 and DAT1 genes. Neuroimaging studies have resulted in a good understanding of the neurobiological basis of deficits in cognitive control in this disorder. Second, this paper discusses imaging genetics in ADHD. Papers to date have taken one of two approaches: whereas early papers investigated the effects of one or two candidate genes on many brain areas, later papers constrained regions of interest by gene expression patterns. These papers have largely focused on cognitive control and the dopamine circuits involved in this ability. The results show that neuroimaging of cognitive control is useful as an endophenotype in investigating dopamine gene effects in ADHD. Other avenues of investigation are suggested by a combination of data- and theory-driven approaches in both genetics and neuroimaging.
Anxiety has been implicated in obesity and in the overconsumption of highly palatable foods such as those high in fat, sugar, or both. Also, the novelty-seeking trait has been associated with failure in weight-loss programs. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of experimental anxiety and the self-administration of sucrose and high fat pellets in non-food deprived rats across different operant schedules. Male Wistar rats were subjected to the elevated plus-maze test (EPM) of anxiety-like behavior. The rats were tested for fixed ratio 5 (FR5) and progressive ratio (PR) operant responding for 50% sucrose, 95% sucrose, and high-fat pellets. PR active lever press response for 95% sucrose, but not the other pellet types, was correlated to % time spent on open arms (P=0.019) in the EPM. On the FR5 schedule, activity (closed arm entries) was correlated to the self-administration of 50% sucrose (P=0.027) and high-fat (P=0.002). This indicates an association of novelty-induced activity and self-administration of palatable food in sated rats, as well as a specific association of PR lever press response for 95% sucrose and low anxiety-like behavior. It has been argued that such active lever press response on PR may be interpreted as craving for the reinforcer; thus, our findings indicate an inverse relationship of experimental anxiety and craving for sucrose. This connection may have implications for human situations, since anxiety and novelty-seeking have been associated with obesity and failure in weight-loss programs.
Remembering contextual aspects of an event (recollection) is an important function subserved by episodic memory. It has recently been shown that the electrophysiological correlates of recollection differ depending upon the type of information subjects retrieve from episodic memory. In the current study, we investigated whether electrophysiological correlates of memory are also affected by the type of source information retrieved from memory. Subjects studied words that were paired with a sound, a picture of a face or a picture of a scene. During test, they were required to judge whether a given probe word was new or old, and whether it had been paired with a sound, scene or face during study. The parietal old/new effect (400-700 ms post-stimulus), which has previously been associated with recollection, was larger for correct compared to incorrect source retrieval and of comparable magnitude for items from the different encoding conditions. A frontal positivity in the same time window, on the other hand, was sensitive to the type of information subjects retrieved from episodic memory, and showed a differential topography depending on memory content. Our findings confirm and extend previous observations by showing that, when recollection is assessed using an objective performance measure (i.e., source accuracy), frontal brain potentials are sensitive to episodic content.
Here we describe a web-accessible digital brain atlas of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) at http://marmoset-brain.org:2008. We prepared the histological sections of the marmoset brain using various staining techniques. For virtual microscopy, high-resolution digital images of sections were obtained with Aperio Scanscope. The digital images were then converted to Zoomify files (zoomable multiresolution image files). Thereby, we could provide the multiresolution images of the marmoset brains for fast interactive viewing on the web via the Internet. In addition, we describe an automated method to obtain drawings of Nissl-stained sections.
We explored brain activation associated with negative emotionality, during an associative memory task that involved the encoding and retrieval of word pairs. Participants were instructed to memorize word pairs and subsequently retrieve them. The word pairs consisted of either emotional or neutral words. Significant hippocampal activation was observed during both encoding and retrieval of the neutral word pairs, and was correlated with correct response rates during retrieval. However, the negative word pairs activated the left middle temporal gyrus during both encoding and retrieval. These results suggest that hippocampal activation is involved in both the encoding and retrieval of word pairs. However, negative emotionality does not necessarily enhance hippocampal activity and memory performance.
During development, neurons migrate from their origin to their final destinations where they form neuronal architectures such as layers and nuclei. While the mechanisms for the formation of laminated structures have been studied extensively, little is known about nucleogenesis. Previously, we analyzed nucleogenesis in neurons from four types of mossy-fiber projecting precerebellar nuclei neurons by gene transfer, and obtained evidence suggesting that the change from tangential to radial migration occurs at the region that will develop into the nucleus (Kawauchi, D., Taniguchi, H., Watanabe, H., Saito, T., Murakami, F., 2006. Direct visualization of nucleogenesis by precerebellar neurons: involvement of ventricle-directed, radial fibre-associated migration. Development 133, 1113-1123). Here we analyzed the dynamics of these neurons using mice embryos. We electroporated genes of fluorescent proteins to the lower rhombic lip at embryonic day (E) 12.5 and carried out time-lapse analyses at E14.5, when pontine nuclei begin to be formed. We found that many labeled neurons showed transition from tangential to radial migration in the region that will develop into the nucleus. This transition occurred in two ways. One was initiated by a leading process extending radially while the second was caused by a newly developed radial process from the cell soma. Curiously, we observed that many neurons stopped tangentially migration, paused, and then began radial migration. These findings indicate that a signal to stop and cause the change in tangential to radial migration is critical for nucleogenesis by pontine neurons.


The exposure to methylazoxymethanol (MAM) at embryonic day 17 (E17) results in behavioral anomalies in male rats that mimic several features of schizophrenia, including their emergence after puberty. Given that both men and women are likely to develop this illness and that currently no animal model is validated for females, we examined the behavioral consequences of E17 MAM exposure in female rats. We compared E17 MAM- and saline-exposed female rats before and/or after puberty for spontaneous activity, alternance and spatial recognition (Y-maze), spatial learning (Morris water maze), and sensory gating using the prepulse inhibition task. MAM-exposed female rats exhibited a significant increase in spontaneous locomotor activity in a novel environment, compared to sham animals, which emerged only after puberty. They also had deficits in spontaneous alternation performance and spatial recognition in a Y-maze as well as reference memory deficits in a Morris water maze task. Lastly, MAM-exposed female rats spent significantly less time in social interaction at both pre- and post-puberty and had a deficit in prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex (PPI) at adulthood. In conclusion, the present results show that, in female rat, exposure to MAM at E17 results in a pattern of behavioral changes that, on the whole, mimic positive, negative, and cognitive dimensions of schizophrenia. E17 MAM exposure thus appears to be a valid model for schizophrenia in both males and females.
The essential amino acid tryptophan is primarily metabolised through the kynurenine pathway, some components of which may be neurotoxic. We have now examined the potential toxicity of several kynurenine metabolites in relation to the generation of oxidative stress and activation of cell death signalling pathways in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. 3-Hydroxykynurenine (3HK), 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3HAA) and 5-hydroxyanthranilic acid (5HAA) induced cell death which increased with exposure time and compound concentration. The neurotoxic effects of 3HK, 3HAA and 5HAA were prevented by catalase, but not by superoxide dismutase. In addition, Western blot analysis demonstrated p38 activation due to 3HK or 5HAA treatment, although caspase-3 activation was not evident in either case. The results indicate that kynurenine metabolites can be neurotoxic via a caspase-3 independent mechanism, and that the minor metabolite 5HAA is as potent a toxin as the better documented compounds 3HK and 3HAA.
We recently demonstrated that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) chronic administration in female adolescent rats induces alterations in the emotional circuit ending in depressive-like behavior in adulthood. Since cognitive dysfunction is a major component of depression, we assessed in these animals at adulthood different forms of memory. Adolescent female rats were treated with THC or its vehicle from 35 to 45 post-natal days (PND) and left undisturbed until their adulthood (75 PND) when aversive and spatial memory was assessed using the passive avoidance and radial maze tasks. No alteration was found in aversive memory, but in the radial maze THC pre-treated animals exhibited a worse performance than vehicles, suggesting a deficit in spatial working memory. To correlate memory impairment to altered neuroplasticity, level of marker proteins was investigated in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, the most relevant areas for learning and memory. A significant decrease in synaptophysin and PSD95 proteins was found in the prefrontal cortex of THC pre-treated rats, with no alterations in the hippocampus. Finally, proteomic analysis of the synapses in the prefrontal cortex revealed the presence of less active synapses characterized by reduced ability in maintaining normal synaptic efficiency. This picture demonstrates the presence of cognitive impairment in THC-induced depressive phenotype.
Deltamethrin (DLT) is a type II synthetic pyrethroid with insecticidal properties. It has been considered safe to humans. Excessive exposure of DLT is being variously reported, recently, to cause potential neurotoxicity in adults, as characterized by ataxia, loss of coordination, hyperexcitability, convulsions and paralysis. However, limited information is available on its impact at lower/safe to human doses during development. The present study was designed to assess the postnatal (P) exposure of DLT (as low as 0.7 mg/kg, i.p.) on S-100beta expression in developing rat cerebellum and its impact on Purkinje cell morphogenesis and dendritogenesis, and subsequent spontaneous motor activity (SMA) deficits. Wistar rat pups born to healthy mothers were injected with DLT (Sigma) at a dosage of 0.7 mg/kg body wt., i.p. dissolved in DMSO (Sigma) during P0-7th (DLT-I) and P9-13th day (DLT-II). The control pups were injected with equivalent volumes of DMSO. The pups of both the groups were used to assess the spontaneous motor activity P21 onwards. The cryocut sections (30 microm) of the cerebella were used for anti-S-100beta antibody labeling using streptavidin biotin HRP method. An upregulation of S-100beta expression in Bergmann glial fibers was recorded at P12 and P15 day preparations in both DLT-I and DLT-II treated groups. However, such upregulation of S-100beta was more prominent in DLT-II treated group animals with a large number of strongly S-100beta immunopositive astrocytes flanking around the Purkinje neurons. In Golgi preparation the Purkinje neurons in DLT treated groups had reduced dendritic arbor with short primary dendrites and much reduced dendritic branches which appeared stumpy and hypertrophied. The granule cell proliferation and migration as well as Purkinje cell morphogenesis and dendritogenesis are affected following DLT exposure in the present investigation. This may also affect the mossy fiber-granule cell-parallel pathway formation which in turn may decrease the firing of Purkinje cells (GABAergic inhibitory projections) and thus an increase in the output of the neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei neurons and disturbed motor coordination.
p,p'-DDE, or ethylene, 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl), is the main metabolite of the pesticide DDT, or 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl) ethane. It is an androgen receptor antagonist and testosterone hydroxylase modulator that is also more persistent than its parent compound. In a previous study we demonstrated that embryonic exposure to different doses of p,p'-DDE accelerated onset of puberty in females and reduced male reproductive behavior. In the present study we investigated the long-term effects of the exposure to p,p'-DDE on the differentiation of male Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) limbic circuits related to male copulatory behavior: the parvocellular vasotocin (VT) system. We observed a decrease in the density of VT-immunoreactive fibers within the medial preoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and lateral septum in p,p'-DDE-treated birds, while no differences could be detected in the magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. In particular the lowest dose of p,p'-DDE causes the highest decrease of VT immunoreactivity. This study provides further evidence for VT system sensitivity towards endocrine disrupting chemicals and demonstrates that the VT system may be an appropriate and sensitive biomarker for early p,p'-DDE exposure in birds.
Maternal alcohol abuse during pregnancy can damage the fetal brain and lead to fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Despite public warnings discouraging alcohol use during pregnancy, many pregnant women continue to drink intermittently because they do not believe that occasional exposures to alcohol can be harmful to a fetus. However, because of genetic differences, some fetuses are much more susceptible than others to alcohol-induced brain injury. Thus, a relatively low quantity of alcohol that may be innocuous to most fetuses could damage a genetically susceptible fetus. Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) can protect developing mouse neurons against alcohol toxicity by synthesizing neuroprotective nitric oxide. This study examined whether a single exposure to alcohol, which causes no evident injury in wild type mice, can damage the brains of mice genetically deficient for nNOS (nNOS-/- mice). Wild type and nNOS-/- mice received intraperitoneal injections of alcohol (0.0, 2.2, or 4.4mg/g body weight) either as a single dose on postnatal day (PD) 4 or as repeated daily doses over PD4-9. Brain volumes and neuronal numbers within the hippocampus and cerebral cortex were determined on PD10. Alcohol exposure on PD4-9 restricted brain growth and caused neuronal death in both strains of mice, but the severity of microencephaly and neuronal loss were more severe in the nNOS-/- mice than in wild type. The 4.4 mg/g alcohol dose administered on PD4 alone caused significant neuronal loss and microencephaly in the nNOS-/- mice, while this same dose caused no evident injury in the wild type mice. Thus, during development, a single exposure to alcohol can injure a genetically vulnerable brain, while it leaves a wild type brain unaffected. Since the genes that confer alcohol resistance and vulnerability in developing humans are unknown, any particular human fetus is potentially vulnerable. Thus, women should be counseled to consume no alcohol during pregnancy.
Riluzole has been shown to possess neuroprotective effects in a variety of neurological and animal model of diseases, including motor diseases. However, the mechanism(s) by which riluzole preserves the intrinsic electrophysiological characteristics of neuronal membrane has not been fully delineated. Ataxia is a clinical manifestation of disturbance in coordinated motor activity, which may be caused by cerebellar impairment. Here, the in vivo neuroprotective effect of riluzole on the intrinsic activity of Purkinje cells (PCs) in a rat model of cerebellar ataxia induced by 3-acetylpyridine (3-AP) was studied. Behavioural assessment tests, histological examination and whole cell patch clamp recording under current clamp conditions were used to explore the possible protective effect of riluzole against induction of ataxia with 3-AP treatment. Combined treatment with riluzole and 3-AP not only almost completely prevented the neuronal degeneration in cerebellar Purkinje cells layer but also the development of ataxia, which occurred following injection of 3-AP alone and partially improved the motor behaviour in comparison with ataxic rats. The normal firing behaviour and action potential characteristics of Purkinje neurones were preserved. The amplitude of both fast after hyperpolarization potential (fAHP) and post train after hyperpolarization potential, a marker of slow AHP (sAHP), along with the duration of post train AHP, which play an important role in regulating the firing behaviour were restored to the control conditions. These findings suggest that riluzole-induced neuroprotection may be mediated at least in part by activation of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channel function.
Despite the potential for deleterious (even fatal) effects on cardiac physiology, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) abuse abounds driven mainly by its euphoric effects. Acute exposure to MDMA has profound cardiovascular effects on blood pressure and heart rate in humans and animals. To determine the effects of MDMA on cardiac metabolites in rats, MDMA (0, 5, or 10 mg/kg) was injected every 2 h for a total of four injections; animals were sacrificed 2 h after the last injection (8 h drug exposure), and their hearts removed and tissue samples from left ventricular wall dissected. High resolution magic angle spinning proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) at 11.7 T, a specialized version of MRS aptly suited for analysis of semi-solid materials such as intact tissue samples, was used to measure the cardiac metabolomic profile, including alanine, lactate, succinate, creatine, and carnitine, in heart tissue from rats treated with MDMA. MDMA effects on MR-visible choline, glutamate, glutamine, and taurine were also determined. Body temperature was measured following each MDMA administration and serotonin and norepinephrine (NE) levels were measured by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) in heart tissue from treated animals. MDMA significantly and dose-dependently increased body temperature, a hallmark of amphetamines. Serotonin, but not NE, levels were significantly and dose-dependently decreased by MDMA in the heart wall. MDMA significantly altered the MR-visible profile with an increase in carnitine and no change in other key compounds involved in cardiomyocyte energy metabolomics. Finally, choline levels were significantly decreased by MDMA in heart. The results are consistent with the notion that MDMA has significant effects on cardiovascular serotonergic tone and disrupts the metabolic homeostasis of energy regulation in cardiac tissue, potentially increasing utilization of fatty acid metabolism. The contributions of serotonergic signaling on MDMA-induced changes in cardiac metabolism remain to be determined.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is located in close proximity of the respiratory chains, which are the main cellular source of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS can induce oxidative base lesions in mtDNA and are believed to be an important cause of the mtDNA mutations, which accumulate with aging and in diseased states. However, recent studies indicate that cumulative levels of base substitutions in mtDNA can be very low even in old individuals. Considering the reduced complement of DNA repair pathways available in mitochondria and higher susceptibility of mtDNA to oxidative damage than nDNA, it is presently unclear how mitochondria manage to maintain the integrity of their genetic information in the face of the permanent exposure to ROS. Here we show that oxidative stress can lead to the degradation of mtDNA and that strand breaks and abasic sites prevail over mutagenic base lesions in ROS-damaged mtDNA. Furthermore, we found that inhibition of base excision repair enhanced mtDNA degradation in response to both oxidative and alkylating damage. These observations suggest a novel mechanism for the protection of mtDNA against oxidative insults whereby a higher incidence of lesions to the sugar-phosphate backbone induces degradation of damaged mtDNA and prevents the accumulation of mutagenic base lesions.
The point spread function or PSF of the human eye encompasses hugely different domains: a small-angle, high-intensity domain, called the 'PSF core', and a large-angle, low-intensity domain, usually referred to as 'straylight'. The first domain can be assessed by available double-pass or other optical techniques. For the second domain psychophysical techniques have been developed, in particular the Compensation Comparison or CC technique, recently made available for clinical application in the C-Quant instrument. We address the question of whether the psychophysical technique gives measures of straylight that are compatible with those made by optical methods. With a small adaptation the CC method can be used to assess straylight from physical light scattering samples, instead of straylight in the eye, using the same psychophysics, but without interference from the ocular straylight. The light scattered by each of seven light-scattering samples, encompassing the range of straylight values observed in human eyes, was measured by two optical methods and by the psychophysical technique. The results showed that the optical and psychophysical measurements for the seven samples were almost identical.
The sensation of pain is important and there may be serious consequences if it is missing. Recently, the genetic basis for a channelopathy characterised by a congenital inability to experience pain has been described and channelopathy-associated insensitivity to pain has been proposed as a suitable name for this condition. Different mutations in the SCN9A gene causing loss of function of the voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.7 have been reported in patients with this rare disease. Here we describe a woman with insensitivity to pain with two novel mutations in the SCN9A gene, coding for the Nav1.7 channel. We also discuss the finding of anosmia which apparently is a common feature in these patients.
We examined nociceptive responses to mechanical stimulation in mice of both sexes lacking the estrogen receptor alpha or beta and in respective wild types under normal conditions, after inflammation of a hindpaw or peripheral nerve injury. In normal wild-type mice, females had significantly lower paw withdrawal threshold than males. There was no significant difference between wild-type mice and knock-outs of either estrogen receptor alpha or beta in mechanical response threshold in male mice. However, significantly elevated response threshold was observed in both knock-out female mice, which eliminated sex differences in nociception. After carrageenan-induced inflammation of a hindpaw, all wild-type and knock-out mice exhibited similar local edema with no difference between the sexes. Wild-type mice developed hypersensitivity (allodynia) to mechanical stimulation, which was more profound in the females than in males. Again, such sex difference was not observed in the knock-outs of either estrogen receptor. Photochemically induced partial sciatic nerve injury caused similar persistent mechanical hypersensitivity in the wild types and both estrogen receptor knock-outs with no difference between the sexes. These results suggest that the sex difference in basal mechanical pain threshold and inflammatory hypersensitivity is eliminated in mice lacking either the estrogen alpha receptors or beta receptors. However, these receptors do not seem to be directly involved in mediating pain sensitivity in general or in the development of neuropathic pain. It is unclear whether the elimination of sex differences observed in the knock-outs reflects an ongoing effect of estrogen acting through its receptors in females or the developmental changes that predominantly affect females.
Results from recent functional neuroimaging studies suggest that facial expressions of pain trigger empathic mimicry responses in the observer, in the sense of an activation in the pain matrix. However, pain itself also signals a potential threat in the environment and urges individuals to escape or avoid its source. This evolutionarily primitive aspect of pain processing, i.e., avoidance from the threat value of pain, seems to conflict with the emergence of empathic concern, i.e., a motivation to approach toward the other. The present study explored whether the affective values of targets influence the detection of pain at the unconscious level. We found that the detection of pain was facilitated by unconscious negative affective processing rather than by positive affective processing. This suggests that detection of pain is primarily influenced by its inherent threat value, and that empathy and empathic concern may not rely on a simple reflexive resonance as generally thought. The results of this study provide a deeper understanding of how fundamental the unconscious detection of pain is to the processes involved in the experience of empathy and sympathy.
Acupuncture has been used in China for more than 3,000 years. Although the clinical application of acupuncture is very popular, its mechanisms of action are still unclear. Beginning in the middle of the 20th century, a boost of research on acupuncture emerged in China, and I was one of the researchers involved in this episode. With the help of modern neuroscience, the mechanisms of acupuncture for pain management have been unraveled at least partly. This article describes my decision as a young medical graduate to devote my life to research on acupuncture and pain medicine; it has since been my life's journey-one full of challenges and happiness, pitfalls and achievements.



Enhanced long-term expression of leptin by gene therapy selectively in the hypothalamus, without leakage to the systemic circulation, abrogated skeletal abnormalities and reinstated weight and insulin-glucose homeostasis in leptin-deficient ob/ob mice. Whether increases in osteocalcin, a hormone produced by osteoblasts and known to play a role in bone growth and recently in glucose-insulin homeostasis, may link these benefits of central leptin was assessed. The effects of a single intraventricular injection of non-immunogenic, non-pathogenic recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding leptin gene (rAAV-lep) or green fluorescent protein gene (rAAV-GFP, control) were studied in three genotypes, wild type (wt), obese diabetic, hyperinsulinemic ob/ob and non-obese, diabetic insulinopenic Akita mice. Selective hypothalamic leptin expression with central rAAV-lep treatment decreased weight, fat mass, food intake, suppressed insulin levels in ob/ob and wt mice, and conferred euglycemia by suppressing blood glucose in all three genotypes. Contemporaneously, rAAV-lep treatment also augmented blood osteocalcin levels. In wt mice, osteocalcin rose by 51% and, whereas, basal osteocalcin levels in ob/ob and Akita mice were significantly lower as compared to those in wt mice (26% and 55%, respectively), gene therapy reinstated levels to the control range in ob/ob mice, and raised 40% above the wt range even in the absence of insulin in Akita mice. These findings demonstrate that the central beneficial effects of leptin on bone growth involve increased hypothalamic relay of signals that augment osteocalcin efflux from osteoblasts into the general circulation, a response that, in turn, may also modulate glucose-insulin and weight homeostasis.
Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS), a form of diencephalic amnesia caused by thiamine deficiency, results in severe anterograde memory loss. Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), an animal model of WKS, produces cholinergic abnormalities including decreased functional hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release and poor spatial memory. Increasing hippocampal ACh levels has increased performance in PTD animals. Intraseptal bicuculline (GABA(A) antagonist) augments hippocampal ACh release in normal animals and we found it (0.50 microg/microl and 0.75 microg/microl) also increased in-vivo hippocampal ACh release in PTD animals. However, the 0.75 microg/microl dose produced a greater change in hippocampal ACh release in control animals. The 0.50 microg/microl dose of bicuculline was then selected to determine if it could enhance spontaneous alternation performance in PTD animals. This dose of bicuculline significantly increased hippocampal ACh levels above baseline in both PTD and control rats and resulted in complete behavioral recovery in PTD animals, without altering performance in control rats. This suggests that balancing ACh-GABA interactions in the septohippocampal circuit may be an effective therapeutic approach in certain amnestic syndromes.
During early ontogeny heterogeneous rats are sensitive to ethanol's stimulating effects. In adulthood locomotor activity in a novel environment is a valuable predictor of acute sensitivity to the activating effects of various drugs, including ethanol. Environmental novelty modulates response to ethanol and other drugs in adult rats. The present study analyzed the role of novelty in the acute locomotor response induced by ethanol earlier in development, during the preweanling period, a stage characterized by enhanced sensitivity to ethanol's reinforcing effects. In Experiment 1 we evaluated the predictive value of baseline locomotor activity upon ethanol-induced locomotor effects in 12-day-old rats. In Experiment 2 we tested whether repeated familiarization with the testing environment would reduce the stimulating effects induced by ethanol on postnatal day 12. Individual differences in response to an inescapable novel environment significantly predicted the locomotor activating effects of ethanol, but not other acute effects of the drug, such as hypothermia, motor impairment or sedation. Behavioral activation induced by ethanol during the preweanling period was attenuated after familiarization with the testing environment, suggesting that environmental novelty is critical for activating effects of ethanol.
Drug self-administration typically occurs in a regular temporal pattern, with a consistent pause following each injection. We have proposed that this patterning results from differential reinforcement of post-injection pausing. In this view, even when every response produces an injection, some injections are not reinforcing because they occur when the level of drug effect is already maximal; consequently, drug reinforcement occurs on an intermittent schedule, and the interoceptive drug effect functions as a cue, indicating when another injection will be reinforcing. Previously, we emulated this situation with rats by using food reinforcement; each response was recorded as delivering a &quot;virtual&quot; injection, and a visual cue tracked the virtual drug level to indicate availability of reinforcement. This emulation schedule produced response patterns strikingly similar to actual drug self-administration. In the present study, the emulation schedule was modified to determine whether reinforcement of pausing is sufficient to produce these patterns, or whether a cue is necessary. Without a cue, response patterns were irregular and virtual drug intake was escalated. These results suggest that a failure of interoceptive cues to control pausing might contribute to the dysregulated drug intake that is associated with addiction.
The elevated plus-maze (EPM) is vulnerable to variations in pretest circumstances when testing adult rodents. Because of an increasing interest in adolescence, the present experiments examined the impact of pretest manipulations on anxiety levels in the EPM among adolescent and adult Sprague-Dawley rats of both sexes. In Exp. 1, animals removed from their home cage and immediately placed on the EPM were compared to rats tested following 30 min of social isolation, or following 30-min exposure to a novel context. These pretest manipulations only modestly decreased anxiety levels at both ages. In Exp. 2, more varied pretest conditions were examined: testing directly from the home cage; testing following 30 min of social isolation in a novel environment; or a large saline injection and rehousing 18 h prior to a 30-min period of social isolation in a novelty situation before testing. In adults, anxiety levels decreased linearly as pretest perturbation increased, whereas adolescents showed comparable levels of anxiety with both the moderate and large perturbations. As a result, observed age differences in anxiety differed as a function of pretest circumstances. Therefore, caution is urged when using the EPM for across-age comparisons of anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of pharmacological or other manipulations.
Glutamatergic neurotransmission plays an important role in the behavioral and molecular plasticity observed in cocaine mediated locomotor sensitization. Recent studies show that glutamatergic signaling is regulated by receptor trafficking, synaptic localization, and association with scaffolding proteins. The trafficking of the glutamate receptors was investigated in the dorsal and ventral prefrontal cortex at 1 and 21 days after repeated cocaine administration which produced robust locomotor sensitization. A subcellular fractionation technique was used to isolate the cellular synaptosomal fraction containing the postsynaptic density. At early withdrawal, the prefrontal cortex displayed a reduction in the synaptosomal content of the AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits. In contrast, after extended withdrawal, there was a significant increase in the trafficking of the receptors into the synaptosomal compartment. These changes were accompanied by corresponding trafficking of the postsynaptic glutamatergic scaffolding proteins. Thus, enhanced trafficking of glutamate receptors from cytosolic to synaptosomal compartment is associated with prolonged withdrawal from repeated exposure to cocaine and may have functional consequences for the synaptic and behavioral plasticity.
Alcoholism is a chronic recurring brain disorder causing the afflicted a multitude of social and health problems and enormous costs to society. The psychosocial and pharmacological treatment options available have but small to moderate effect sizes, underlining the great need for new effective remedies. Alcohol like all other drugs of abuse acutely activates the mesolimbic dopamine system and, upon chronic administration, produces functional alterations of this important part of the brain reward system. Available data suggests that the mesolimbic dopamine system is involved both in the positive and negative reinforcing effects of ethanol. It hence becomes imperative to understand how ethanol interferes with this system. Increased knowledge about these mechanisms may open up for new targets for pharmacotherapies. We have investigated the tentative involvement of cys-loop ligand-gated ion-channels, which ethanol is known to interact with in relevant concentrations. Our data indicate that a neuronal circuitry involving glycine receptors in the nucleus accumbens, and, secondarily, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the ventral tegmental area is involved in the mesolimbic dopamine activating and reinforcing effects of ethanol. Manipulations of both these receptor populations have the potential to modulate ethanol consumption. The proposed neurocircuitry, has implications for understanding ethanol conditioned dopamine activation, chronic effects of ethanol on the mesolimbic dopamine system and the overall role/importance of dopamine and the nucleus accumbens for the reinforcing effects of ethanol. Computational neuroscience in conjunction with further emperical observations is likely to facilitate this process.
Drug addiction is characterized by persistent behavioral and cellular plasticity throughout the brain's reward regions. Among the many neuroadaptations that occur following repeated drug administration are alterations in cell morphology including changes in dendritic spines. While this phenomenon has been well documented, the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, within the context of drug abuse, we review and integrate several of the established pathways known to regulate synaptic remodeling, and discuss the contributions of neurotrophic and dopamine signaling in mediating this structural plasticity. Finally, we discuss how such upstream mechanisms could regulate actin dynamics, the common endpoint involved in structural remodeling in neurons.
The construct of &quot;addiction memory&quot; (AM) and its importance for relapse occurrence has been the subject of discussion for the past 30 years. Neurobiological findings from &quot;social neuroscience&quot; and biopsychological learning theory, in conjunction with construct-valid behavioral pharmacological animal models, can now also provide general confirmation of addiction memory as a pathomorphological correlate of addiction disorders. Under multifactorial influences, experience-driven neuronal learning and memory processes of emotional and cognitive processing patterns in the specific individual &quot;set&quot; and &quot;setting&quot; play an especially pivotal role in this connection. From a neuropsychological perspective, the episodic (biographical) memory, located at the highest hierarchical level, is of central importance for the formation of the AM in certain structural and functional areas of the brain and neuronal networks. Within this context, neuronal learning and conditioning processes take place more or less unconsciously and automatically in the preceding long-term-memory systems (in particular priming and perceptual memory). They then regulate the individually programmed addiction behavior implicitly and thus subsequently stand for facilitated recollection of corresponding, previously stored cues or context situations. This explains why it is so difficult to treat an addiction memory, which is embedded above all in the episodic memory, from the molecular carrier level via the neuronal pattern level through to the psychological meaning level, and has thus meanwhile become a component of personality.
Dopamine is intimately linked with the modes of action of drugs of addiction. However, although its role in the initiation of drug abuse seems relatively uncomplicated, its possible involvement in the development of compulsive drug taking, and indeed vulnerability and relapse, is less clear. We first describe a modern reinforcement learning view of affective control, focusing on the roles for dopamine. We then use this as a framework to sketch various notions of the neuromodulator's possible participation in initiation and compulsion. We end with some pointers towards future theoretical developments.
Molecular biology as a research approach in psychiatry has gathered a huge amount of data that can hardly be used for explanation of mental disorders by cellular dysfunctions. In a philosophical sense &quot;explanation&quot; means the application of general laws on specific cases. This is more than description. Most findings of molecular biology only help to describe these processes more in detail. On contrary, systems biology aims to create a computer-based model of the cell. For this project mathematics plays a crucial role. In that respect systems biology also provides tools for data analysis.
The onset of addiction is marked with drug induced positive experiences that keep being repeated. During that time, adaptation occurs and addiction is stabilized. Interruption of those processes induces polysymptomatic withdrawal syndromes. Abstinence is accompanied by risks of relapse. These features of addiction suggest adaptive brain dynamics with common pathways in complex neuronal networks. Addiction research has used animal models, where some of those phenomena could be reproduced, to find correlates of addictive behavior. The major thrust of those approaches has been on the involvement of genes and proteins. Recently, an enormous amount of data has been obtained by high throughput technologies in these fields. Therefore, (Computational) &quot;Systems Biology&quot; had to be implemented as a new approach in molecular biology and biochemistry. Conceptually, Systems Biology can be understood as a field of theoretical biology that tries to identify patterns in complex data sets and that reconstructs the cell and cellular networks as complex dynamic, self-organizing systems. This approach is embedded in systems science as an interdisciplinary effort to understand complex dynamical systems and belongs to the field of theoretical neuroscience (Computational Neuroscience). Systems biology, in a similar way as computational neuroscience is based on applied mathematics, computer-based computation and experimental simulation. In terms of addiction research, building up &quot;computational molecular systems biology of the (addicted) neuron&quot; could provide a better molecular biological understanding of addiction on the cellular and network level. Some key issues are addressed in this article.
The relationships between noise and complex dynamic behaviors of neuronal ensembles are key questions in computational neuroscience, particularly in understanding some basic signal transmission mechanisms of the brain. Here we systemically investigate both the stochastic resonance (SR) and coherence resonance (CR) in the triple-neuron feed-forward-loop (FFL) network motifs by computational modeling. We use the Izhikevich neuron model as well as the chemical coupling to build the FFL motifs, and consider all possible motif types. The simulation results demonstrate that these motifs can exploit noise to enrich its dynamic performance. With a proper choice of noise intensities, both the SR and CR can be exhibited in many types of the FFLs. On the other hand, our results also indicate that the coupling strength serves as a control parameter, which has great impacts on the stochastic dynamics of the FFL motifs. Additionally, biological implications of presented results in the field of neuroscience are outlined.
Tononi [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91, 5033 (1994)] proposed a measure of neural complexity based on mutual information between complementary subsystems of a given neural network, which has attracted much interest in the neuroscience community and beyond. We develop an approximation of the measure for a popular Gaussian model which, applied to a continuous-time process, elucidates the relationship between the complexity of a neural system and its structural connectivity. Moreover, the approximation is accurate for weakly coupled systems and computationally cheap, scaling polynomially with system size in contrast to the full complexity measure, which scales exponentially. We also discuss connectivity normalization and resolve some issues stemming from an ambiguity in the original Gaussian model.
Recently we have proposed the use of Tikhonov regularization with temporal smoothness constraints to estimate the BOLD fMRI hemodynamic response function (HRF). The temporal smoothness constraint was imposed on the estimates by using second derivative information while the regularization parameter was selected based on the generalized cross-validation function (GCV). Using one-dimensional simulations, we previously found this method to produce reliable estimates of the HRF time course, especially its time to peak (TTP), being at the same time fast and robust to over-sampling in the HRF estimation. Here, we extend the method to include simultaneous temporal and spatial smoothness constraints. This method does not need Gaussian smoothing as a pre-processing step as usually done in fMRI data analysis. We carried out two-dimensional simulations to compare the two methods: Tikhonov regularization with temporal (Tik-GCV-T) and spatio-temporal (Tik-GCV-ST) smoothness constraints on the estimated HRF. We focus our attention on quantifying the influence of the Gaussian data smoothing and the presence of edges on the performance of these techniques. Our results suggest that the spatial smoothing introduced by regularization is less severe than that produced by Gaussian smoothing. This allows more accurate estimates of the response amplitudes while producing similar estimates of the TTP. We illustrate these ideas using real data.
Stochastic resonance is said to be observed when increases in levels of unpredictable fluctuations--e.g., random noise--cause an increase in a metric of the quality of signal transmission or detection performance, rather than a decrease. This counterintuitive effect relies on system nonlinearities and on some parameter ranges being &quot;suboptimal&quot;. Stochastic resonance has been observed, quantified, and described in a plethora of physical and biological systems, including neurons. Being a topic of widespread multidisciplinary interest, the definition of stochastic resonance has evolved significantly over the last decade or so, leading to a number of debates, misunderstandings, and controversies. Perhaps the most important debate is whether the brain has evolved to utilize random noise in vivo, as part of the &quot;neural code&quot;. Surprisingly, this debate has been for the most part ignored by neuroscientists, despite much indirect evidence of a positive role for noise in the brain. We explore some of the reasons for this and argue why it would be more surprising if the brain did not exploit randomness provided by noise--via stochastic resonance or otherwise--than if it did. We also challenge neuroscientists and biologists, both computational and experimental, to embrace a very broad definition of stochastic resonance in terms of signal-processing &quot;noise benefits&quot;, and to devise experiments aimed at verifying that random variability can play a functional role in the brain, nervous system, or other areas of biology.
Biophysically detailed models of single cells are difficult to fit to real data. Recent advances in imaging techniques allow simultaneous access to various intracellular variables, and these data can be used to significantly facilitate the modelling task. These data, however, are noisy, and current approaches to building biophysically detailed models are not designed to deal with this. We extend previous techniques to take the noisy nature of the measurements into account. Sequential Monte Carlo (&quot;particle filtering&quot;) methods, in combination with a detailed biophysical description of a cell, are used for principled, model-based smoothing of noisy recording data. We also provide an alternative formulation of smoothing where the neural nonlinearities are estimated in a non-parametric manner. Biophysically important parameters of detailed models (such as channel densities, intercompartmental conductances, input resistances, and observation noise) are inferred automatically from noisy data via expectation-maximization. Overall, we find that model-based smoothing is a powerful, robust technique for smoothing of noisy biophysical data and for inference of biophysical parameters in the face of recording noise.
One of the most critical problems we face in the study of biological systems is building accurate statistical descriptions of them. This problem has been particularly challenging because biological systems typically contain large numbers of interacting elements, which precludes the use of standard brute force approaches. Recently, though, several groups have reported that there may be an alternate strategy. The reports show that reliable statistical models can be built without knowledge of all the interactions in a system; instead, pairwise interactions can suffice. These findings, however, are based on the analysis of small subsystems. Here, we ask whether the observations will generalize to systems of realistic size, that is, whether pairwise models will provide reliable descriptions of true biological systems. Our results show that, in most cases, they will not. The reason is that there is a crossover in the predictive power of pairwise models: If the size of the subsystem is below the crossover point, then the results have no predictive power for large systems. If the size is above the crossover point, then the results may have predictive power. This work thus provides a general framework for determining the extent to which pairwise models can be used to predict the behavior of large biological systems. Applied to neural data, the size of most systems studied so far is below the crossover point.
The mature human brain is organized into a collection of specialized functional networks that flexibly interact to support various cognitive functions. Studies of development often attempt to identify the organizing principles that guide the maturation of these functional networks. In this report, we combine resting state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI), graph analysis, community detection, and spring-embedding visualization techniques to analyze four separate networks defined in earlier studies. As we have previously reported, we find, across development, a trend toward 'segregation' (a general decrease in correlation strength) between regions close in anatomical space and 'integration' (an increased correlation strength) between selected regions distant in space. The generalization of these earlier trends across multiple networks suggests that this is a general developmental principle for changes in functional connectivity that would extend to large-scale graph theoretic analyses of large-scale brain networks. Communities in children are predominantly arranged by anatomical proximity, while communities in adults predominantly reflect functional relationships, as defined from adult fMRI studies. In sum, over development, the organization of multiple functional networks shifts from a local anatomical emphasis in children to a more &quot;distributed&quot; architecture in young adults. We argue that this &quot;local to distributed&quot; developmental characterization has important implications for understanding the development of neural systems underlying cognition. Further, graph metrics (e.g., clustering coefficients and average path lengths) are similar in child and adult graphs, with both showing &quot;small-world&quot;-like properties, while community detection by modularity optimization reveals stable communities within the graphs that are clearly different between young children and young adults. These observations suggest that early school age children and adults both have relatively efficient systems that may solve similar information processing problems in divergent ways.
Genome duplications increase genetic diversity and may facilitate the evolution of gene subfunctions. Little attention, however, has focused on the evolutionary impact of lineage-specific gene loss. Here, we show that identifying lineage-specific gene loss after genome duplication is important for understanding the evolution of gene subfunctions in surviving paralogs and for improving functional connectivity among human and model organism genomes. We examine the general principles of gene loss following duplication, coupled with expression analysis of the retinaldehyde dehydrogenase Aldh1a gene family during retinoic acid signaling in eye development as a case study. Humans have three ALDH1A genes, but teleosts have just one or two. We used comparative genomics and conserved syntenies to identify loss of ohnologs (paralogs derived from genome duplication) and to clarify uncertain phylogenies. Analysis showed that Aldh1a1 and Aldh1a2 form a clade that is sister to Aldh1a3-related genes. Genome comparisons showed secondarily loss of aldh1a1 in teleosts, revealing that Aldh1a1 is not a tetrapod innovation and that aldh1a3 was recently lost in medaka, making it the first known vertebrate with a single aldh1a gene. Interestingly, results revealed asymmetric distribution of surviving ohnologs between co-orthologous teleost chromosome segments, suggesting that local genome architecture can influence ohnolog survival. We propose a model that reconstructs the chromosomal history of the Aldh1a family in the ancestral vertebrate genome, coupled with the evolution of gene functions in surviving Aldh1a ohnologs after R1, R2, and R3 genome duplications. Results provide evidence for early subfunctionalization and late subfunction-partitioning and suggest a mechanistic model based on altered regulation leading to heterochronic gene expression to explain the acquisition or modification of subfunctions by surviving ohnologs that preserve unaltered ancestral developmental programs in the face of gene loss.
The relatively random spiking times of individual neurons are a source of noise in the brain. We show that in a finite-sized cortical attractor network, this can be an advantage, for it leads to probabilistic behavior that is advantageous in decision-making, by preventing deadlock, and is important in signal detectability. We show how computations can be performed through stochastic dynamical effects, including the role of noise in enabling probabilistic jumping across barriers in the energy landscape describing the flow of the dynamics in attractor networks. The results obtained in neurophysiological studies of decision-making and signal detectability are modelled by the stochastical neurodynamics of integrate-and-fire networks of neurons with probabilistic neuronal spiking. We describe how these stochastic neurodynamical effects can be analyzed, and their importance in many aspects of brain function, including decision-making, memory recall, short-term memory, and attention.
To evaluate the chaperone-like activity of alginate stabilization and refolding of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was investigated in the presence of alginate through two different approaches, the soluble form and microcapsule assisted methods. It was found that in the presence of microcapsules, ALP can be stabilized to a higher degree compared with the water-soluble form, whereas the denatured ALP is refolded with a higher yield through latter method. Lower refolding yields of alginate beads compared with its soluble form may be the result of lower refolding rate of ALP upon elution of the bound enzyme by dispersing the precipitate in NaCl which left the unfolded protein in an unsuitable environment, providing enough time for protein aggregation and leading finally to lower recovered activity compared with application of soluble form of alginate. In addition in the case of alginate capsules, the choice of suitable divalent ion is essential for stability and assistance in refolding.

When we perform a visual search we know what we are looking for and determine where it is. A representation of the object in our working memory, the 'search-template', is compared to the items in the scene until a match is found. So far it is unknown whether observers can search for multiple items at the same time. Here we compare the performance of subjects between a task in which they search for one of two target-items in a stream of visual objects and a task with only a single target. We find that search is effectively limited to one item at a time. This limitation occurs for simple and complex objects and even if the subjects have to look for two features from different domains. We conclude that matching has a fundamental capacity-limitation as the visual input can be matched to only one search-template at a time.
Inconsistent findings regarding the emotional Stroop effect in healthy subjects may be explained by confounding effects of stimulus valence and arousal, as well as individual differences in anxiety. We examined reaction time data in a healthy sample using the emotional Stroop task while carefully matching arousal level of positive and negative words. Independent of valence, emotional relative to neutral words elicited emotional interference, indicating that arousal determines emotional interference. Independent of valence, emotional words were better re-called and recognized than neutral words. Individual differences in state anxiety were associated with emotional interference, that is, emotional interference was enhanced in subjects with high state anxiety. There was no influence of trait anxiety. These findings indicate that word arousal produces emotional interference independent of valence. State anxiety exacerbates interference of emotional words by further biasing attention towards emotionally salient stimuli.
Growing evidence suggests that 'pro-inflammatory' cytokines such as TNF play a role in cognitive processes and in aging. To test the effects of TNF on cognitive function throughout aging, we used transgenic mice which were TNF deficient. We then tested these mice along with wild-type mice, at 3, 6 and 12 months of age, using the Barnes maze. Wild-type controls showed better memory than TNF knock-out mice at 3 months of age, but not at 6 and 12 months of age. Results of our experiment show that endogenous TNF plays an important role in cognitive processes throughout aging processes. The implications of these findings are far-reaching and include a possible role for cytokines in the molecular and cellular mechanisms subserving age-related changes in learning, memory and cognition.











We report a 67-year-old man who presented sudden loss of temperature sensation associated with hyperalgesia in the left trunk and extremities. No abnormal lesions were found on routine magnetic resonance image (MRI) in the brain and spinal cord. He did not show common manifestations of the lateral medullary syndrome including vertigo, nystagmus, ataxia, Horner's syndrome and ipsilateral facial sensory loss. We however suspected this syndrome, because he complained of characteristic, severe pain and electrical sensations in one side of his body. Reexamined, thinly sliced T2-weighted MRI showed a very small high intensity spot in the right medulla, corresponding to the location of lateral spinothalamic tract. Oral carbamazepine was partially effective to ameliorate the intractable central poststroke pain.
Modulation of mast-cell activation may provide novel ways to control allergic diseases. Here, we show that protein tyrosine phosphatase epsilon (PTPepsilon; Ptpre) plays key regulatory roles during mast-cell activation mediated by the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI). Bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMC) from Ptpre(-/-) mice exhibited enhanced FcepsilonRI-induced Ca(2+) mobilization and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (JNK and p38) activation, and showed corresponding enhancement of evoked degranulation and cytokine production, but not leukotriene production. Examination of proteins linking tyrosine kinase activation and Ca(2+) mobilization revealed that the absence of PTPepsilon leads to increased phosphorylation of the linker for activation of T cells and SH2 domain-containing leucocyte phosphoproteins of 76 kDa, but not Grb2-associated binder-2 (Gab2). Because Gab2 is considered to be situated downstream of Fyn kinase, we reasoned that Fyn may not be a target of PTPepsilon. In the event, Syk but not Lyn was hyperphosphorylated in PTPepsilon-deficient BMMC. Thus, PTPepsilon most likely exerts its effects at the level of Syk, inhibiting downstream events including phosphorylation of SLP-76 and linker of activated T cells and mobilization of Ca(2+). Consistent with the in vitro data, antigen- and IgE-mediated passive systemic anaphylactic reactions were augmented in Ptpre(-/-) mice. Given that the number of mast cells is unchanged in these mice, this observation most likely reflects alterations of mast cell-autonomous signalling events. These data suggest that PTPepsilon negatively regulates FcepsilonRI-mediated signalling pathways and thus constitutes a novel target for ameliorating allergic conditions.

Schizophrenia epidemiology can provide us with valuable information to guide research directions. However, while epidemiology is useful for generating candidate risk factors, it can not always deliver studies that prove causality. We argue that the field needs more translational research that links schizophrenia epidemiology with molecular, cellular, and behavioral neuroscience. Cross-disciplinary projects related to candidate genetic or nongenetic risk factors not only can address the biological plausibility of these factors, but they can serve as catalysts for discovery in neuroscience. This type of cross disciplinary research is likely to be more efficient compared to clinically dislocated basic neuroscience. Examples of this type of translational research are provided based on (a) the impact of prenatal nutrition and prenatal infection on brain development and (b) understanding the causes and consequences of agenesis of the corpus callosum. We need to build shared discovery platforms that encourage greater cross-fertilization between schizophrenia epidemiology and basic neuroscience research.
Regional variations are observed in outcome of schizophrenia, but reasons remain unclear. Outcome of schizophrenia is reported to be better in India. In this report based on census data, we highlight substantially greater mortality observed among the mentally ill than among the general population during famines in India in the 19th century. A possible selection against the most severe forms of schizophrenia could account for greater occurrence of better-outcome phenotypes. Population histories and environmental influences, including epigenetics, need to be considered to further investigate differences between schizophrenia phenotypes.
Two of the most frequently investigated regions in diffusion tensor imaging studies in chronic schizophrenia are the uncinate fasciculus (UF) and cingulum bundle (CB). The purpose of the present study was to determine whether UF and CB white matter integrity were altered at the early stage of illness and specific to schizophrenia. Fifteen schizophrenia subjects and 15 affective psychosis within 4 years of first hospitalization (12 patients with schizophrenia and 12 patients with affective psychosis during their first hospitalization), and 15 psychiatrically healthy controls underwent line-scan diffusion tensor imaging. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (D(m)) were used to quantify water diffusion, and cross-sectional area was defined with a directional threshold method. Bilaterally reduced FA, but not D(m), was present in the UF of schizophrenia compared with healthy controls. Affective psychosis was intermediate between schizophrenia subjects and healthy controls, but not significantly different from either. For CB, there was no significant group difference for FA or D(m). These findings suggest that UF, but not CB, white matter integrity is altered at the early stage of illness in schizophrenia although it may not be specific to schizophrenia. The CB abnormalities reported in chronic schizophrenia may develop during the later course of the disease.

An important issue in visual word comprehension literature is whether or not semantic access is mediated by phonological processing. In this paper, we present a Chinese individual, YGA, who provides converging evidence to directly address this issue. YGA has sustained damage to the left posterior superior and middle temporal lobe, and shows difficulty in orally name pictures and reading printed words aloud. He makes phonological errors on these tasks and also semantic errors on picture naming, indicating a deficit at accessing the phonological representations for output. However, he is intact at understanding the meaning of visually presented words. Such a profile challenges the hypothesis that semantic access in reading is phonologically mediated and provides further evidence for the universal principle of direct semantic access in reading.
Different global patterns of brain activity are associated with distinct arousal and behavioral states of an animal, but how the brain rapidly switches between different states remains unclear. We here report that repetitive high-frequency burst spiking of a single rat cortical neuron could trigger a switch between the cortical states resembling slow-wave and rapid-eye-movement sleep. This is reflected in the switching of the membrane potential of the stimulated neuron from slow UP/DOWN oscillations to a persistent-UP state or vice versa, with concurrent changes in the temporal pattern of cortical local field potential (LFP) recorded several millimeters away. These results point to the power of single cortical neurons in modulating the behavioral state of an animal.


The measurement of gastrointestinal functions by the use of scintigraphy is established in clinical practice and research. The most commonly used test is the gastric-emptying test, which is acknowledged as the gold standard to measure gastric motility and is conducted according to a consensus statement from the national nuclear medicine and motility societies. Other techniques are somewhat more esoteric (eg, measurement of gastric accommodation with single-photon emission computed tomography) or the scintigraphic approach is not the acknowledged gold standard (eg, colonic transit, rectoanal angle, and emptying, esophageal transit). The performance characteristics of many of the scintigraphic measurements have been published and the pros and cons established in the literature. Pharmacologic interventions may also be used during scintigraphy to aid in diagnosis and treatment. Gastrointestinal scintigraphy is an integral and important component of the assessment of gastrointestinal function.
The use of animal models to effectively replicate problems such as hormone deficiencies, neurologic diseases, and brain injury and stroke has certainly made a vast contribution to understanding the neuroprotective effects of estrogen in the brain. Studies using gonadectomy procedures followed by 17beta-estradiol replacement have effectively demonstrated the positive effects that estrogen provides in cognitive performance and memory performance tasks. A major problem with such studies is that local brain aromatase (the estrogen-synthesizing enzyme) may still convert locally produced androgens to estrogens. Hence, such &quot;estrogen-deficient&quot; models may not be completely void of estrogen. The generation of the aromatase knockout (ArKO) and estrogen receptor knockout (ERKO) mouse models has enabled researchers to characterize the effects of complete estrogen deficiency within the brain and hence behavior. This review aims to compare and contrast the results of these various mouse models.


We report a new, pathologically verified Italian case of fatal familial insomnia, whose clinical presentation was characterised by complex behavioural disturbances, suggesting wakefulness/NREM/REM combinations.


Wnt signaling regulates neural stem cell (NSC) function and development throughout an individual's lifetime. Intriguingly, adult hippocampal progenitors (AHPs) produce several Wnts, and the intracellular machinery necessary to respond to them, creating the potential for an active autocrine-signaling loop within this stem cell niche. However, the standard luciferase-based Wnt assay failed to detect this signaling loop. This assay is inherently less temporally sensitive to activity among a population of unsynchronized proliferating cells because it relies on the rapidly degrading reporter luciferase. We circumvented this limitation using a promoter assay that employs green fluorescent protein (GFP), as a relatively long-lived reporter of canonical Wnt activity. We found that at baseline, AHPs secreted functional Wnt that self-stimulates low-level canonical Wnt signaling. Elimination baseline Wnt activity, via application of an extracellular Wnt antagonist promoted neurogenesis, based on a combination of unbiased gene expression analysis and cell-fate analysis. A detailed clonal analysis of progenitors transduced with specific intracellular antagonists of canonical signaling, either Axin or truncated cadherin (beta-catenin sequestering), revealed that loss of baseline signaling depletes the population of multipotent precursors, thereby driving an increasing fraction to assume a committed cell fate (i.e., unipotent progenitors). Similarly, baseline Wnt signaling repressed differentiation of human NSCs. Although the specific Wnts produced by neural precursors vary with age and between species, their effects remain remarkably consistent. In sum, this study establishes that autonomous Wnt signaling is a conserved feature of the neurogenic niche that preserves the delicate balance between NSC maintenance and differentiation.
Human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) reside in the bone marrow and are known for their ability to differentiate along the mesenchymal lineage (fat, bone, and cartilage). Recent works have suggested the possibility that these cells are also capable of differentiating toward the neuroectodermal lineage. Using lentiviral gene delivery, we sought to reprogram the bone marrow-derived MSCs toward dopaminergic differentiation through delivery of LMX1a, which was reported to be a key player in dopaminergic differentiation in both developmental animal models and embryonic stem cells. Transduction of cells with fluorescent reporter genes confirmed efficiency of gene delivery. On incubation of the LMX1a transduced cells in differentiation medium, the LMX1a protein was concentrated in the cells' nuclei and specific dopaminergic developmental genes were upregulated. Moreover, the transduced cells expressed higher levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, and secreted significantly higher level of dopamine in comparison to nontransduced cells. We hereby present a novel strategy to facilitate the dopaminergic differentiation of bone marrow-derived MSCs as a possible cell source for autologous transplantation for Parkinsonian patients in the future.
The ability to study the characteristics of serotonin release from human serotonergic neurons is valuable both in terms of understanding disease pathology and in trying to understand how drugs that affect the serotonergic system alter neurotransmitter release. There is, however, no good in vitro system to model human serotonergic neurons. Although human embryonic stem (hES) cells offer an attractive model system, the derivation of serotonergic neurons from these cells has remained at a low efficiency. To address this problem, Nestin positive precursors from HUES7 hES cell line were first generated. These Nestin positive cells when terminally differentiated gave rise to 20% MAP-2 positive neurons. A high percentage (&gt;40%) of these neurons could be converted to serotonergic neurons. These serotonergic neurons expressed both serotonin and the neuron-specific tryptophan hydroxylase enzyme. In addition, they expressed several of the transcription factors that have been associated with serotonergic differentiation including Mash1 and Pet1. Finally, during the process of neuronal differentiation, the serotonin content, the localization of serotonin vesicles, and their ability to release serotonin following depolarization was characterized using a live cell serotonin imaging technique based on three-photon microscopy. Thus, for the first time, we demonstrate the feasibility of characterizing the development and function of human serotonergic neurons in vitro.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a potent neuromodulator of stress-related behaviour but the neural mechanisms underlying these effects are not clear. Studies were designed to test the hypothesis that CRF-induced behavioural arousal involves interactions with brainstem serotonergic systems. To examine interactions between CRF and serotonergic systems in the regulation of behaviour, CRF (1 microg, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)) or vehicle was infused in the presence or absence of the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor fluoxetine (0, 0.1, 1 or 10 mg/kg, intravenous (i.v.)). Fluoxetine was used at these doses because it is known to decrease serotonin cell firing rates while increasing extracellular serotonin concentrations in select forebrain regions. We then measured behavioural, neurochemical and endocrine responses. CRF increased locomotion and spontaneous non-ambulatory motor activity (SNAMA) in the home cages. Fluoxetine decreased tissue 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations, a measure of serotonin metabolism, in specific limbic brain regions of CRF-treated rats (nucleus accumbens shell region, entorhinal cortex, central nucleus of the amygdala). Furthermore, fluoxetine inhibited CRF-induced SNAMA. CRF and fluoxetine independently increased plasma corticosterone concentrations, but the responses had distinct temporal profiles. Overall, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that CRF-induced facilitation of behavioural activity is dependent on brainstem serotonergic systems. Therefore, fluoxetine may attenuate or alleviate some behavioural responses to stress by interfering with CRF-induced responses.
Exposure to prenatal stress (PNS) has been shown to induce a set of psychological and behavioral changes in developing offspring. We used the rodent model to investigate whether PNS produces changes in the ability of the pup to express social motivation. We used a set of behavioral tasks including monitoring ultrasonic vocalizations after isolation, a conditioned place preference, and a novel and familiar odor approach test. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were exposed to an unpredictable, variable stressor twice daily during the third week of gestation. Isolation vocalizations were assessed on postnatal day (PND) 10. Pup affinity for the dam was evaluated on PND 15. Typically, pups display a selective preference for an odor-paired environment only after the odor has been associated with the dam. This previous association produces a positive conditioned stimulus (CS). Normally, pups exposed to a neutral CS (odor paired with cotton balls) do not form this place preference. Results indicate that PNS exposed pups had significantly increased distress vocalizations and an equal preference for the positive and neutral conditioned stimuli. This type of alteration in forming early preferences could be detrimental because of decreases in the specificity of social learning and an impaired responsiveness in social relationships.





The medical-legal problem of occult traumatic optic neuropathy diagnosed in patients who actually have feigned visual loss (malingering) is reviewed along with guidelines for suspecting and differentiating feigned visual loss from true traumatic optic neuropathy. We explain why we feel the term occult optic neuropathy is inappropriate and misleading, and the medical-legal consequences of this misdiagnosis are discussed.
Binding studies in vitro have demonstrated that the dopamine D2 receptor may exist in two affinity states for agonists. The high affinity state is thought to represent the functional state of the receptor and proportions might alter during disease. In vitro studies further indicate that agonists induce measurable D(2) receptor occupancy at clinically relevant concentrations but only when measured at the high affinity state. Recently developed PET-radioligands, such as [11C]MNPA, have now made it possible to directly study agonist binding in vivo. The aim of this study was to compare the inhibition by apomorphine of agonist and antagonist radioligand binding to D(2/3) receptors in vivo. A total of 36 PET measurements were performed with the D(2/3) antagonist [11C]raclopride or the D(2/3) agonist [11C]MNPA in two cynomolgus monkeys. On each study day, a baseline measurement was followed by two consecutive pretreatment studies with rising doses of apomorphine (0.01, 0.05, 0.15, 0.5, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg). Binding potential (BP(ND)) values were calculated for the striatum with cerebellum as reference region. Apomorphine inhibited [11C]raclopride and [11C]MNPA binding in a dose-dependent manner and to a similar extent. ID(50) and K(i) values were 0.26 mg/kg and 29 ng/ml for [11C]raclopride and 0.50 mg/kg and 31 ng/ml for [11C]MNPA. The present observations do not support the existence of two affinity states in vivo. It might thus be speculated that all D(2/3) receptors are in the high affinity state at in vivo conditions.
Glycogen storage disease type II (GSDII) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase (GAA). The disease can be clinically classified into three types: a severe infantile form, a juvenile and an adultonset form. Cases with juvenile or adult onset GSDII mimic limb-girdle muscular dystrophy or polymyositis and are often characterized by respiratory involvement. GSDII patients are diagnosed by biochemical assay and by molecular characterization of the GAA gene. Ascertaining a natural history of patients with heterogeneous late-onset GSDII is useful for evaluating their progressive functional disability. A significant decline is observed over the years in skeletal and respiratory muscle function. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has provided encouraging results in the infantile form. It is not yet known if ERT is effective in late-onset GSDII. We examined a series of 11 patients before and after ERT evaluating muscle strength by MRC, timed and graded functional tests, 6-minute walk test (6MWT), respiratory function by spirometric parameters and quality of life. We observed a partial improvement during a prolonged follow-up from 3 to 18 months. The use of different clinical parameters in the proposed protocol seems crucial to determine the efficacy of ERT, since not all late-onset patients respond similarly to ERT.
Despite many years of research on the neural correlates of consciousness (NCCs), it is still unclear how the detailed contents of consciousness are represented in the human brain. It is often assumed that specific contents of consciousness are encoded in dedicated core NCCs - one for each different aspect of conscious experience. Now, the approach of multivariate decoding provides a novel framework for studying the relationship between consciousness and content-selective processing in more detail. This approach makes it possible to assess how conscious experience is encoded in the brain and how the encoding of sensory information is affected when it enters awareness.
Olfaction and gustation are important sensory modalities for locating food and for determining which foodstuffs to ingest. It is becoming apparent that there is a strong link between olfaction, gustation and metabolic control. Because endocrine signaling in the naso-oropharynx is likely to influence food intake, satiety and general metabolic control, it is important to examine some of the major hormones that play an integral part in energy homeostasis. Here, we provide an overview of the main endocrine factors known to be present in the naso-oropharynx and discuss their functional roles in maintaining metabolic function. Gaining a greater appreciation of how flavor perception is linked to peripheral metabolism could lead to novel therapeutic strategies for obesity and lifestyle-related diseases.
In the past three decades, mounting evidence has revealed that specification of the basic cortical neuronal classes starts at the time of their final mitotic divisions in the embryonic proliferative zones. This early cell determination continues during the migration of the newborn neurons across the widening cerebral wall, and it is in the cortical plate that they attain their final positions and establish species-specific cytoarchitectonic areas. Here, the development and evolutionary expansion of the neocortex is viewed in the context of the radial unit and protomap hypotheses. A broad spectrum of findings gave insight into the pathogenesis of cortical malformations and the biological bases for the evolution of the modern human neocortex. We examine the history and evidence behind the concept of early specification of neurons and provide the latest compendium of genes and signaling molecules involved in neuronal fate determination and specification.
Intercellular purinergic signalling, which utilizes ATP as a transmitter, is fundamental for the operation of the autonomic nervous system. ATP is released together with 'classical' transmitters from sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves supplying various peripheral targets, modulates neurotransmission in autonomic ganglia, has an important role in local enteric neural control and coordination of intestinal secretion and motility, and acts as a common mediator for several distinct sensory modalities. Recently, the role of ATP-mediated signalling in the central nervous control of autonomic function has been addressed. Emerging data demonstrate that in the brain ATP is involved in the operation of several key cardiorespiratory reflexes, contributes to central processing of viscerosensory information, mediates central CO(2) chemosensory transduction and triggers adaptive changes in breathing, and modulates the activities of the brainstem vagal preganglionic, presympathetic and respiratory neural networks.
Evidence is accumulating that exercise has profound benefits for brain function. Physical activity improves learning and memory in humans and animals. Moreover, an active lifestyle might prevent or delay loss of cognitive function with aging or neurodegenerative disease. Recent research indicates that the effects of exercise on the brain can be enhanced by concurrent consumption of natural products such as omega fatty acids or plant polyphenols. The potential synergy between diet and exercise could involve common cellular pathways important for neurogenesis, cell survival, synaptic plasticity and vascular function. Optimal maintenance of brain health might depend on exercise and intake of natural products.
Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (ME-MRI), blood oxygen-level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) can now be applied to animal species as small as mice or songbirds. These techniques confirmed previous findings but are also beginning to reveal new phenomena that were difficult or impossible to study previously. These imaging techniques will lead to major technical and conceptual advances in systems neurosciences. We illustrate these new developments with studies of the song control and auditory systems in songbirds, a spatially organized neuronal circuitry that mediates the acquisition, production and perception of complex learned vocalizations. This neural system is an outstanding model for studying vocal learning, brain steroid hormone action, brain plasticity and lateralization of brain function.
The past couple of years have seen several novel X-ray structures of 7 transmembrane (7TM) receptors in complex with antagonists and even with a peptide fragment of a G protein. These structures demonstrate that the main ligand-binding pocket in 7TM receptors is like a funnel with a partial 'lid' in which extracellular loop 2b, in particular, functions as a gating element. Small-molecule antagonists and inverse agonists bind in very different modes: some very deeply and others more superficially, even reaching out above the transmembranes. Several highly conserved residues seem to function as micro-switches of which ArgIII:26 (Arg3.50) in its active conformation interacts directly with the G protein. These micro-switches together with a hydrogen-bond network between conserved polar residues and structural water molecules are proposed to constitute an extended allosteric interface between the domains (i.e. especially TM-VI), which performs the large, global toggle switch movements connecting ligand binding with intracellular signaling.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the main pathology is a loss of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. Clinical trials with intrastriatal transplantation of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue have shown that grafted DA neurons reinnervate the striatum, restore striatal DA release and, in some patients, induce major clinical benefit. Stem cells could provide an unlimited source of DA neurons for transplantation. Recent studies demonstrate that cells with properties of mesencephalic DA neurons can be produced from stem cells of different sources including reprogrammed somatic cells. However, as we discuss here, it remains to be shown that these cells can provide efficient functional reinnervation and behavioral recovery in animal PD models. Moreover, a clinically competitive cell therapy for PD will require better criteria for patient selection, improved functional efficacy of grafts by a tailor-made transplantation procedure providing optimum repair of the patient's DA system and strategies to prevent dyskinesias and tumor formation.
The pond turtle (Trachemys scripta elegans) exhibits a notably sluggish pupillary light reflex (PLR), with pupil constriction developing over several minutes following light onset. In the present study, we examined the dynamics of the efferent branch of the reflex in vitro using preparations consisting of either the isolated head or the enucleated eye. Stimulation of the oculomotor nerve (nIII) using 100-Hz current trains resulted in a maximal pupil constriction of 17.4% compared to 27.1% observed in the intact animal in response to light. When current amplitude was systematically increased from 1 to 400 microA, mean response latency decreased from 64 to 45 ms, but this change was not statistically significant. Hill equations fitted to these responses indicated a current threshold of 3.8 microA. Stimulation using single pulses evoked a smaller constriction (3.8%) with response latencies and threshold similar to that obtained using train stimulation. The response evoked by postganglionic stimulation of the ciliary nerve using 100-Hz trains was largely indistinguishable from that of train stimulation of nIII. However, application of single-pulse stimulation postganglionically resulted in smaller pupil constriction at all current levels relative to that of nIII stimulation, suggesting that there is amplification of efferent drive at the ganglion. Time constants for constrictions ranged from 88 to 154 ms with relaxations occurring more slowly at 174-361 ms. These values for timing from in vitro are much faster than the time constant 1.66 min obtained for the light response in the intact animal. The rapid dynamics of pupil constriction observed here suggest that the slow PLR of the turtle observed in vivo is not due to limitations of the efferent pathway. Rather, the sluggish response probably results from photoreceptive mechanisms or central processing.
Monocular deprivation early in development produces considerable change in the organization of connections within the central mammalian visual system. In the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, the soma, dendrites, and axon terminal fields of deprived cells become considerably smaller than nondeprived counterparts. We have examined the possibility that subcellular events enabling structural modification of deprived neurons include modification of proteins comprising the cytoskeleton. We examined the integrity of the cytoskeleton by measuring the response of a subset of its proteins to varying durations of monocular deprivation. Loss of all three neurofilament subunits (light, medium, and heavy) within deprived layers was observed to parallel changes in neuron gross structure. Monocular deprivation initiated beyond early life produced neither a change in structure nor a loss of neurofilament labeling.
In the avian brain, the optokinetic response is controlled by two retinal-recipient nuclei: the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) of the accessory optic system and the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM). Although considered sister nuclei because of their similar response properties and function, there are both similarities and differences with respect to efferent projections and neurochemistry. Both nBOR and LM project to the cerebellum (Cb) directly as mossy fibers but also indirectly via the inferior olive (IO). In a previous report, we showed that the cerebellar- and inferior olivary-projecting neurons in nBOR of pigeons differentially express the calcium-binding proteins calretinin (CR) and parvalbumin (PV). Both CR and PV are expressed in the somata of LM neurons, although the latter is not as prevalent, and whether expression of CR and PV reflects cerebellar and IO projections is not known. In this report, by combining retrograde neuronal tracing from the Cb and IO with fluorescent immunohistochemistry, we examined the expression of these calcium-binding proteins in the pigeon LM. Half (52%) of the cerebellar-projecting neurons were CR+ve, but only 15% were PV+ve. Almost all (&gt;95%) these PV+ve cells also expressed CR. In contrast, few of the IO-projecting neurons expressed CR or PV (&lt;or=5%). This is strikingly similar to what we observed in nBOR and reveals that calcium-binding protein expression is concordant with projection patterns in two nuclei that share similar functions.
Are locations or colors more effective cues in biasing attention? We addressed this question with a visual search task that featured an associative priming manipulation. The observers indicated which target appeared in a search array. Unknown to them, one target appeared at the same location more often and a second target appeared in the same color more often. Both location and color biases facilitated performance, but location biases benefited the selection of all targets, whereas color biases only benefited the associated target letter. The generalized benefit of location biases suggests that locations are more effective cues to attention.
When a colour/orientation conjunction search display is immediately preceded by a display that shows either the colour or the orientation of each upcoming search item, search is faster after colour-preview than after orientation-preview. One explanation for this feature asymmetry is that colour has priority access to attentional selection relative to features such as orientation and size. In support of this hypothesis, we show that this asymmetry persists even after colour and orientation feature search performance is equated. However, this notion was ruled out by our subsequent experiments in which the target was defined by conjunction of colour and size; colour-preview was less helpful than size-preview (even though colour-feature search was faster than size-feature search, for these feature values). A final set of experiments tested size-preview vs. orientation-preview for size/orientation conjunction search, using stimuli for which orientation-feature search was easier than size-feature search. Size-preview produced much faster search than orientation-preview, demonstrating again that ease of feature search does not predict effects of a feature-preview. Overall, size produced the most facilitation when presented as a feature-preview (for both colour/size and size/orientation conjunctions), followed by colour (for colour/orientation conjunction but not for colour/size conjunction) and then orientation (which never facilitated search). Whilst each feature-preview may potentially facilitate search, the transition from feature-preview display to search display could disrupt search processes, because of luminance and/or colour changes. We see evidence for some sort of disruption when the feature-preview slows search. An explanation of this set of results must focus on both facilitation and disruption: these effects are not mutually exclusive, and neither suffices alone, since performance after feature-preview can be significantly better or significantly worse than conjunction baseline.
The general organization of the vertebrate retina is highly conserved, in spite of structural variations that occur in different animal classes. The retinas of cyprinid fish, for example, differ in many aspects from those of primates. However, these differences are in the same order of magnitude as those found among mammalian species. Therefore, it is important to consider whether these changes are minor variations on the same theme or whether they lead to fundamentally different functions. In this light, we compare the retinal organization of teleost fish and mammals as regards parallel processing and discuss their many similarities.
We extend Spekreijse's strategy for analyzing lateral interactions in visual evoked potentials (VEPs) to clinical neurophysiologic testing of patients with epilepsy. Stimuli consisted of the radial windmill/dartboard pattern [Ratliff, F., &amp; Zemon, V. (1982). Some new methods for the analysis of lateral interactions that influence the visual evoked potential. In: Bodis-Wollner (Ed.), Evoked potentials, Vol. 388. (pp. 113-124). New York: Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences.] and conventional checkerboards. The fundamental and 2nd-harmonic components of the steady-state responses were used to calculate indices reflecting facilitatory (FI) and suppressive (SI) cortical interactions. We carried out two studies. In the first, VEPs in 38 patients receiving antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy were compared to those of age-matched controls. For three AEDs (tiagabine, topiramate, and felbamate), addition of the drug did not change the FI and SI compared to baseline values or those of normal controls. However, the addition of gabapentin was associated with an increase of the FI, and this change was reversed when the medication was withdrawn. This suggested a medication-specific change in cortical lateral interactions. The second study focused on the effects of neurostimulation therapy. Eleven epilepsy patients receiving chronic vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) treatment were tested. By comparing VEPs recorded with the stimulator on (Stim-ON) and turned off (Stim-OFF) in the same session, we determined that VNS did not have a short-acting effect on lateral interactions. However, when compared with normal controls, the VNS patients had a significantly smaller SI (p&lt;.05), but no difference in the FI, demonstrating the presence of a chronic effect. We conclude that with the appropriate stimuli, VEPs can be used as a measure of cortical lateral interactions in normals and epileptic patients, and demonstrate specific changes in these interactions associated with certain treatment modalities.
Enhanced detail processing is a characteristic of ASD. However, previous studies could not yet provide a neural explanation of this trait. Since the balance between visual feedforward and feedback processing is probably essential for the character of visual perception, we conjectured that this balance is disturbed in ASD. Using a new texture discrimination task, where surface segregation was varied independently from orientation boundaries, we showed that subjects with ASD scored lower than controls, probably caused by enhanced feedback. Interestingly, performance improved in the ASD group when repeating the task two additional times, indicating a compensation for the imbalance between feedforward and feedback processing.
Corneal reepithelialization is a key process in preventing abnormal cornea healing and impaired vision. To gain insight into the mechanisms of cigarette smoke-induced corneal epithelial damage, we injured the cornea of mice and exposed the wounds during the healing process to cigarette smoke in a system that mimics second-hand cigarette smoking by humans. Immunolabeling studies showed that in the mice exposed to smoke, fibronectin, an extracellular matrix molecule critical for epithelial cell migration, is not present in the wounded area and that there is an accumulation of neutrophils in the stroma beneath the wound. Furthermore, inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1alpha, increase after injury in the second-hand-smoke-exposed mice. Localized treatment of the wounds with dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory agent, resulted in improved healing and infiltration of fewer neutrophils into the wounded area. Depletion of neutrophils with nitrogen mustard or treatment of the wounds with proteinase inhibitors have similar effects to those of dexamethasone. In conclusion, the work presented here shows that second-hand cigarette smoke delays corneal reepithelialization and healing by stimulating both neutrophil attraction to the wound site and degradation of extracellular matrix and adhesion molecules that are important for corneal epithelial cell adhesion and migration.

CD4 is a molecule commonly expressed on the surface of T-helper lymphocytes with a recognized critical role in the antigen presentation process that has also been reported in monocytes and macrophages, although its role in these cells remains unknown. The objective of the present study was to analyze whether experimental conditions involving a potent acquired immune component, as occurs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), are able to induce CD4 expression in the population of microglia/macrophages. Myelin Basic Protein (MBP) immunized female Lewis rats, were examined at different phases during the course of EAE according to their clinical score. Spinal cords were analyzed by flow cytometry for CD11b, CD4 and CD45, by histochemistry for NDPase and by immunohistochemistry for ED2, Iba1, CD45 and CD4. Flow cytometry analysis showed that EAE induced CD4 expression in macrophages (CD11b+/CD45(high)) and microglia (in both CD11b+/CD45(intermediate) and CD11b+/CD45(low) phenotypes). Noticeably, microglial CD4 expression was found during the recovery phase and was maintained until 40 days post-induction. In agreement, immunolabelled sections revealed CD4 expression in microglial cells with ramified morphology during the recovery and post-recovery phases. In conclusion, our results indicate that, in this EAE model, perivascular cells, microglia and macrophages showed different dynamics during the course of the disease in close relation with symptomatology and that microglial cells expressed CD4 interestingly during the recovery phase, suggesting a role of microglial CD4 expression in the resolution of the immune response.
In the present study, we investigated the effect of ginseng extract (KRG) and total saponins (GTS) on microglial activation. KRG and GTS inhibited LPS-induced expression of iNOS, MMP-9 and proinflammatory cytokines in microglial cells. Suppression of microglial activation by ginseng was also observed in the mouse brain inflamed by LPS. Furthermore, KRG and GTS significantly suppressed NF-kappaB and MAP kinase activities, which are upstream signaling molecules in inflammation. Among the individual ginsenosides tested, Rh2, Rh3 and compound K significantly inhibited LPS-induced iNOS and cytokine expressions. Therefore, the inhibition of microglial activation by ginseng saponins may a good potential therapeutic modality for neurodegenerative diseases.
Research on brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) is gaining strong interest. This is motivated by BCIs being applicable for helping disabled, for gaming, and as a tool in cognitive neuroscience. Often, motor imagery is used to produce (binary) control signals. However, finding other types of control signals that allow the discrimination of multiple classes would help to increase the applicability of BCIs. We have investigated if modulation of posterior alpha activity by means of covert spatial attention in two dimensions can be reliably classified in single trials. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) data were collected for 15 subjects who were engaged in a task where they covertly had to visually attend left, right, up or down during a period of 2500 ms. We then classified the trials using support vector machines. The four orientations of covert attention could be reliably classified up to a maximum of 69% correctly classified trials (25% chance level) without the need for lengthy and burdensome subject training. Low classification performance in some subjects was explained by a low alpha signal. These findings support the case that modulation of alpha activity by means of covert spatial attention is promising as a control signal for a two-dimensional BCI.
A key issue in systems neuroscience is the contribution of precise temporal inter-neuronal interactions to information processing in the brain, and the main analytical tool used for studying pair-wise interactions is the cross-correlation histogram (CCH). Although simple to generate, a CCH is influenced by multiple factors in addition to precise temporal correlations between two spike trains, thus complicating its interpretation. A Monte-Carlo-based technique, the jittering method, has been suggested to isolate the contribution of precise temporal interactions to neural information processing. Here, we show that jittering spike trains is equivalent to convolving the CCH derived from the original trains with a finite window and using a Poisson distribution to estimate probabilities. Both procedures over-fit the original spike trains and therefore the resulting statistical tests are biased and have low power. We devise an alternative method, based on convolving the CCH with a partially hollowed window, and illustrate its utility using artificial and real spike trains. The modified convolution method is unbiased, has high power, and is computationally fast. We recommend caution in the use of the jittering method and in the interpretation of results based on it, and suggest using the modified convolution method for detecting precise temporal correlations between spike trains.
Considerable debate exists in the literature on how best to measure infarct damage and at what point after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) infarct is histologically complete. As many researchers are focusing on more chronic endpoints in neuroprotection studies it is important to evaluate histological damage at later time points to ensure that standard methods of tissue injury measurement are accurate. To compare tissue viability at both acute and sub-acute time points, we used 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), Fluoro-Jade B, and NeuN staining to examine the evolving phases of infarction induced by a 90-min MCAO in mice. Stroke outcomes were examined at 1.5h, 6h, 12h, 24h, 3d, and 7d after MCAO. There was a time-dependent increase in infarct volume from 1.5h to 24h in the cortex, followed by a plateau from 24h to 7d after stroke. Striatal infarcts were complete by 12h. Fluoro-Jade B staining peaked at 24h and was minimal by 7d. Our results indicated that histological damage as measured by TTC and Fluoro-Jade B reaches its peak by 24h after stroke in a reperfusion model of MCAO in mice. TTC staining can be accurately performed as late as 7d after stroke. Neurological deficits do not correlate with the structural lesion but rather transient impairment of function. As the infarct is complete by 24h and even earlier in the striatum, even the most efficacious neuroprotective therapies are unlikely to show any efficacy if given after this point.
Hyperglycemic choreoathetosis (HC) is an uncommon syndrome often associated with hyperintensity of the basal ganglia on MRI. We performed a retrospective review of cases with HC to characterize the clinical, biochemical, and neuroimaging (CT, MRI, and MR spectroscopy) findings and to propose a mechanism for this syndrome. Seven HC patients with a mean age of 75.1 years, mean blood glucose of 27.4 mmol/L, and mean plasma osmolarity of 313.4 mmol/L were studied. All had MR-T1 hyperintensity of the putamen on the side contralateral to the choreoathetosis. Two patients had additional hyperintensity of the globus pallidus while one also had involvement of the caudate. On MR-T2, 2 patients showed hyperintensity, 2 isointensity, and 3 hypointensity in the putamen. MR spectroscopy showed elevated choline and reduced N-acetylaspartate; two patients also had elevated myoinositol levels. Our findings suggest that the putamen has a central role in HC, and MR spectroscopy supports neuronal dysfunction in the putamen. Biochemical and neuroimaging findings support hyperviscosity as the most plausible mechanism.
In the search of new strategies to improve the quality of life of Parkinson's disease patients, recent work has reported an amelioration of Parkinsonian symptoms using Whole Body Vibration (WBV). A double-blinded, placebo controlled design was used to evaluate the effect of a 12 WBV sessions-programme on a number of motor and clinical tests in 23 Parkinson's disease patients. Patients were assigned to one of two groups, one receiving WBV and the other a placebo group. At the end of the programme as well as during intra-session evaluation, there was no difference between the experimental (vibration) and placebo groups in any outcomes. These results suggest that reported benefits of vibration are due to a placebo response.
The objective of the study is to examine the comparative responsiveness of outcome measures to assess progression over time in Parkinson's disease (PD). One hundred twenty-eight patients participating in a clinic-based naturalistic study of PD were assessed with the Hoehn and Yahr, UPDRS, MMSE, PDQ-39, PDQL, EQ-5D, and BDI scales at baseline and at 1 year. In addition, 82 patients in a community-based study of patients with PD who had completed self-rated Schwab and England, PDQ-39, EQ-5D, and BDI scales at baseline, were sent the same questionnaires at 1 and 4 years. Responsiveness was assessed using t-tests, standardised effect size, and standardised response mean. In both samples, the Hr-QoL measures were less responsive to change over time than the impairment and disability scales (Hoehn and Yahr, UPDRS, Schwab and England scales). In addition, in the clinic-based sample, Hoehn and Yahr and UPDRS ADL scale (&quot;on&quot;) were more responsive to progression over time than UPDRS motor part and ADL part (&quot;off&quot;). Hr-QoL measures are less responsive to change over time than measures of impairment and disability. Although this suggests that these measures are less accurate in detecting subtle changes, it may also indicate that the multifactorial subjective assessment of Hr-QoL adapts to changes over time. Global assessment of overall impairment and disability (which incorporates motor and nonmotor features of PD), however, appeared relatively responsive to change over time in patients in a naturalistic setting.

Electrical brain stimulation is a promising tool for both experimental and clinical applications. However, the effects of stimulation on neuronal activity are highly variable and poorly understood. To investigate the basis of this variability, we performed extracellular recordings in the visual cortex following application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Our measurements of spiking and local field potential activity exhibit two types of response patterns which are characterized by the presence or absence of spontaneous discharge following stimulation. This variability can be partially explained by state-dependent effects, in which higher pre-TMS activity predicts larger post-TMS responses. These results reveal the possibility that variability in the neural response to TMS can be exploited to optimize the effects of stimulation. It is conceivable that this feature could be utilized in real time during the treatment of clinical disorders.
The difficulty of visual recognition stems from the need to achieve high selectivity while maintaining robustness to object transformations within hundreds of milliseconds. Theories of visual recognition differ in whether the neuronal circuits invoke recurrent feedback connections or not. The timing of neurophysiological responses in visual cortex plays a key role in distinguishing between bottom-up and top-down theories. Here, we quantified at millisecond resolution the amount of visual information conveyed by intracranial field potentials from 912 electrodes in 11 human subjects. We could decode object category information from human visual cortex in single trials as early as 100 ms poststimulus. Decoding performance was robust to depth rotation and scale changes. The results suggest that physiological activity in the temporal lobe can account for key properties of visual recognition. The fast decoding in single trials is compatible with feedforward theories and provides strong constraints for computational models of human vision.
Key aspects of the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) remain unresolved despite decades of investigation. Alterations in postsynaptic glutamate receptors are believed to contribute to the expression of various forms of LTP and LTD, but the relative importance of presynaptic mechanisms is controversial. In addition, while aggregate synaptic input to a cell can undergo sequential and graded (incremental) LTP and LTD, it has been suggested that individual synapses may only support binary changes between initial and modified levels of strength. We have addressed these issues by combining electrophysiological methods with two-photon optical quantal analysis of plasticity at individual active (non-silent) Schaffer collateral synapses on CA1 pyramidal neurons in acute slices of hippocampus from adolescent rats. We find that these synapses sustain graded, bidirectional long-term plasticity. Remarkably, changes in potency are small and insignificant; long-term plasticity at these synapses is expressed overwhelmingly via presynaptic changes in reliability of transmitter release.
In the few days prior to eye-opening in mice, the excitatory drive underlying waves switches from cholinergic to glutamatergic. Here, we describe the unique synaptic and spatiotemporal properties of waves generated by the retina's glutamatergic circuits. First, knockout mice lacking vesicular glutamate transporter type 1 do not have glutamatergic waves, but continue to exhibit cholinergic waves, demonstrating that the two wave-generating circuits are linked. Second, simultaneous outside-out patch and whole-cell recordings reveal that retinal waves are accompanied by transient increases in extrasynaptic glutamate, directly demonstrating the existence of glutamate spillover during waves. Third, the initiation rate and propagation speed of retinal waves, as assayed by calcium imaging, are sensitive to pharmacological manipulations of spillover and inhibition, demonstrating a role for both signaling pathways in shaping the spatiotemporal properties of glutamatergic retinal waves.
Theories of reading have posited the existence of a neural representation coding for whole real words (i.e., an orthographic lexicon), but experimental support for such a representation has proved elusive. Using fMRI rapid adaptation techniques, we provide evidence that the human left ventral occipitotemporal cortex (specifically the &quot;visual word form area,&quot; VWFA) contains a representation based on neurons highly selective for individual real words, in contrast to current theories that posit a sublexical representation in the VWFA.
The highly interconnected local and large-scale networks of the neocortical sheet rapidly and dynamically modulate their functional connectivity according to behavioral demands. This basic operating principle of the neocortex is mediated by the continuously changing flow of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic barrages that not only control participation of neurons in networks but also define the networks themselves. The rapid control of neuronal responsiveness via synaptic bombardment is a fundamental property of cortical dynamics that may provide the basis of diverse behaviors, including sensory perception, motor integration, working memory, and attention.
In this issue of Neuron, Glezer et al. find higher sensitivity to changes in real words than pseudowords in the left visual word form area (VWFA). Here we discuss the implications of their findings and the constraints they impose on neural coding in the lVWFA.
An increasing number of investigations suggest volumetric changes and glial pathology in several brain regions of patients with bipolar disorder. Lithium, used in the treatment of this disorder, has been reported to be neuroprotective and increase brain volume. Here we investigate the effect of lithium on the proliferation and survival of glial cells positive for the chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan NG2 (NG2 cells); a continuously dividing cell type implicated in remyelination and suggested to be involved in regulation of neuronal signaling and axonal outgrowth. Adult male rats were treated with lithium for four weeks and injected with the proliferation marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) before or at the end of the treatment period. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain sections was performed to estimate the number of newly born (BrdU-labeled) NG2 cells and oligodendrocytes in hippocampus, basolateral nuclei of amygdala and corpus callosum. Lithium significantly decreased the proliferation of NG2 cells in dentate hilus of hippocampus, amygdala and corpus callosum, but not in the molecular layer or the cornu ammonis (CA) regions of hippocampus. The effect was more pronounced in the corpus callosum. No effect of lithium on the survival of newborn cells or the number of newly generated oligodendrocytes could be detected. Our results demonstrate that in both white and gray matter brain regions implicated in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder, chronic lithium treatment significantly decreases the proliferation rate of NG2 cells; the major proliferating cell type of the adult brain.

Disordered time perception has been reported in schizophrenia. We investigated time perception dysfunction and its neuropsychological correlates in patients with schizophrenia. Participants comprised 38 patients and 38 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers who were compared in an auditory temporal bisection paradigm using two interval ranges (a 400/800 ms condition and a 1000/2000 ms condition). In the temporal bisection, subjects were required to categorise a probe duration as short or long, based upon the similarity with two reference durations. All subjects also completed a battery of neuropsychological tests measuring sustained attention, short- and long-term memory and executive function. In the 400/800 ms condition, patients judged durations significantly shorter than did control subjects. Patients also exhibited decreased temporal sensitivity in both conditions. We found in both groups a negative association between temporal sensitivity and sustained attention for the 400/800 ms condition, and between temporal sensitivity and long-term memory for the 1000/200 ms condition. In patients, short-term memory performance was negatively associated with duration judgement in both conditions, while executive dysfunction was correlated to a general performance deficit in the 400/800 ms condition. These findings suggest the possibility that time perception abnormalities in schizophrenia are part of neuropsychological dysfunction and are likely to adversely impact upon activity of daily living.
The aim of the present study was to explore the effects of the menstrual cycle phases on 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HTT binding potentials (BPs) in healthy women by using positron emission tomography (PET). Women were investigated in the follicular and luteal phase of the menstrual cycle with radioligands [(11)C]WAY10035 (n=13) and [(11)C]MADAM (n=8) to study 5-HT(1A) and 5-HTT BPs. The BPs values were quantified using the simplified reference tissue model. The phases of the menstrual cycle were characterized by transvaginal ultrasound (TSV) and plasma levels of hormones estradiol (E(2)), progesterone (P(4)), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH).The 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HTT BPs did not significantly differ between follicular and luteal phases in any of the investigated regions. There were no significant correlations between the change in E(2) or P(4) values with the change in 5-HT(1A) receptor or 5-HTT BPs. The results provide principally a new in vivo finding in human female biology, suggesting the absence of influence of menstrual cycle phase on 5-HT(1A) receptors or 5-HTT. The finding however does not preclude that gonadal hormones differentially influence central serotonin system inwomen and men, which might contribute to gender differences in serotonin-associated disorders.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and antipsychotics co-administration is a widely used strategy to treat both psychotic depression and depressive symptoms in schizophrenia. Nonetheless, the molecular mechanisms involved in the therapeutic benefits of antidepressant-antipsychotic combination are still elusive. It has been suggested that co-administration of SSRIs and antipsychotics may result in molecular changes different from their individual effects. In the present study, we evaluated the acute effects of two SSRIs, citalopram and escitalopram, alone or in combination with haloperidol, on the expression of Homer1a together with its splice variant ania-3, and p11, two genes linked respectively to dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotransmission and involved in synaptic plasticity. Homer1a and ania-3 were induced in the striatum by haloperidol, alone and in combination with SSRIs, but not by SSRIs only. Haloperidol+citalopram co-administration induced a stronger Homer1a expression than haloperidol alone in the ventrolateral caudate-putamen. No signal was detected for p11 in striatum, while there were no significant differences among treatments in cortical subregions. Homer1a was significantly down-regulated in the parietal cortex by all treatments. These results demonstrated that haloperidol+citalopram combination exerts synergistic effects on Homer expression, suggesting that citalopram may influence the impact by haloperidol on the dopaminergic neurotransmission. Moreover, present findings confirm that Homer1a and ania-3 are strongly induced in striatum by haloperidol, while they are not influenced by citalopram or escitalopram in this region. Oppositely, in the cortex the two transcripts are modulated by both haloperidol and SSRIs, suggesting a possible role of both dopamine and serotonin in their cortical regulation.
The discovery of haloperidol at the end of the 1950s constitutes one of the greatest advances of 20th century psychiatry. This antipsychotic drug has their origin in the research process of central analgesic molecules derived from pethidine and methadone, carried out by the Belgian company Janssen Phamaceutica. After the synthesis of phenoperidine, numerous analogues of this compound were studied, and chemists at Janssen took the decision to substitute the propiophenone group for a butyrophenone group. One of these compounds went the R-1625, a stronger agent with specifically neuroleptic properties but lacking morphine-like activity. This substance was synthesized on the 11th February 1958 and received the generic name of haloperidol because of the two halogenated substitutes incorporated into the molecule. Clinical development of haloperidol was conducted, primarily, by psychiatric research team at the University of Lige that confirmed its efficacy in the treatment of various psychiatric disorders such as acute and chronic paranoid psychosis, mania, or chronic treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Under the brand name Haldol((R)), haloperidol was licensed and marketed in Belgium in October 1959. The direct and differed consequences of its introduction into the psychiatric practice have been multiple, involving different areas of socio-sanitary reality. Moreover, haloperidol has contributed substantially to the development of biological psychiatry and currently neuroscience, because it made possible the development of new experimental models for predicting the effects of antipsychotics, and allowed the postulate of the firsts biological hypotheses about the schizophrenia etiology. Haloperidol has been included in the World Health Organisation's list of essential medicines.
The glucose metabolism in the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) is increased in rats in the activity-based anorexia (ABA) model. In patients, electrical stimulation in hyperactive brain regions reduced symptoms in e.g. major depressive disorder and cluster headache. In two blinded randomised controlled experiments, we therefore examined the effects of high-frequency electrical stimulation and an electrolytic lesion in the MD in a validated rat model for anorexia nervosa. The ABA model was successfully replicated in all our experiments, with a reduction in body weight, food intake, and survival time and an increase in running activity. In a first experiment, we evaluated the effect of electrical stimulation or a curative lesion in the MD on survival, body weight, food intake and locomotor activity in ABA rats. Electrical MD stimulation or an electrolytic MD lesion did not improve the symptoms of rats in the ABA model, compared to control groups. In a second experiment, we investigated the effect of a preventive electrolytic lesion in the MD on rats in the ABA model. Although there was no significant improvement of survival, body weight and food intake, locomotor activity was significantly reduced in the lesion group compared to the control group. Apart from this positive effect on running activity, we found no convincing evidence for the suitability of the MD as a neuromodulation target for anorexia nervosa patients.
In motor and sensory areas of cortex, neuronal activity often depends on the location of a movement target or a sensory stimulus, with each neuron tuned to a single part of space called a preferred direction (when motor) or a receptive field (when sensory). As we previously reported, some neurons in the monkey prefrontal cortex are tuned to two parts of space, which we interpreted as reflecting attention and working memory, respectively. Monkeys performed a behavioral task in which they attended to a visual stimulus at one location while remembering a second place, and these locations were varied from trial to trial to assess spatial tuning. Most spatially tuned neurons specialized in either attentional or mnemonic processing, but about one-third of the cells showed tuning for both. Here, we show that the latter population, called multitasking neurons, improves the encoding of both the attended and remembered locations. These neurons do so for three reasons: (1) the preferred directions for attention and for working memory usually differ (and often diametrically oppose one another), (2) they have stronger tuning than specialized cells, and (3) pairs of multitasking neurons represent these cognitive parameters more efficiently than pairs that include even a single specialized cell. These findings suggest that multitasking neurons provide a computational advantage for behaviors that place simultaneous demands on two or more cognitive processes.
Damaged CNS axons are prevented from regenerating by an environment containing many inhibitory factors. They also lack an integrin that interacts with tenascin-C, the main extracellular matrix glycoprotein of the CNS, which is upregulated after injury. The alpha9beta1 integrin heterodimer is a receptor for the nonalternatively spliced region of tenascin-C, but the alpha9 subunit is absent in adult neurons. In this study, we show that PC12 cells and adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons do not extend neurites on tenascin-C. However, after forced expression of alpha9 integrin, extensive neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells and adult rat DRG neurons occurs. Moreover, both DRG neurons and PC12 cells secrete tenascin-C, enabling alpha9-transfected cells to grow axons on tissue culture plastic. Using adeno-associated viruses to express alpha9 integrin in vivo in DRGs, we examined axonal regeneration after cervical dorsal rhizotomy or dorsal column crush in the adult rat. After rhizotomy, significantly more dorsal root axons regrew into the dorsal root entry zone at 6 weeks after injury in alpha9 integrin-expressing animals than in green fluorescent protein (GFP) controls. Similarly, after a dorsal column crush injury, there was significantly more axonal growth into the lesion site compared with GFP controls at 6 weeks after injury. Behavioral analysis after spinal cord injury revealed that both experimental and control groups had an increased withdrawal latency in response to mechanical stimulation when compared with sham controls; however, in response to heat stimulation, normal withdrawal latencies returned after alpha9 integrin treatment but remained elevated in control groups.
Activation of primary afferent nociceptors produces acute, short-lived pain, and tissue or nerve injury induces long-term enhancement of nociceptive processing, manifested as hypersensitivity to thermal and mechanical stimulation. Here we used a chemical-genetic and pharmacological approach to study the contribution of the receptor tyrosine kinase, type 2 (TrkB) to the generation and maintenance of injury-induced persistent pain. We performed the studies in wild-type mice and transgenic (TrkB(F616A)) mice that express mutant but fully functional TrkB receptors. By injecting a small molecule derivative of the protein kinase inhibitor protein phosphatase 1 (1NM-PP1), it is possible to produce highly selective inhibition of TrkB autophosphorylation in adult mice, without interfering with the activity of other protein kinases. We report that oral administration of 1NM-PP1, at doses that blocked phosphorylation of TrkB in the spinal cord, had no effect in behavioral tests of acute heat, mechanical, or chemical pain sensitivity. However, the same pretreatment with 1NM-PP1 prevented the development of tissue- or nerve injury-induced heat and mechanical hypersensitivity. Established hypersensitivity was transiently reversed by intraperitoneal injection of 1NM-PP1. Although interfering with TrkB signaling altered neither acute capsaicin nor formalin-induced pain behavior, the prolonged mechanical hypersensitivity produced by these chemical injuries was prevented by 1NM-PP1 inhibition of TrkB signaling. We conclude that TrkB signaling is not only an important contributor to the induction of heat and mechanical hypersensitivity produced by tissue or nerve injury but also to the persistence of the pain.
Intelligent organisms are capable of tracking objects even when they temporarily disappear from sight, a cognitive capacity commonly referred to as visual working memory (VWM). The neural basis of VWM has been the subject of significant scientific debate, with recent work focusing on the relative roles of posterior visual areas, such as the inferior temporal cortex (ITC), and the prefrontal cortex. Here we reexamined the contribution of ITC to VWM by recording from highly selective individual ITC neurons as monkeys engaged in multiple versions of an occlusion-based memory task. As expected, we found strong evidence for a role of ITC in stimulus encoding. We also found that almost half of these selective cells showed stimulus-selective delay period modulation, with a small but significant fraction exhibiting differential responses even in the presence of simultaneously visible interfering information. When we combined the informational content of multiple neurons, we found that the accuracy with which we could decode memory content increased drastically. The memory epoch analyses suggest that behaviorally relevant visual memories were reinstated in ITC. Furthermore, we observed a population-wide enhancement of neuronal response to a match stimulus compared with the same stimulus presented as a nonmatch. The single-cell enhancement preceded any match effects identified in the local field potential, leading us to speculate that enhancement is the result of neural processing local to ITC. Moreover, match enhancement was only later followed by the more commonly observed match suppression. Altogether, the data support the hypothesis that, when a stimulus is held in memory, ITC neurons are actively biased in favor of task-relevant visual representations and that this bias can immediately impact subsequent recognition events.
To identify sounds as novel, there must be some neural representation of commonly occurring sounds. Stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) is a reduction in neural response to a repeated sound. Previous studies using an oddball stimulus paradigm have shown that SSA occurs at the cortex, but this study demonstrates that neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) also show strong SSA using this paradigm. The majority (66%) of IC neurons showed some degree of SSA. Approximately 18% of neurons showed near-complete SSA. Neurons with SSA were found throughout the IC. Responses of IC neurons were reduced mainly during the onset component of the response, and latency was shorter in response to the oddball stimulus than to the standard. Neurons with near-complete SSA were broadly tuned to frequency, suggesting a high degree of convergence. Thus, some of the mechanisms that may underlie novelty detection and behavioral habituation to common sounds are already well developed at the midbrain.
Simple tonal stimuli can shape spectral tuning of cortical neurons during an early epoch of brain development. The effects of complex sound experience on cortical development remain to be determined. We exposed rat pups to a frequency-modulated (FM) sweep in different time windows during early development, and examined the effects of such sensory experience on sound representations in the primary auditory cortex (AI). We found that early exposure to a FM sound resulted in altered characteristic frequency representations and broadened spectral tuning in AI neurons, whereas later exposure to the same sound only led to greater selectivity for the sweep rate and direction of the experienced FM sound. These results indicate that cortical representations of different acoustic features are shaped by complex sounds in a series of distinct sensitive periods.
The juxtacapsular bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (jcBNST) is activated in response to basolateral amygdala (BLA) inputs through the stria terminalis and projects back to the anterior BLA and to the central nucleus of the amygdala. Here we show a form of long-term potentiation of the intrinsic excitability (LTP-IE) of jcBNST neurons in response to high-frequency stimulation of the stria terminalis. This LTP-IE, which was characterized by a decrease in the firing threshold and increased temporal fidelity of firing, was impaired during protracted withdrawal from self-administration of alcohol, cocaine, and heroin. Such impairment was graded and was more pronounced in rats that self-administered amounts of the drugs sufficient to maintain dependence. Dysregulation of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system has been implicated in manifestation of protracted withdrawal from dependent drug use. Administration of the selective corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 (CRF(1)) antagonist R121919 [2,5-dimethyl-3-(6-dimethyl-4-methylpyridin-3-yl)-7-dipropylamino-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine)], but not of the CRF(2) antagonist astressin(2)-B, normalized jcBNST LTP-IE in animals with a history of alcohol dependence; repeated, but not acute, administration of CRF itself produced a decreased jcBNST LTP-IE. Thus, changes in the intrinsic properties of jcBNST neurons mediated by chronic activation of the CRF system may contribute to the persistent emotional dysregulation associated with protracted withdrawal.
No animal models replicate the complexity of human depression. However, a number of behavioral tests in rodents are sensitive to antidepressants and may thus tap important underlying biological factors. Such models may also offer the best opportunity to discover novel treatments. Here, we used several of these models to test the hypothesis that the acid-sensing ion channel-1a (ASIC1a) might be targeted to reduce depression. Genetically disrupting ASIC1a in mice produced antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test, the tail suspension test, and following unpredictable mild stress. Pharmacologically inhibiting ASIC1a also had antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test. The effects of ASIC1a disruption in the forced swim test were independent of and additive to those of several commonly used antidepressants. Furthermore, ASIC1a disruption interfered with an important biochemical marker of depression, the ability of stress to reduce BDNF in the hippocampus. Restoring ASIC1a to the amygdala of ASIC1a(-/-) mice with a viral vector reversed the forced swim test effects, suggesting that the amygdala is a key site of ASIC1a action in depression-related behavior. These data are consistent with clinical studies emphasizing the importance of the amygdala in mood regulation, and suggest that ASIC1a antagonists may effectively combat depression.
Inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) increase endogenous levels of anandamide (a cannabinoid CB(1)-receptor ligand) and oleoylethanolamide and palmitoylethanolamide (OEA and PEA, ligands for alpha-type peroxisome proliferator-activated nuclear receptors, PPAR-alpha) when and where they are naturally released in the brain. Using a passive-avoidance task in rats, we found that memory acquisition was enhanced by the FAAH inhibitor URB597 or by the PPAR-alpha agonist WY14643, and these enhancements were blocked by the PPAR-alpha antagonist MK886. These findings demonstrate novel mechanisms for memory enhancement by activation of PPAR-alpha, either directly by administering a PPAR-alpha agonist or indirectly by administering a FAAH inhibitor.
Reinforcement learning theories postulate that actions are chosen to maximize a long-term sum of positive outcomes based on value functions, which are subjective estimates of future rewards. In simple reinforcement learning algorithms, value functions are updated only by trial-and-error, whereas they are updated according to the decision-maker's knowledge or model of the environment in model-based reinforcement learning algorithms. To investigate how animals update value functions, we trained rats under two different free-choice tasks. The reward probability of the unchosen target remained unchanged in one task, whereas it increased over time since the target was last chosen in the other task. The results show that goal choice probability increased as a function of the number of consecutive alternative choices in the latter, but not the former task, indicating that the animals were aware of time-dependent increases in arming probability and used this information in choosing goals. In addition, the choice behavior in the latter task was better accounted for by a model-based reinforcement learning algorithm. Our results show that rats adopt a decision-making process that cannot be accounted for by simple reinforcement learning models even in a relatively simple binary choice task, suggesting that rats can readily improve their decision-making strategy through the knowledge of their environments.
Intra-amygdala injections of anisomycin produce large increases in the release of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and serotonin in the amygdala. Pretreatment with intra-amygdala injections of the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol attenuates anisomycin-induced amnesia without reversing the inhibition of protein synthesis, and injections of NE alone produce amnesia. These findings suggest that abnormal neurotransmitter responses may be the basis for amnesia produced by inhibition of protein synthesis. The present experiment extends these findings to the hippocampus and adds acetylcholine (ACh) to the list of neurotransmitters affected by anisomycin. Using in vivo microdialysis at the site of injection, release of NE, DA, and ACh was measured before and after injections of anisomycin into the hippocampus. Anisomycin impaired inhibitory avoidance memory when rats were tested 48 h after training and also produced substantial increases in local release of NE, DA, and ACh. In an additional experiment, pretreatment with intrahippocampal injections of propranolol prior to anisomycin and training significantly attenuated anisomycin-induced amnesia. The disruption of neurotransmitter release patterns at the site of injection appears to contribute significantly to the mechanisms underlying amnesia produced by protein synthesis inhibitors, calling into question the dominant interpretation that the amnesia reflects loss of training-initiated protein synthesis necessary for memory formation. Instead, the findings suggest that proteins needed for memory formation are available prior to an experience, and that post-translational modifications of these proteins may be sufficient to enable the formation of new memories.
The Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) is important for the regulation of cardiovascular physiology, where it controls blood pressure, and salt- and water homeostasis. Dysregulation of RAS can lead to severe diseases including hypertension, diabetic nephropathy, and cardiac arrhythmia, and -failure. The importance of the RAS is clearly emphasised by the widespread use of drugs targeting this system in clinical practice. These include, renin inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor type I blockers, and inhibitors of the angiotensin converting enzyme. Some of the important effectors within the system are 7 transmembrane (7TM) receptors (or G-protein-coupled receptors) such as the angiotensin II Receptors type I and II (AT1R and AT2R) and the MAS-oncogene receptor. Several findings indicate that the 7TM receptors can form both homo- and heterodimers, or higher orders of oligomers. Furthermore, dimerization may be important for receptor function, and in the development of cardiovascular diseases. This is very significant, since &quot;dimers&quot; may provide pharmacologists with novel targets for improved drug therapy. However, we know that 7TM receptors can mediate signals as monomeric units, and so far it has been very difficult to establish if our observations reflect actual well-defined dimerization or merely reflect close proximity between the receptors and/or various types of functional interaction. In this review, we will present and critically discuss the current data on 7TM receptor dimerization with a clear focus on the RAS, and delineate future challenges within the field.
Neurological complications of monoclonal gammopathy, or dysglobulinemia, are typically affecting the peripheral nerve. The clinical course is often chronic and progressive and requires a precise diagnosis of the type of plasma cell disorder associated with the neuropathy, to investigate other organs manifestations and to assess the presence of specific markers. These steps are required to initiate an appropriate therapy that may include chemotherapy, immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory treatment.
Autoantibodies are defined as antibodies directed against self antigens, i.e., against a normal antigenic endogenous tissue constituent. They can be the immediate cause of the neurological syndrome or be detected as an epiphenomenon of the pathogenic process. Autoantibodies are often considered useful biomarkers for the improvement of diagnostic accuracy, for the staging of disease progression or for the follow up of a biological response to a therapeutic intervention. The purpose of this article is to review the autoantibodies that are available to investigate immune-mediated neurological conditions. The detection of some of these autoantibodies may help the clinician to establish a definite diagnosis which may further facilitate the therapeutic decision.
Mulltiple sclerosis and pregnancy Multiple sclerosis (MS) is diagnosed between the second and fourth decade. More than 2/3 of patients are women and are often in childbearing age. We may ask two main questions: Which implication of pregnancy on the evolution of MS has to be considered ? Which influence of MS on the pregnancy is expected? In other words could the pregnancy worsen MS and could MS represent specific risks for the pregnancy?
Heat shock proteins (Hsps) have been studied for many years and there is now a large body of evidence that demonstrates the role of Hsp upregulation in tissue and cell protection in a wide variety of stress conditions. Oxidative stress is known to be involved in a number of pathological conditions, including neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease and stroke, and even plays a role in natural aging. In this review we summarize the current understanding of the role of Hsps and the heat shock response (HSR) in these pathological conditions and discuss the therapeutic potential of an Hsp therapy for these disorders. However, although an Hsp based therapy appears to be a promising approach for the treatment of diseases that involve oxidative damage, there are some significant hurdles that must be overcome before this approach can be successful. For example, to be effective an Hsp based therapy will need to ensure that the upregulation of Hsps occurs in the right place (i.e. be cell specific), at the right time and to a level and specificity that ensures that all the important binding partners, namely the co-chaperones, are also present at the appropriate levels. It is therefore unlikely that strategies that involve genetic modifications that result in overexpression of specific Hsps will achieve such sophisticated and coordinated effects. Similarly, it is likely that some pharmaceutical inducers of Hsps may be too generic to achieve the desired specific effects on Hsp expression, or may simply fail to reach their target cells due to delivery problems. However, if these difficulties can be overcome, it is clear that an effective Hsp based therapy would be of great benefit to the wide range of depilating conditions in which oxidative stress plays a critical role.
Differentiated neurons display specific biochemical, physiological and morphological properties that apparently prevent them from further cell division. Nevertheless, expression of cell cycle modulators persists after neuronal differentiation and is upregulated under stress conditions, such as trophic factor deprivation, oxidative stress and the presence of DNA damaging agents. This apparent reactivation of the cell cycle has been postulated as a sine qua non for neuronal death in response to those stress conditions, particularly in Alzheimer's disease. However, the physiological and pathogenic implications of a putative neuronal cell cycle are far from clear. Here, we discuss the notion of the neuronal cell cycle as a mediator of cell death, with particular emphasis on Alzheimer's disease.

Without the hippocampus, experiences disappear without a memory trace. A recent study shows that changing synaptic strength within the hippocampus alters circuit function in widely distributed brain networks.
Visual information is difficult to search and interpret when the density of the displayed information is high or the layout is chaotic. Visual information that exhibits such properties is generally referred to as being &quot;cluttered.&quot; Clutter should be avoided in information visualizations and interface design in general because it can severely degrade task performance. Although previous studies have identified computable correlates of clutter (such as local feature variance and edge density), understanding of why humans perceive some scenes as being more cluttered than others remains limited. Here, we explore an account of clutter that is inspired by findings from visual perception studies. Specifically, we test the hypothesis that the so-called &quot;crowding&quot; phenomenon is an important constituent of clutter. We constructed an algorithm to predict visual clutter in arbitrary images by estimating the perceptual impairment due to crowding. After verifying that this model can reproduce crowding data we tested whether it can also predict clutter. We found that its predictions correlate well with both subjective clutter assessments and search performance in cluttered scenes. These results suggest that crowding and clutter may indeed be closely related concepts and suggest avenues for further research.
Pain-related sensitization and synaptic plasticity in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) depend on the endogenous activation of NMDA receptors and phosphorylation of the NR1 subunit through a PKA-dependent mechanism. Functional NMDA receptors are heteromeric assemblies of NR1 with NR2A-D or NR3A, B subunits. NMDA receptors composed of NR1 and NR2B subunits have been implicated in neuroplasticity and are present in the CeA. Here we used a selective NR2B antagonist (Ro-256981) to determine the contribution of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors to pain-related sensitization of CeA neurons. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from CeA neurons in anesthetized adult male rats before and during the development of an acute arthritis. Arthritis was induced in one knee joint by intraarticular injections of kaolin and carrageenan. Brief (15 s) mechanical stimuli of innocuous (100-500 g/30 mm2) and noxious (1000-2000 g/30 mm2) intensity were applied to the knee and other parts of the body. In agreement with our previous studies, all CeA neurons developed increased background and evoked activity after arthritis induction. Ro-256981 (1, 10 and 100 muM; 15 min each) was administered into the CeA by microdialysis 5-6 h postinduction of arthritis. Ro-256981 concentration-dependently decreased evoked responses, but not background activity. This pattern of effect is different from that of an NMDA receptor antagonist (AP5) in our previous studies. AP5 (100 microM - 5 mM) inhibited background activity and evoked responses. The differential effects of AP5 and Ro-256981 may suggest that NMDA receptors containing the NR2B subunit are important but not sole contributors to pain-related changes of CeA neurons.
Much of neuroscience has to do with relating neural activity and behavior or environment. One common measure of this relationship is the firing rates of neurons as functions of behavioral or environmental parameters, often called tuning functions and receptive fields. Firing rates are estimated from the spike trains of neurons recorded by electrodes implanted in the brain. Individual neurons' spike trains are not typically readily available, because the signal collected at an electrode is often a mixture of activities from different neurons and noise. Extracting individual neurons' spike trains from voltage signals, which is known as spike sorting, is one of the most important data analysis problems in neuroscience, because it has to be undertaken prior to any analysis of neurophysiological data in which more than one neuron is believed to be recorded on a single electrode. All current spike-sorting methods consist of clustering the characteristic spike waveforms of neurons. The sequence of first spike sorting based on waveforms, then estimating tuning functions, has long been the accepted way to proceed. Here, we argue that the covariates that modulate tuning functions also contain information about spike identities, and that if tuning information is ignored for spike sorting, the resulting tuning function estimates are biased and inconsistent, unless spikes can be classified with perfect accuracy. This means, for example, that the commonly used peristimulus time histogram is a biased estimate of the firing rate of a neuron that is not perfectly isolated. We further argue that the correct conceptual way to view the problem out is to note that spike sorting provides information about rate estimation and vice versa, so that the two relationships should be considered simultaneously rather than sequentially. Indeed we show that when spike sorting and tuning-curve estimation are performed in parallel, unbiased estimates of tuning curves can be recovered even from imperfectly sorted neurons.
When making choices under uncertainty, people usually consider both the expected value and risk of each option, and choose the one with the higher utility. Expected value increases the expected utility of an option for all individuals. Risk increases the utility of an option for risk-seeking individuals, but decreases it for risk averse individuals. In 2 separate experiments, one involving imperative (no-choice), the other choice situations, we investigated how predicted risk and expected value aggregate into a common reward signal in the human brain. Blood oxygen level dependent responses in lateral regions of the prefrontal cortex increased monotonically with increasing reward value in the absence of risk in both experiments. Risk enhanced these responses in risk-seeking participants, but reduced them in risk-averse participants. The aggregate value and risk responses in lateral prefrontal cortex contrasted with pure value signals independent of risk in the striatum. These results demonstrate an aggregate risk and value signal in the prefrontal cortex that would be compatible with basic assumptions underlying the mean-variance approach to utility.
Cajal-Retzius cells, located in layer I of the cortex, synthesize and secrete the glycoprotein reelin, which plays a pivotal role in neuronal migration during embryonic development. Cajal-Retzius cells persist after birth, but their postnatal role is unknown. Here we show that Cajal-Retzius cells receive a major excitatory synaptic input via serotonin 5-HT(3) receptors. Blocking this input using pharmacological tools or neutralization of reelin signaling results in hypercomplexity of apical, but not basal, dendrites of cortical layer II/III pyramidal neurons. A similar hypercomplexity is observed in the cortex of the 5-HT(3A) receptor knockout mouse. The increased dendritic complexity can be rescued by application of recombinant full-length reelin or its N-terminal fragment, but not by the central fragment of reelin, and involves a signal transduction pathway independent of the activation of the canonical reelin receptors. Taken together, our results reveal a novel role of serotonin, Cajal-Retzius cells, and reelin in the postnatal maturation of the cortex.
The human primary motor cortex (M1) undergoes considerable reorganization in response to traumatic upper limb amputation. The representations of the preserved arm muscles expand, invading portions of M1 previously dedicated to the hand, suggesting that former hand neurons are reassigned to the control of remaining proximal upper limb muscles. Hand allograft offers a unique opportunity to study the reversibility of such long-term cortical changes. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation in patient LB, who underwent bilateral hand transplantation 3 years after a traumatic amputation, to longitudinally track both the emergence of intrinsic (from the donor) hand muscles in M1 as well as changes in the representation of stump (upper arm and forearm) muscles. The same muscles were also mapped in patient CD, the first bilateral hand allograft recipient. Newly transplanted intrinsic muscles acquired a cortical representation in LB's M1 at 10 months postgraft for the left hand and at 26 months for the right hand. The appearance of a cortical representation of transplanted hand muscles in M1 coincided with the shrinkage of stump muscle representations for the left but not for the right side. In patient CD, transcranial magnetic stimulation performed at 51 months postgraft revealed a complete set of intrinsic hand-muscle representations for the left but not the right hand. Our findings show that newly transplanted muscles can be recognized and integrated into the patient's motor cortex.
Several experimental manipulations of the CNS environment successfully elicit regeneration of sensory and bulbospinal motor axons but fail to elicit regeneration of corticospinal axons, suggesting that cell-intrinsic mechanisms limit the regeneration of this critical class of motor neurons. We hypothesized that enhancement of intrinsic neuronal growth mechanisms would enable adult corticospinal motor axon regeneration. Lentiviral vectors were used to overexpress the BDNF receptor trkB in layer V corticospinal motor neurons. After subcortical axotomy, trkB transduction induced corticospinal axon regeneration into subcortical lesion sites expressing BDNF. In the absence of trkB overexpression, no regeneration occurred. Selective deletion of canonical, trkB-mediated neurite outgrowth signaling by mutation of the Shc/FRS-2 activation domain prohibited Erk activation and eliminated regeneration. These findings support the hypothesis that the refractory regenerative state of adult corticospinal axons can be attributed at least in part to neuron-intrinsic mechanisms, and that activation of ERK signaling can elicit corticospinal tract regeneration.
Nitric oxide is well established as a major signaling molecule. Evidence is accumulating that carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide also are physiologic mediators in the cardiovascular, immune, and nervous systems. This Review focuses on mechanisms whereby they signal by binding to metal centers in metalloproteins, such as in guanylyl cyclase, or modifying sulfhydryl groups in protein targets.
The low-density lipoprotein receptor family consists of a large number of single transmembrane proteins that are involved both in endocytosis of extracellular ligands and in intracellular signaling processes. New evidence ties these receptors to the transactivation of Trk receptors. Thus, this single receptor family demonstrates several distinct mechanisms for transducing information across the plasma membrane.

Ca(2+) modulates the visual response in both vertebrates and invertebrates. In Drosophila photoreceptors, an increase of cytoplasmic Ca(2+) mimics light adaptation. Little is known regarding the mechanism, however. We explored the role of the sole Drosophila Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) to mediate light adaptation. CaMKII has been implicated in the phosphorylation of arrestin 2 (Arr2). However, the functional significance of Arr2 phosphorylation remains debatable. We identified retinal CaMKII by anti-CaMKII antibodies and by its Ca(2+)-dependent autophosphorylation. Moreover, we show that phosphorylation of CaMKII is greatly enhanced by okadaic acid, and indeed, purified PP2A catalyzes the dephosphorylation of CaMKII. Significantly, we demonstrate that anti-CaMKII antibodies co-immunoprecipitate, and CaMKII fusion proteins pull down the catalytic subunit of PP2A from fly extracts, indicating that PP2A interacts with CaMKII to form a protein complex. To investigate the function of CaMKII in photoreceptors, we show that suppression of CaMKII in transgenic flies affects light adaptation and increases prolonged depolarizing afterpotential amplitude, whereas a reduced PP2A activity brings about reduced prolonged depolarizing afterpotential amplitude. Taken together, we conclude that CaMKII is involved in the negative regulation of the visual response affecting light adaptation, possibly by catalyzing phosphorylation of Arr2. Moreover, the CaMKII activity appears tightly regulated by the co-localized PP2A.
System A transporters SNAT1 and SNAT2 mediate uptake of neutral alpha-amino acids (e.g. glutamine, alanine, and proline) and are expressed in central neurons. We tested the hypothesis that SNAT2 is required to support neurotransmitter glutamate synthesis by examining spontaneous excitatory activity after inducing or repressing SNAT2 expression for prolonged periods. We stimulated de novo synthesis of SNAT2 mRNA and increased SNAT2 mRNA stability and total SNAT2 protein and functional activity, whereas SNAT1 expression was unaffected. Increased endogenous SNAT2 expression did not affect spontaneous excitatory action-potential frequency over control. Long term glutamine exposure strongly repressed SNAT2 expression but increased excitatory action-potential frequency. Quantal size was not altered following SNAT2 induction or repression. These results suggest that spontaneous glutamatergic transmission in pyramidal neurons does not rely on SNAT2. To our surprise, repression of SNAT2 activity was not limited to System A substrates. Taurine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and beta-alanine (substrates of the SLC6 gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter family) repressed SNAT2 expression more potently (10x) than did System A substrates; however, the responses to System A substrates were more rapid. Since ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein are known to bind to an amino acid response element within the SNAT2 promoter and mediate induction of SNAT2 in peripheral cell lines, we tested whether either factor was similarly induced by amino acid deprivation in neurons. We found that glutamine and taurine repressed the induction of both transcription factors. Our data revealed that SNAT2 expression is constitutively low in neurons under physiological conditions but potently induced, together with the taurine transporter TauT, in response to depletion of neutral amino acids.
The detection of biomarkers of oxidative stress in brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV)-associated dementia indicates the involvement of stress pathways in the neuropathogenesis of AIDS. Although the biological importance of oxidative stress on events involved in AIDS neuropathogenesis and the HIV-1 proteins responsible for oxidative stress remain to be elucidated, our results point to the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) upon HIV-1 infection and its elevation in brain cells of AIDS patients with dementia. HIF-1 is a transcription factor that is responsive to oxygen. Under hypoxic conditions, HIF-1alpha becomes stable and translocates to the nucleus where it dimerizes with aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator and modulates gene transcription. Activation of HIF-1 can also be mediated by the HIV-1 accessory protein Vpr. In addition, cellular components, including reactive oxygen species, contribute to the induction of HIF-1alpha. Our results show that Vpr induces reactive oxygen species by increasing H(2)O(2) production, which can contribute to HIF-1alpha accumulation. Interestingly, increased levels of HIF-1alpha stimulated HIV-1 gene transcription through HIF-1 association with HIV-1 long terminal repeat. These observations point to the existence of a positive feedback interplay between HIF-1alpha and Vpr and that, by inducing oxidative stress via activation of HIF-1, Vpr can induce HIV-1 gene expression and dysregulate multiple host cellular pathways.
betaArrestin is a multifunctional signal scaffold protein. Using SPOT immobilized peptide arrays, coupled with scanning alanine substitution and mutagenesis, we show that the MAPK kinase, MEK1, interacts directly with betaarrestin1. Asp(26) and Asp(29) in the N-terminal domain of betaarrestin1 are critical for its binding to MEK1, whereas Arg(47) and Arg(49) in the N-terminal domain of MEK1 are critical for its binding to betaarrestin1. Wild-type FLAG-tagged betaarrestin1 co-immunopurifies with MEK1 in HEKB2 cells, whereas the D26A/D29A mutant does not. ERK-dependent phosphorylation at Ser(412) was compromised in the D26A/D29A-betaarrestin1 mutant. A cell-permeable, 25-mer N-stearoylated betaarrestin1 peptide that encompassed the N-domain MEK1 binding site blocked betaarrestin1/MEK1 association in HEK cells and recapitulated the altered phenotype seen with the D26A/D29A-betaarrestin1 in compromising the ERK-dependent phosphorylation of betaarrestin1. In addition, the MEK disruptor peptide promoted the ability of betaarrestin1 to co-immunoprecipitate with endogenous c-Src and clathrin, facilitating the isoprenaline-stimulated internalization of the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor.
We tested the effects of contrast reversal on perceptual learning in a 10AFC texture identification task. Four groups of subjects performed the task on two consecutive days. One group saw the same textures on both days, whereas three other groups saw novel, rotated (180 deg), or contrast-reversed textures on the second day. Response accuracy improved during the first day in all groups. Accuracy decreased significantly at the start of Day 2 in the groups who saw novel, rotated or contrast-reversed textures, but not in the group who saw the same textures. Moreover, the drop in performance was the same in the groups who saw novel, rotated, and contrast-reversed textures. Control experiments showed that making subjects aware of the stimulus transformations at the start of either the first or second day did not alter the results. Hence, the effects of contrast-reversal and 180 deg rotation on the generalization of learning were the same as the effect of using novel stimuli, and knowledge of the stimulus transformation did not reduce their effects. We consider the implications of this pattern of results for the neural mechanisms recruited during the identification and learning of two-dimensional visual patterns.
The tilt illusion is a paradigmatic example of contextual influences on perception. We analyze it in terms of a neural population model for the perceptual organization of visual orientation. In turn, this is based on a well-found treatment of natural scene statistics, known as the Gaussian Scale Mixture model. This model is closely related to divisive gain control in neural processing and has been extensively applied in the image processing and statistical learning communities; however, its implications for contextual effects in biological vision have not been studied. In our model, oriented neural units associated with surround tilt stimuli participate in divisively normalizing the activities of the units representing a center stimulus, thereby changing their tuning curves. We show that through standard population decoding, these changes lead to the forms of repulsion and attraction observed in the tilt illusion. The issues in our model readily generalize to other visual attributes and contextual phenomena, and should lead to more rigorous treatments of contextual effects based on natural scene statistics.
Piloting and dead reckoning navigation strategies use very different cue constellations and computational processes (Darwin, 1873; Barlow, 1964; O'Keefe and Nadel, 1978; Mittelstaedt and Mittelstaedt, 1980; Landeau et al., 1984; Etienne, 1987; Gallistel, 1990; Maurer and Se guinot, 1995). Piloting requires the use of the relationships between relatively stable external (visual, olfactory, auditory) cues, whereas dead reckoning requires the integration of cues generated by self-movement. Animals obtain self-movement information from vestibular receptors, and possibly muscle and joint receptors, and efference copy of commands that generate movement. An animal may also use the flows of visual, auditory, and olfactory stimuli caused by its movements. Using a piloting strategy an animal can use geometrical calculations to determine directions and distances to places in its environment, whereas using an dead reckoning strategy it can integrate cues generated by its previous movements to return to a just left location. Dead reckoning is colloquially called &quot;sense of direction&quot; and &quot;sense of distance.&quot; Although there is considerable evidence that the hippocampus is involved in piloting (O'Keefe and Nadel, 1978; O'Keefe and Speakman, 1987), there is also evidence from behavioral (Whishaw et al., 1997; Whishaw and Maaswinkel, 1998; Maaswinkel and Whishaw, 1999), modeling (Samsonovich and McNaughton, 1997), and electrophysiological (O'Mare et al., 1994; Sharp et al., 1995; Taube and Burton, 1995; Blair and Sharp, 1996; McNaughton et al., 1996; Wiener, 1996; Golob and Taube, 1997) studies that the hippocampal formation is involved in dead reckoning. The relative contribution of the hippocampus to the two forms of navigation is still uncertain, however. Ordinarily, it is difficult to be certain that an animal is using a piloting versus a dead reckoning strategy because animals are very flexible in their use of strategies and cues (Etienne et al., 1996; Dudchenko et al., 1997; Martin et al., 1997; Maaswinkel and Whishaw, 1999). The objective of the present video demonstrations was to solve the problem of cue specification in order to examine the relative contribution of the hippocampus in the use of these strategies. The rats were trained in a new task in which they followed linear or polygon scented trails to obtain a large food pellet hidden on an open field. Because rats have a proclivity to carry the food back to the refuge, accuracy and the cues used to return to the home base were dependent variables (Whishaw and Tomie, 1997). To force an animal to use a a dead reckoning strategy to reach its refuge with the food, the rats were tested when blindfolded or under infrared light, a spectral wavelength in which they cannot see, and in some experiments the scent trail was additionally removed once an animal reached the food. To examine the relative contribution of the hippocampus, fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions, which disrupt information flow in the hippocampal formation (Bland, 1986), impair memory (Gaffan and Gaffan, 1991), and produce spatial deficits (Whishaw and Jarrard, 1995), were used.
The spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) innervates striated muscles, the bulbocavernosus and levator ani (BC/LA), which control penile reflexes. Castration results in shrinkage in the size of SNB somata and dendrites, as well as BC/LA muscle mass. However, there is no information about how quickly these regressive changes occur compared to the rapid effects of castration upon penile reflexes, which are greatly diminished a few days after surgery. Therefore we examined the time course of change in the size of SNB somata after castration of adult male rats. Males were sacrificed 2, 14, or 28 days after either castration or sham surgery and somata were measured in the SNB and in a control population of motoneurons, the retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN). BC/LA weight was reduced in castrates compared to intact males 14 and 28 days post surgery, but SNB somata were significantly smaller in castrates only at 28 days after surgery. As has been previously observed, castration did not affect soma size in the RDLN. These data indicate that SNB somata respond more slowly after castration than BC/LA mass or penile reflexes, suggesting that the size of SNB somata cannot account for the loss of penile reflexes. Androgenic effects on SNB somata may contribute to aspects of reproductive behavior that are not apparent in penile reflexes tested ex copula.
Dual-process theories distinguish between intuition (fast and emotional) and reasoning (slow and controlled) as a basis for human decision-making. We contrast dominance-solvable games, which can be solved by step-by-step deliberative reasoning, with pure coordination games, which must be solved intuitively. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we found that the middle frontal gyrus, the inferior parietal lobule, and the precuneus were more active in dominance-solvable games than in coordination games. The insula and anterior cingulate cortex showed the opposite pattern. Moreover, precuneus activity correlates positively with how &quot;effortful&quot; a dominance-solvable game is, whereas insula activity correlates positively with how &quot;effortless&quot; a coordination game is.



We have earlier shown that microglia, the immune cells of the CNS, release microparticles from cell plasma membrane after ATP stimulation. These vesicles contain and release IL-1beta, a crucial cytokine in CNS inflammatory events. In this study, we show that microparticles are also released by astrocytes and we get insights into the mechanism of their shedding. We show that, on activation of the ATP receptor P2X7, microparticle shedding is associated with rapid activation of acid sphingomyelinase, which moves to plasma membrane outer leaflet. ATP-induced shedding and IL-1beta release are markedly reduced by the inhibition of acid sphingomyelinase, and completely blocked in glial cultures from acid sphingomyelinase knockout mice. We also show that p38 MAPK cascade is relevant for the whole process, as specific kinase inhibitors strongly reduce acid sphingomyelinase activation, microparticle shedding and IL-1beta release. Our results represent the first demonstration that activation of acid sphingomyelinase is necessary and sufficient for microparticle release from glial cells and define key molecular effectors of microparticle formation and IL-1beta release, thus, opening new strategies for the treatment of neuroinflammatory diseases.
Spontaneous mutations are a common phenomenon, occurring in both germ-line and somatic genomes. They may have deleterious consequences including the development of genetic disorders or, when occurring in somatic tissues, may participate in the process of carcinogenesis. Similar to many mutational hotspots, the G1138A mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene occurs at a CpG site. In germ-line tissues, the G1138A mutation results in achondroplasia and has one of the highest spontaneous mutation rates in the human genome. Although not at the G1138A site, there are increased rates of other somatic mutations in the FGFR3 gene that have been reported in multiple myeloma cases associated with a translocation, t (4; 14). The chromosome-4 break points in this translocation are clustered in a 70-kb region centromeric to the FGFR3 gene. We hypothesized that this translocation may impact the mutation rate at the G1138A site. We employed a semi-quantitative polymerase chain reaction-based assay to measure the frequency of this mutation in multiple myeloma cell lines carrying t (4; 14) translocation. Analysis of these cell lines varied from no change to a 10-fold increase in the mutation frequency compared with normal controls. In general, there was an increase in the G1138A mutational frequency suggesting that chromosomal rearrangement can affect the stability of the CpG hotspots.
Deep brain stimulation of the nucleus accumbens (NAC) region is an effective therapeutic avenue for several psychiatric disorders that are not responsive to traditional treatment strategies. Nonetheless, the mechanisms by which DBS achieves therapeutic effects remain unclear. We showed previously that high-frequency (HF) NAC DBS suppressed pyramidal cell firing and enhanced slow local field potential (LFP) oscillations in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) via antidromic activation of corticostriatal recurrent inhibition. Using simultaneous multisite LFP recordings in urethane-anesthetized rats, we now show that NAC DBS delivered for 90 min at high or low frequency (LF) selectively affects spontaneous and evoked LFP oscillatory power and coherence within and between the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), lateral OFC, mediodorsal thalamus (MD), and NAC. Compared with LF or sham DBS, HF DBS enhanced spontaneous slow oscillations and potentiated evoked LFP responses only in OFC. HF DBS also produced widespread increases in spontaneous beta and gamma power and enhanced coherent beta activity between MD and all other regions. In contrast, LF DBS elevated theta power in MD and NAC. Analysis of acute NAC-induced oscillations showed that HF DBS increased and LF DBS decreased induced relative gamma coherence compared with sham DBS. These data suggest that HF (therapeutic) and LF (possibly deleterious) NAC DBS produce distinct region-specific and frequency band-specific changes in LFP oscillations. NAC DBS may achieve therapeutic effects by enhancing rhythmicity and synchronous inhibition within and between afferent structures, thereby normalizing function of a neural circuit that shows aberrant activity in obsessive-compulsive disorder and depression.
Mice actively explore their environment by rhythmically sweeping their whiskers. As a consequence, neuronal activity in somatosensory pathways is modulated by the frequency of whisker movement. The potential role of rhythmic neuronal activity for the integration and consolidation of sensory signals, however, remains unexplored. Here, we show that a brief period of rhythmic whisker stimulation in anesthetized mice resulted in a frequency-specific long-lasting increase in the amplitude of somatosensory-evoked potentials in the contralateral primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex. Mapping of evoked potentials and intracortical recordings revealed that, in addition to potentiation in layers IV and II/III of the barrel cortex, rhythmic whisker stimulation induced a decrease of somatosensory-evoked responses in the supragranular layers of the motor cortex. To assess whether rhythmic sensory input-based plasticity might arise in natural settings, we exposed mice to environmental enrichment. We found that it resulted in somatosensory-evoked responses of increased amplitude, highlighting the influence of previous sensory experience in shaping sensory responses. Importantly, environmental enrichment-induced plasticity occluded further potentiation by rhythmic stimulation, indicating that both phenomena share common mechanisms. Overall, our results suggest that natural, rhythmic patterns of whisker activity can modify the cerebral processing of sensory information, providing a possible mechanism for learning during sensory perception.
The frontal eye field (FEF) is a cortical structure involved in cognitive aspects of eye movement control. Neurons in the FEF, as in most of cerebral cortex, primarily represent contralateral space. They fire for visual stimuli in the contralateral field and for saccadic eye movements made to those stimuli. Yet many FEF neurons engage in sophisticated functions that require flexible spatial representations such as shifting receptive fields and vector subtraction. Such functions require knowledge about all of space, including the ipsilateral hemifield. How does the FEF gain access to ipsilateral information? Here, we provide evidence that one source of ipsilateral information may be the opposite superior colliculus (SC) in the midbrain. We physiologically identified neurons in the FEF that receive input from the opposite SC, same-side SC, or both. We found a striking structure-function relationship: the laterality of the response field of an FEF neuron was predicted by the laterality of its SC inputs. FEF neurons with input from the opposite SC had ipsilateral fields, whereas neurons with input from the same-side SC had contralateral fields. FEF neurons with input from both SCs had lateralized fields that could point in any direction. The results suggest that signals from the two SCs provide each FEF with information about all of visual space, a prerequisite for higher level sensorimotor computations.
Learning to predict upcoming outcomes based on environmental cues is essential for adaptative behavior. In monkeys, midbrain dopaminergic neurons code two statistical properties of reward: a prediction error at the outcome and uncertainty during the delay period between cues and outcomes. Although the hippocampus is sensitive to reward processing, and hippocampal-midbrain functional interactions are well documented, it is unknown whether it also codes the statistical properties of reward information. To address this question, we recorded local field potentials from intracranial electrodes in human hippocampus while subjects learned to associate cues of slot machines with various monetary reward probabilities (P). We found that the amplitudes of negative event-related potentials covaried with uncertainty at the outcome, being maximal for P = 0.5 and minimal for P = 0 and P = 1, regardless of winning or not. These results show that the hippocampus computes an uncertainty signal that may constitute a fundamental mechanism underlying the role of this brain region in a number of functions, including attention-based learning, associative learning, probabilistic classification, and binding of stimulus elements.
Hyperactivation of NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) results in excitotoxicity, contributing to damage in stroke and neurodegenerative disorders. NMDARs are generally comprised of NR1/NR2 subunits but may contain modulatory NR3 subunits. Inclusion of NR3 subunits reduces the amplitude and dramatically decreases the Ca2+ permeability of NMDAR-associated channels in heterologous expression systems and in transgenic mice. Since excessive Ca2+ influx into neurons is a crucial step for excitotoxicity, we asked whether NR3A subunits are neuroprotective. To address this question, we subjected neurons genetically lacking NR3A to various forms of excitotoxic insult. We found that cultured neurons prepared from NR3A knock-out (KO) mice displayed greater sensitivity to damage by NMDA application than wild-type (WT) neurons. In vivo, neonatal, but not adult, WT mice contain NR3A in the cortex, and neonatal NR3A KO mice manifested more damage than WT after hypoxia-ischemia. In adult retina, one location where high levels of NR3A normally persist into adulthood, injection of NMDA into the eye killed more retinal ganglion cells in adult NR3A KO than WT mice. These data suggest that endogenous NR3A is neuroprotective. We next asked whether we could decrease excitotoxicity by overexpressing NR3A. We found that cultured neurons expressing transgenic (TG) NR3A displayed greater resistance to NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity than WT neurons. Similarly in vivo, adult NR3A TG mice subjected to focal cerebral ischemia manifested less damage than WT mice. These data suggest that endogenous NR3A protects neurons, and exogenously added NR3A increases neuroprotection and could be potentially exploited as a therapeutic.
Regions of the human temporal lobe show greater activation for speech than for other sounds. These differences may reflect intrinsically specialized domain-specific adaptations for processing speech, or they may be driven by the significant expertise we have in listening to the speech signal. To test the expertise hypothesis, we used a video-game-based paradigm that tacitly trained listeners to categorize acoustically complex, artificial nonlinguistic sounds. Before and after training, we used functional MRI to measure how expertise with these sounds modulated temporal lobe activation. Participants' ability to explicitly categorize the nonspeech sounds predicted the change in pretraining to posttraining activation in speech-sensitive regions of the left posterior superior temporal sulcus, suggesting that emergent auditory expertise may help drive this functional regionalization. Thus, seemingly domain-specific patterns of neural activation in higher cortical regions may be driven in part by experience-based restructuring of high-dimensional perceptual space.
Networks of model neurons were constructed and their activity was predicted using an iterated map based solely on the phase-resetting curves (PRCs). The predictions were quite accurate provided that the resetting to simultaneous inputs was calculated using the sum of the simultaneously active conductances, obviating the need for weak coupling assumptions. Fully synchronous activity was observed only when the slope of the PRC at a phase of zero, corresponding to spike initiation, was positive. A novel stability criterion was developed and tested for all-to-all networks of identical, identically connected neurons. When the PRC generated using N-1 simultaneously active inputs becomes too steep, the fully synchronous mode loses stability in a network of N model neurons. Therefore, the stability of synchrony can be lost by increasing the slope of this PRC either by increasing the network size or the strength of the individual synapses. Existence and stability criteria were also developed and tested for the splay mode in which neurons fire sequentially. Finally, N/M synchronous subclusters of M neurons were predicted using the intersection of parameters that supported both between-cluster splay and within-cluster synchrony. Surprisingly, the splay mode between clusters could enforce synchrony on subclusters that were incapable of synchronizing themselves. These results can be used to gain insights into the activity of networks of biological neurons whose PRCs can be measured.
Exposure to sounds during early development causes enlarged cortical representations of those sounds, leading to the commonly held view that the size of stimulus representations increases with stimulus exposure. However, representing stimuli based solely on their prevalence may be inefficient, because many frequent environmental sounds are behaviorally irrelevant. Here, we show that cortical plasticity depends not only on exposure time but also on the temporal modulation rate of the stimulus set. We examined cortical plasticity induced by early exposure to 7 kHz tone pips repeated at a slow (2 Hz), fast (15 Hz), or ethological (6 Hz) rate. Certain rat calls are modulated near 6 Hz. We found that spectral representation of 7 kHz increased only in the ethological-rate-reared animals, whereas improved entrainment of cortical neurons was seen in animals reared in the slow- and fast-rate condition. This temporal rate dependence of spectral plasticity may serve as a filtering mechanism to selectively enlarge representations of species-specific vocalizations. Furthermore, our results indicate that spectral and temporal plasticity can be separately engaged depending on the statistical properties of the input stimuli.
Although sodium-activated potassium channels (KNa) have been suggested to shape various firing patterns in neurons, including action potential repolarization, their requirement for high concentrations of Na+ to gate conflicts with this view. We characterized KNa channels in adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Using immunohistochemistry, we found ubiquitous expression of the Slack KNa channel subunit in small-, medium-, and large-diameter DRG neurons. Basal KNa channel activity could be recorded from cell-attached patches of acutely dissociated neurons bathed in physiological saline, and yet in excised inside-out membrane patches, the Na+ EC50 for KNa channels was typically high, approximately 50 mM. In some cases, however, KNa channel activity remained considerable after initial patch excision but decreased rapidly over time. Channel activity was restored in patches with high Na+. The channel rundown after initial excision suggested that modulation of channels might be occurring through a diffusible cytoplasmic factor. Sequence analysis indicated that the Slack channel contains a putative nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-binding site; accordingly, we examined the modulation of native KNa and Slack channels by NAD+. In inside-out-excised neuronal patch recordings, we found a decrease in the Na+ EC50 for KNa channels from approximately 50 to approximately 20 mM when NAD+ was included in the perfusate. NAD+ also potentiated recombinant Slack channel activity. NAD+ modulation may allow KNa channels to operate under physiologically relevant levels of intracellular Na+ and hence provides an explanation as to how KNa channel can control normal neuronal excitability.
Reticulon 3 (RTN3) has been shown to mark a distinct and abundant population of dystrophic neurites named RTN3 immunoreactive dystrophic neurites (RIDNs) in patients' brains of Alzheimer disease (AD). Transgenic mice expressing RTN3 (Tg-RTN3) also spontaneously develop RIDNs. To determine whether RIDNs formed in Tg-RTN3 mice would ever naturally occur in the nontransgenic mouse brain, we targeted our examination to elderly mouse brains on the basis that AD is an age-dependent neurodegenerative disease where the decline in cognitive function becomes progressively increased during the course of the disease. Here, we demonstrate that the distribution of RIDNs is abundant, rather than sporadic, in elderly but not young mouse brains. RIDNs in the elderly brain have two distinct populations: abundantly dispersed RIDNs that can only be marked by RTN3, and less abundantly clustered RIDNs that can be marked by multiple proteins including RTN3, ubiquitin, and phosphorylated neurofilament. The abundance of RIDNs in Tg-RTN3 mice at the age of 3 months resembles that of 24-month-old wild type mice, suggesting that this animal model mimics and accelerates the natural occurrence of RIDNs. Importantly, we demonstrate that preformed RIDNs appear to reduce dendritic spine density and synaptic function. Further analysis from mechanistic studies suggests that elevated levels of RTN3 lead to an imbalance in the axonal transport of RTN3, which results in the accumulation of RTN3 in swollen neurites. Collectively, these results suggest that blocking the formation of RIDNs may be a promising strategy to impede cognitive decline in the elderly and in AD patients.
We studied the peripheral motor axons of the two pyloric dilator (PD) neurons of the stomatogastric ganglion in the lobster, Homarus americanus. Intracellular recordings from the motor nerve showed both fast and slow voltage- and activity-dependent dynamics. During rhythmic bursts, the PD axons displayed changes in spike amplitude and duration. Pharmacological experiments and the voltage dependence of these phenomena suggest that inactivation of sodium and A-type potassium channels are responsible. In addition, the &quot;resting&quot; membrane potential was dependent on ongoing spike or burst activity, with more hyperpolarized values when activity was strong. Nerve stimulations, pharmacological block and current clamp experiments suggest that this is due to a functional antagonism between a slow after-hyperpolarization (sAHP) and inward rectification through hyperpolarization-activated current (IH). Dopamine application resulted in modest depolarization and &quot;ectopic&quot; peripheral spike initiation in the absence of centrally generated activity. This effect was blocked by CsCl and ZD7288, consistent with a role of IH. High frequency nerve stimulation inhibited peripheral spike initiation for several seconds, presumably due to the sAHP. Both during normal bursting activity and antidromic nerve stimulation, the conduction delay over the length of the peripheral nerve changed in a complex manner. This suggests that axonal membrane dynamics can have a substantial effect on the temporal fidelity of spike patterns propagated from a spike initiation site to a synaptic target, and that neuromodulators can influence the extent to which spike patterns are modified.

Many nocturnal insects depend on vision for daily life and have evolved different strategies to improve their visual capabilities in dim light. Neural summation of visual signals is one strategy to improve visual performance, and this is likely to be especially important for insects with apposition compound eyes. Here we develop a model to determine the optimum spatiotemporal sampling of natural scenes at gradually decreasing light levels. Image anisotropy has a strong influence on the receptive field properties predicted to be optimal at low light intensities. Spatial summation between visual channels is predicted to extend more strongly in the direction with higher correlations between the input signals. Increased spatiotemporal summation increases signal-to-noise ratio at low frequencies but sacrifices signal-to-noise ratio at higher frequencies. These results, while obtained from a model of the insect visual system, are likely to apply to visual systems in general.
