


Our human visual system exploits spatiotemporal regularity to interpret incoming visual signals. With a dynamic stimulus sequence of four collinear bars (predictors) appearing consecutively toward the fovea, followed by a target bar with varying contrasts, we have previously found that this predictable spatiotemporal stimulus structure enhances target detection performance and its underlying neural process starts in the primary visual cortex (area V1). However, the relative contribution of V1 lateral and feedback connections in the processing of spatiotemporal regularity remains unclear. In this study we measured human contrast detection of a briefly presented foveal target that was embedded in a dynamic collinear predictor-target sequence. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to selectively disrupt V1 horizontal and feedback connections in the processing of predictors. The coil was positioned over a cortical location corresponding to the location of the last predictor prior to target onset. Single-pulse TMS at an intensity of 10% below phosphene thresholdwas delivered at 20 or 90ms after the predictor onset. Our analysis revealed that the delivery of TMS at both time windows equally reduced, but did not abolish, the facilitation effect of the predictors on target detection. Furthermore, if the predictors' ordination was randomized to suppress V1 lateral connections, the TMS disruption was significantly more evident at 20ms than at 90-ms time window. We suggest that both lateral and feedback connections contribute to the encoding of spatiotemporal regularity in V1. These findings develop understanding of how our visual system exploits spatiotemporal regularity to facilitate the efficiency of visual perception.
Early life stress can permanently alter functioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which regulates the stress response and influences the perception of pain. Chronic pelvic pain patients commonly report having experienced childhood neglect or abuse, which increases the likelihood of presenting with comorbid chronic pain and/or mood disorders. Animal models of neonatal stress commonly display enhanced anxiety-like behaviors, colorectal hypersensitivity, and disruption of proper neuro-immune interactions in adulthood. Here, we tested the hypothesis that early life stress impacts vaginal sensitivity by exposing mice to neonatal maternal separation (NMS) for 3h/day during the first two (NMS14) or three (NMS21) postnatal weeks. As adults, female mice underwent vaginal balloon distension (VBD), which was also considered an acute stress. Before or after VBD, mice were assessed for anxiety-like behavior, hindpaw sensitivity, and changes in gene and protein expression related to HPA axis function and regulation. NMS21 mice displayed significantly increased vaginal sensitivity compared to nave mice, as well as significantly reduced anxiety-like behavior at baseline, which was heightened following VBD. NMS21 mice exhibited significant thermal and mechanical hindpaw hypersensitivity at baseline and following VBD. NMS14 mice displayed no change in anxiety-like behavior and only exhibited significantly increased hindpaw mechanical and thermal sensitivity following VBD. Centrally, a significant decrease in negative regulation of the HPA axis was observed in the hypothalamus and hippocampus of NMS21 mice. Peripherally, NMS and VBD affected the expression of inflammatory mediators in the vagina and bladder. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor and transient receptor potential (TRP) channel protein expression was also significantly, and differentially, affected in vagina, bladder, and colon by both NMS and VBD. Together these data indicate that NMS affects both central and peripheral aspects of the HPA axis, which may drive changes in vaginal sensitivity and the development of comorbid chronic pain and mood disorders.
We examined the difference in cerebral function alterations between drug-induced blepharospasm patients and essential blepharospasm (EB) patients by using positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose. Cerebral glucose metabolism was examined in 21 patients with drug-induced blepharospasm (5 men and 16 women; mean age, 53.1 [range, 29-78] years), 21 essential EB patients (5 men and 16 women; mean age, 53.0 [range, 33-72] years) and 24 healthy subjects (6 men and 18 women; mean age, 57.9 [range, 22-78] years) with long-term history of benzodiazepines use (drug healthy subjects). Drug-induced blepharospasm patients developed symptoms while taking benzodiazepines or thienodiazepines. Sixty-three normal volunteers (15 men and 48 women; mean age, 53.6 [range, 20-70] years) were examined as controls. Differences between the patient groups and control group were examined by statistical parametric mapping. Additionally, we defined regions of interests on both sides of the thalamus, caudate nucleus, anterior putamen, posterior putamen and primary somatosensory area. The differences between groups were tested using two-sample t-tests with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. Cerebral glucose hypermetabolism on both side of the thalamus was detected in drug-induced blepharospasm, EB patients and drug healthy subjects by statistical parametric mapping. In the analysis of regions of interest, glucose metabolism in both sides of the thalamus in the drug-induced blepharospasm group was significantly lower than that in the EB group. Moreover, we observed glucose hypermetabolism in the anterior and posterior putamen bilaterally in EB group but not in drug-induced blepharospasm group and drug healthy subjects. Long-term regimens of benzodiazepines or thienodiazepines may cause down-regulation of benzodiazepine receptors in the brain. We suggest that the functional brain alteration in drug-induced blepharospasm patients is similar to that in EB patients, and that alteration of the GABAergic system might be related to the pathology of both blepharospasm types.
Clinical observations suggested that gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) protects nerve cells against death but the direct proofs are missing. Here, we combined several approaches to investigate GHB capacity to protect human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells against hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced death. To increase the patho-physiological relevancy of our study, we used native SH-SY5Y cells and SH-SY5Y cells stably transfected with the wild-type amyloid-precursor-protein (APPwt) or control-vector-pCEP4. Trypan Blue exclusion and MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium-bromide) assays combined with pharmacological analyses showed that H2O2 reduced native and genetically modified cell viability and APPwt-transfected cells were the most vulnerable. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and activated caspase-3 staining assessed by flow cytometry revealed a basally elevated apoptotic signal in APPwt-transfected cells. Reverse-transcription, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blotting showed that mRNA and protein basal ratios of apoptotic modulators Bax/Bcl-2 were also high in APPwt-transfected cells. GHB efficiently and dose-dependently rescued native and genetically modified cells from H2O2-induced death. Interestingly, GHB, which strongly decreased elevated basal levels of TUNEL-staining, activated caspase 3-labeling and Bax/Bcl-2 in APPwt-transfected cells, also counteracted H2O2-evoked increased apoptotic markers in native and genetically modified SH-SY5Y cells. Since GHB did not promote cell proliferation, anti-apoptotic action through the down-regulation of Bax/Bcl-2 ratios and/or caspase 3 activity appears as a critical mechanism involved in GHB-induced protection of SH-SY5Y cells against APPwt-overexpression- or H2O2-evoked death. Altogether, these results, providing multi-parametric evidence for the existence of neuroprotective action of GHB, also open interesting perspectives for the development of GHB analog-based strategies against neurodegeneration or nerve cell death.
Executive control of attention regulates our thoughts, emotion and behavior. Individual differences in executive control are associated with task-related differences in brain activity. But it is unknown whether attentional differences depend on endogenous (resting state) brain activity and to what extent regional fluctuations and functional connectivity contribute to individual variations in executive control processing. Here, we explored the potential contribution of intrinsic brain activity to executive control by using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) as an index of spontaneous brain activity, we found that ALFF in the right precuneus (PCUN) and the medial part of left superior frontal gyrus (msFC) was significantly correlated with the efficiency of executive control processing. Crucially, the strengths of functional connectivity between the right PCUN/left msFC and distributed brain regions, including the left fusiform gyrus, right inferior frontal gyrus, left superior frontal gyrus and right precentral gyrus, were correlated with individual differences in executive performance. Together, the ALFF and functional connectivity accounted for 67% of the variability in behavioral performance. Moreover, the strength of functional connectivity between specific regions could predict more individual variability in executive control performance than regionally specific fluctuations. In conclusion, our findings suggest that spontaneous brain activity may reflect or underpin executive control of attention. It will provide new insights into the origins of inter-individual variability in human executive control processing.
Previous studies have shown that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) experience extensive problems during dual tasking. Up to now, dual-task interference in PD has mainly been investigated in the context of gait research. However, the simultaneous performance of two different tasks is also a prerequisite to efficiently perform many other tasks in daily life, including upper limb tasks. To address this issue, this study investigated the effect of a secondary cognitive task on the performance of handwriting in patients with PD. Eighteen PD patients and 11 age-matched controls performed a writing task involving the production of repetitive loops under single- and dual-task conditions. The secondary task consisted of counting high and low tones during writing. The writing tests were performed with two amplitudes (0.6 and 1.0cm) using a writing tablet. Results showed that dual-task performance was affected in PD patients versus controls. Dual tasking reduced writing amplitude in PD patients, but not in healthy controls (p=0.046). Patients' writing size was mainly reduced during the small-amplitude condition (small amplitude p=0.017; large amplitude p=0.310). This suggests that the control of writing at small amplitudes requires more compensational brain-processing recourses in PD and is as such less automatic than writing at large amplitudes. In addition, there was a larger dual-task effect on the secondary task in PD patients than controls (p=0.025). The writing tests on the writing tablet proved highly correlated to daily life writing as measured by the 'Systematic Screening of Handwriting Difficulties' test (SOS-test) and other manual dexterity tasks, particularly during dual-task conditions. Taken together, these results provide additional insights into the motor control of handwriting and the effects of dual tasking during upper limb movements in patients with PD.
Double transgenic mice expressing mutant amyloid precursor protein (APPswe) and mutant presenilin 1 (PS1dE9) are a model of Alzheimer-type amyloidosis and are widely used in experimental studies. In the present work, the relationships between brain and plasma amyloid- peptide (A) levels and cognitive impairments were examined in male APPswe/PS1dE9 double transgenic mice at different ages. When compared with non-transgenic littermates, APPswe/PS1dE9 mice exhibited significant learning deficits from the age of 6months (M6), which were aggravated at later stages of life (M8 and M12). Sporadic brain amyloid plaques were observed in mice as early as M3 and progressively increased in number and size up to M12. A similar increase was observed in brain insoluble A levels as assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In particular, the levels of brain insoluble A peptides rose steeply from M4 to M6. Interestingly, this pronounced amyloid deposition was accompanied by a temporary fall in the concentration of brain soluble and membrane-bound A peptides at M6 that rose again at M8 and M12. The plasma levels of A40 and A42 decreased with advancing age up to M8, when they stabilized at M12. This decrease in plasma A levels coincided with the observed increase in insoluble brain A levels. These results could be useful for developing plasma A levels as possible biomarkers of the cerebral amyloidosis and provide advances in the knowledge of the A peptide biochemical changes that occur in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Mastication is one of the most important oral functions, and the period during which mastication is acquired overlaps with the term of rapid development and maturation of the neural systems. In particular, the acquisition period after weaning is related to the potential onset of mental disorders. However, the roles of mastication during this period for brain development remain largely unknown. Therefore, we used a series of standard behavioral analyses, assessment of hippocampal cell proliferation, and the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), TrkB, and Akt1 in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of mice to investigate the effects of post-weaning mastication on brain function. We fed 21-day-old C57BL6/J male mice either a hard or a soft diet for 4weeks and conducted a series of standard behavioral tests from 7weeks of age. Further, histological analysis with bromodeoxyuridine was performed to compare hippocampal cell proliferation at 7 and 14weeks of age. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to compare BDNF, TrkB, and Akt1 expression in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of 14-week-old mice. Compared to mice fed a hard diet (HDM), soft-diet mice (SDM) showed behavioral impairments, including decreased home cage activity, increased open field test activity, and deficits in prepulse inhibition. These results were similar to those observed in mouse models of schizophrenia. However, no effects were observed on anxiety-like behaviors or memory/learning tests. Compared to HDM, SDM showed significantly decreased hippocampal cell proliferation and hippocampal BDNF and Akt1 gene expression at 14weeks of age. A soft diet after weaning may have resulted in histological and molecular changes in the hippocampus and influenced outcomes of behavioral tests related to mental disorders. Our findings suggest that soft-diet feeding after weaning may affect both physical and mental development of mice, and may increase vulnerability to mental disorders.
Neonatal stroke occurs in approximately 1/4000 live births and results in life-long neurological impairments: e.g., cerebral palsy. Currently, there is no evidence-based specific treatment for neonates with stroke. Several studies have reported the benefits of umbilical cord blood (UCB) cell treatment in rodent models of neonatal brain injury. However, all of the studies examined the effects of administering either the UCB mononuclear cell fraction or UCB-derived mesenchymal stem cells in neonatal rat models. The objective of this study was to examine the effects of human UCB CD34(+) cells (hematopoietic stem cell/endothelial progenitor cells) in a mouse model of neonatal stroke, which we recently developed. On postnatal day 12, immunocompromized (SCID) mice underwent permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCAO). Forty-eight hours after MCAO, human UCB CD34(+) cells (110(5)cells) were injected intravenously into the mice. The area in which cerebral blood flow (CBF) was maintained was temporarily larger in the cell-treated group than in the phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated group at 24h after treatment. With cell treatment, the percent loss of ipsilateral hemispheric volume was significantly ameliorated (21.51.9%) compared with the PBS group (25.65.1%) when assessed at 7weeks after MCAO. The cell-treated group did not exhibit significant differences from the PBS group in either rotarod (23846s in the sham-surgery group, 17549s in the PBS group, 20354s in the cell-treated group) or open-field tests. The intravenous administration of human UCB CD34(+) cells modestly reduced histological ischemic brain damage after neonatal stroke in mice, with a transient augmentation of CBF in the peri-infarct area.

Purkinje cell (PC) firing represents the sole output from the cerebellar cortex onto the deep cerebellar and vestibular nuclei. Here, we explored the different modes of PC firing in alert mice by extracellular recording. We confirm the existence of a tonic and/or bursting and quiescent modes corresponding to UP and DOWN state, respectively. We demonstrate the existence of a novel 600-Hz buzz UP state of firing characterized by simple spikes (SS) of very small amplitude. Climbing fiber (CF) input is able to switch the 600-Hz buzz to the DOWN state, as for the classical UP-to-DOWN state transition. Conversely, the CF input can initiate a typical SS pattern terminating into 600-Hz buzz. The 600-Hz buzz was transiently suppressed by whisker pad stimulation demonstrating that it remained responsive to peripheral input. It must not be mistaken for a DOWN state or the sign of PC inhibition. Complex spike (CS) frequency was increased during the 600-Hz buzz, indicating that this PC output actively contributes to the cerebello-olivary loop by triggering a disinhibition of the inferior olive. During the 600-Hz buzz, the first depolarizing component of the CS was reduced and the second depolarizing component was suppressed. Consistent with our experimental observations, using a 559-compartment single-PC model - in which PC UP state (of about -43mV) was obtained by the combined action of large tonic AMPA conductances and counterbalancing GABAergic inhibition - removal of this inhibition produced the 600-Hz buzz; the simulated buzz frequency decreased following an artificial CS.
Placebo treatment can alter brain activation in regions implicated in affective processing and cognitive control of emotions. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study investigated whether a placebo can additionally modulate visual cortex activity and connectivity during affective picture perception. The participants underwent a retest design where they were presented with disgusting, fear-eliciting and neutral pictures both with, and without a placebo (inert pill presented with the suggestion that it can reduce disgust symptoms). The placebo provoked a strong decrease in experienced disgust. This was accompanied by a reduced activation of the primary visual cortex, which showed reduced interaction with the amygdala and the insula. Accordingly, placebos are able to affect basic perceptive processes.
Drug addiction behavior that is established and maintained by psychostimulants has been shown to be associated with the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. Cocaine has been used for most prior studies testing this effect of psychostimulants and therefore relatively little is known about its counterpart amphetamine (AMP). To fill this gap, the present study was designed to test whether BDNF mRNA expression levels in the DA terminal regions were changed specifically by d-AMP-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) followed by drug-primed reinstatement. The dose of d-AMP, 1mg/kg, was confirmed to significantly induce CPP. Using this dose, a group of rats was initially subjected to d-AMP CPP, which was followed by entry into an extinction protocol with an additional 3-day withdrawal before a drug-primed reinstatement test was carried out. Following extinction of d-AMP CPP, a lower dose of d-AMP, namely 0.75mg/kg, was able to significantly reinstate CPP. The BDNF mRNA levels in the selected brain areas were determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) after the CPP and reinstatement. The BDNF mRNA level in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) was significantly increased after the reinstatement, but not the CPP test. And, none of the other four assessed brain areas showed any change in BDNF mRNA level after d-AMP CPP or reinstatement. These findings support the notion that BDNF is involved in drug-seeking behavior and indicate that d-AMP reinstatement after extinction may be linked to an increase in BDNF mRNA expression in the mPFC.
The countermanding paradigm investigates the ability to withhold a response when a stop signal is presented occasionally. The race model (Logan and Cowan, 1984) was developed to account for performance in humans and to estimate the stop signal response time (SSRT). This model has yet to be fully validated for countermanding performance in rats. Furthermore, response adjustments observed in human performance of the task have not been examined in rodents. Male Wistar rats were trained to respond to a visual stimulus (go signal) by pressing a lever below that stimulus, but to countermand the lever press (25% of trials) subsequent to an auditory tone (stop signal) presented after a variable delay. We found decreased inhibitory success as stop signal delay (SSD) increased and estimated a SSRT of 157ms. As expected by the race model, response time (RT) of movements that escaped inhibition: (1) were faster than responses made in the absence of a stop signal; (2) lengthened with increasing SSD; and (3) were predictable by the race model. In addition, responses were slower after stop trial errors, suggestive of error monitoring. Amphetamine (AMPH) (0.25, 0.5mg/kg) resulted in faster go trial RTs, baseline-dependent changes in SSRT and attenuated response adjustments. These findings demonstrate that the race model of countermanding performance, applied successfully in human and nonhuman primate models, can be employed in the countermanding performance of rodents. This is the first study to reveal response adjustments and AMPH-induced alterations of response adjustments in rodent countermanding.
It is well known that the H-reflex amplitude decreases during passive muscle lengthening in comparison with passive shortening. However, this decrease in spinal synaptic efficacy observed during passive lengthening seems to be lesser during eccentric voluntary contraction. The aim of the present study was to examine whether spinal excitability during lengthening condition could be modulated by magnetic brain stimulation. H reflexes of the triceps surae muscles were elicited on 10 young healthy subjects, and conditioned by a sub-threshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The conditioning stimulation was applied over the M1 area of triceps surae muscles at an intensity below motor threshold with a conditioning-test interval of 5ms. Conditioned and non-conditioned H-reflexes were elicited at rest, during passive lengthening and shortening, and during submaximal contractions (concentric, eccentric and isometric). During passive and active lengthening, H reflexes conditioned by a sub-threshold TMS pulse increased on average by 50% compared with non-conditioned responses. No significant effect was found during isometric and concentric conditions. Activation of the corticospinal pathway would partially cancel inhibitions caused by muscle stretch, and according to the time-delayed effect, this result suggested the existence of a specific polysynaptic pathway. In additional experiments, H responses were conditioned by cervico-medullary stimulations, showing that the modulation described by the previous results involves subcortical mechanisms. This study provides further evidences that the modulation of the final cortico-spinal command reaching the muscle depends on a central mechanism that controls peripheral input, such as Ia afference discharge during lengthening.
Activation of the dopaminergic mesolimbic reward circuit that originates in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is postulated to preferentially suppress emotional responses to noxious stimuli, and presumably contributes to the addictive liability of strong analgesics. VTA dopamine neurons are activated via cholinergic afferents and microinjection of carbachol (cholinergic agonist) into VTA is rewarding. Here, we evaluated regional differences within VTA in the capacity of carbachol to suppress rats' affective response to pain (vocalization afterdischarges, VADs) and to support conditioned place preference (CPP) learning. As carbachol is a non-specific agonist, muscarinic and nicotinic receptor involvement was assessed by administering atropine (muscarinic antagonist) and mecamylamine (nicotinic antagonist) into VTA prior to carbachol treatment. Unilateral injections of carbachol (4g) into anterior VTA (aVTA) and posterior VTA (pVTA) suppressed VADs and supported CPP; whereas, injections into midVTA failed to effect either VADs or CPP. These findings corroborate the hypothesis that the neural substrates underlying affective analgesia and reward overlap. However, the extent of the overlap was only partial. Whereas both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors contributed to carbachol-induced affective analgesia in aVTA, only muscarinic receptors mediated the analgesic action of carbachol in pVTA. The rewarding effects of carbachol are mediated by the activation of both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in both aVTA and pVTA. The results indicate that analgesia and reward are mediated by separate cholinergic mechanisms within pVTA. Nicotinic receptor antagonism within pVTA failed to attenuate carbachol-induced analgesia, but prevented carbachol-induced reward. As addictive liability of analgesics stem from their rewarding properties, the present findings suggest that these processes can be neuropharmacologically separated within pVTA.
Whole-cell or cell-attached analysis was carried out in dopamine (DA) D2 receptor (D2R) knock-out (KO) mice to elucidate the function of this receptor in the regulation of GABAergic synaptic transmission onto striatal cholinergic interneurons as well as their spontaneous firing. In slice preparation obtained from wild-type mice, evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) showed frequency-dependent suppression, and this suppression significantly decreased in the presence of a D2-like receptor antagonist or in D2R KO mice. Contribution of N-type calcium channel was also significantly reduced in the striatal cholinergic interneurons of the D2R KO mice compared with that in the wild-type mice. Spontaneous firing of striatal cholinergic interneurons was inhibited by 5- or 10-Hz stimulation, and the suppression was decreased in the presence of a D2-like receptor antagonist or in D2R KO mice. These findings substantiate the physiological role of D2R in the regulation of GABAergic synaptic transmission onto striatal cholinergic interneurons as well as their excitability, confirming the tight coupling between D2R and N-type calcium channels in the regulation of GABA release.
Increasing evidence has indicated that immune challenge by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces depressive-like behavior, neuroinflammatory response and upregulates phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4), an enzyme that specifically hydrolyzes cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). However, whether the potential PDE4 inhibitor etazolate prevents the LPS-induced depressive-like behavior remains unclear. Here using a model of depression induced by the repeated administration of LPS during 16days, and then investigated the influence of LPS on the expression of PDE4, interleukin-1 (IL-1) and antidepressant action of etazolate in mice through forced swimming, novelty suppressed feeding, sucrose preference and open-field tests. Our results showed that etazolate pretreatment facilitated the recovery from weight loss and prevented the depressive-like behavior induced by repeated LPS administration. Moreover, the antidepressant action of etazolate was paralleled by significantly reducing the expression levels of PDE4A, PDE4B, PDE4D and IL-1 and up-regulating the cAMP/phosphorylated cAMP response-element binding protein (pCREB)/brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice. These results indicate that the effects of etazolate on the depressive-like behavior induced by repeated LPS treatment may partially depend on the inhibition of PDE4 subtypes, the activation of the cAMP/pCREB/BDNF signaling and the anti-inflammatory responses in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex.
Cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1)-dependent signaling in the brain is known to modulate food intake. Recent evidence has actually shown that CB1 can both inhibit and stimulate food intake in fasting/refeeding conditions, depending on the specific neuronal circuits involved. However, the exact brain sites where this bimodal control is exerted and the underlying neurobiological mechanisms are not fully understood yet. Using pharmacological and electrophysiological approaches, we show that local CB1 blockade in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) increases fasting-induced hyperphagia in rats. Furthermore, local CB1 blockade in the PVN also increases the orexigenic effect of the gut hormone ghrelin in animals fed ad libitum. At the electrophysiological level, CB1 blockade in slices containing the PVN potentiates the decrease of the activity of PVN neurons induced by long-term application of ghrelin. Hence, the PVN is (one of) the site(s) where signals associated with the body's energy status determine the direction of the effects of endocannabinoid signaling on food intake.
A main component of St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum, HP) is hyperforin which has antioxidant properties in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, due to its ability to modulate NADPH oxidase and protein kinase C. Recent reports indicate that oxidative stress through NADPH oxidase activates TRPM2 channels. HP may be a useful treatment for Ca(2+) entry and oxidative stress through modulation of TRPM2 channels in the DRG. We aimed to investigate the protective role of HP on Ca(2+) entry and oxidative stress through TRPM2 channels in DRG neurons of rats. The native rat DRG neurons were used in whole-cell patch-clamp, Fura-2 and antioxidant experiments. Appropriate, nontoxic concentrations and incubation times for HP were determined in the DRG neurons by assessing cell viability. The H2O2-induced TRPM2 currents were inhibited by 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate (2-APB) and N-(p-amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid (ACA). TRPM2 current densities and cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration in the neurons were also reduced by HP (2 and 24h). In Fura-2 experiments, cytosolic Ca(2+) mobilization was reduced by voltage-gated calcium channel blockers (verapamil+diltiazem, V+D) and HP. Glutathione peroxidase activity and GSH values in the DRG were high in HP, 2-APB and V+D groups although lipid peroxidation level was low in the groups. In conclusion, we observed a protective role for HP on Ca(2+) entry through a TRPM2 channel in the DRG neurons. Since over-production of oxidative stress and Ca(2+) entry are implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain and neuronal inflammation, our findings may be relevant to the etiology and treatment of neuropathology in DRG neurons.
Mutation in presenilin 1 (PS1) is one of the leading causes of familial Alzheimer's disease (fAD). PS1 mutation exacerbates the autophagic and lysosomal pathology in AD patients, leading to accumulation of partially degraded material in bloated lysosomes and autophagosomes - a pathology that bears some resemblance to other diseases characterized by elevated lysosomal pH, like age-related macular degeneration. In this study, we examined the effect of the PS1-fAD mutation A246E on lysosomal pH and lysosomal function, and asked whether restoration of lysosomal pH could reverse some of these changes. Lysosomal pH was elevated by 0.2-0.3 pH units in human fibroblasts with the PS1-fAD mutation. The lysosomal alkalization in PS1-fAD fibroblasts was supported by a reduction in the pH-dependent cleavage of cathepsin D and by a reduction in binding of boron-dipyrromethene (BODIPY) FL-pepstatin A to the cathepsin D active site. PS1-fAD cells had increased LC3B-II/-I ratios and p62 levels, consistent with impaired lysosomal degradation and analogous to changes induced by lysosomal alkalinization with chloroquine. PS1-fAD fibroblasts had increased expression of ATP6V1B2, ATG5, BECN1 TFEB mRNA, and of ATP6V1B2, ATG5 and beclin at the protein level, consistent with chronic impairment of autophagic and lysosomal functions in the mutant cells. Critically, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) treatment reacidified lysosomal pH in mutant PS1-fAD; cAMP also increased the availability of active cathepsin D and lowered the LC3B-II/-I ratio. These results confirm a small elevation in the lysosomal pH of human PS1-fAD fibroblasts, demonstrate that this lysosomal alkalization is associated with chronic changes in autophagy and degradation, and suggest that treatment to reacidify the lysosomes with cAMP can reverse these changes.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded to explore, for the first time, the electrophysiological correlates of the taste-visual cross-modal Stroop effect. Eighteen healthy participants were presented with a taste stimulus and a food image, and asked to categorize the image as &quot;sweet&quot; or &quot;sour&quot; by pressing the relevant button as quickly as possible. Accurate categorization of the image was faster when it was presented with a congruent taste stimulus (e.g., sour taste/image of lemon) than with an incongruent one (e.g., sour taste/image of ice cream). ERP analyses revealed a negative difference component (ND430-620) between 430 and 620ms in the taste-visual cross-modal Stroop interference. Dipole source analysis of the difference wave (incongruent minus congruent) indicated that two generators localized in the prefrontal cortex and the parahippocampal gyrus contributed to this taste-visual cross-modal Stroop effect. This result suggests that the prefrontal cortex is associated with the process of conflict control in the taste-visual cross-modal Stroop effect. Also, we speculate that the parahippocampal gyrus is associated with the process of discordant information in the taste-visual cross-modal Stroop effect.
The Roman Low- and High-Avoidance rat strains (RLA-I vs RHA-I) have been bidirectionally selected and bred according to their performance in the two-way active avoidance response in the shuttle-box test. Numerous studies have reported a pronounced divergence in emotionality between the two rat strains including differences in novelty seeking, anxiety, stress coping, and susceptibility to addictive substances. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms behind these divergent phenotypes are not known. Here, we determined impulsivity using the 5-choice serial reaction time task and levels of serotonin transporter (SERT), 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(1A) receptor binding using highly specific radioligands ((3)H-escitalopram, (3)H-MDL100907 and (3)H-WAY100635) and mGlu2/3 receptor binding ((3)H-LY341495) using receptor autoradiography in fronto-cortical sections from RLA-I (n=8) and RHA-I (n=8) male rats. In the more impulsive RHA-I rats, 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(1A) and SERT binding in the frontal cortex was significantly higher compared to RLA-I rats. In contrast, mGlu2/3 receptor binding was decreased by 40% in RHA-I rats compared to RLA-I rats. To differentiate between mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptor protein levels, these were further studied using western blotting, which showed non-detectable levels of mGlu2 receptor protein in RHA rats, while no differences were observed for mGlu3 receptor protein levels. Collectively, these data show general congenital differences in the serotonergic system and a pronounced difference in mGlu2 receptor protein levels. We suggest that the differences in the serotonergic system may mediate some of the phenotypic characteristics in this strain such as hyper-impulsivity and susceptibility to drug addiction.
Under normal and dietary iron deficiency conditions, the BXD recombinant inbred (RI) strains of mice show large variations in regional brain iron concentration, particularly in the ventral midbrain (VMB). In a study utilizing just one of the BXD strains, diurnal changes in subregional brain iron concentration were found, which were dependent on the brain region and sex of the mice. The focus of this study was to determine if diurnal changes in VMB can be found across other BXD RI strains and whether a diurnal effect would be common to all strains or variable across strains similar to the large strain variability in iron concentrations determined during the first part of the light phase. Eight RI (BXD type) strains of mice of both sexes were selected for this study. Mice were sacrificed at postnatal day 120: half in the light phase (LP) and half in the dark phase (DP) of the light-dark cycle. Iron concentrations were determined in VMB, which was the primary region of interest, and five other brain regions. Exploratory analysis was also done on liver and spleen iron concentrations to assess for diurnal changes. Three strains showed clear diurnal variation in iron in the VMB and the others strains showed diurnal variations in other regions. These changes were not equally apparent in both sexes. Exploratory analysis also found strainsex-dependent diurnal differences in spleen and liver iron. In conclusion, significant brain-regional-specific diurnal changes in total iron concentrations were found in a selection of BXD RI mice. Sex and strain are functional determinates of which regions will be affected and in what direction the affect will be. The study provides an animal model for future work into determining the biological and genetic basis of circadian influences on VMB iron homeostasis.
Morphologically mixed chemical/electrical synapses at axon terminals, with the electrical component formed by gap junctions, is common in the CNS of lower vertebrates. In mammalian CNS, evidence for morphologically mixed synapses has been obtained in only a few locations. Here, we used immunofluorescence approaches to examine the localization of the neuronally expressed gap junction forming protein connexin36 (Cx36) in relation to the axon terminal marker vesicular glutamate transporter-1 (vglut1) in the spinal cord and the trigeminal motor nucleus (Mo5) of rat and mouse. In adult rodents, immunolabeling for Cx36 appeared exclusively as Cx36-puncta, and was widely distributed at all rostro-caudal levels in most spinal cord laminae and in the Mo5. A high proportion of Cx36-puncta was co-localized with vglut1, forming morphologically mixed synapses on motoneurons, in intermediate spinal cord lamina, and in regions of medial lamina VII, where vglut1-containing terminals associated with Cx36 converged on neurons adjacent to the central canal. Unilateral transection of lumbar dorsal roots reduced immunolabeling of both vglut1 and Cx36 in intermediate laminae and lamina IX. Further, vglut1-terminals displaying Cx36-puncta were contacted by terminals labeled for glutamic acid decarboxylase65, which is known to be contained in presynaptic terminals on large-diameter primary afferents. Developmentally, mixed synapses begin to emerge in the spinal cord only after the second to third postnatal week and thereafter increase to adult levels. Our findings demonstrate that axon terminals of primary afferent origin form morphologically mixed synapses containing Cx36 in broadly distributed areas of adult rodent spinal cord and Mo5.






Functional MRI studies investigating the impact of HIV on the brain have implicated the involvement of fronto-striatal circuitry. However, to date there is no review and meta-analysis of this work. We systematically reviewed the literature and performed a meta-analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies in HIV-infected individuals using a well validated tool recently developed for use in fMRI, 'GingerALE'. Twenty-one studies (468 HIV+, 270 HIV- controls) were qualitatively reviewed, of which six (105 HIV+, 102 controls) utilized fMRI paradigms engaging the fronto-striatal-parietal network, making a quantitative analysis possible. Our meta-analysis revealed consistent functional differences in the left inferior frontal gyrus and caudate nucleus between infected participants and controls across these studies. This fronto-striatal dysfunction was qualitatively related to cognitive impairment, disease progression and treatment effects. Although further work needs to be done to further delineate the potentially confounding influence of substance abuse and HIV-related comorbidities, as well as HIV's effect on functional haemodynamic vascular coupling, these findings indicate that further investigation of the fronto-striatal sub-networks in HIV-infected patients is warranted.



Pro-social lying, which serves to benefit listeners, is considered more socially and morally acceptable than anti-social lying, which serves to harm listeners. However, it is still unclear whether the neural mechanisms underlying the moral judgment of pro-social lying differ from those underlying the moral judgment of anti-social lying. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the neural activities associated with moral judgment in anti- and pro-social lying. During fMRI scanning, subjects were provided with scenarios describing a protagonist's anti- and pro-social lying and were then asked to judge whether the protagonist's act was morally appropriate. The behavioral data showed that anti-social lying was mostly judged to be morally inappropriate and that pro-social lying was mainly judged to be morally appropriate. The functional imaging data revealed dissociable neural systems for moral judgment in anti- and pro-social lying. The anti-social lying, which was judged to be morally inappropriate, was associated with increased activity in the right ventromedial prefrontal cortex, right middle frontal gyrus, right precuneus/posterior cingulate gyrus, left posterior cingulate gyrus, and bilateral temporoparietal junction when compared with the control condition. The pro-social lying, which was judged to be morally appropriate, was associated with increased activity in the right middle temporal gyrus, right supramarginal gyrus, and the left middle cingulate gyrus when compared with the control condition. No overlapping activity was observed during the moral judgment of anti- and pro-social lying. Our data suggest that cognitive and neural processes for the moral judgment of lying are modulated by whether the lie serves to harm or benefit listeners.

Recent findings in a range of scientific disciplines are challenging the conventional wisdom regarding the etiology, classification, and treatment of psychiatric disorders. This Review focuses on the current state of the psychiatric diagnostic nosology and recent progress in three areas: genomics, neuroimaging, and therapeutics development. The accelerating pace of novel and unexpected findings is transforming the understanding of mental illness and represents a hopeful sign that the approaches and models that have sustained the field for the past 40 years are yielding to a flood of new data and presaging the emergence of a new and more powerful scientific paradigm.
Learning and memory are two of the most magical capabilities of our mind. Learning is the biological process of acquiring new knowledge about the world, and memory is the process of retaining and reconstructing that knowledge over time. Most of our knowledge of the world and most of our skills are not innate but learned. Thus, we are who we are in large part because of what we have learned and what we remember and forget. In this Review, we examine the molecular, cellular, and circuit mechanisms that underlie how memories are made, stored, retrieved, and lost.
The subcellular position of a protein is a key determinant of its function. Mounting evidence indicates that RNA localization, where specific mRNAs are transported subcellularly and subsequently translated in response to localized signals, is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism to control protein localization. On-site synthesis confers novel signaling properties to a protein and helps to maintain local proteome homeostasis. Local translation plays particularly important roles in distal neuronal compartments, and dysregulated RNA localization and translation cause defects in neuronal wiring and survival. Here, we discuss key findings in this area and possible implications of this adaptable and swift mechanism for spatial control of gene function.
Multiple synaptic adhesion molecules govern synapse formation. Here, we propose calsyntenin-3/alcadein- as a synapse organizer that specifically induces presynaptic differentiation in heterologous synapse-formation assays. Calsyntenin-3 (CST-3) is highly expressed during various postnatal periods of mouse brain development. The simultaneous knockdown of all three CSTs, but not CST-3 alone, decreases inhibitory, but not excitatory, synapse densities in cultured hippocampal neurons. Moreover, the knockdown of CSTs specifically reduces inhibitory synaptic transmission invitro and invivo. Remarkably, the loss of CSTs induces a concomitant decrease in neuron soma size in a non-cell-autonomous manner. Furthermore, -neurexins (-Nrxs) are components of a CST-3 complex involved in CST-3-mediated presynaptic differentiation. However, CST-3 does not directly bind to Nrxs. Viewed together, these data suggest that the three CSTs redundantly regulate inhibitory synapse formation, inhibitory synapse function, and neuron development in concert with Nrxs.









Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is conventionally considered a critical enzyme that involves in glycolysis for energy production. Recent previous studies have suggested that GAPDH is important in glutamate-induced neuronal excitotoxicity, while accumulated evidence also demonstrated that GAPDH nuclear translocation plays a critical role in cell death. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain largely unknown. In this study, we showed that GAPDH translocates to the nucleus in a Siah1-dependent manner upon glutamate stimulation. The nuclear GAPDH forms a protein complex with p53 and enhances p53 expression and phosphorylation. Disruption of the GAPDH-p53 interaction with an interfering peptide blocks glutamate-induced cell death and GAPDH-mediated up-regulation of p53 expression and phosphorylation. Furthermore, administration of the interfering peptide in vivo protects against ischemia-induced cell death in rats subjected to tMCAo. Our data suggest that the nuclear p53-GAPDH complex is important in regulating glutamate-mediated neuronal death and could serve as a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke treatment.

























Impulsive behavior such as steep temporal discounting is a hallmark of addiction and is associated with relapse. In pathological gamblers, discounting may be further increased by the presence of gambling-related cues in the environment, but the extent to which the gambling relatedness of task settings affects reward responses in gambling addiction is debated. In the present study, human problem gamblers made choices between immediate rewards and individually tailored larger-but-later rewards while visual gambling-related scenes were presented in the background. N = 17 participants were scanned using fMRI, whereas N = 5 additional participants completed a behavioral version of the task. Postscan craving ratings were acquired for each image, and behavioral and neuroimaging data were analyzed separately for high- and low-craving trials (median split analysis). Discounting was steeper for high versus low craving trials. Neuroimaging revealed a positive correlation with model-based subjective value in midbrain and striatum in low-craving trials that was reversed in high-craving trials. These findings reveal a modulation of striatal reward responses in gamblers by addiction-related cues, and highlight a potentially important mechanism that may contribute to relapse. Cue-induced changes in striatal delayed reward signals may lead to increased discounting of future rewards, which might in turn affect the likelihood of relapse.
A decade's research highlights a critical dissociation between automatic and controlled influences on moral judgment, which is subserved by distinct neural structures. Specifically, negative automatic emotional responses to prototypically harmful actions (e.g., pushing someone off of a footbridge) compete with controlled responses favoring the best consequences (e.g., saving five lives instead of one). It is unknown how such competitions are resolved to yield &quot;all things considered&quot; judgments. Here, we examine such integrative moral judgments. Drawing on insights from research on self-interested, value-based decision-making in humans and animals, we test a theory concerning the respective contributions of the amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) to moral judgment. Participants undergoing fMRI responded to moral dilemmas, separately evaluating options for their utility (Which does the most good?), emotional aversiveness (Which feels worse?), and overall moral acceptability. Behavioral data indicate that emotional aversiveness and utility jointly predict &quot;all things considered&quot; integrative judgments. Amygdala response tracks the emotional aversiveness of harmful utilitarian actions and overall disapproval of such actions. During such integrative moral judgments, the vmPFC is preferentially engaged relative to utilitarian and emotional assessments. Amygdala-vmPFC connectivity varies with the role played by emotional input in the task, being the lowest for pure utilitarian assessments and the highest for pure emotional assessments. These findings, which parallel those of research on self-interested economic decision-making, support the hypothesis that the amygdala provides an affective assessment of the action in question, whereas the vmPFC integrates that signal with a utilitarian assessment of expected outcomes to yield &quot;all things considered&quot; moral judgments.
The medial temporal lobe (MTL) is believed to support episodic memory, vivid recollection of a specific event situated in a particular place at a particular time. There is ample neurophysiological evidence that the MTL computes location in allocentric space and more recent evidence that the MTL also codes for time. Space and time represent a similar computational challenge; both are variables that cannot be simply calculated from the immediately available sensory information. We introduce a simple mathematical framework that computes functions of both spatial location and time as special cases of a more general computation. In this framework, experience unfolding in time is encoded via a set of leaky integrators. These leaky integrators encode the Laplace transform of their input. The information contained in the transform can be recovered using an approximation to the inverse Laplace transform. In the temporal domain, the resulting representation reconstructs the temporal history. By integrating movements, the equations give rise to a representation of the path taken to arrive at the present location. By modulating the transform with information about allocentric velocity, the equations code for position of a landmark. Simulated cells show a close correspondence to neurons observed in various regions for all three cases. In the temporal domain, novel secondary analyses of hippocampal time cells verified several qualitative predictions of the model. An integrated representation of spatiotemporal context can be computed by taking conjunctions of these elemental inputs, leading to a correspondence with conjunctive neural representations observed in dorsal CA1.
Cholinergic modulation of central circuits is associated with active sensation, attention, and learning, yet the neural circuits and temporal dynamics underlying cholinergic effects on sensory processing remain unclear. Understanding the effects of cholinergic modulation on particular circuits is complicated by the widespread projections of cholinergic neurons to telencephalic structures that themselves are highly interconnected. Here we examined how cholinergic projections from basal forebrain to the olfactory bulb (OB) modulate output from the first stage of sensory processing in the mouse olfactory system. By optogenetically activating their axons directly in the OB, we found that cholinergic projections from basal forebrain regulate OB output by increasing the spike output of presumptive mitral/tufted cells. Cholinergic stimulation increased mitral/tufted cell spiking in the absence of inhalation-driven sensory input and further increased spiking responses to inhalation of odorless air and to odorants. This modulation was rapid and transient, was dependent on local cholinergic signaling in the OB, and differed from modulation by optogenetic activation of cholinergic neurons in basal forebrain, which led to a mixture of mitral/tufted cell excitation and suppression. Finally, bulbar cholinergic enhancement of mitral/tufted cell odorant responses was robust and occurred independent of the strength or even polarity of the odorant-evoked response, indicating that cholinergic modulation adds an excitatory bias to mitral/tufted cells as opposed to increasing response gain or sharpening response spectra. These results are consistent with a role for the basal forebrain cholinergic system in dynamically regulating the sensitivity to or salience of odors during active sensing of the olfactory environment.
Mutations in the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene, which encodes a kinase critical for the normal DNA damage response, cause the neurodegenerative disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (AT). The substrates of ATM in the brain are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that ATM phosphorylates and activates the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2D (MEF2D), which plays a critical role in promoting survival of cerebellar granule cells. ATM associates with MEF2D after DNA damage and phosphorylates the transcription factor at four ATM consensus sites. Knockdown of endogenous MEF2D with a short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) increases sensitivity to etoposide-induced DNA damage and neuronal cell death. Interestingly, substitution of endogenous MEF2D with an shRNA-resistant phosphomimetic MEF2D mutant protects cerebellar granule cells from cell death after DNA damage, whereas an shRNA-resistant nonphosphorylatable MEF2D mutant does not. In vivo, cerebella in Mef2d knock-out mice manifest increased susceptibility to DNA damage. Together, our results show that MEF2D is a substrate for phosphorylation by ATM, thus promoting survival in response to DNA damage. Moreover, dysregulation of the ATM-MEF2D pathway may contribute to neurodegeneration in AT.
Behavioral studies have demonstrated that descending pain modulation can be spatially specific, as is evident in placebo analgesia, which can be limited to the location at which pain relief is expected. This suggests that higher-order cortical structures of the descending pain modulatory system carry spatial information about the site of stimulation. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and multivariate pattern analysis in 15 healthy human volunteers to test whether spatial information of painful stimuli is represented in areas of the descending pain modulatory system. We show that the site of nociceptive stimulation (arm or leg) can be successfully decoded from local patterns of brain activity during the anticipation and receipt of painful stimulation in the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortices, and the contralateral parietal operculum. These results demonstrate that information regarding the site of nociceptive stimulation is represented in these brain regions. Attempts to predict arm and leg stimulation from the periaqueductal gray, control regions (e.g., white matter) or the control time interval in the intertrial phase did not allow for classifications above chance level. This finding represents an important conceptual advance in the understanding of endogenous pain control mechanisms by bridging the gap between previous behavioral and neuroimaging studies, suggesting a spatial specificity of endogenous pain control.
Many human studies have demonstrated that rapid motor responses (i.e., muscle-stretch reflexes) to mechanical perturbations can be modified by a participant's intended response. Here, we used a novel experimental paradigm to investigate the neural mechanisms that underlie such goal-dependent modulation. Two monkeys positioned their hand in a central area against a constant load and responded to mechanical perturbations by quickly placing their hand into visually defined spatial targets. The perturbation was chosen to excite a particular proximal arm muscle or isolated neuron in primary motor cortex and two targets were placed so that the hand was pushed away from one target (OUT target) and toward the other (IN target). We chose these targets because they produced behavioral responses analogous to the classical verbal instructions used in human studies. A third centrally located target was used to examine responses with a constant goal. Arm muscles and neurons robustly responded to the perturbation and showed clear goal-dependent responses 35 and 70 ms after perturbation onset, respectively. Most M1 neurons and all muscles displayed larger perturbation-related responses for the OUT target than the IN target. However, a substantial number of M1 neurons showed more complex patterns of target-dependent modulation not seen in muscles, including greater activity for the IN target than the OUT target, and changes in target preference over time. Together, our results reveal complex goal-dependent modulation of fast feedback responses in M1 that are present early enough to account for goal-dependent stretch responses in arm muscles.
Selective attention to relevant sound properties is essential for everyday listening situations. It enables the formation of different perceptual representations of the same acoustic input and is at the basis of flexible and goal-dependent behavior. Here, we investigated the role of the human auditory cortex in forming behavior-dependent representations of sounds. We used single-trial fMRI and analyzed cortical responses collected while subjects listened to the same speech sounds (vowels /a/, /i/, and /u/) spoken by different speakers (boy, girl, male) and performed a delayed-match-to-sample task on either speech sound or speaker identity. Univariate analyses showed a task-specific activation increase in the right superior temporal gyrus/sulcus (STG/STS) during speaker categorization and in the right posterior temporal cortex during vowel categorization. Beyond regional differences in activation levels, multivariate classification of single trial responses demonstrated that the success with which single speakers and vowels can be decoded from auditory cortical activation patterns depends on task demands and subject's behavioral performance. Speaker/vowel classification relied on distinct but overlapping regions across the (right) mid-anterior STG/STS (speakers) and bilateral mid-posterior STG/STS (vowels), as well as the superior temporal plane including Heschl's gyrus/sulcus. The task dependency of speaker/vowel classification demonstrates that the informative fMRI response patterns reflect the top-down enhancement of behaviorally relevant sound representations. Furthermore, our findings suggest that successful selection, processing, and retention of task-relevant sound properties relies on the joint encoding of information across early and higher-order regions of the auditory cortex.
In cortical networks, different types of inhibitory interneurons control the activity of glutamatergic principal cells and GABAergic interneurons. Principal neurons represent the major postsynaptic target of most interneurons; however, a population of interneurons that is dedicated to the selective innervation of GABAergic cells exists in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. The physiological properties of these cells and their functional relevance for network computations remain unknown. Here, we used a combination of dual simultaneous patch-clamp recordings and targeted optogenetic stimulation in acute mouse hippocampal slices to examine how one class of interneuron-specific (IS) cells controls the activity of its GABAergic targets. We found that type 3 IS (IS3) cells that coexpress the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and calretinin contact several distinct types of interneurons within the hippocampal CA1 stratum oriens/alveus (O/A), with preferential innervation of oriens-lacunosum moleculare cells (OLMs) through dendritic synapses. In contrast, VIP-positive basket cells provided perisomatic inhibition to CA1 pyramidal neurons with the asynchronous GABA release and were not connected with O/A interneurons. Furthermore, unitary IPSCs recorded at IS3-OLM synapses had a small amplitude and low release probability but summated efficiently during high-frequency firing of IS3 interneurons. Moreover, the synchronous generation of a single spike in several IS cells that converged onto a single OLM controlled the firing rate and timing of OLM interneurons. Therefore, dendritic inhibition originating from IS cells is needed for the flexible activity-dependent recruitment of OLM interneurons for feedback inhibition.
The methyl-DNA binding protein MeCP2 is emerging as an important regulator of drug reinforcement processes. Psychostimulants induce phosphorylation of MeCP2 at Ser421; however, the functional significance of this posttranslational modification for addictive-like behaviors was unknown. Here we show that MeCP2 Ser421Ala knock-in mice display both a reduced threshold for the induction of locomotor sensitization by investigator-administered amphetamine and enhanced behavioral sensitivity to the reinforcing properties of self-administered cocaine. These behavioral differences were accompanied in the knock-in mice by changes in medium spiny neuron intrinsic excitability and nucleus accumbens gene expression typically observed in association with repeated exposure to these drugs. These data show that phosphorylation of MeCP2 at Ser421 functions to limit the circuit plasticities in the nucleus accumbens that underlie addictive-like behaviors.
Cholinergic transmission in the striatal complex is critical for the modulation of the activity of local microcircuits and dopamine release. Release of acetylcholine has been considered to originate exclusively from a subtype of striatal interneuron that provides widespread innervation of the striatum. Cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine (PPN) and laterodorsal tegmental (LDT) nuclei indirectly influence the activity of the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens through their innervation of dopamine and thalamic neurons, which in turn converge at the same striatal levels. Here we show that cholinergic neurons in the brainstem also provide a direct innervation of the striatal complex. By the expression of fluorescent proteins in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)::Cre(+) transgenic rats, we selectively labeled cholinergic neurons in the rostral PPN, caudal PPN, and LDT. We show that cholinergic neurons topographically innervate wide areas of the striatal complex: rostral PPN preferentially innervates the dorsolateral striatum, and LDT preferentially innervates the medial striatum and nucleus accumbens core in which they principally form asymmetric synapses. Retrograde labeling combined with immunohistochemistry in wild-type rats confirmed the topography and cholinergic nature of the projection. Furthermore, transynaptic gene activation and conventional double retrograde labeling suggest that LDT neurons that innervate the nucleus accumbens also send collaterals to the thalamus and the dopaminergic midbrain, thus providing both direct and indirect projections, to the striatal complex. The differential activity of cholinergic interneurons and cholinergic neurons of the brainstem during reward-related paradigms suggest that the two systems play different but complementary roles in the processing of information in the striatum.
Dendritic arborization is one of the key determinants of precise circuits for information processing in neurons. Unraveling the molecular mechanisms underlying dendrite morphogenesis is critical to understanding the establishment of neuronal connections. Here, using gain- and loss-of-function approaches, we defined the chromodomain protein and transcription corepressor chromodomain Y-like (CDYL) protein as a negative regulator of dendrite morphogenesis in rat/mouse hippocampal neurons both in vitro and in vivo. Overexpressing CDYL decreased, whereas knocking it down increased, the dendritic complexity of the primary cultured rat neurons. High-throughput DNA microarray screening identified a number of CDYL downstream target genes, including the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Knock-down of CDYL in neuronal cells led to increased expression of BDNF, which is primarily responsible for CDYL's effects on dendrite patterns. Mechanistically, CDYL interacts with EZH2, the catalytic subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), directly and recruits the H3K27 methyltransferase activity to the promoter region of the BDNF gene. In doing so, CDYL and EZH2 coordinately restrict dendrite morphogenesis in an interdependent manner. Finally, we found that neural activity increased dendritic complexity through degradation of CDYL protein to unleash its inhibition on BDNF. These results link, for the first time, the epigenetic regulators CDYL and EZH2 to dendrite morphogenesis and might shed new light on our understanding of the regulation of the neurodevelopment.
During CNS development, oligodendrocytes, the myelinating glia of the CNS, progress through multiple transitory stages before terminating into fully mature cells. Oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination is a tightly regulated process requiring extracellular signals to converge to elicit specific translational and transcriptional changes. Our lab has previously shown that the protein kinases, Akt and mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR), are important regulators of CNS myelination in vivo. mTOR functions through two distinct complexes, mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) and mTORC2, by binding to either Raptor or Rictor, respectively. To establish whether the impact of mTOR on CNS myelination results from unique functions of mTORC1 or mTORC2 during CNS myelination, we conditionally ablated either Raptor or Rictor in the oligodendrocyte lineage, in vivo. We show that Raptor (mTORC1) is a positive regulator of developmental CNS mouse myelination when mTORC2 is functional, whereas Rictor (mTORC2) ablation has a modest positive effect on oligodendrocyte differentiation, and very little effect on myelination, when mTORC1 is functional. Also, we show that loss of Raptor in oligodendrocytes results in differential dysmyelination in specific areas of the CNS, with the greatest impact on spinal cord myelination.
Prior studies support a role for mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination. Here we use Cre-recombinase driven by the CNP promoter to generate a mouse line with oligodendrocyte-specific knockdown of mTOR (mTOR cKO) in the CNS. We provide evidence that mTOR is necessary for proper oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination in the spinal cord. Specifically, the number of mature oligodendrocytes was reduced, and the initiation and extent of myelination were impaired during spinal cord development. Consistent with these data, myelin protein expression, including myelin basic protein, proteolipid protein, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, and myelin-associated glycoprotein, was delayed in the spinal cord. Hypomyelination of the spinal cord persisted into adulthood, as did the reduction in numbers of mature oligodendrocytes. In the cortex, the structure of myelin appeared normal during development and in the adult; however, myelin protein expression was delayed during development and was abnormal in the adult. Myelin basic protein was significantly reduced in all regions at postnatal day 25. These data demonstrate that mTOR promotes oligodendrocyte differentiation and CNS myelination in vivo and show that the requirement for mTOR varies by region with the spinal cord most dependent on mTOR.
The rodent transient receptor potential ankyrin-1 (TRPA1) channel has been hypothesized to serve as a temperature sensor for thermoregulation in the cold. We tested this hypothesis by using deletion of the Trpa1 gene in mice and pharmacological blockade of the TRPA1 channel in rats. In both Trpa1(-/-) and Trpa1(+/+) mice, severe cold exposure (8C) resulted in decreases of skin and deep body temperatures to 8C and 13C, respectively, both temperatures being below the reported 17C threshold temperature for TRPA1 activation. Under these conditions, Trpa1(-/-) mice had the same dynamics of body temperature as Trpa1(+/+) mice and showed no weakness in the tail skin vasoconstriction response or thermogenic response to cold. In rats, the effects of pharmacological blockade were studied by using two chemically unrelated TRPA1 antagonists: the highly potent and selective compound A967079, which had been characterized earlier, and the relatively new compound 43 ((4R)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-4-[3-(3-methoxypropoxy)phenyl]-2-thioxo-5H-indeno[1,2-d]pyrimidin-5-one), which we further characterized in the present study and found to be highly potent (IC50 against cold of 8 nm) and selective. Intragastric administration of either antagonist at 30 mg/kg before severe (3C) cold exposure did not affect the thermoregulatory responses (deep body and tail skin temperatures) of rats, even though plasma concentrations of both antagonists well exceeded their IC50 value at the end of the experiment. In the same experimental setup, blocking the melastatin-8 (TRPM8) channel with AMG2850 (30 mg/kg) attenuated cold-defense mechanisms and led to hypothermia. We conclude that TRPA1 channels do not drive autonomic thermoregulatory responses to cold in rodents.





Sleep loss can alter extrinsic, task-related functional MRI signals involved in attention, memory, and executive function. However, the effects of sleep loss on brain structure have not been well characterized. Recent studies with patients with sleep disorders and animal models have demonstrated reduction of regional brain structure in the hippocampus and thalamus. In this study, using T1-weighted MRI, we examined the change of regional gray matter volume in healthy adults after long-term total sleep deprivation (~72 h). Regional volume changes were explored using voxel-based morphometry with a paired two-sample t-test. The results revealed significant loss of gray matter volume in the thalamus but not in the hippocampus. No overall decrease in whole brain gray matter volume was noted after sleep deprivation. As expected, sleep deprivation significantly reduced visual vigilance as assessed by the continuous performance test, and this decrease was correlated significantly with reduced regional gray matter volume in thalamic regions. This study provides the first evidence for sleep loss-related changes in gray matter in the healthy adult brain.
A large number of recent studies suggest that the sensorimotor system uses probabilistic models to predict its environment and makes inferences about unobserved variables in line with Bayesian statistics. One of the important features of Bayesian statistics is Occam's Razor--an inbuilt preference for simpler models when comparing competing models that explain some observed data equally well. Here, we test directly for Occam's Razor in sensorimotor control. We designed a sensorimotor task in which participants had to draw lines through clouds of noisy samples of an unobserved curve generated by one of two possible probabilistic models-a simple model with a large length scale, leading to smooth curves, and a complex model with a short length scale, leading to more wiggly curves. In training trials, participants were informed about the model that generated the stimulus so that they could learn the statistics of each model. In probe trials, participants were then exposed to ambiguous stimuli. In probe trials where the ambiguous stimulus could be fitted equally well by both models, we found that participants showed a clear preference for the simpler model. Moreover, we found that participants' choice behaviour was quantitatively consistent with Bayesian Occam's Razor. We also show that participants' drawn trajectories were similar to samples from the Bayesian predictive distribution over trajectories and significantly different from two non-probabilistic heuristics. In two control experiments, we show that the preference of the simpler model cannot be simply explained by a difference in physical effort or by a preference for curve smoothness. Our results suggest that Occam's Razor is a general behavioural principle already present during sensorimotor processing.










Anatomically plausible networks of functionally inter-connected regions have been reliably demonstrated at rest, although the neurochemical basis of these 'resting state networks' is not well understood. In this study, we combined magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and resting state fMRI and demonstrated an inverse relationship between levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA within the primary motor cortex (M1) and the strength of functional connectivity across the resting motor network. This relationship was both neurochemically and anatomically specific. We then went on to show that anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), an intervention previously shown to decrease GABA levels within M1, increased resting motor network connectivity. We therefore suggest that network-level functional connectivity within the motor system is related to the degree of inhibition in M1, a major node within the motor network, a finding in line with converging evidence from both simulation and empirical studies. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01465.001.








A pathogenic link between erectile dysfunction (ED) and metabolic syndrome (MetS) is now well established. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the hepatic hallmark of MetS, is regarded as an active player in the pathogenesis of MetS-associated cardiovascular disease (CVD). This study was aimed at evaluating the relationship between MetS-induced NASH and penile dysfunction. We used a non-genomic, high fat diet (HFD)-induced, rabbit model of MetS, and treated HFD rabbits with testosterone (T), with the selective farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonist obeticholic acid (OCA), or with the anti-TNF mAb infliximab. Rabbits fed a regular diet were used as controls. Liver histomorphological and gene expression analysis demonstrated NASH in HFD rabbits. Several genes related to inflammation (including TNF), activation of stellate cells, fibrosis, and lipid metabolism parameters were negatively associated to maximal acetylcholine (Ach)-induced relaxation in penis. When all these putative liver determinants of penile Ach responsiveness were tested as covariates in a multivariate model, only the association between hepatic TNF expression and Ach response was confirmed. Accordingly, circulating levels of TNF were increased 15-fold in HFD rabbits. T and OCA dosing in HFD rabbits both reduced TNF liver expression and plasma levels, with a parallel increase of penile eNOS expression and responsiveness to Ach. Also neutralization of TNF with infliximab treatment fully normalized HFD-induced hypo-responsiveness to Ach, as well as responsiveness to vardenafil, a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor. Thus, MetS-induced NASH in HFD rabbits plays an active role in the pathogenesis of ED, likely through TNF, as indicated by treatments reducing liver and circulating TNF levels (T or OCA), or neutralizing TNF action (infliximab), which significantly improve penile responsiveness to Ach in HFD rabbits.
Early in life, leptin plays a crucial role in hypothalamic neural organization. Leptin, most likely, controls neural gene expression conferring then specific phenotype regarding energy homeostasis. MicroRNAs are new regulators for several physiological functions, including the regulation of metabolism. However, the impact of leptin on hypothalamic microRNA patterns remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that miR-200a, miR-200b and miR-429 are up-regulated in the hypothalamus of genetically obese and leptin deficient ob/ob mice. Leptin treatment down-regulates these miRNAs in ob/ob hypothalamus. The hypothalamic silencing of miR-200a increased the expression level of leptin receptor and insulin receptor substrate 2, reduced body weight gain, and restored liver insulin responsiveness. In addition, the overexpression of pre-miR-200a in a human neuroblastoma cell line impaired insulin and leptin signaling. These findings link the alteration of leptin and insulin signaling to the up-regulation of hypothalamic miR-200a which could be a new target for treatment of obesity.












Theoretical models have suggested an association between the ongoing experience of the world from the perspective of one's own body and hippocampus-based episodic memory. This link has been supported by clinical reports of long-term episodic memory impairments in psychiatric conditions with dissociative symptoms, in which individuals feel detached from themselves as if having an out-of-body experience. Here, we introduce an experimental approach to examine the necessary role of perceiving the world from the perspective of one's own body for the successful episodic encoding of real-life events. While participants were involved in a social interaction, an out-of-body illusion was elicited, in which the sense of bodily self was displaced from the real body to the other end of the testing room. This condition was compared with a well-matched in-body illusion condition, in which the sense of bodily self was colocalized with the real body. In separate recall sessions, performed 1 wk later, we assessed the participants' episodic memory of these events. The results revealed an episodic recollection deficit for events encoded out-of-body compared with in-body. Functional magnetic resonance imaging indicated that this impairment was specifically associated with activity changes in the posterior hippocampus. Collectively, these findings show that efficient hippocampus-based episodic-memory encoding requires a first-person perspective of the natural spatial relationship between the body and the world. Our observations have important implications for theoretical models of episodic memory, neurocognitive models of self, embodied cognition, and clinical research into memory deficits in psychiatric disorders.
Neuronal calcium (Ca(2+))-binding proteins 1 and 2 (NECAB1/2) are members of the phylogenetically conserved EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding protein superfamily. To date, NECABs have been explored only to a limited extent and, so far, not at all at the spinal level. Here, we describe the distribution, phenotype, and nerve injury-induced regulation of NECAB1/NECAB2 in mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and spinal cord. In DRGs, NECAB1/2 are expressed in around 70% of mainly small- and medium-sized neurons. Many colocalize with calcitonin gene-related peptide and isolectin B4, and thus represent nociceptors. NECAB1/2 neurons are much more abundant in DRGs than the Ca(2+)-binding proteins (parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, and secretagogin) studied to date. In the spinal cord, the NECAB1/2 distribution is mainly complementary. NECAB1 labels interneurons and a plexus of processes in superficial layers of the dorsal horn, commissural neurons in the intermediate area, and motor neurons in the ventral horn. Using CLARITY, a novel, bilaterally connected neuronal system with dendrites that embrace the dorsal columns like palisades is observed. NECAB2 is present in cell bodies and presynaptic boutons across the spinal cord. In the dorsal horn, most NECAB1/2 neurons are glutamatergic. Both NECAB1/2 are transported into dorsal roots and peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerve injury reduces NECAB2, but not NECAB1, expression in DRG neurons. Our study identifies NECAB1/2 as abundant Ca(2+)-binding proteins in pain-related DRG neurons and a variety of spinal systems, providing molecular markers for known and unknown neuron populations of mechanosensory and pain circuits in the spinal cord.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurological disease that causes motor neuron degeneration, progressive motor dysfunction, paralysis, and death. Although multiple causes have been identified for this disease, &gt;95% of ALS cases show aggregation of transactive response DNA binding protein (TDP-43) accompanied by its nuclear depletion. Therefore, the TDP-43 pathology may be a converging point in the pathogenesis that originates from various initial triggers. The aggregation is thought to result from TDP-43 misfolding, which could generate cellular toxicity. However, the aggregation as well as the nuclear depletion could also lead to a partial loss of TDP-43 function or TDP-43 dysfunction. To investigate the impact of TDP-43 dysfunction, we generated a transgenic mouse model for a partial loss of TDP-43 function using transgenic RNAi. These mice show ubiquitous transgene expression and TDP-43 knockdown in both the periphery and the central nervous system (CNS). Strikingly, these mice develop progressive neurodegeneration prominently in cortical layer V and spinal ventral horn, motor dysfunction, paralysis, and death. Furthermore, examination of splicing patterns of TDP-43 target genes in human ALS revealed changes consistent with TDP-43 dysfunction. These results suggest that the CNS, particularly motor neurons, possess a heightened vulnerability to TDP-43 dysfunction. Additionally, because TDP-43 knockdown predominantly occur in astrocytes in the spinal cord of these mice, our results suggest that TDP-43 dysfunction in astrocytes is an important driver for motor neuron degeneration and clinical phenotypes of ALS.
Levodopa treatment is the major pharmacotherapy for Parkinson's disease. However, almost all patients receiving levodopa eventually develop debilitating involuntary movements (dyskinesia). Although it is known that striatal spiny projection neurons (SPNs) are involved in the genesis of this movement disorder, the molecular basis of dyskinesia is not understood. In this study, we identify distinct cell-type-specific gene-expression changes that occur in subclasses of SPNs upon induction of a parkinsonian lesion followed by chronic levodopa treatment. We identify several hundred genes, the expression of which is correlated with levodopa dose, many of which are under the control of activator protein-1 and ERK signaling. Despite homeostatic adaptations involving several signaling modulators, activator protein-1-dependent gene expression remains highly dysregulated in direct pathway SPNs upon chronic levodopa treatment. We also discuss which molecular pathways are most likely to dampen abnormal dopaminoceptive signaling in spiny projection neurons, hence providing potential targets for antidyskinetic treatments in Parkinson's disease.
Exposure to a novel environment enhances the extinction of contextual fear. This has been explained by tagging of the hippocampal synapses used in extinction, followed by capture of proteins from the synapses that process novelty. The effect is blocked by the inhibition of hippocampal protein synthesis following the novelty or the extinction. Here, we show that it can also be blocked by the postextinction or postnovelty intrahippocampal infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphono pentanoic acid; the inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), autocamtide-2-related inhibitory peptide; or the blocker of L-voltage-dependent calcium channels (L-VDCCs), nifedipine. Inhibition of proteasomal protein degradation by -lactacystin has no effect of its own on extinction or on the influence of novelty thereon but blocks the inhibitory effects of all the other substances except that of rapamycin on extinction, suggesting that their action depends on concomitant synaptic protein turnover. Thus, the tagging-and-capture mechanism through which novelty enhances fear extinction involves more molecular processes than hitherto thought: NMDA receptors, L-VDCCs, CaMKII, and synaptic protein turnover.
A new fluorescent prestaining method for gel-separated glycoproteins in 1D and 2D SDS-PAGE was developed by using dansylhydrazine in this study. The prestained gels could be easily imaged after electrophoresis without any time-consuming steps needed for poststains. As low as 4-8 ng glycoproteins (transferrin, 1-acid glycoprotein) could be selectively detected, which is comparable to that of Pro-Q Emerald 488, one of the most commonly used glycoprotein stain. In addition, a subsequent study of deglycosylation, glycoprotein affinity isolation, and LC-MS/MS analysis was performed to confirm the specificity of the newly developed method.

Study design:Clinical experimental mechanistic study.Objectives:(1) To determine in three spinal cord-injured patients whether individual muscle sympathetic nerve fibres below the level of the spinal lesion display spontaneous activity. (2) To determine in these patients if individual sympathetic vasoconstrictor fibres show a prolonged discharge following a bladder stimulus.Setting:University hospital in Gothenburg, Sweden.Methods:Microneurographic recordings of action potentials from individual muscle nerve sympathetic fibres in a peroneal nerve. Recordings of skin blood flow and electrodermal responses in a foot.Results:In all patients, there was sparse ongoing spontaneous impulse traffic in individual sympathetic fibres. Brisk mechanical pressure over the urinary bladder evoked a varying number of action potentials in individual fibres, but the activity was brief and did not continue after the end of the evoked multiunit burst.Conclusion:Prolonged discharges in individual sympathetic fibres are unlikely to contribute to a long duration of blood pressure increases induced by brief bladder stimuli.
Copy number variation (CNV) at the 15q11.2 region has been identified as a significant risk locus for neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia (SCZ) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). However, the individual roles for genes at this locus in nervous system development, function and connectivity remain poorly understood. Haploinsufficiency of one gene in this region, Cyfip1, may provide a model for 15q11.2 CNV-associated neuropsychiatric phenotypes. Here we show that altering CYFIP1 expression levels in neurons both in vitro and in vivo influences dendritic complexity, spine morphology, spine actin dynamics and synaptic -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor lateral diffusion. CYFIP1 is highly enriched at synapses and its overexpression in vitro leads to increased dendritic complexity. Neurons derived from Cyfip1 heterozygous animals on the other hand, possess reduced dendritic complexity, increased mobile F-actin and enhanced GluA2-containing AMPA receptor mobility at synapses. Interestingly, Cyfip1 overexpression or haploinsufficiency increased immature spine number, whereas activity-dependent changes in spine volume were occluded in Cyfip1 haploinsufficient neurons. In vivo, Cyfip1 heterozygous animals exhibited deficits in dendritic complexity as well as an altered ratio of immature-to-mature spines in hippocampal CA1 neurons. In summary, we provide evidence that dysregulation of CYFIP1 expression levels leads to pathological changes in CNS maturation and neuronal connectivity, both of which may contribute to the development of the neurological symptoms seen in ASD and SCZ.












To characterize the molecular mechanisms of N-acetylaspartate (NAA) metabolism following traumatic brain injury (TBI), we measured the NAA, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) concentrations and calculated the ATP/ADP ratio at different times from impact, concomitantly evaluating the gene and protein expressions controlling NAA homeostasis (the NAA synthesizing and degrading enzymes N-acetyltransferase 8-like and aspartoacylase, respectively) in rats receiving either mild or severe TBI. The reversible changes in NAA induced by mild TBI were due to a combination of transient mitochondrial malfunctioning with energy crisis (decrease in ATP and in the ATP/ADP ratio) and modulation in the gene and protein levels of N-acetyltransferase 8-like and increase of aspartoacylase levels. The irreversible decrease in NAA following severe TBI, was instead characterized by profound mitochondrial malfunctioning (constant 65% decrease of the ATP/ADP indicating permanent impairment of the mitochondrial phosphorylating capacity), dramatic repression of the N-acetyltransferase 8-like gene and concomitant remarkable increase in the aspartoacylase gene and protein levels. The mechanisms underlying changes in NAA homeostasis following graded TBI might be of note for possible new therapeutic approaches and will help in understanding the effects of repeat concussions occurring during particular periods of the complex NAA recovery process, coincident with the so called window of brain vulnerability.


The emergent self-organization of a neuronal network in a developing nervous system is the result of a remarkably orchestrated process involving a multitude of chemical, mechanical and electrical signals. Little is known about the dynamic behavior of a developing network (especially in a human model) primarily due to a lack of practical and non-invasive methods to measure and quantify the process. Here we demonstrate that by using a novel optical interferometric technique, we can non-invasively measure several fundamental properties of neural networks from the sub-cellular to the cell population level. We applied this method to quantify network formation in human stem cell derived neurons and show for the first time, correlations between trends in the growth, transport, and spatial organization of such a system. Quantifying the fundamental behavior of such cell lines without compromising their viability may provide an important new tool in future longitudinal studies.
Depression is a major psychiatric disorder affecting nearly 21% of the world population and imposes a substantial health burden on society. Current available antidepressants are not adequate to meet the clinical needs. Here we report that auraptenol, an active component of the traditional Chinese medicine, angelicae dahuricae radix, had antidepressant-like effects in mice models of depression. In mouse forced swimming test and tail suspension test, two validated models of depression, auraptenol dose-dependently decreased the immobility duration within the dose range of 0.05-0.4mg/kg. In addition, the antidepressant-like effects of auraptenol was significantly averted by a selective serotonin 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY100635 (1mg/kg). These doses that affected the immobile response did not affect locomotor activity. In summary, this study for the first time identified an active component from the herbal medicine angelicae dahuricae radix that possesses robust antidepressant-like efficacy in mice. These data support further exploration for the possibility of developing auraptenol as a novel antidepressant agent in the treatment of major depression disorders.




























Following stroke, aberrant three dimensional multijoint gait impairments emerge that present in kinematic asymmetries such as circumduction. A precise pattern of cross-planar coordination may underlie abnormal hemiparetic gait as several studies have underscored distinctive neural couplings between medio-lateral control and sagittal plane progression during walking. Here we investigate potential neuromechanical constraints governing abnormal multijoint coordination post-stroke. 15 chronic monohemispheric stroke patients and 10 healthy subjects were recruited. Coupled torque production patterns were assessed using a volitional isometric torque generation task where subjects matched torque targets for a primary joint in 4 directions while receiving visual feedback of the magnitude and direction of the torque. Secondary torques at other lower limb joints were recorded without subject feedback. We find that common features of cross-planar connectivity in stroke subjects include statistically significant frontal to sagittal plane kinetic coupling that overlay a common sagittal plane coupling in healthy subjects. Such coupling is independent of proximal or distal joint control and limb biomechanics. Principal component analysis of the stroke aggregate kinetic signature reveals unique abnormal frontal plane coupling features that explain a larger percentage of the total torque coupling variance. This study supports the idea that coupled cross-planar kinetic outflow between the lower limb joints uniquely emerges during pathological control of frontal plane degrees of freedom resulting in a generalized extension of the limb. It remains to be seen if a pattern of lower limb motor outflow that is centrally mediated contributes to abnormal hemiparetic gait.







Central nervous system (CNS) immune privilege is complex, and it is still not understood how CNS antigens are sampled by the peripheral immune system under steady state conditions. To compare antigen sampling from immune-privileged or nonprivileged tissues, we created transgenic mice with oligodendrocyte or gut epithelial cell expression of an EGFP-tagged fusion protein containing ovalbumin (OVA) antigenic peptides and tested peripheral anti-OVA peptide-specific sentinel OT-I and OT-II T cell activation. We report that oligodendrocyte or gut antigens are sampled similarly, as determined by comparable levels of OT-I T cell activation. However, activated T cells do not access the CNS under steady state conditions. These data show that afferent immunity is normally intact as there is no barrier at the antigen sampling level, but that efferent immunity is restricted. To understand how this one-sided surveillance contributes to CNS immune privilege will help us define mechanisms of CNS autoimmune disease initiation.



Nitric oxide (NO) is a diffusible intercellular messenger, acting via volume signaling in the brain and, therefore, the knowledge of its temporal dynamics is determinant to the understanding of its neurobiological role. However, such an analysis in vivo is challenging and indirect or static approaches are mostly used to infer NO bioactivity. In the present work we measured the glutamate-dependent NO temporal dynamics in vivo in the hippocampus (CA1, CA3 and DG subregions), cerebral cortex and striatum, using NO selective microelectrodes. Concurrently, the immunolocalization of nNOS was evaluated in each region. A transitory increase in NO levels occurred at higher amplitudes in the striatum and hippocampus relatively to the cortex. In the hippocampus, subtle differences in the profiles of NO signals were observed along the trisynaptic loop, with CA1 exhibiting the largest signals. The topography of NO temporal dynamics did not fully overlap with the pattern of the density of nNOS expression, suggesting that, complementary to the distribution of nNOS, the local regulation of NO synthesis as well as the decay pathways critically determine the effective NO concentration sensed by a target within the diffusional spread of this free radical. In sum, the rate and pattern of NO changes here shown, by incorporating regulatory mechanisms and processes that affect NO synthesis and decay, provide refined information critical for the understanding of NO multiple actions in the brain.












Close to two decades of research has established that astrocytes in situ and in vivo express numerous G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that can be stimulated by neuronally-released transmitter. However, the ability of astrocytic receptors to exhibit plasticity in response to changes in neuronal activity has received little attention. Here we describe a model system that can be used to globally scale up or down astrocytic group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in acute brain slices. Included are methods on how to prepare parasagittal hippocampal slices, construct chambers suitable for long-term slice incubation, bidirectionally manipulate neuronal action potential frequency, load astrocytes and astrocyte processes with fluorescent Ca(2+) indicator, and measure changes in astrocytic Gq GPCR activity by recording spontaneous and evoked astrocyte Ca(2+) events using confocal microscopy. In essence, a &quot;calcium roadmap&quot; is provided for how to measure plasticity of astrocytic Gq GPCRs. Applications of the technique for study of astrocytes are discussed. Having an understanding of how astrocytic receptor signaling is affected by changes in neuronal activity has important implications for both normal synaptic function as well as processes underlying neurological disorders and neurodegenerative disease.
In this experiment we present a technique to measure learning and memory. In the trace fear conditioning protocol presented here there are five pairings between a neutral stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus. There is a 20 sec trace period that separates each conditioning trial. On the following day freezing is measured during presentation of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and trace period. On the third day there is an 8 min test to measure contextual memory. The representative results are from mice that were presented with the aversive unconditioned stimulus (shock) compared to mice that received the tone presentations without the unconditioned stimulus. Trace fear conditioning has been successfully used to detect subtle learning and memory deficits and enhancements in mice that are not found with other fear conditioning methods. This type of fear conditioning is believed to be dependent upon connections between the medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus. One current controversy is whether this method is believed to be amygdala-independent. Therefore, other fear conditioning testing is needed to examine amygdala-dependent learning and memory effects, such as through the delay fear conditioning.



How specific features in the environment are represented within the brain is an important unanswered question in neuroscience. A subset of retinal neurons, called direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs), are specialized for detecting motion along specific axes of the visual field. Despite extensive study of the retinal circuitry that endows DSGCs with their unique tuning properties, their downstream circuitry in the brain and thus their contribution to visual processing has remained unclear. In mice, several different types of DSGCs connect to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), the visual thalamic structure that harbours cortical relay neurons. Whether direction-selective information computed at the level of the retina is routed to cortical circuits and integrated with other visual channels, however, is unknown. Here we show that there is a di-synaptic circuit linking DSGCs with the superficial layers of the primary visual cortex (V1) by using viral trans-synaptic circuit mapping and functional imaging of visually driven calcium signals in thalamocortical axons. This circuit pools information from several types of DSGCs, converges in a specialized subdivision of the dLGN, and delivers direction-tuned and orientation-tuned signals to superficial V1. Notably, this circuit is anatomically segregated from the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway carrying non-direction-tuned visual information to deeper layers of V1, such as layer 4. Thus, the mouse harbours several functionally specialized, parallel retino-geniculo-cortical pathways, one of which originates with retinal DSGCs and delivers direction- and orientation-tuned information specifically to the superficial layers of the primary visual cortex. These data provide evidence that direction and orientation selectivity of some V1 neurons may be influenced by the activation of DSGCs.

Steroid hormones signaling before and after birth sexually differentiates neuronal circuitry. Additionally, steroid hormones released during adolescence can also have long lasting effects on adult behavior and neuronal circuitry. As adolescence is a critical period for the organization of the nervous system by steroid hormones it may also be a sensitive period for the effects of social experience on adult phenotype. Our previous study indicated that early adolescent sexual activity altered mood and prefrontal cortical morphology but to a much smaller extent if the sexual experience happened in late adolescence. In humans, both substance abuse disorders and mood disorders greatly increase during adolescence. An association among both age of first sexual activity and age of puberty with both mood and substance disorders has been reported with alcohol being the most commonly abused drug in this population. The goal of this experiment was do determine whether sexual experience early in adolescent development would have enduring effects on adult affective and drug-seeking behavior. Compared to sexually inexperienced hamsters and those that experienced sex for the first time in adulthood, animals that mated at 40 days of age and were tested either 40 or 80 days later significantly increased depressive- but not anxiety-like behaviors and increased self-administration of saccharine-sweetened ethanol. The results of this study suggest that an isolated, though highly relevant, social experience during adolescence can significantly alter depressive-like behavior and alcohol self-administration in adulthood.
Hypothalamic histaminergic tuberomammillary (TM) neurons in rats express high densities of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) whose Ca(2+) permeability, kinetic and pharmacological properties are similar to those of heterologous homomeric 7 nAChRs. However, native 7 nAChR subunits can co-assemble with  or 5 nAChR subunits to form functional heteromeric 7-containing 7 or 75 nAChRs with kinetics and pharmacology similar to those of 7 homomers. Therefore, although TM nAChRs have been used as an ex vivo model of functional 7 homomers, the molecular makeup of TM nAChRs has not been determined and the expression of functional 7-containing heteromers in TM neurons has not been excluded. To determine the profile of TM nAChR subunit transcripts, we have conducted single-cell qRT-PCR experiments using acutely dissociated TM neurons in rats. TM neurons were found to express transcripts of only principal 3, 6 and 7 nAChR subunits. Transcripts of other known mammalian neuronal subunits (2, 4-5, 9-10, 2-4) were not detected. In the absence of  and 5 subunits, the expression of functional 7-containing heteromers in TM neurons is highly unlikely because principal 3, 6 and 7 nAChR subunits alone are not known to form functional heteromeric nAChRs. These results support the exclusive expression of native functional 7 homomers in rat TM neurons and introduce these neurons as a unique reliable source of native functional homomeric 7 nAChRs suitable for ex vivo and in vitro pharmacological assays in developing selective 7 nAChR agents.
Recently, several studies have suggested a role for unmyelinated (C-tactile, CT) low-threshold mechanoreceptive afferents in the allodynic condition. In this psychophysical study we explored the integrity of both A and CT afferent processing following application of the heat capsaicin model of tactile allodynia on the left forearm in healthy subjects (n=40). We measured tactile direction discrimination (TDD) to target the integrity of A processing (n=20). The TDD accuracy was significantly lower in the allodynic compared to a control zone. In addition, we measured the perceived pleasantness and pain of brush stroking at CT targeted (slow) and CT sub-optimal (fast) stroking velocities to investigate the integrity of CT processing (n=20). When comparing touch pleasantness in the allodynic and control zone, there was a significantly larger difference in ratings for CT targeted compared to CT suboptimal stimulation. The results suggest a disturbance in both A-mediated discriminative and CT-mediated affective touch processing in human experimental tactile allodynia. Our findings support the canonical view that tactile allodynia is signaled by A afferents but that CTs seem to contribute by the loss of a pain inhibiting role.
The expansion of a polyQ repeat within the ataxin-2 protein causes spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). However, neither the precise pathological mechanism nor the physiological functions of ataxin-2 are known. Ataxin-2 contains 47 (S/T)P sequences, which are targeted by proline-directed protein kinases such as the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). We hypothesized that ataxin-2 is phosphorylated by Cdk5. In fact, phosphorylation of ataxin-2 by Cdk5-p25 was shown using two methods: in vitro(32)P labeling and electrophoretic mobility shift on Phos-tag SDS-PAGE. The fractionation of ataxin-2 into three portions, the N-terminal fragment (NF, amino acids 1-507), the middle fragment (MF, amino acids 508-905), and the C-terminal fragment (CF, amino acids 906-1313) showed that NF and MF were phosphorylated slightly and highly, respectively, by Cdk5-p25 when expressed in COS-7 cells. Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation induced the degradation of NF remarkably and MF moderately. Furthermore, toxic ataxin-2-41Q underwent proteasomal degradation after phosphorylation by Cdk5. These results suggest that Cdk5 controls the abundance of both normal and polyQ-expanded ataxin-2 protein in neurons, which implies that Cdk5 activity is a therapeutic approach for SCA2.
Consumer behavior differs among individuals; one such common individual difference is financial extravagance. Recent research suggests that the activation of the caudate nucleus plays an important role in consumer behavior. However, to the best of our knowledge, no study has investigated the specific relationship between the caudate nucleus and consumer financial extravagance. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the association between individual differences in financial extravagance and regional gray matter volume in the caudate nucleus by using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). We recruited 776 healthy, right-handed individuals (432 men and 344 women; mean age=20.7  1.8) and used voxel-based morphometry and a financial extravagance questionnaire to determine the association between financial extravagance and gray matter structure in the caudate nucleus. Our measure of financial extravagance was based on the novelty seeking subscales of the Japanese version of the Temperament and Character Inventory. A multiple regression analysis including financial extravagance, age, sex, Raven's Advanced Progressive Matrix score, total intracranial volume, and novelty seeking subscales was conducted to examine what variables were related to regional gray matter volume in the region of interest within the caudate nucleus. A significant positive correlation was found between the obtained financial extravagance score and regional gray matter volume in the caudate nucleus. We found that structural variations in the caudate nucleus contributed to individual differences in financial extravagance. This finding may provide a new neuroscientific approach to understanding individual characteristics of consumers.
The anterior hippocampus is associated with emotional functioning and hippocampal volume is reduced in depression. We reported reduced neuropil volume and number of glia in the dentate gyrus (DG) and cornu ammonis (CA)1 of the anterior hippocampus in behaviorally depressed adult female cynomolgus macaques. To determine the biochemical correlates of morphometric and behavioral differences between behaviorally depressed and nondepressed adult female monkeys, glial and synaptic transcripts and protein levels were assessed in the DG, CA3 and CA1 of the anterior hippocampus. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was increased whereas spinophilin and postsynaptic density (PSD)-95 protein were decreased in the CA1 of depressed monkeys. GFAP was reciprocally related to spinophilin and PSD-95 protein in the CA1. Gene expression of GFAP paralleled the protein changes observed in the CA1 and was inversely related to serum estradiol levels in depressed monkeys. These results suggest that behavioral depression in female primates is accompanied by astrocytic and synaptic protein alterations in the CA1. Moreover, these findings indicate a potential role for estrogen in modulating astrocyte-mediated impairments in synaptic plasticity.











The red nucleus (RN) and rubrospinal tract (RST) are important for forelimb motor control. Although the RST is present postnatally in cats, nothing is known about when rubrospinal projections could support motor functions or the relation between the development of the motor functions of the rubrospinal system and the corticospinal system, the other major system for limb control. Our hypothesis is that the RN motor map is present earlier in development than the motor cortex (M1) map, to support early forelimb control. We investigated RN motor map maturation with microstimulation and RST cervical enlargement projections using anterograde tracers between postnatal week 3 (PW3) and PW16. Microstimulation and tracer injection sites were verified histologically to be located within the RN. Microstimulation at PW4 evoked contralateral wrist, elbow, and shoulder movements. The number of sites producing limb movement increased and response thresholds decreased progressively through PW16. From the outset, all forelimb joints were represented. At PW3, RST projections were present within the cervical intermediate zone, with a mature density of putative synapses. In contrast, beginning at PW5 there was delayed and age-dependent development of forelimb motor pool projections and putative rubromotoneuronal synapses. The RN has a more complete forelimb map early in development than previous studies showed for M1, supporting our hypothesis of preferential rubrospinal rather than corticospinal control for early movements. Remarkably, development of the motor pool, not intermediate zone, RST projections paralleled RN motor map development. The RST may be critical for establishing the rudiments of motor skills that subsequently become refined with further CST development.
Our perception of time constrains our experience of the world and exerts a pivotal influence over a myriad array of cognitive and motor functions. There is emerging evidence that the perceived duration of subsecond intervals is driven by sensory-specific neural activity in human and nonhuman animals, but the mechanisms underlying individual differences in time perception remain elusive. We tested the hypothesis that elevated visual cortex GABA impairs the coding of particular visual stimuli, resulting in a dampening of visual processing and concomitant positive time-order error (relative underestimation) in the perceived duration of subsecond visual intervals. Participants completed psychophysical tasks measuring visual interval discrimination and temporal reproduction and we measured in vivo resting state GABA in visual cortex using magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Time-order error selectively correlated with GABA concentrations in visual cortex, with elevated GABA associated with a rightward horizontal shift in psychometric functions, reflecting a positive time-order error (relative underestimation). These results demonstrate anatomical, neurochemical, and task specificity and suggest that visual cortex GABA contributes to individual differences in time perception.
Amylin is a calcitonin-related peptide co-secreted with insulin, which produces satiety through brainstem-localized receptors; however, its effects in forebrain are poorly understood. The nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) exhibits among the densest concentrations of high-affinity amylin binding; nevertheless, these receptors have not been explored beyond one study showing dopamine antagonist-like effects of intra-Acb amylin on feeding and associated behavior (Baldo and Kelley, 2001). Here, we investigated whether intra-Acb amylin signaling modulates prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating deficient in several illnesses including schizophrenia. First, in situ hybridization revealed marked anatomical gradients for both receptor activity-modifying protein-1 (RAMP-1) and calcitonin receptor gene (CT-R) expression in striatum [coexpression of these genes yields a high-affinity amylin-1 receptor (AMY1-R)], with highest overlap in the medial AcbSh. Intra-AcbSh amylin infusions in rats (0, 30, and 100 ng) reversed amphetamine (AMPH)-induced PPI disruption without affecting baseline startle; dorsal striatal amylin infusions had no effect. Coinfusion of AC187 (20 g), an antagonist for AMY1-R, blocked the ability of amylin to normalize AMPH-induced PPI disruption, showing the specificity of AcbSh amylin effects to the AMY1-R. Intra-AcbSh AC187 on its own disrupted PPI in a haloperidol-reversible manner (0.1 mg/kg). Thus, AMY1-R may be a potential target for the development of putative antipsychotics or adjunct treatments that oppose metabolic side effects of current medications. Moreover, AMY1-Rs may represent a novel way to modulate activity preferentially in ventral versus dorsal striatum.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is critically involved in elevated sympathetic output and the development of hypertension. However, changes in group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1 and mGluR5) and their relevance to the hyperactivity of PVN presympathetic neurons in hypertension remain unclear. Here, we found that selectively blocking mGluR5 significantly reduced the basal firing activity of spinally projecting PVN neurons in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), but not in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. However, blocking mGluR1 had no effect on the firing activity of PVN neurons in either group. The mRNA and protein levels of mGluR5 in the PVN and rostral ventrolateral medulla were significantly higher in SHRs than in WKY rats. The group I mGluR selective agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) similarly increased the firing activity of PVN neurons in WKY rats and SHRs. In addition, blocking NMDA receptors (NMDARs) through bath application or intracellular dialysis not only decreased the basal firing in SHRs, but also eliminated DHPG-induced excitation of spinally projecting PVN neurons. DHPG significantly increased the amplitude of NMDAR currents without changing their decay kinetics. Interestingly, DHPG still increased the amplitude of NMDAR currents and caused reappearance of functional NMDAR channels after initially blocking NMDARs. In addition, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition or intracellular dialysis with synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25)-blocking peptide abolished DHPG-induced increases in NMDAR currents of PVN neurons in SHRs. Our findings suggest that mGluR5 in the PVN is upregulated in hypertension and contributes to the hyperactivity of PVN presympathetic neurons through PKC- and SNAP-25-mediated surface expression of NMDARs.
Nicotine addiction is characterized by repetitive drug taking and drug seeking, both tightly controlled by cannabinoid CB1 receptors. The responsiveness of neurons of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) to infralimbic cortex (ILCx) excitatory inputs is increased in rats with active, but not passive, nicotine taking. Therefore, we hypothesize that acquisition of the learned association between nicotine infusion and a paired cue light permits the strengthening of the ILCx-BNST synapses after ILCx tetanic stimulation. We exposed rats to intravenous nicotine self-administration for 2 months. Using a combination of in vivo protocols (electrical stimulations, extracellular recordings, and pharmacological manipulations), we characterized the effects of 10 Hz stimulation of the ILCx on BNST excitatory responses, under different conditions of exposure to nicotine. In addition, we tested whether the effects of the stimulation were CB1 receptor-dependent. The results show that nicotine self-administration supports the induction of evoked spike potentiation in the BNST in response to 10 Hz stimulation of ILCx afferents. Although not altered by nicotine abstinence, this cellular adaptation was blocked by CB1 receptor antagonism. Moreover, blockade of BNST CB1 receptors prevented increases in time-out responding subsequent to ILCx stimulation and decreased cue-induced reinstatement. Thus, the synaptic potentiation within the BNST in response to ILCx stimulation seems to contribute to the cue-elicited responding associated with nicotine self-administration and is tightly controlled by CB1 receptors.
The medial habenula (MHb) densely expresses nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and participates in nicotine-related behaviors such as nicotine withdrawal and regulating nicotine intake. Although specific nAChR subunits are identified as being involved in withdrawal behavior, the cellular mechanisms through which nicotine acts to cause this aversive experience is unclear. Here, we demonstrate an interaction between the nicotinic and neurokinin signaling systems that may form the basis for some symptoms experienced during nicotine withdrawal. Using patch-clamp electrophysiology in mouse brain slices, we show that nicotine (1 m) increases intrinsic excitability in MHb neurons. This nicotine-induced phenomenon requires 5-containing nAChRs and depends on intact neurokinin signaling. The effect is blocked by preincubation with neurokinin 1 (NK1; L-732138, 10 m) and NK3 (SB222200, 2 m) antagonists and mimicked by NK1 (substance P, 100 nm) and NK3 (neurokinin B [NKB], 100 nm) agonists. Microinjections (1 l) of L-732138 (50 nm) and SB222200 (100 nm) into the MHb induces withdrawal behavior in chronic nicotine-treated (8.4 mg/kg/d, 2 weeks) mice. Conversely, withdrawal behavior is absent with analogous microinjections into the lateral habenula of nicotine-treated mice or in mice chronically treated with a vehicle solution. Further, chronic nicotine reduces nicotine's acute modulation of intrinsic excitability while sparing modulation by NKB. Our work elucidates the interplay between two neuromodulatory signaling systems in the brain through which nicotine acts to influence intrinsic excitability. More importantly, we document a neuroadaptation of this mechanism to chronic nicotine exposure and implicate these mechanisms collectively in the emergence of nicotine withdrawal behavior.
Recent findings suggest that tau oligomers, which form before neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), are the true neurotoxic tau entities in neurodegenerative tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies in animal models of tauopathy suggest that tau oligomers play a key role in eliciting behavioral and cognitive impairments. Here, we used a novel tau oligomer-specific monoclonal antibody (TOMA) for passive immunization in mice expressing mutant human tau. A single dose of TOMA administered either intravenously or intracerebroventricularly was sufficient to reverse both locomotor and memory deficits in a mouse model of tauopathy for 60 d, coincident with rapid reduction of tau oligomers but not phosphorylated NFTs or monomeric tau. Our data demonstrate that antibody protection is mediated by extracellular and rapid peripheral clearance. These findings provide the first direct evidence in support of a critical role for tau oligomers in disease progression and validate tau oligomers as a target for the treatment of AD and other neurodegenerative tauopathies.
This study investigated the neural regions involved in blood pressure reactions to negative stimuli and their possible modulation by attention. Twenty-four healthy human subjects (11 females; age = 24.75  2.49 years) participated in an affective perceptual load task that manipulated attention to negative/neutral distractor pictures. fMRI data were collected simultaneously with continuous recording of peripheral arterial blood pressure. A parametric modulation analysis examined the impact of attention and emotion on the relation between neural activation and blood pressure reactivity during the task. When attention was available for processing the distractor pictures, negative pictures resulted in behavioral interference, neural activation in brain regions previously related to emotion, a transient decrease of blood pressure, and a positive correlation between blood pressure response and activation in a network including prefrontal and parietal regions, the amygdala, caudate, and mid-brain. These effects were modulated by attention; behavioral and neural responses to highly negative distractor pictures (compared with neutral pictures) were smaller or diminished, as was the negative blood pressure response when the central task involved high perceptual load. Furthermore, comparing high and low load revealed enhanced activation in frontoparietal regions implicated in attention control. Our results fit theories emphasizing the role of attention in the control of behavioral and neural reactions to irrelevant emotional distracting information. Our findings furthermore extend the function of attention to the control of autonomous reactions associated with negative emotions by showing altered blood pressure reactions to emotional stimuli, the latter being of potential clinical relevance.
Adaptive human behavior depends on the capacity to adjust cognitive processing after an error. Here we show that transcranial direct current stimulation of medial-frontal cortex provides causal control over the electrophysiological responses of the human brain to errors and feedback. Using one direction of current flow, we eliminated performance-monitoring activity, reduced behavioral adjustments after an error, and slowed learning. By reversing the current flow in the same subjects, we enhanced performance-monitoring activity, increased behavioral adjustments after an error, and sped learning. These beneficial effects fundamentally improved cognition for nearly 5 h after 20 min of noninvasive stimulation. The stimulation selectively influenced the potentials indexing error and feedback processing without changing potentials indexing mechanisms of perceptual or response processing. Our findings demonstrate that the functioning of mechanisms of cognitive control and learning can be up- or down-regulated using noninvasive stimulation of medial-frontal cortex in the human brain.
Trans-activating response region (TAR) DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) is an RNA-binding protein that is mutated in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Disease-linked mutations in TDP-43 increase the tendency of TDP-43 to aggregate, leading to a corresponding increase in formation of stress granules, cytoplasmic protein/RNA complexes that form in response to stress. Although the field has focused on stress granules, TDP-43 also forms other types of RNA granules. For example, TDP-43 is associated with RNA granules that are prevalent throughout the dendritic arbor in neurons. Because aggregation of TDP-43 is also important for the formation of these neuronal RNA granules, we hypothesized that disease-linked mutations might alter granule formation even in the absence of stress. We now report that ALS-linked mutations in TDP-43 (A315T and Q343R) increase the size of neuronal TDP-43 granules in the dendritic arbor of rat hippocampal neurons. The mutations correspondingly reduce the granule density, movement, and mobility of TDP-43 granules. Depolarization of rat hippocampal neurons with KCl stimulates TDP-43 granule migration into dendrites, but A315T and Q343R TDP-43 granules migrate shorter distances and into fewer dendrites than wild-type TDP-43. These findings highlight novel elements of TDP-43 biology that are affected by disease-linked mutations and suggest a neuronally selective mechanism through which TDP-43 mutations might elicit neuronal dysfunction.
Morality is a fundamental component of human cultures and has been defined as prescriptive norms regarding how people should treat one another, including concepts such as justice, fairness, and rights. Using fMRI, the current study examined the extent to which dispositions in justice sensitivity (i.e., how individuals react to experiences of injustice and unfairness) predict behavioral ratings of praise and blame and how they modulate the online neural response and functional connectivity when participants evaluate morally laden (good and bad) everyday actions. Justice sensitivity did not impact the neuro-hemodynamic response in the action-observation network but instead influenced higher-order computational nodes in the right temporoparietal junction (rTPJ), right dorsolateral and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (rdlPFC, dmPFC) that process mental states understanding and maintain goal representations. Activity in these regions predicted praise and blame ratings. Further, the hemodynamic response in rTPJ showed a differentiation between good and bad actions 2 s before the response in rdlPFC. Evaluation of good actions was specifically associated with enhanced activity in dorsal striatum and increased the functional coupling between the rTPJ and the anterior cingulate cortex. Together, this study provides important knowledge in how individual differences in justice sensitivity impact neural computations that support psychological processes involved in moral judgment and mental-state reasoning.
Pontospinal noradrenergic neurons are thought to form part of a descending endogenous analgesic system that exerts inhibitory influences on spinal nociception. Using optogenetic targeting, we tested the hypothesis that excitation of the locus ceruleus (LC) is antinociceptive. We transduced rat LC neurons by direct injection of a lentiviral vector expressing channelrhodopsin2 under the control of the PRS promoter. Subsequent optoactivation of the LC evoked repeatable, robust, antinociceptive (+4.7C  1.0, p &lt; 0.0001) or pronociceptive (-4.4C  0.7, p &lt; 0.0001) changes in hindpaw thermal withdrawal thresholds. Post hoc anatomical characterization of the distribution of transduced somata referenced against the position of the optical fiber and subsequent further functional analysis showed that antinociceptive actions were evoked from a distinct, ventral subpopulation of LC neurons. Therefore, the LC is capable of exerting potent, discrete, bidirectional influences on thermal nociception that are produced by specific subpopulations of noradrenergic neurons. This reflects an underlying functional heterogeneity of the influence of the LC on the processing of nociceptive information.
The polarized distribution of membrane proteins to axonal or somatodendritic neuronal compartments is fundamental to nearly every aspect of neuronal function. The polarity of dendritic proteins depends on selective microtubule-based transport; the vesicles that carry these proteins are transported into dendrites but do not enter the axon. We used live-cell imaging of fluorescently tagged dendritic and axonal proteins combined with immunostaining for initial segment and cytoskeletal markers to evaluate different models of dendrite-selective transport in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. In mature neurons, dendritic vesicles that entered the base of the axon stopped at the proximal edge of the axon initial segment, defined by immunostaining for ankyrinG, rather than moving into the initial segment itself. In contrast, axonal vesicles passed through the initial segment without impediment. During development, dendrite-selective transport was detected shortly after axons formed, several days before initial segment assembly, before the appearance of a dense actin meshwork in the initial segment, and before dendrites acquire microtubules of mixed polarity orientation. Indeed, some elements of selective transport were detected even before axon specification. These findings are inconsistent with models for selective transport that depend on the presence of an F-actin-based cytoplasmic filter in the initial segment or that posit that transport into dendrites is mediated by dyneins translocating along minus-end out microtubules. Instead our results suggest that selective transport involves the coordinated regulation of the different motor proteins that mediate dendritic vesicle transport and that the selectivity of motor-microtubule interactions is one facet of this process.


Neurophysiological studies of decision making have primarily focused on decisions about information that is stable over time. However, during natural behavior, animals make decisions in a constantly changing environment. To investigate the neural mechanisms of such dynamic choices, we recorded activity in dorsal premotor (PMd) and primary motor cortex (M1) while monkeys performed a two-choice reaching task in which sensory information about the correct choice was changing within each trial and the decision could be made at any time. During deliberation, activity in both areas did not integrate sensory information but instead tracked it and combined it with a growing urgency signal. Approximately 280ms before movement onset, PMd activity tuned to the selected target reached a consistent peak while M1 activity tuned to the unselected target was suppressed. We propose that this reflects the resolution of a competition between the potential responses and constitutes the volitional commitment to an action choice.
Most behaviors, even simple innate reflexes, are mediated by circuits of neurons spanning areas throughout the brain. However, in most cases, the distribution and dynamics of firing patterns of these neurons during behavior are not known. We imaged activity, with cellular resolution, throughout the whole brains of zebrafish performing the optokinetic response. We found a sparse, broadly distributed network that has an elaborate but ordered pattern, with a bilaterally symmetrical organization. Activity patterns fell into distinct clusters reflecting sensory and motor processing. By correlating neuronal responses with an array of sensory and motor variables, we find that the network can be clearly divided into distinct functional modules. Comparing aligned data from multiple fish, we find that the spatiotemporal activity dynamics and functional organization are highly stereotyped across individuals. These experiments systematically reveal the functional architecture of neural circuits underlying a sensorimotor behavior in a vertebrate brain.
Electrical coupling mediated by gap junctions is widespread in the mammalian CNS, and the interplay between chemical and electrical synapses on the millisecond timescale is crucial for determining patterns of synchrony in many neural circuits. Here we show that activation of glutamatergic synapses drives long-term depression of electrical coupling between neurons of the inferior olive. We demonstrate that this plasticity is not triggered by postsynaptic spiking alone and that it requires calcium entry following synaptic NMDA receptor activation. These results reveal that glutamatergic synapses can instruct plasticity at electrical synapses, providing a means for excitatory inputs to homeostatically regulate the long-term dynamics of microzones in olivocerebellar circuits.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) coupling to Gi/o signaling pathways are involved in the control of important physiological functions, which are difficult to investigate because of the limitation of tools to control the signaling pathway with precise kinetics and specificity. We established two vertebrate cone opsins, short- and long-wavelength opsin, for long-lasting and repetitive activation of Gi/o signaling pathways in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate for both opsins the repetitive fast, membrane-delimited, ultra light-sensitive, and wavelength-dependent activation of the Gi/o pathway in HEK cells. We also show repetitive control of Gi/o pathway activation in 5-HT1A receptor domains in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in brain slices and in vivo, which is sufficient to modulate anxiety behavior in mice. Thus, vertebrate cone opsins represent a class of tools for understanding the role of Gi/o-coupled GPCRs in health and disease.
Research into the anatomical substrates and &quot;principles&quot; for integrating inputs from separate sensory surfaces has yielded divergent findings. This suggests that multisensory integration is flexible and context dependent and underlines the need for dynamically adaptive neuronal integration mechanisms. We propose that flexible multisensory integration can be explained by a combination of canonical, population-level integrative operations, such as oscillatory phase resetting and divisive normalization. These canonical operations subsume multisensory integration into a fundamental set of principles as to how the brain integrates all sorts of information, and they are being used proactively and adaptively. We illustrate this proposition by unifying recent findings from different research themes such as timing, behavioral goal, and experience-related differences in integration.
This Perspective reviews recent findings in placebo hypoalgesia and provides a conceptual account of how expectations and experience can lead to placebo hypoalgesia. In particular, we put forward the idea that the ascending and the descending pain system resembles a recurrent system that allows for the implementation of predictive coding-meaning that the brain is not passively waiting for nociceptive stimuli to impinge on it but is actively making inferences based on prior experience and expectations. The Bayesian formulation within the predictive coding framework can directly account for differences in the magnitude but also the precision of expectations that are known to influence the strength of placebo hypoalgesia. We discuss how modulatory neurotransmitters such as opioids might be related to the characterization of expectations with an emphasis on the precision of these expectations. Finally, we develop experimental strategies that are suited to test this framework at the behavioral and neuronal level.
Dendritic spines in glomeruli of the inferior olive are coupled by gap junctions and receive both inhibitory and excitatory inputs. In this issue of Neuron, Lefler et al. (2014), Mathy et al. (2014), and Turecek et al. (2014) provide new insight into how these inputs modulate electrical coupling and oscillatory activity.
Major nonprimate-primate differences in cortico-genesis include the dimensions, precursor lineages, and developmental timing of the germinal zones (GZs). microRNAs (miRNAs) of laser-dissected GZ compartments and cortical plate (CP) from embryonic E80 macaque visual cortex were deep sequenced. The CP and the GZ including ventricular zone (VZ) and outer and inner subcompartments of the outer subventricular zone (OSVZ) in area 17 displayed unique miRNA profiles. miRNAs present in primate, but absent in rodent, contributed disproportionately to the differential expression between GZ subregions. Prominent among the validated targets of these miRNAs were cell-cycle and neurogenesis regulators. Coevolution between the emergent miRNAs and their targets suggested that novel miRNAs became integrated into ancient gene circuitry to exert additional control over proliferation. We conclude that multiple cell-cycle regulatory events contribute to the emergence of primate-specific cortical features, including the OSVZ, generated enlarged supragranular layers, largely responsible for the increased primate cortex computational abilities.
Cutaneous mechanosensory neurons detect mechanical stimuli that generate touch and pain sensation. Although opioids are generally associated only with the control of pain, here we report that the opioid system in fact broadly regulates cutaneous mechanosensation, including touch. This function is predominantly subserved by the delta opioid receptor (DOR), which is expressed by myelinated mechanoreceptors that form Meissner corpuscles, Merkel cell-neurite complexes, and circumferential hair follicle endings. These afferents also include a small population of CGRP-expressing myelinated nociceptors that we now identify as the somatosensory neurons that coexpress mu and delta opioid receptors. We further demonstrate that DOR activation at the central terminals of myelinated mechanoreceptors depresses synaptic input to the spinal dorsal horn, via the inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels. Collectively our results uncover a molecular mechanism by which opioids modulate cutaneous mechanosensation and provide a rationale for targeting DOR to alleviate injury-induced mechanical hypersensitivity.
High-frequency bursts of action potentials (APs) are a distinctive form of signaling in various types of mammalian central neurons. In CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons invivo, such complex spike bursts (CSs) are detected during various behaviors and are considered to be particularly important for learning- and memory-related synaptic plasticity. Here, we combined whole-cell recordings and two-photon imaging in mouse CA1 pyramidal neurons to investigate the cellular mechanisms underlying CSs invivo. Our results demonstrate that CSs are of synaptic origin, as they require N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. We identify voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel-dependent, spike-like depolarizations as integral components of the CSs. These Ca(2+) spikes were invariably associated with widespread large-amplitude Ca(2+) transients in basal and apical dendrites. Together, our results reveal a type of NMDA receptor-dependent multidendrite Ca(2+) spike required for high-frequency bursting invivo.
Combinations of transcription factors (TFs) instruct precise wiring patterns in the developing nervous system; however, how these factors impinge on surface molecules that control guidance decisions is poorly understood. Using mRNA profiling, we identified the complement of membrane molecules regulated by the homeobox TF Even-skipped (Eve), the major determinant of dorsal motor neuron (dMN) identity in Drosophila. Combinatorial loss- and gain-of-function genetic analyses of Eve target genes indicate that the integrated actions of attractive, repulsive, and adhesive molecules direct eve-dependent dMN axon guidance. Furthermore, combined misexpression of Eve target genes is sufficient to partially restore CNS exit and can convert the guidance behavior of interneurons to that of dMNs. Finally, we show that a network of TFs, comprised of eve, zfh1, and grain, induces the expression of the Unc5 and Beaten-path guidance receptors and the Fasciclin 2 and Neuroglian adhesion molecules to guide individual dMN axons.

Decisions are said to be 'risky' when they are made in environments with uncertainty caused by nature. By contrast, a decision is said to be 'trusting' when its outcome depends on the uncertain decisions of another person. A rapidly expanding literature reveals economically important differences between risky and trusting decisions, and further suggests these differences are due to 'betrayal aversion'. While its neural foundations have not been previously illuminated, the prevailing hypothesis is that betrayal aversion stems from a desire to avoid negative emotions that arise from learning one's trust was betrayed. Here, we provide evidence from an fMRI study that supports this hypothesis. In particular, our data indicate that the anterior insula modulates trusting decisions that involve the possibility of betrayal.






Cochlear frequency selectivity plays a key role in our ability to understand speech, and is widely believed to be associated with cochlear amplification. However, genetic studies targeting the tectorial membrane (TM) have demonstrated both sharper and broader tuning with no obvious changes in hair bundle or somatic motility mechanisms. For example, cochlear tuning of Tectb(-/-) mice is significantly sharper than that of Tecta(Y1870C/+) mice, even though TM stiffnesses are similarly reduced relative to wild-type TMs. Here we show that differences in TM viscosity can account for these differences in tuning. In the basal cochlear turn, nanoscale pores of Tecta(Y1870C/+) TMs are significantly larger than those of Tectb(-/-) TMs. The larger pore size reduces shear viscosity (by 70%), thereby reducing traveling wave speed and increasing spread of excitation. These results demonstrate the previously unrecognized importance of TM porosity in cochlear and neural tuning.



Sensory inputs are remarkably organized along all sensory pathways. While sensory representations are known to undergo plasticity at the higher levels of sensory pathways following peripheral lesions or sensory experience, less is known about the functional plasticity of peripheral inputs induced by learning. We addressed this question in the adult mouse olfactory system by combining odor discrimination studies with functional imaging of sensory input activity in awake mice. Here we show that associative learning, but not passive odor exposure, potentiates the strength of sensory inputs up to several weeks after the end of training. We conclude that experience-dependent plasticity can occur in the periphery of adult mouse olfactory system, which should improve odor detection and contribute towards accurate and fast odor discriminations. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02109.001.





Exosomes are small vesicles that are secreted by cells and act as mediators of cell to cell communication. Because of their potential therapeutic significance, important efforts are being made towards characterizing exosomal contents. However, little is known about the mechanisms that govern exosome biogenesis. We have recently shown that the exosomal protein syntenin supports exosome production. Here we identify the small GTPase ADP ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6) and its effector phospholipase D2 (PLD2) as regulators of syntenin exosomes. ARF6 and PLD2 affect exosomes by controlling the budding of intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) into multivesicular bodies (MVBs). ARF6 also controls epidermal growth factor receptor degradation, suggesting a role in degradative MVBs. Yet ARF6 does not affect HIV-1 budding, excluding general effects on Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport. Our study highlights a novel pathway controlling ILV budding and exosome biogenesis and identifies an unexpected role for ARF6 in late endosomal trafficking.
We report the case of a 68-year-old woman with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) presenting with a 1-year history of progressive dysarthria with unintelligible speech, dysphagia, muscular wasting, and a troublesome chin tremor with difficulty in chewing. At clinical examination, our attention was drawn to clonus of the lower jaw (video on the Neurology Web site at Neurology.org). Exaggerated jaw jerk is due to supranuclear lesion of trigeminal nerve and it may occur in ALS.(1) However, although the first description of clonus of the lower jaw in ALS dates back to 1886,(2) this sign is not frequently noticed in clinical practice.

Fingolimod (FTY720, Gilenya, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland) is an oral disease-modifying therapy (DMT), approved for relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS), which acts via modulation of the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor.(1) Fingolimod also targets the cardiovascular system, frequently causing reduced heart rate after the first dose.(2) We describe a patient with MS who developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) after initiating fingolimod therapy.



The AMPA-receptor subunit GluA4 is expressed transiently in CA1 pyramidal neurons at the time synaptic connectivity is forming, but its physiological significance is unknown. Here we show that GluA4 expression is sufficient to alter the signaling requirements of long-term potentiation (LTP) and can fully explain the switch in the LTP kinase dependency from PKA to Ca2(+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II during synapse maturation. At immature synapses, activation of PKA leads to a robust potentiation of AMPA-receptor function via the mobilization of GluA4. Analysis of GluA4-deficient mice indicates that this mechanism is critical for neonatal PKA-dependent LTP. Furthermore, lentiviral expression of GluA4 in CA1 neurons conferred a PKA-dependent synaptic potentiation and LTP regardless of the developmental stage. Thus, GluA4 defines the signaling requirements for LTP and silent synapse activation during a critical period of synapse development.
Mutation in leucine-rich-repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a common cause of Parkinson disease (PD). A disease-causing point mutation R1441H/G/C in the GTPase domain of LRRK2 leads to overactivation of its kinase domain. However, the mechanism by which this mutation alters the normal function of its GTPase domain [Ras of complex proteins (Roc)] remains unclear. Here, we report the effects of R1441H mutation (RocR1441H) on the structure and activity of Roc. We show that Roc forms a stable monomeric conformation in solution that is catalytically active, thus demonstrating that LRRK2 is a bona fide self-contained GTPase. We further show that the R1441H mutation causes a twofold reduction in GTPase activity without affecting the structure, thermal stability, and GDP-binding affinity of Roc. However, the mutation causes a twofold increase in GTP-binding affinity of Roc, thus suggesting that the PD-causing mutation R1441H traps Roc in a more persistently activated state by increasing its affinity for GTP and, at the same time, compromising its GTP hydrolysis.
The hippocampus has a well-documented role for spatial navigation across species, but its role for spatial memory in nonnavigational tasks is uncertain. In particular, when monkeys are tested in tasks that do not require navigation, spatial memory seems unaffected by lesions of the hippocampus. However, the interpretation of these results is compromised by long-term compensatory adaptation occurring in the days and weeks after lesions. To test the hypothesis that hippocampus is necessary for nonnavigational spatial memory, we selected a technique that avoids long-term compensatory adaptation. We transiently disrupted hippocampal function acutely at the time of testing by microinfusion of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate. Animals were tested on a self-ordered spatial memory task, the Hamilton Search Task. In the task, animals are presented with an array of eight boxes, each containing a food reinforcer; one box may be opened per trial, with trials separated by a delay. Only the spatial location of the boxes serves as a cue to solve the task. The optimal strategy is to open each box once without returning to previously visited locations. Transient inactivation of hippocampus reduced performance to chance levels in a delay-dependent manner. In contrast, no deficits were seen when boxes were marked with nonspatial cues (color). These results clearly document a role for hippocampus in nonnavigational spatial memory in macaques and demonstrate the efficacy of pharmacological inactivation of this structure in this species. Our data bring the role of the hippocampus in monkeys into alignment with the broader framework of hippocampal function.




Smoothened (SMO) inhibitors recently entered clinical trials for sonic-hedgehog-driven medulloblastoma (SHH-MB). Clinical response is highly variable. To understand the mechanism(s) of primary resistance and identify pathways cooperating with aberrant SHH signaling, we sequenced and profiled a large cohort of SHH-MBs (n= 133). SHH pathway mutations involved PTCH1 (across all age groups), SUFU (infants, including germline), and SMO (adults). Children &gt;3 years old harbored an excess of downstream MYCN and GLI2 amplifications and frequent TP53 mutations, often in the germline, all of which were rare in infants and adults. Functional assays in different SHH-MB xenograft models demonstrated that SHH-MBs harboring a PTCH1 mutation were responsive to SMO inhibition, whereas tumors harboring an SUFU mutation or MYCN amplification were primarily resistant.


Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is a debilitating sensory impairment affecting 10%-15% of the population, caused primarily through damage to the sensory hair cells or to the auditory neurons. Once lost, these never regenerate [1], and no effective drugs are available [2, 3]. Emerging evidence points toward an important contribution of synaptic ribbons in the long-term coupling of the inner hair cell and afferent neuron synapse to maintain hearing [4]. Here we show in nocturnal mice that night noise overexposure triggers permanent hearing loss, whereas mice overexposed during the day recover to normal auditory thresholds. In view of this time-dependent sensitivity, we identified a self-sustained circadian rhythm in the isolated cochlea, as evidenced by circadian expression of clock genes and ample PERIOD2::LUCIFERASE oscillations, originating mainly from the primary auditory neurons and hair cells. The transcripts of the otoprotecting brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) showed higher levels in response to day noise versus night noise, suggesting that BDNF-mediated signaling regulates noise sensitivity throughout the day. Administration of a selective BDNF receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase type B (TrkB), in the night protected the inner hair cell's synaptic ribbons and subsequent full recovery of hearing thresholds after night noise overexposure. The TrkB agonist shifted the phase and boosted the amplitude of circadian rhythms in the isolated cochlea. These findings highlight the coupling of circadian rhythmicity and the TrkB receptor for the successful prevention and treatment of NIHL.



Whole-cell patch clamp recording has been successfully used in identifying the voltage-dependent gating and conductance properties of ion channels in a variety of cells. However, this powerful technique is of limited value in studying low membrane resistance cells, such as astrocytes in situ, because of the inability to control or accurately measure the real amplitude of command voltages. To facilitate the study of ionic conductances of astrocytes, we have developed a dual patch recording method which permits membrane current and membrane potential to be simultaneously recorded from astrocytes in spite of their extraordinarily low membrane resistance. The utility of this technique is demonstrated by measuring the voltage-dependent activation of the inwardly rectifying K+ current abundantly expressed in astrocytes and multiple ionic events associated with astrocytic GABAA receptor activation. This protocol can be performed routinely in the study of astrocytes. This method will be valuable for identifying and characterizing the individual ion channels that orchestrate the electrical activity of low membrane resistance cells.


Recent studies have demonstrated a relationship between the expression of stem cell-associated genes and relapses in glioblastoma (GBM), suggesting a key role for tumor stem cells in this process. Although there is increasing interest in this field, glioma stem cells (GSCs) are still poorly characterized, their 'stemness' state and factors maintaining these properties remain largely unknown. We performed an expression profiling analysis of pluripotency in gliomaspheres derived from 11 patients. Comparative analysis between GSCs and H1 and H9 human embryonic stem cells as well as H9-derived neural stem cells indicates major variations in gene expression of pluripotency factors Nanog and OCT4, but a stable pattern for SOX2 suggesting its important function in maintaining pluripotency in GSCs. Our results also showed that all GSC lines have the capacity to commit to neural differentiation and express mesenchymal or endothelial differentiation markers. In addition, hierarchical clustering analysis revealed two groups of GSCs reflecting their heterogeneity and identified COL1A1 and IFITM1 as the most discriminating genes. Similar patterns have been observed in tumors from which gliomaspheres have been established. To determine whether this heterogeneity could be clinically relevant, the expression of both genes was further analyzed in an independent cohort of 30 patients with GBM and revealed strong correlation with overall survival. In vitro silencing of COL1A1 and IFTM1 confirmed the effect of these mesenchymal-associated genes on cell invasion and gliomasphere initiation. Our results indicate that COL1A1 and IFITM1 genes could be considered for use in stratifying patients with GBM into subgroups for risk of recurrence at diagnosis, as well as for prognostic and therapeutic evolution.


Is our visual experience of the world graded or dichotomous? Opposite pre-theoretical intuitions apply in different cases. For instance, when looking at a scene, one has a distinct sense that our experience has a graded character: one cannot say that there is no experience of contents that fall outside the focus of attention, but one cannot say that there is full awareness of such contents either. By contrast, when performing a visual detection task, our sense of having perceived the stimulus or not exhibits a more dichotomous character. Such issues have recently been the object of intense debate because different theoretical frameworks make different predictions about the graded versus dichotomous character of consciousness. Here, we review both relevant empirical findings as well as the associated theories (i.e. local recurrent processing versus global neural workspace theory). Next, we attempt to reconcile such contradictory theories by suggesting that level of processing is an often-ignored but highly relevant dimension through which we can cast a novel look at existing empirical findings. Thus, using a range of different stimuli, tasks and subjective scales, we show that processing low-level, non-semantic content results in graded visual experience, whereas processing high-level semantic content is experienced in a more dichotomous manner. We close by comparing our perspective with existing proposals, focusing in particular on the partial awareness hypothesis.
Does our perceptual awareness consist of a continuous stream, or a discrete sequence of perceptual cycles, possibly associated with the rhythmic structure of brain activity? This has been a long-standing question in neuroscience. We review recent psychophysical and electrophysiological studies indicating that part of our visual awareness proceeds in approximately 7-13 Hz cycles rather than continuously. On the other hand, experimental attempts at applying similar tools to demonstrate the discreteness of auditory awareness have been largely unsuccessful. We argue and demonstrate experimentally that visual and auditory perception are not equally affected by temporal subsampling of their respective input streams: video sequences remain intelligible at sampling rates of two to three frames per second, whereas audio inputs lose their fine temporal structure, and thus all significance, below 20-30 samples per second. This does not mean, however, that our auditory perception must proceed continuously. Instead, we propose that audition could still involve perceptual cycles, but the periodic sampling should happen only after the stage of auditory feature extraction. In addition, although visual perceptual cycles can follow one another at a spontaneous pace largely independent of the visual input, auditory cycles may need to sample the input stream more flexibly, by adapting to the temporal structure of the auditory inputs.
This essay critically examines the extent to which binocular rivalry can provide important clues about the neural correlates of conscious visual perception. Our ideas are presented within the framework of four questions about the use of rivalry for this purpose: (i) what constitutes an adequate comparison condition for gauging rivalry's impact on awareness, (ii) how can one distinguish abolished awareness from inattention, (iii) when one obtains unequivocal evidence for a causal link between a fluctuating measure of neural activity and fluctuating perceptual states during rivalry, will it generalize to other stimulus conditions and perceptual phenomena and (iv) does such evidence necessarily indicate that this neural activity constitutes a neural correlate of consciousness? While arriving at sceptical answers to these four questions, the essay nonetheless offers some ideas about how a more nuanced utilization of binocular rivalry may still provide fundamental insights about neural dynamics, and glimpses of at least some of the ingredients comprising neural correlates of consciousness, including those involved in perceptual decision-making.
This article proposes a new model to interpret seemingly conflicting evidence concerning the correlation of consciousness and neural processes. Based on an analysis of research of blindsight and subliminal perception, the reorganization of elementary functions and consciousness framework suggests that mental representations consist of functions at several different levels of analysis, including truly localized perceptual elementary functions and perceptual algorithmic modules, which are interconnections of the elementary functions. We suggest that conscious content relates to the 'top level' of analysis in a 'situational algorithmic strategy' that reflects the general state of an individual. We argue that conscious experience is intrinsically related to representations that are available to guide behaviour. From this perspective, we find that blindsight and subliminal perception can be explained partly by too coarse-grained methodology, and partly by top-down enhancing of representations that normally would not be relevant to action.
The report 'I saw the stimulus' operationally defines visual consciousness, but where does the 'I' come from? To account for the subjective dimension of perceptual experience, we introduce the concept of the neural subjective frame. The neural subjective frame would be based on the constantly updated neural maps of the internal state of the body and constitute a neural referential from which first person experience can be created. We propose to root the neural subjective frame in the neural representation of visceral information which is transmitted through multiple anatomical pathways to a number of target sites, including posterior insula, ventral anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala and somatosensory cortex. We review existing experimental evidence showing that the processing of external stimuli can interact with visceral function. The neural subjective frame is a low-level building block of subjective experience which is not explicitly experienced by itself which is necessary but not sufficient for perceptual experience. It could also underlie other types of subjective experiences such as self-consciousness and emotional feelings. Because the neural subjective frame is tightly linked to homeostatic regulations involved in vigilance, it could also make a link between state and content consciousness.
What is the relationship between attention and conscious awareness? Awareness sometimes appears to be restricted to the contents of focused attention, yet at other times irrelevant distractors will dominate awareness. This contradictory relationship has also been reflected in an abundance of discrepant research findings leading to an enduring controversy in cognitive psychology. Lavie's load theory of attention suggests that the puzzle can be solved by considering the role of perceptual load. Although distractors will intrude upon awareness in conditions of low load, awareness will be restricted to the content of focused attention when the attended information involves high perceptual load. Here, we review recent evidence for this proposal with an emphasis on the various subjective blindness phenomena, and their neural correlates, induced by conditions of high perceptual load. We also present novel findings that clarify the role of attention in the response to stimulus contrast. Overall, this article demonstrates a critical role for perceptual load across the spectrum of perceptual processes leading to awareness, from the very early sensory responses related to contrast detection to explicit recognition of semantic content.











The adrenal cortex has a molecular clock that generates circadian rhythms in glucocorticoids, yet how the clock is synchronized to the external environment is unknown. Using mPER2::Luciferase (mPER2Luc) knockin mice, in which luciferase is rhythmically expressed under the control of the mouse Per2 clock gene, we hypothesized that ACTH transmits entrainment signals to the adrenal. Adrenal explants were administered ACTH at different phases of the mPER2Luc rhythm. Treatment with ACTH 1-39 produced a phase delay that was phase-dependent, with a maximum at circadian time (CT)18; ACTH did not alter the period or amplitude of the rhythm. Forskolin produced a parallel response, suggesting that the phase delay was cAMP-mediated. The response to ACTH was concentration-dependent and peptide-specific. Pulse administration (60 min) of ACTH 1-39 also produced phase delays restricted to late CTs. In contrast to ACTH 1-39, other ACTH fragments, including -melanocyte-stimulating hormone, which do not activate the melanocortin 2 (MC2/ACTH) receptor, had no effect. The finding that ACTH in vitro phase delays the adrenal mPER2luc rhythm in a monophasic fashion argues for ACTH as a key resetter, but not the sole entrainer, of the adrenal clock.
2'-Fluoro modified RNAs are useful as potential therapeutics and as special substrates for studying RNA function. 2'-Fluoro modified RNAs generally need to be purified after they are prepared either enzymatically or by solid-phase synthesis. Here we introduce a protocol by which 2'-fluoro modified RNAs with 57 and 58 nucleotides can be resolved and purified using ion-pair, reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Because the size of our RNA samples is in the range of many known RNA aptamers of therapeutic values, our protocol should be generally useful.
Looking at one's own body has been shown to induce analgesia. In the present work we investigated whether illusory self-identification with an avatar, as induced experimentally through visuo-tactile stimulation, modulates the response to painful stimuli. In 30 healthy volunteers, a robotic device was used to stroke the participants' back, while they viewed either the body of an avatar, a non-body object (control object), or a body avatar with scrambled body parts (control body). All were visually stimulated in either congruent or incongruent fashion with the participant's body. We collected physiological responses (skin conductance response: SCR) to painful stimuli delivered to the participant's hand and responses to a questionnaire inquiring about self-identification with the avatar. We expected reduced physiological responses to pain during the observation of a body avatar only during synchronous visuo-tactile stroking and no reduction for the control object and the control body. Results showed a reduced SCR to painful stimuli when participants observed the normal body avatar being stroked synchronously that was also associated with largest self-identification ratings recordable already during the pain anticipation. Moreover, a negative correlation between self-identification and SCR was observed, suggesting that a greater degree of self-identification with the avatar was associated with larger decreases in SCR. These results suggest that during states of illusory self-identification with the avatar, the vision of an alien body (anatomically compatible for the vision and congruently stroked for the touch) is effective in modulating physiological responses to painful stimuli.
The little voice inside our head, or inner speech, is a common everyday experience. It plays a central role in human consciousness at the interplay of language and thought. An impressive host of research works has been carried out on inner speech these last fifty years. Here we first describe the phenomenology of inner speech by examining five issues: common behavioural and cerebral correlates with overt speech, different types of inner speech (wilful verbal thought generation and verbal mind wandering), presence of inner speech in reading and in writing, inner signing and voice-hallucinations in deaf people. Secondly, we review the role of inner speech in cognitive performance (i.e., enhancement vs. perturbation). Finally, we consider agency in inner speech and how our inner voice is known to be self-generated and not produced by someone else.
Given that human adolescents place a high value on social interactions-particularly while consuming alcohol-the current study utilized a novel social drinking paradigm to examine rewarding and aversive properties of ethanol in non-water deprived rats that were housed and tested in groups of five same-sex littermates. On postnatal day P34 (adolescents) or P69 (adults), rats were habituated to the testing apparatus for 30 min. On the next day, animals were placed into the test apparatus and given 30 min access to a supersaccharin solution (3% sucrose; 0.125% saccharin), followed immediately by an intraperitoneal injection of ethanol (0, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5 g/kg). Subsequent intake of the supersacharrin solution was assessed on three consecutive test days. Adolescent males were less sensitive to ethanol's aversive effects than adult males, with adolescent males maintaining an aversion on all three test days only at the 1.5 g/kg dose, whereas adults demonstrated aversions across test days to 1 and 1.5 g/kg. Adolescent females maintained aversions to 1 and 1.5 g/kg across days, whereas adult females continued to show an aversion to the 1.5 g/kg dose only. These opposite patterns of sensitivity that emerged among males and females at each age in the propensity to maintain an ethanol-induced taste aversion under social conditions may contribute to age- and sex-related differences in ethanol intake. Testing in social groups may be useful for future work when studying rodent models of adolescent alcohol use given the importance that human adolescents place on drinking in social settings.
We recently demonstrated in male wild-type Groningen rats that enhancing brain oxytocin (OXT) levels acutely produces marked pro-social explorative and anti-aggressive effects. Moreover, these pharmacologically-induced changes are moderated by the individual's aggressive phenotype, suggesting an inverse relationship between aggressiveness and tonic endogenous OXT signaling properties. Aim of the present study was to verify the hypothesis that variations in OXT expression and/or OXT receptor (OXTR) binding in selected brain regions are associated with different levels or forms of aggression. To this end, male resident wild-type Groningen rats that repeatedly contested and dominated intruder conspecifics were categorized as being low aggressive, highly aggressive or excessively aggressive. Their brains were subsequently collected and quantified for OXT mRNA expression and OXTR binding levels. Our results showed that OXT mRNA expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), but not in the supraoptic nucleus (SON), negatively correlates with the level of offensiveness. In particular, the excessively aggressive group showed a significantly lower OXT mRNA expression in the PVN as compared to both low and highly aggressive groups. Further, the excessively aggressive animals showed the highest OXTR binding in the central amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). These findings demonstrate that male rats with excessively high levels and abnormal forms of aggressive behavior have diminished OXT transcription and enhanced OXTR binding capacities in specific nodes of the social behavioral brain circuitry.
A nascent literature suggests that neonatal infection is a risk factor for the development of brain, behavior and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis which can affect anxiety- and depression-related behaviors in later life. It has been documented that neonatal infection raises the concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) in neonate rodents and such infections may result in neonatal brain injury, at least in part, through pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition, previous studies have shown that TNF- is involved in cellular differentiation, neurogenesis and programmed cell death during the development of the central nervous system. We investigated for the first time whether neonatal exposure to TNF- can affect body weight, stress-induced corticosterone (COR), anxiety- and depression-related behaviors in adult mice. In the present study, neonatal mice were treated to recombinant mouse TNF- (0.2, 0.4, 0.7 and 1 g/kg) or saline on postnatal days 3 and 5, then adult male and female mice were exposed to different behavioral tests. The results indicated that neonatal TNF- treatment reduced body weight in neonatal period in both sexes. In addition, this study obtained some experimental findings indicating the high doses of TNF- increase stress-induced COR levels, anxiety- and depression-related behaviors in adult males, while decrease the levels of anxiety without any significant effect on depression in adult female mice. Our findings suggest that TNF- exposure during neonatal period can alter brain and behavior development in a dose and sex-dependent manner in mice.
Tool stimuli can be analyzed based on their affordance, that is, their visual structure hinting at possible interaction points. Additionally, familiar tools can initiate the retrieval of stored object-action associations, providing the basis for a meaningful object use. The mu rhythm within the electroencephalographic alpha band is associated with sensory-motor processing and was shown to be modulated during the sight of familiar tool stimuli, suggesting motor cortex activation based on either affordance processing or access to stored conceptual object-action associations. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of such associations, acquired by observation of manipulation, in a training study controlling for inherent object affordances and previous individual differences in object-related experience. Participants observed the manipulation of a set of novel tool objects and visually explored a second set of novel tools for which only functional information was provided. In contrast to non-trained objects, observed objects modulated the mu rhythm over left sensory-motor cortex within 200 ms after training. Additionally, both observed and visually explored objects modulated mu rhythm over right sensory-motor cortex in the same time window to some extent, with the effect being stronger for the latter. This result suggests that motor cortex activation in visual processing of tools can result from observation of tool manipulation. However, mu rhythm modulation, albeit with a different and less clear left-lateralized pattern, is also seen when the tools were only made visually familiar and when information was restricted to the tools function.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects 13% of the population over the age of 65. Behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms are frequent and affect 80% of patients. Adult hippocampal neurogenesis, which is impaired in AD, is involved in learning and memory. It remains unclear, however, whether increasing adult neurogenesis improves behavioral symptoms in AD. We report that in the 3xTgAD mouse model of AD, chronic Wnt3a overexpression in the ventral hippocampus dentate gyrus (DG) restored adult neurogenesis to physiological levels. The restoration of adult neurogenesis led to full recovery of danger assessment impairment and the effect was blocked by ablation of neurogenesis with X-irradiation. Finally, using a bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST) mRNA expression array, we found that the expression of the 5-HT1A receptor in 3xTgAD mice is selectively decreased and normalized by Wnt3a overexpression in the ventral hippocampus DG, and this normalization is neurogenesis dependent. These findings indicate that reestablishing a functional population of hippocampal newborn neurons in adult AD mice rescues behavioral symptoms, suggesting that adult neurogenesis may be a promising therapeutic target for alleviating behavioral deficits in AD patients.
Changes in serum estradiol levels are associated with mood disorders in women. However, the underlying mechanisms are not clear. Because alterations in Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and monoamine levels in the hippocampus and amygdala have been associated with anxiety disorders, we hypothesized that chronic treatment with a low dose of estradiol would cause anxiety-like disorder by altering BDNF and monoamine levels in these regions. To test this hypothesis, female rats were sham-implanted (Controls) or implanted with pellets that release estradiol-17 (E2) for 90-days at the rate of 20 ng/day. Animals underwent behavioral tests such as the open field test and elevated plus maze test at the end of treatment. Brains from these animals were frozen, sectioned and the hippocampus, central amygdala and caudate putamen were microdissected and analyzed for monoamine levels using HPLC. BDNF protein levels in these areas were measured using ELISA and BDNF mRNA levels were analyzed using RT-PCR. In the open field test, animals chronically treated with E2 displayed anxiety-like behavior that was marked by a decrease in the number of inner zone crossings and increase in the rate of defecation compared to controls. However, no behavioral changes were observed in the elevated plus maze test. Chronic E2 treatment also decreased BDNF protein and mRNA levels in the central amygdala that was accompanied by a reduction in dopamine levels. No changes were observed in the hippocampus and caudate putamen. These results suggest that BDNF and dopamine in the central amygdala might possibly mediate chronic E2-induced behavioral alterations.
Alterations in social behavior are a hallmark of many neurodevelopmental disorders in humans. In rodents, social behavior is affected by prenatal insults. The outcomes are dependent on the timing of the insult as well as the sex and age of the animal tested. The limbic system is particularly important for social behavior, and a peak of neurogenesis within this system occurs on gestational day (G)15. Neurons appear particularly vulnerable to ethanol insult around the time they become post-mitotic. We tested the hypothesis that acute exposure to ethanol on G15 would result in significant social behavior deficits. Accordingly, Long Evans pregnant females were injected with ethanol (2.9 g/kg) or an equivalent volume of saline on G15. Offspring were assessed in a modified social interaction test on postnatal day (P) 28, P42, or P75, i.e., during early adolescence, late adolescence, or young adulthood. Prenatal ethanol exposure decreased social investigation in P28 females and transformed social preference into social avoidance in 75-day-old females. Contact behavior, play fighting, and locomotor activity differed as a function of age, but were not significantly affected by ethanol exposure. Males demonstrated significantly more contact behavior and play fighting at P42 than at P28 or P70, whereas there were no age-related changes in females. Adult females showed more locomotor activity than adult males. Overall, prenatal ethanol exposure on G15 enhanced social anxiety in females, with these effects seen in adulthood only.
Decision-making is an everyday routine that entails several subprocesses. Decisions under uncertainty occur when either prior information is incomplete or the outcomes of the decision are unclear. The aim of the present study was to disentangle the neural correlates of information gathering as well as reaching a decision and to explore effects of uncertainty acceptance or avoidance in a large sample of healthy subjects. Sixty-four healthy volunteers performed a decision-making under uncertainty task in a multi-center approach while BOLD signal was measured with fMRI. Subjects either had to indicate via button press from which of two bottles red or blue balls were drawn (decision-making under uncertainty condition), or they had to indicate whether 8 red balls had been presented (baseline condition). During the information gathering phase (contrasted against the counting phase) a widespread network was found encompassing (pre-)frontal, inferior temporal and inferior parietal cortices. Reaching a decision was correlated with activations in the medial frontal cortex as well as the posterior cingulate and the precuneus. Effects of uncertainty acceptance were found within a network comprising of the superior frontal cortex as well as the insula and precuneus while uncertainty avoidance was correlated with activations in the right middle frontal cortex. The results depict two distinct networks for information gathering and the indication of having made a decision. While information-gathering networks are modulated by uncertainty avoidance and - acceptance, underlying networks of the decision itself are independent of these factors.
Tactile stimulation (TS) applied to adult rats after cortical injury (medial frontal cortex aspiration or sensorimotor pial stripping stroke model) has been previously shown to ameliorate behavioral impairments and to improve morphological parameters like dendritic length of prefrontal cortical neurons (Gibb et al., 2010). The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of TS on healthy and hemiparkinsonian adult rats. Therefore, the animals received TS for 14 days and 15 min three times daily. At different time points rats were tested in various behavioral tests (amphetamine-induced rotation, cylinder test, staircase test). Finally, rats were sacrificed, their brains removed, and processed for Golgi-Cox analyses, tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR. We found that the striatal 6-OHDA lesion itself induced a long-term increase of astroglial Fgf2 transcript levels, but was not further increased by TS. In contrast TS applied to healthy rats elicited a transient short-term increase of Fgf2 in the striatum and Bdnf, Grin1, and Fgf2 in the hippocampus. Moreover, behavioral and histological analyses do not support a beneficial effect of TS for hemiparkinsonian rats, applied for two weeks starting one day after partial striatal 6-OHDA lesion.
Emerging evidence from human and animal studies suggests that exercise is a highly effective treatment for drug addiction. However, most work has been done in behavioral models, and the effects of exercise on the neurobiological substrates of addiction have not been identified. Specifically, it is unknown whether prior exercise exposure alters neuronal activation of brain reward circuitry in response to drugs of abuse. To investigate this hypothesis, rats were given 21 days of daily access to voluntary wheel running in a locked or unlocked running wheel. Subsequently, they were challenged with a saline or cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) injection and sacrificed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. The c-Fos transcription factor is a measure of cellular activity and was used to quantify cocaine-induced activation of reward-processing areas of the brain: nucleus accumbens (NAc), caudate putamen (CPu), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). The mean fold change in cocaine-induced c-Fos cell counts relative to saline-induced c-Fos cell counts was significantly higher in exercising compared to control rats in the NAc core, dorsomedial and dorsolateral CPu, the prelimbic area, and the OFC, indicating differential cocaine-specific cellular activation of brain reward circuitry between exercising and control animals. These results suggest neurobiological mechanisms by which voluntary wheel running attenuates cocaine-motivated behaviors and provide support for exercise as a novel treatment for drug addiction.
Food allergy has been suggested to contribute to the expression of psychological and psychiatric traits, including disturbed social behaviour and repetitive behaviour inherent in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Most research in this field receives little attention, since fundamental evidence showing direct effects of food allergic immune responses on social behaviour is very limited. In the present study, we show that a food allergic reaction to cow's milk protein, induced shortly after weaning, reduced social behaviour and increased repetitive behaviour in mice. This food allergic reaction increased levels of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) and the number of 5-HT positive cells, and decreased levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the intestine. Behavioural changes in food allergic mice were accompanied by reduced dopaminergic activity in the prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, neuronal activation (c-Fos expression) was increased in the prefrontal cortex and reduced in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus after exposure to a social target. We hypothesize that an intestinal allergic response regulates complex, but critical, neuroimmune interactions, thereby affecting brain circuits involved in social interaction, repetitive behaviour and cognition. Together with a genetic predisposition and multiple environmental factors, these effects of allergic immune activation may exacerbate behavioural abnormalities in patients with ASD.
Memory deficits associated with hippocampal dysfunction are a key feature of a number of neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. The discrete-trial rewarded alternation T-maze task is highly sensitive to hippocampal dysfunction. Normal mice have spontaneously high levels of alternation, whereas hippocampal-lesioned mice are dramatically impaired. However, this is a hand-run task and handling has been shown to impact crucially on behavioural responses, as well as being labour-intensive and therefore unsuitable for high-throughput studies. To overcome this, a fully automated maze was designed. The maze was attached to the mouse's home cage and the subject earned all of its food by running through the maze. In this study the hippocampal dependence of rewarded alternation in the automated maze was assessed. Bilateral hippocampal-lesioned mice were assessed in the standard, hand-run, discrete-trial rewarded alternation paradigm and in the automated paradigm, according to a cross-over design. A similarly robust lesion effect on alternation performance was found in both mazes, confirming the sensitivity of the automated maze to hippocampal lesions. Moreover, the performance of the animals in the automated maze was not affected by their handling history whereas performance in the hand-run maze was affected by prior testing history. By having more stable performance and by decreasing human contact the automated maze may offer opportunities to reduce extraneous experimental variation and therefore increase the reproducibility within and/or between laboratories. Furthermore, automation potentially allows for greater experimental throughput and hence suitability for use in assessment of cognitive function in drug discovery.

Methyl donor deficiencies and chronic stress cause depression independently, but their interaction has never been thoroughly evaluated. In our study, methyl donor deficient diet and chronic stress condition consisted respectively of a B2, B9, B12, and choline-free diet and a chronic mild stress procedure. Rats were randomly assigned to six groups with three &quot;diet&quot; conditions (free-feeding, pair-fed and methyl donor deficient diet) and two &quot;stress&quot; conditions (no-stress and stress) and were evaluated in the open-field, the elevated plus-maze and the forced swimming test. After the behavioral evaluation, corticosterone and homocysteine plasma levels were measured and dopamine, DOPAC, serotonin, 5HIAA concentrations were evaluated in several brain areas. Rats given a methyl donor deficient diet for 11 weeks causing elevated plasma homocysteine levels were compared to pair-fed and free-feeding rats with or without unpredictable chronic mild stress. Regardless of stress environmental conditions, the methyl donor deficient diet decreased plasma corticosterone levels and caused disinhibition in the elevated plus-maze condition relative to both control groups. However, stress potentiated the effects of the deficient regimen on rearing in the open-field and climbing in the forced swim test. The dietary changes involved in behavior and plasma corticosterone could be caused by homocysteine-induced decreases in dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolites in selective brain regions and it can be noted that regardless of stress-conditions, methyl donor deficient diet decreases DOPAC/dopamine and 5HIAA/serotonin ratios in striatum and hypothalamus and selectively 5HIAA/serotonin ratio in the sensorimotor cortex. Our experimental data is particularly relevant in the context of neuropsychiatric disorders frequently associated with folate deficiency and hyperhomocysteinemia.
Although it is commonly accepted that the amount of effort we put into accomplishing a task would exert an influence on subsequent reward processing and outcome evaluation, whether effort is incorporated as a cost or it would increase the valuation of concomitant reward is still under debate. In this study, EEGs were recorded while subjects performed calculation tasks that required different amount of effort, correct responses of which were followed by either no reward or fixed compensation. Results showed that high effort induced larger differentiated FRN responses to the reward and non-reward discrepancy across two experimental conditions. Furthermore, P300 manifested valence effect during reward feedback, with more positive amplitudes for reward than for non-reward only in the high effort condition. These results suggest that effort might increase subjective evaluation toward subsequent reward.
Recent studies have raised the possibility that P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibition may represent a putative augmentation strategy for treatment with certain antidepressants. Indeed, we have previously shown that administration of the P-gp inhibitor verapamil increased the brain distribution and behavioural effects of the antidepressant escitalopram. The aim of the current study was to investigate if similar effects occur with another P-gp inhibitor, cyclosporin A (CsA). CsA pre-treatment exacerbated the severity of behaviours in an escitalopram-induced mouse model of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening adverse drug reaction associated with serotonergic drugs. P-gp inhibition by CsA enhanced the brain distribution of escitalopram by 70-80%. Serotonin (5-HT) turnover in the prefrontal cortex was reduced by escitalopram, and this effect was augmented by CsA. However, CsA pre-treatment did not augment the effect of escitalopram in the tail suspension test (TST) of antidepressant-like activity. Microdialysis experiments revealed that pre-treatment with CsA failed to augment, but blunted, the increase in extracellular 5-HT in response to escitalopram administration. This blunting effect may contribute to the lack of augmentation in the TST. Taken together, the present studies demonstrate that co-administration of CsA and escitalopram produces differential effects depending on the behavioural and neurochemical assays employed. Thus, the results highlight the need for further studies involving more selective pharmacological tools to specifically evaluate the impact of P-gp inhibition on behavioural responses to antidepressants which are subject to efflux by P-gp.
Numerous studies have focused on the regulation of leptin signalling and the functions of leptin in energy homoeostasis; however, little is known about how leptin secretion is regulated. In the present study we studied leptin storage and secretion regulation in 3T3-L1 and primary adipocytes. Leptin is stored in membrane-bound vesicles that are localized predominantly in the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) and close to the plasma membrane of both 3T3-L1 and primary adipocytes. Insulin increases leptin secretion as early as 15min without affecting the leptin mRNA level. Interestingly, treatment with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide and the ER-Golgi trafficking blocker Brefeldin A inhibit both basal and ISLS (insulin-stimulated leptin secretion), suggesting that insulin stimulates leptin secretion by up-regulating leptin synthesis and that leptin-containing vesicles go through the ER-Golgi route. The PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/Akt, but not MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase), pathway is involved in ISLS invitro and invivo. Although Ca2+ triggers synaptic vesicle and secretory granule exocytosis, Ca2+ influx alone is not sufficient to induce leptin secretion. Remarkably, Ca2+ is required for ISLS possibly due to its involvement in insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation. We conclude that insulin stimulates leptin release through the PI3K/Akt pathway and that Ca2+ is required for robust Akt phosphorylation and leptin secretion.
The proposed Ca2+-activated Cl- channel protein Best1 (bestrophin 1) is expressed and functionally important in the retina and in the brain. Human BEST1 has two known splice variants, Best1V1 and Best1V2, which arise from alternative splicing of two exons: exon 2 splicing results in a unique N-terminal domain, whereas alternative splicing of exon 11 produces two mutually exclusive C-termini. Prior studies were limited to Best1V1 and its clinically relevant mutations. In the present work, we cloned a novel splice variant of Best1V1 missing exon 2 (Best1V1ex2) and differing from each of the two previously identified isoforms by one alternatively spliced domain. This finding allowed us to determine the role for alternative splicing of the Best1 N- and C-termini. We heteroexpressed Best1V1ex2in HEK (human embryonic kidney)-293 cells, and compared its properties with Best1V1 and Best1V2. Western blot analysis confirmed protein expression from all three splice variants. Both Best1V1 and Best1V1ex2 successfully formed Ca2+-activated Cl- channels, demonstrating that the N-terminus encoded by exon 2 is not essential for channel function. In contrast, Best1V2-expressing cells had no detectable Ca2+-activated Cl- currents, pointing to a critical role for splicing of the C-terminus. Surface protein biotinylation demonstrated that Best1V1 and Best1V1ex2 are trafficked to the plasma membrane, whereas Best1V2 is not. These results define the impact of alternative splicing on Best1 function, and should be taken into consideration in future modelling of the Best1 protein structure.
Aminoindanes, piperazines, and pipradrol derivatives are novel psychoactive substances found in &quot;Ecstasy&quot; tablets as replacements for 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) or substances sold as &quot;ivory wave.&quot; The pharmacology of these MDMA- and methylphenidate-like substances is poorly known. We characterized the pharmacology of the aminoindanes 5,6-methylenedioxy-2-aminoindane (MDAI), 5-iodoaminoindane (5-IAI), and 2-aminoindane (2-AI), the piperazines meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP), trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP), and 1-benzylpiperazine (BZP), and the pipradrol derivatives desoxypipradrol (2-diphenylmethylpiperidine [2-DPMP]), diphenylprolinol (diphenyl-2-pyrrolidinemethanol [D2PM]), and methylphenidate. We investigated norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) uptake inhibition using human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells that express the respective human monoamine transporters (NET, DAT, and SERT). We also evaluated the drug-induced efflux of NE, DA, and 5-HT from monoamine-preloaded cells and the binding affinity to monoamine transporters and receptors, including trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1). 5-IAI and MDAI preferentially inhibited the SERT and NET and released 5-HT. 2-AI interacted with the NET. BZP blocked the NET and released DA. m-CPP and TFMPP interacted with the SERT and serotonergic receptors. The pipradrol derivatives were potent and selective catecholamine transporter blockers without substrate releasing properties. BZP, D2PM, and 2-DPMP lacked serotonergic activity and TAAR1 binding, in contrast to the aminoindanes and phenylpiperazines. In summary, all of the substances were monoamine transporter inhibitors, but marked differences were found in their DAT vs. SERT inhibition profiles, release properties, and receptor interactions. The pharmacological profiles of D2PM and 2-DPMP likely predict a high abuse liability.
Cyclosporin A (CsA) and sirolimus (SRL) are immunosuppressive agents (IAs) associated with dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and new onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT). However, the molecular mechanisms involved are not fully understood. We investigated the effects of six-week treatment of either CsA or SRL on glucose and lipid metabolism in Wistar rats. The results show that, compared with vehicle-treated rats, SRL-treated rats were significantly lighter starting at week 5. CsA or SRL caused glucose intolerance, increased storage of lipids in the liver and skeletal muscle, and decreased the insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in isolated adipocytes. Furthermore, these agents significantly decreased genes involved in insulin action and glucose uptake, such as, IRS-1, Glut4 and Glut1, and increased genes and/or proteins involved in hepatic lipogenesis and gluconeogenesis, while decreasing them in adipose tissue. After either treatment PGC1 gene expression was down regulated in skeletal muscle, an important player in fatty acid oxidation. Moreover, there was an increase in IL-6 gene expression in adipose tissue in the SRL-treated rats, suggesting stimulation of lipolysis. The results of the present study suggest that CsA and SRL lead to metabolic alterations in liver, muscle and adipose tissue, which may contribute to the development of dyslipidemia and insulin resistance associated with immunosuppressive therapy.


Measurement of brain activity in multiple areas simultaneously by minimally invasive methods contributes to the study of neuroscience and development of brain machine interfaces. However, this requires compact wearable instruments that do not inhibit natural movements. Application of optical potentiometry with voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye using an implantable image sensor is also useful. However, the increasing number of leads required for the multiple wired sensors to measure larger domains inhibits natural behavior. For imaging broad areas by numerous sensors without excessive wiring, a web-like sensor that can wrap the brain was developed. Kaleidoscopic potentiometry is possible using the imaging system with concatenated sensors by changing the alignment of the sensors. This paper describes organization of the system, evaluation of the system by a fluorescence imaging, and finally, functional brain fluorescence plurimetry by the sensor. The recorded data in rat somatosensory cortex using the developed multiple-area imaging system compared well with electrophysiology results.



In the central nervous system, deficits in cholinergic neurotransmission correlate with decreased attention and cognitive impairment, while stimulation of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors improves attention, cognitive performance and neuronal resistance to injury as well as produces robust analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. The rational basis for the therapeutic use of orthosteric agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of nicotinic receptors arises from the finding that functional nicotinic receptors are ubiquitously expressed in neuronal and non-neuronal tissues including brain regions highly vulnerable to traumatic and ischemic types of injury (e.g., cortex and hippocampus). Moreover, functional nicotinic receptors do not vanish in age-, disease- and trauma-related neuropathologies, but their expression and/or activation levels decline in a subunit- and brain region-specific manner. Therefore, augmenting the endogenous cholinergic tone by nicotinic agents is possible and may offset neurological impairments associated with cholinergic hypofunction. Importantly, because neuronal damage elevates extracellular levels of choline (a selective agonist of 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors) near the site of injury, 7-PAM-based treatments may augment pathology-activated 7-dependent auto-therapies where and when they are most needed (i.e., in the penumbra, post-injury). Thus, nicotinic-PAM-based treatments are expected to augment the endogenous cholinergic tone in a spatially and temporally restricted manner creating the potential for differential efficacy and improved safety as compared to exogenous orthosteric nicotinic agonists that activate nicotinic receptors indiscriminately. In this review, I will summarize the existing trends in therapeutic applications of nicotinic PAMs.
The sigma-1 receptor chaperone located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) may be implicated in the mechanistic action of some antidepressants. The present study was undertaken to examine whether new antidepressant drugs interact with the sigma-1 receptor chaperone. First, we examined the effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram and escitalopram), serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) (duloxetine, venlafaxine, milnacipran), and mirtazapine, a noradrenaline and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA), on [(3)H](+)-pentazocine binding to rat brain membranes. Then, we examined the effects of these drugs on nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. The order of potency for drugs at the sigma-1 receptor chaperone was as follows: fluvoxamine&gt;sertraline&gt;fluoxetine&gt;escitalopram&gt;citalopram&gt;paroxetine&gt;duoxetine. Venlafaxine, milnacipran, and mirtazapine showed very weak affinity for this chaperone. Furthermore, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, escitalopram, and mirtazapine significantly potentiated NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in cell assays, and the effects of all these drugs, excluding mirtazapine, were antagonized by NE-100, a selective antagonist of the sigma-1 receptor chaperone. Moreover, the effects of fluvoxamine and fluoxetine on neurite outgrowth were also antagonized by sertraline, indicating that sertraline may be an antagonist at the sigma-1 receptor chaperone. The effect of mirtazapine on neurite outgrowth was antagonized by the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635. These findings suggest that activation at the sigma-1 receptor chaperone may be involved in the action of some SSRIs, such as fluvoxamine, fluoxetine and escitalopram. In contrast, mirtazapine independently potentiated neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, indicating that this beneficial effect may mediate its pharmacological effect.
Ipragliflozin is a novel and selective sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor that induces sustained increases in urinary glucose excretion by inhibiting renal glucose reabsorption and thereby exerting a subsequent antihyperglycemic effect. Here, we examined the effect of ipragliflozin on body weight in high-fat diet-induced (HFD) obese rats. Treatment of ipragliflozin (10mg/kg once daily) reduced body weight despite a slight increase in food intake. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and computed tomography demonstrated that the reduction in body weight was accompanied by reduced visceral and subcutaneous fat masses but not lean mass or bone mineral content. Analysis of plasma and urinary parameters suggested the possibility that ipragliflozin enhanced lipolysis and fatty acid oxidation, and indirect calorimetry showed that ipragliflozin decreased the heat production rate from glucose but increased the rate from fat and lowered the respiratory exchange ratio. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that ipragliflozin-induced urinary glucose excretion specifically reduces fat mass with steady calorie loss by promoting the use of fatty acids instead of glucose as an energy source in HFD rats. By improving hyperglycemia and promoting weight reduction, ipragliflozin may prove useful in treating type 2 diabetes in obese individuals.

The sarcomeric -actinins, encoded by the genes ACTN2 and ACTN3, are major structural components of the Z-line and have high sequence similarity. -Actinin-2 is present in all skeletal muscle fibres, while -actinin-3 has developed specialized expression in only type 2 (fast, glycolytic) fibres. A common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the human ACTN3 gene (R577X) has been found to influence muscle performance in elite athletes and the normal population. For this reason, equine ACTN3 (eACTN3) is considered to be a possible candidate that may influence horse performance. In this study, the intron/exon boundaries and entire coding region of eACTN3 have been sequenced in five Australian horse breeds (Thoroughbred, Arabian, Standardbred, Clydsdale and Shire) and compared to the eACTN3 GenBank sequence. A total of 34 SNPs were identified, of which 26 were intronic and eight exonic. All exonic SNPs were synonymous; however, five intronic SNPs showed significant differences between breeds. A total of 72 horses were genotyped for a SNP located in the promoter region of the eACTN3 gene (g. 1104 G&gt;A) which differed significantly between breed groups. We hypothesize that this polymorphism influences eACTN3 expression and with further studies may provide a novel marker of horse performance in the future.
We report on a consanguineous Pakistani family with a severe congenital microcephaly syndrome resembling the Seckel syndrome and Jawad syndrome. The affected individuals in this family were born to consanguineous parents of whom the mother presented with mild intellectual disability (ID), epilepsy and diabetes mellitus. The two living affected brothers presented with microcephaly, white matter disease of the brain, hyponychia, dysmorphic facial features with synophrys, epilepsy, diabetes mellitus and ID. Genotyping with a 250K SNP array in both affected brothers revealed an 18 MB homozygous region on chromosome 18 p11.21-q12.1 encompassing the SCKL2 locus of the Seckel and Jawad syndromes. Sequencing of the RBBP8 gene, underlying the Seckel and Jawad syndromes, identified the novel mutation c.919A&gt;G, p.Arg307Gly, segregating in a recessive manner in the family. In addition, in the two affected brothers and their mother we have also found a heterozygous 607kb deletion, encompassing exons 13-19 of NRXN1. Bidirectional sequencing of the coding exons of NRXN1 did not reveal any other mutation on the other allele. It thus appears that the phenotype of the mildly affected mother can be explained by the NRXN1 deletion, whereas the more severe and complex microcephalic phenotype of the two affected brothers is due to the simultaneous deletion in NRXN1 and the homozygous missense mutation affecting RBBP8.
Large and rare copy number variants (CNVs) at several loci have been shown to increase risk for schizophrenia. Aiming to discover novel susceptibility CNV loci, we analyzed 6882 cases and 11 255 controls genotyped on Illumina arrays, most of which have not been used for this purpose before. We identified genes enriched for rare exonic CNVs among cases, and then attempted to replicate the findings in additional 14 568 cases and 15 274 controls. In a combined analysis of all samples, 12 distinct loci were enriched among cases with nominal levels of significance (P &lt; 0.05); however, none would survive correction for multiple testing. These loci include recurrent deletions at 16p12.1, a locus previously associated with neurodevelopmental disorders (P = 0.0084 in the discovery sample and P = 0.023 in the replication sample). Other plausible candidates include non-recurrent deletions at the glutamate transporter gene SLC1A1, a CNV locus recently suggested to be involved in schizophrenia through linkage analysis, and duplications at 1p36.33 and CGNL1. A burden analysis of large (&gt;500 kb), rare CNVs showed a 1.2% excess in cases after excluding known schizophrenia-associated loci, suggesting that additional susceptibility loci exist. However, even larger samples are required for their discovery.
Progranulin (GRN) mutations causing haploinsufficiency are a major cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP). Recent discoveries demonstrating sortilin (SORT1) is a neuronal receptor for PGRN endocytosis and a determinant of plasma PGRN levels portend the development of enhancers targeting the SORT1-PGRN axis. We demonstrate the preclinical efficacy of several approaches through which impairing PGRN's interaction with SORT1 restores extracellular PGRN levels. Our report is the first to demonstrate the efficacy of enhancing PGRN levels in iPSC neurons derived from frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients with PGRN deficiency. We validate a small molecule preferentially increases extracellular PGRN by reducing SORT1 levels in various mammalian cell lines and patient-derived iPSC neurons and lymphocytes. We further demonstrate that SORT1 antagonists and a small-molecule binder of PGRN, residues critical for PGRN-SORT1 binding, inhibit SORT1-mediated PGRN endocytosis. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the SORT1-PGRN axis is a viable target for PGRN-based therapy, particularly in FTD-GRN patients.




While consciousness has been examined extensively in its different aspects, like in philosophy, psychiatry, neurophysiology, neuroplasticity, etc., conscience though it is an equal important aspect of the human existence, which remains an unknown to a great degree as an almost transcendental aspect of the human mind. It has not been examined as thoroughly as consciousness and largely remains a &quot;terra incognita&quot; for its neurophysiology, brain topography, etc. Conscience and consciousness are part of a system of information that governs our experience and decision making process. The intent of this paper is to define these terms, to discuss about consciousness from both neurological and quantum physics point of view, the relationship between the dynamics of consciousness and neuroplasticity and to highlight the relationship between conscience, stress and health.




This study explored the relationships between motor cortical control of ankle dorsiflexors and clinical impairments of volitional ankle dorsiflexion in people with chronic stroke. Eighteen persons with stroke and 14 controls were evaluated. Clinical tools were used to assess ankle dorsiflexion amplitude and isometric strength. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the primary motor cortex (M1) tested the functional integrity of cortical circuits controlling the tibialis anterior (TA). All clinical scores and most TMS outcomes were impaired in people with chronic stroke. The lower clinical scores were related to the reduction of the strength of corticospinal projections onto spinal motoneurons. Concurrent TMS and clinical testing in chronic stroke provided original data demonstrating relationships between the integrity of cortical and corticospinal components of TA motor control and volitional ankle tasks. Our study proposes that volitional ankle mobilization in chronic stroke may be explained by the residual abnormal M1 circuits which may be responsive for rehabilitation intervention. This should be confirmed in longitudinal studies with larger samples to determine whether TMS outcomes associated with lower limb muscles are predictive of clinical changes or vice versa.
Recently we demonstrated that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is highly neuroprotective when animals were allowed to survive during one week. This study was conducted to establish whether the neuroprotection induced by DHA persists with chronic survival. Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 2h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated with DHA or saline at 3h after MCAo. Animals received neurobehavioral examination (composite neuroscore, rota-rod, beam walking and Y maze tests) followed by ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology at 3 weeks. DHA improved composite neurologic score beginning on day 1 by 20%, which persisted throughout weeks 1-3 by 24-41% compared to the saline-treated group. DHA prolonged the latency in rota-rod on weeks 2-3 by 162-178%, enhanced balance performance in the beam walking test on weeks 1 and 2 by 42-51%, and decreased the number of entries in the Y maze test by 51% and spontaneous alteration by 53% on week 2 compared to the saline-treated group. DHA treatment reduced tissue loss (computed from T2-weighted images) by 24% and total and cortical infarct volumes by 46% and 54% compared to the saline-treated group. These results show that DHA confers enduring ischemic neuroprotection.

For many decades the parietal cortex (PC) has been considered the key area in tasks which involve the integration of different stimuli. PC is fundamental to determine spatial sense, information navigation and integration, and is involved in several aspects of the complex motor repertoire and in neurological and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we focus on seven different aspects of PC: (i) neuroanatomy of the parietal cortex; (ii) sensory motor integration processes; iii) hand movement control: reaching, grasping, and pointing; (iv) saccadic eye movements; (v) movement observation; (vi) neurological aspects: ataxia, autism and Parkinson's disease; and (vii) psychiatric aspects: schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. Among these, we related the perspectives which involve the functions of the parietal cortex and mirror neurons and that seem to play a fundamental role in action prediction, planning, observation and execution. Furthermore, we focused on the relationship between posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and hand-guided movements. For this review, we conducted an academic paper search which fulfilled the objective of the study. We conclude that the PC has great participation in different motor functions and neurological/psychiatric disorders.


Extracting event-related potentials (ERPs) from neurological rhythms is of fundamental importance in neuroscience research. Standard ERP techniques typically require the associated ERP waveform to have low variance, be shape and latency invariant and require many repeated trials. Additionally, the non-ERP part of the signal needs to be sampled from an uncorrelated Gaussian process. This limits methods of analysis to quantifying simple behaviours and movements only when multi-trial data-sets are available. We introduce a method for automatically detecting events associated with complex or large-scale behaviours, where the ERP need not conform to the aforementioned requirements. The algorithm is based on the calculation of a detection contour and adaptive threshold. These are combined using logical operations to produce a binary signal indicating the presence (or absence) of an event with the associated detection parameters tuned using a multi-objective genetic algorithm. To validate the proposed methodology, deep brain signals were recorded from implanted electrodes in patients with Parkinson's disease as they participated in a large movement-based behavioural paradigm. The experiment involved bilateral recordings of local field potentials from the sub-thalamic nucleus (STN) and pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) during an orientation task. After tuning, the algorithm is able to extract events achieving training set sensitivities and specificities of [87.5  6.5, 76.7  12.8, 90.0  4.1] and [92.6  6.3, 86.0  9.0, 29.8  12.3] (mean  1 std) for the three subjects, averaged across the four neural sites. Furthermore, the methodology has the potential for utility in real-time applications as only a single-trial ERP is required.

Significant vascular changes occur subsequent to spinal cord injury (SCI), which contribute to progressive pathophysiology. In the present study, we used female Wistar rats (300-350g) and a 35-g clip-compression injury at T6 to T7 to characterize the spatial and temporal vascular changes that ensue post-SCI. Before sacrifice, animals were injected with vascular tracing dyes (2% Evans Blue (EB) or fluorescein isothiocyanate/Lycopersicon esculentum agglutinin [FITC-LEA]) to assess blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) integrity or vascular architecture, respectively. Spectrophotometry of EB tissue showed maximal BSCB disruption at 24h postinjury, with significant disruption observed until 5 days postinjury (p&lt;0.01). FITC-LEA-identified functional vasculature was dramatically reduced by 24h. Similarly, RECA-1 immunohistochemistry showed a significant decrease in the number of vessels at 24h postinjury, compared to uninjured animals (p&lt;0.01), with slight increases in endogenous revascularization by 10 days postinjury. White versus gray matter (GM) quantification showed that GM vessels are more susceptible to SCI. Finally, we observed an endogenous angiogenic response between 3 and 7 days postinjury: maximal endothelial cell proliferation was observed at day 5. These data indicate that BSCB disruption and endogenous revascularization occur at specific time points after injury, which may be important for developing effective therapeutic interventions for SCI.
Cell replacement therapy is one potential avenue for central nervous system (CNS) repair. However, transplanted stem cells may not contribute to long-term recovery of the damaged CNS unless they are engineered for functional advantage. To fine tune regenerative capabilities, we developed a human neural cell line expressing L1, a regeneration-conducive adhesion molecule, under the control of a doxycycline regulatable Tet-off promoter. Controlled expression of L1 is desired because overexpression after regenerative events may lead to adverse consequences. The regulated system was tested in several cell lines, where doxycycline completely eliminated green fluorescent protein or L1 expression by 3-5 days in vitro. Increased colony formation as well as decreased proliferation were observed in H9NSCs without doxycycline (hL1-on). To test the role of L1 in vivo after acute compression spinal cord injury of immunosuppressed mice, quantum dot labeled hL1-on or hL1-off cells were injected at three sites: lesion; proximal; and caudal. Mice transplanted with hL1-on cells showed a better Basso Mouse Scale score, when compared to those with hL1-off cells. As compared to the hL1-off versus hL1-on cell transplanted mice 6 weeks post-transplantation, expression levels of L1, migration of transplanted cells, and immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase were higher, whereas expression of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans was lower. Results indicate that L1 expression is regulatable in human stem cells by doxycycline in a nonviral engineering approach. Regulatable expression in a prospective nonleaky Tet-off system could hold promise for therapy, based on the multifunctional roles of L1, including neuronal migration and survival, neuritogenesis, myelination, and synaptic plasticity.





















Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is secreted in brief pulses that stimulate synthesis and secretion of pituitary gonadotropin hormones and thereby mediate control of reproduction. It acts via G-protein-coupled receptors to stimulate effectors, including ERK. Information could be encoded in GnRH pulse frequency, width, amplitude, or other features of pulse shape, but the relative importance of these features is unknown. Here we examine this using automated fluorescence microscopy and mathematical modeling, focusing on ERK signaling. The simplest scenario is one in which the system is linear, and response dynamics are relatively fast (compared with the signal dynamics). In this case integrated system output (ERK activation or ERK-driven transcription) will be roughly proportional to integrated input, but we find that this is not the case. Notably, we find that relatively slow response kinetics lead to ERK activity beyond the GnRH pulse, and this reduces sensitivity to pulse width. More generally, we show that the slowing of response kinetics through the signaling cascade creates a system that is robust to pulse width. We, therefore, show how various levels of response kinetics synergize to dictate system sensitivity to different features of pulsatile hormone input. We reveal the mathematical and biochemical basis of a dynamic GnRH signaling system that is robust to changes in pulse amplitude and width but is sensitive to changes in receptor occupancy and frequency, precisely the features that are tightly regulated and exploited to exert physiological control in vivo.
To test the selectivity of the orexin A (OXA) system in olfactory sensitivity, the present study compared the effects of fasting and of central infusion of OXA on the memory processes underlying odor-malaise association during the conditioned odor aversion (COA) paradigm. Animals implanted with a cannula in the left ventricle received ICV infusion of OXA or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) 1 h before COA acquisition. An additional group of intact rats were food-deprived for 24 h before acquisition. Results showed that the increased olfactory sensitivity induced by fasting and by OXA infusion was accompanied by enhanced COA performance. The present results suggest that fasting-induced central OXA release influenced COA learning by increasing not only olfactory sensitivity, but also the memory processes underlying the odor-malaise association.


Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is an acute, post-infectious, immune-mediated, demyelinating disease of peripheral nerves and nerve roots. Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is an animal model of GBS. Chrysin, which is a naturally occurring flavonoid, exhibits various biological activities. This study was designed to investigate the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties of preventative and therapeutic chrysin treatment in EAN rats. For preventative treatment, chrysin was administered orally from day 1 to day 16 (50mg/kg once daily) while, for therapeutic treatment, rats received chrysin from day 7 to day 16 at the same dose once daily. Control animals received the same volume of the vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline/2% dimethylsulfoxide). Regardless of the treatment regimen, chrysin attenuated the severity and duration of the clinical course of EAN and reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and demyelination of sciatic nerves. In the sciatic nerves, the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, cyclooxygenase-2 and nuclear factor kappa B was reduced. Furthermore, chrysin inhibited the splenic mononuclear cell secretion of interleukin-1, interleukin-2, interleukin-6, inteleukin-12, interferon  and tumor necrosis factor , and elevated the level of inteleukin-4. In summary, our data demonstrate that chrysin is a potentially useful agent for the treatment of EAN with its anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects.
Developing new strategies to treat cerebral ischemic-reperfusion injury will require a better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie vascular permeability. In this study we examined the temporal expression of Src and angiogenic factors in rat brain after focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion and analyzed the relationships among those factors. We also investigated the effect of Src inhibitor PP1 (4-amino-5-(4-methylphenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine) in ischemic reperfusion. Rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion for 90 min followed by reperfusion with or without PP1 treatment. Src mRNA increased at 3h after reperfusion and then gradually declined. Phosphorylation of Src at Y418 displayed a biphasic increase. Phosphorylation increased as early as 3h and peaked at 6h; after decreasing, it peaked again at 3-7 days. Increases in Src mRNA and phosphorylation correlated positively with levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2), and negatively with levels of angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). Changes in the expression of these factors correlated with the progress of vascular permeability, especially early after reperfusion. Hence, dynamic temporal changes in Src Y418 phosphorylation may modulate vascular permeability after cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. PP1 effectively decreased Src Y418 phosphorylation and the expression of VEGF and Ang-2 and increased the expression of Ang-1 and ZO-1. It also reduced cerebral infarct size and neurologic dysfunction. Therefore, Src may represent a new therapeutic target for reducing tissue damage caused by increased vascular permeability.
Polyglutamine expansions in some proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington's disease or several ataxias, lead to insoluble aggregates in the cell. These aggregates accumulate through a mechanism that is not yet fully understood, but it activates cell death pathways and contributes to kill the cell. Here, we show that apoptotic protease activating factor 1 (Apaf1) down-regulation, or treatment with pharmacological Apaf1 inhibitor SVT016426, decreases both polyglutamine-induced aggregation and polyglutamine-induced apoptotic cell death in different cellular models. We demonstrate that Apaf1 binds to both Htt and to heat shock protein chaperone Hsp70, and that this interaction is altered in the presence of the pharmacological inhibitor of Apaf1. Based on our findings, we hypothesize that Apaf1 enhances polyglutamine aggregation by reducing the cellular protein levels of available functional Hsp70.
GABA is a predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the CNS. Released GABA is removed from the synaptic cleft by two GABA transporters (GATs), GAT-1 and GAT-3, and their dysfunction affects brain functions. The present study aimed to reveal the ontogeny of the GABA-removal system by examining the immunohistochemical localization of GAT-1 and GAT-3 in the embryonic and postnatal mouse cervical spinal cord. In the dorsal horn, GAT-1 was localized within the presynapses of inhibitory axons after embryonic day 15 (E15), a little prior to GABAergic synapse formation. The GAT-1-positive dots increased in density until postnatal day 21 (P21). By contrast, in the ventral horn, GAT-1-positive dots were sparse during development, although many transient GABAergic synapses were formed before birth. GAT-3 was first localized within the radial processes of radial glia in the ventral part on E12 and the dorsal part on E15. The initial localization of the GAT-3 was almost concomitant with the dispersal of GABAergic neurons. GAT-3 continued to be localized within the processes of astrocytes, and increased in expression until P21. These results suggested the following: (1) before synapse formation, GABA may be transported into the processes of radial glia or immature astrocytes by GAT-3. (2) At the transient GABAergic synapses in the ventral horn, GABA may not be reuptaken into the presynapses. (3) In the dorsal horn, GABA may start to be reuptaken by GAT-1 a little prior to synapse formation. (4) After synapse formation, GAT-3 may continue to remove GABA from immature and mature synaptic clefts into the processes of astrocytes. (5) Development of the GABA-removal system may be completed by P21.
In the present study we examined whether vitamin D supplementation can reduce age-related tau hyperphosphorylation and cognitive impairment by enhancing brain energy homeostasis and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity, and modulating the redox state. Male F344 rats aged 20 months (aged) and 6 months (young) were randomly assigned to either vitamin D supplementation or no supplementation (control). Rats were housed in pairs and the supplementation group (n=10 young and n=10 aged) received subcutaneous injections of vitamin D (1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) for 21 days. Control animals (n=10 young and n=10 aged) received equal volume of normal saline and behavioral testing in the water maze started on day 14 after the initiation of vitamin D supplementation. Tau phosphorylation, markers of brain energy metabolism (ADP/ATP ratio and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase) and redox state (levels of reactive oxygen species, activity of superoxide dismutase, and glutathione levels) as well as PP2A activity were measured in hippocampal tissues. Our results extended previous findings that: (1) tau phosphorylation significantly increased during aging; (2) markers of brain energy metabolism and redox state are significantly decreased in aging; and (3) aged rats demonstrated significant learning and memory impairment. More importantly, we found that age-related changes in brain energy metabolism, redox state, and cognitive function were attenuated by vitamin D supplementation. No significant differences were seen in tau hyperphosphorylation, markers of energy metabolism and redox state in the young animal groups. Our data suggest that vitamin D ameliorated the age-related tau hyperphosphorylation and cognitive decline by enhancing brain energy metabolism, redox state, and PP2A activity making it a potentially useful therapeutic option to alleviate the effects of aging.
Next generation sequencing technologies have facilitated a notable shift from common disease common variant hypothesis to common disease rare variant, as also witnessed in recent literature on schizophrenia. Dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4), a G-protein-coupled receptor is associated with psychiatric disorders and has high affinity for atypical antipsychotic clozapine. We investigated the functional role of rare genetic variants in DRD4 which may have implications for translational medicine. CHO-K1 cells independently expressing four rare non-synonymous variants of DRD4 namely R237L, A281P, S284G located in the third cytosolic loop and V194G, located in the fifth transmembrane domain were generated. Their genotype-phenotype correlations were evaluated using [H]spiperone binding, G-protein activation and molecular dynamics-simulation studies. A281P and S284G were functionally similar to wildtype (WT). With R237L, potency of dopamine and quinpirole reduced sixfold and threefold respectively compared to WT; [H]spiperone binding studies showed a reduction in total number of binding sites (40%) but not binding affinity, in silico docking studies revealed that binding of both dopamine and spiperone to R237L was structurally similar to WT. Of note, V194G variant failed to inhibit forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity and phosphorylate extracellular signal-regulated kinase; showed significant reduction in binding affinity (K(d)=2.16 nM) and total number of binding sites (66%) compared to WT in [H]spiperone binding studies; and ligand docking studies showed that binding of dopamine and spiperone is superficial due to probable structural alteration. Transmembrane variant V194G in DRD4.4 results in functional alteration warranting continuing functional analysis of rare variants.
This study was conducted to examine the behavioral consequences of unlimited consumption of highly palatable food (HPF) and investigate its underlying neural mechanisms. Male Sprague-Dawley rats had free access to chocolate cookie rich in fat (HPF) in addition to ad libitum chow and the control group received chow only. Rats were subjected to behavioral tests during the 2nd week of food condition; i.e. ambulatory activity test on the 8th, elevated plus maze test (EPM) on the 10th and forced swim test (FST) on the 14th day of food condition. After 8 days of food condition, another group of rats were placed in a restraint box and tail bloods were collected at 0, 20, 60, and 120 time points during 2h of restraint period, used for the plasma corticosterone assay. At the end of restraint session, rats were sacrificed and the tissue sections of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) were processed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Ambulatory activities and the scores of EPM were not significantly affected by unlimited cookie consumption. However, immobility duration during FST was increased, and swim decreased, in the rats received free cookie access compared with control rats. Stress-induced corticosterone increase was exaggerated in cookie-fed rats, while the stress-induced c-Fos expression in the NAc was blunted, compared to control rats. Results suggest that free access to HPF may lead to the development of depression-like behaviors in rats, likely in relation with dysfunctions in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the reward center.
The aim of this study was to quantitatively assess the effects of short-term intermittent ethanol intoxication on cerebral metabolite changes among sham controls (CNTL), low-dose ethanol (LDE)-exposed, and high-dose ethanol (HDE)-exposed rats, which were determined with ex vivo high-resolution spectra. Eight-week-old male Wistar rats were divided into three groups. Twenty rats in the LDE (n=10) and the HDE (n=10) groups received ethanol doses of 1.5 and 2.5 g/kg, respectively, through oral gavage every 8h for 4days. At the end of the 4-day intermittent ethanol exposure, one-dimensional ex vivo 500-MHz H nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were acquired from 30 samples of the frontal cortex region (from the three groups). Normalized total N-acetylaspartate (tNAA: NAA+NAAG [N-acetylaspartyl-glutamate]), GABA, and glutathione (GSH) levels were significantly lower in the frontal cortex of the HDE-exposed rats than that of the LDE-exposed rats. Moreover, compared to the CNTL group, the LDE rats exhibited significantly higher normalized GABA levels. The six pairs of normalized metabolite levels were positively (+) or negatively (-) correlated in the rat frontal cortex as follows: tNAA and GABA (+), tNAA and aspartate (Asp) (+), myo-Inositol (mIns) and Asp (-), mIns and alanine (+), mIns and taurine (+), and mIns and tNAA (-). Our results suggested that short-term intermittent ethanol intoxication might result in neuronal degeneration and dysfunction, changes in the rate of GABA synthesis, and oxidative stress in the rat frontal cortex. Our ex vivo(1)H high-resolution magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy results suggested some novel metabolic markers for the dose-dependent influence of short-term intermittent ethanol intoxication in the frontal cortex.

Working memory (WM) tasks may increase or decrease the interference effect of concurrently performed cognitive control tasks. However, the neural oscillatory correlates of this modulation effect of WM on the Stroop task are still largely unknown. In the present study, behavioral and electroencephalographic (EEG) data were recorded from 32 healthy participants during their performance of the single Stroop task and the same task with a concurrent WM task. We observed that the Stroop interference effect represented in both response times (RTs) and theta-band event-related spectral perturbation (ERSP) magnitude reduced under the dual-task condition compared with the single-task condition. The reduction of interference in theta-band ERSP was further positively correlated with interference reduction in RTs, and was mainly explained by the source in the left middle frontal gyrus. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the effect of concurrent WM tasks on the reduction of the Stroop interference effect can be indexed by EEG oscillations in theta-band rhythm in the centro-frontal regions and this modulation was mediated by the reduced cognitive control under the concurrent WM task.
Hydrogen peroxide (HO) is a stable reactive oxygen species and potent neuromodulator of cellular and synaptic activity. Centrally, endogenous HO is elevated during bouts of hypoxia-reoxygenation, a variety of disease states, and aging. The nucleus tractus solitarii (nTS) is the central termination site of visceral afferents for homeostatic reflexes and contributes to reflex alterations during these conditions. We determined the extent to which HO modulates synaptic and membrane properties in nTS neurons in rat brainstem slices. Stimulation of the tractus solitarii (which contains the sensory afferent fibers) evoked synaptic currents that were not altered by 10-500 M HO. However, 500 M HO modulated several intrinsic membrane properties of nTS neurons, including a decrease in input resistance (R(i)), hyperpolarization of resting membrane potential (RMP) and action potential (AP) threshold (THR), and an initial reduction in AP discharge to depolarizing current. HO increased conductance of barium-sensitive potassium currents, and block of these currents ablated HO-induced changes in RMP, Ri and AP discharge. Following washout of HO AP discharge was enhanced due to depolarization of RMP and a partially maintained hyperpolarization of THR. Hyperexcitability persisted with repeated HO exposure. HO effects on RMP and THR were ablated by intracellular administration of the antioxidant catalase, which was immunohistochemically identified in neurons throughout the nTS. Thus, HO initially reduces excitability of nTS neurons that is followed by sustained hyperexcitability, which may play a profound role in cardiorespiratory reflexes.
Rats fed a high-fat diet (HFD) present an exaggerated endocrine response to stress conditions, which, like obesity, show a high correlation with cardiovascular diseases. Meanwhile the GABAergic neurotransmission within the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) is involved in the regulation of the physiological responses during emotional stress. Here we evaluated the influence of obesity, induced by a HFD, on the cardiovascular responses induced by air jet stress in rats, and the role of the GABAergic tonus within the DMH in these changes. Our results showed that consumption of a HFD (45% w/w fat) for 9 weeks induced obesity and increases in baseline mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR). Moreover, obesity potentiated stress responsiveness, evidenced by the greater changes in MAP and HR induced by stress in obese rats. The injection of muscimol into the DMH reduced the maximal increases in HR and MAP induced by stress in both groups; however, the reduction in the maximal increases in MAP in the HFD group was less pronounced. Moreover, the injection of muscimol into the DMH of obese rats was less effective in reducing the stress-induced tachycardia, since the HR attained the same levels at the end of the stress paradigm as after the vehicle injection. Injection of bicuculline into DMH induced increases in MAP and HR in both groups. Nevertheless, obesity shortened the tachycardic response to bicuculline injection. These data show that obesity potentiates the cardiovascular response to stress in rats due to an inefficient GABAA-mediated inhibition within the DMH.
Regeneration in the adult mammalian spinal cord is limited due to intrinsic properties of mature neurons and a hostile environment, mainly provided by central nervous system myelin and reactive astrocytes. Recent results indicate that propriospinal connections are a promising target for intervention to improve functional recovery. To study this functional regeneration in vitro we developed a model consisting of two organotypic spinal cord slices placed adjacently on multi-electrode arrays. The electrodes allow us to record the spontaneously occurring neuronal activity, which is often organized in network bursts. Within a few days in vitro (DIV), these bursts become synchronized between the two slices due to the formation of axonal connections. We cut them with a scalpel at different time points in vitro and record the neuronal activity 3 weeks later. The functional recovery ability was assessed by calculating the percentage of synchronized bursts between the two slices. We found that cultures lesioned at a young age (7-9 DIV) retained the high regeneration ability of embryonic tissue. However, cultures lesioned at older ages (&gt;19 DIV) displayed a distinct reduction of synchronized activity. This reduction was not accompanied by an inability for axons to cross the lesion site. We show that functional regeneration in these old cultures can be improved by increasing the intracellular cAMP level with Rolipram or by placing a young slice next to an old one directly after the lesion. We conclude that co-cultures of two spinal cord slices are an appropriate model to study functional regeneration of intraspinal connections.
-Opioid receptor (-OR) activation with agonist [D-Ala, N-Me-Phe, Gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) induces sodium (0.3M NaCl) intake in rats. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of pre-injections of losartan (AT1 angiotensin receptor antagonist) into the CeA on 0.3 M NaCl and water intake induced by DAMGO injected bilaterally in the same area in rats submitted to water deprivation-partial rehydration (WD-PR) and in rats treated with the diuretic furosemide (FURO) combined with a low dose of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (CAP) injected subcutaneously (FURO/CAP). Male Sprague-Dawley rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally into the CeA were used. In WD-PR rats, bilateral injections of DAMGO (2 nmol in 0.5 L) into the CeA induced 0.3 M NaCl and water intake, and pre-treatment with losartan (108 nmol in 0.5 L) injected into the CeA reduced 0.3 M NaCl and water intake induced by DAMGO. In FURO/CAP rats, pre-treatment with losartan (108 nmol in 0.5 L) injected into the CeA attenuated the increase in 0.3M NaCl and water intake induced by DAMGO (2 nmol in 0.5 L) injected into the same site. The results suggest that the natriorexigenic effect of DAMGO injected into the CeA is facilitated by endogenous angiotensin II acting on AT1 receptors in the CeA, which drives rats to ingest large amounts of hypertonic NaCl.
Acute and chronic pain resulting from injury, surgery, or disease afflicts &gt;100 million Americans each year, having a severe impact on mood, mental health, and quality of life. The lack of structural and functional information for most ion channels, many of which play key roles in the detection and transmission of noxious stimuli, means that there remain unidentified therapeutic targets for pain management. This study focuses on the transient receptor potential canonical subfamily 4 (TRPC4) ion channel, which is involved in the tissue-specific and stimulus-dependent regulation of intracellular Ca signaling. Rats with a transposon-mediated TRPC4-knockout mutation displayed tolerance to visceral pain induced by colonic mustard oil (MO) exposure, but not somatic or neuropathic pain stimuli. Moreover, wild-type rats treated with a selective TRPC4 antagonist (ML-204) prior to MO exposure mimicked the behavioral responses observed in TRPC4-knockout rats. Significantly, ML-204 inhibited visceral pain-related behavior in a dose-dependent manner without noticeable adverse effects. These data provide evidence that TRPC4 is required for detection and/or transmission of colonic MO visceral pain sensation. In the future, inhibitors of TRPC4 signaling may provide a highly promising path for the development of first-in-class therapeutics for this visceral pain, which may have fewer side effects and less addictive potential than opioid derivatives.
Bilateral injections of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) induce 0.3 M NaCl and water intake in satiated and normovolemic rats, a response reduced by intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of losartan or atropine (angiotensinergic type 1 (AT) and cholinergic muscarinic receptor antagonists, respectively). In the present study, we investigated the effects of the injections of losartan or atropine into the subfornical organ (SFO) on 0.3M NaCl and water intake induced by injections of muscimol into the LPBN. In addition, using intracellular calcium measurement, we also tested the sensitivity of SFO-cultured cells to angiotensin II (ANG II) and carbachol (cholinergic agonist). In male Holtzman rats with cannulas implanted bilaterally into the LPBN and into the SFO, injections of losartan (1 g/0.1 l) or atropine (2 nmol/0.1 l) into the SFO almost abolished 0.3M NaCl and water intake induced by muscimol (0.5 nmol/0.2 l) injected into the LPBN. In about 30% of the cultured cells of the SFO, carbachol and ANG II increased intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca](i)). Three distinct cell populations were found in the SFO, i.e., cells activated by either ANG II (25%) or carbachol (2.6%) or by both stimuli (2.3%). The results suggest that the activation of angiotensinergic and cholinergic mechanisms in the SFO is important for NaCl and water intake induced by the deactivation of LPBN inhibitory mechanisms with muscimol injections. They also show that there are cells in the SFO activated by both angiotensinergic and cholinergic stimuli, perhaps those involved in the responses to muscimol into the LPBN.
The central melanocortin system plays an essential role in the regulation of energy balance. While anorexigenic effects of -melanocyte-stimulating hormone (-MSH) acting in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), a critical medullary autonomic control center, have been established, the cellular events underlying these effects are less well characterized. In this study, we used whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology to examine firstly whether -MSH exerts direct postsynaptic effects on the membrane potential of rat NTS neurons in slice preparation, and secondly whether -MSH influences GABAergic signaling in the NTS. In normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid, perfusion of -MSH (500 nM) resulted in a depolarization in 39% of cells (n=16, mean 6.140.54 mV), and a hyperpolarization in 22% of cells (n=9, -6.791.02 mV). Studies using tetrodotoxin to block neuronal communication revealed -MSH exerts direct depolarizing effects on some NTS neurons, and indirect inhibitory effects on others. A third subset of neurons is simultaneously directly depolarized and indirectly hyperpolarized by -MSH, resulting in a net lack of effect on membrane potential. The inhibitory inputs influenced by -MSH were identified as GABAergic, as -MSH increased the frequency, but not amplitude, of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in 50% of NTS neurons. -MSH had no effect on the frequency or amplitude of miniature IPSCs. Furthermore, pharmacological blockade of GABAA and GABAB receptors, and physical removal of all synaptic inputs via cellular dissociation, abolished hyperpolarizations induced by -MSH. We conclude -MSH exerts direct, postsynaptic excitatory effects on a subset of NTS neurons. By exciting GABAergic NTS neurons and presynaptically enhancing GABAergic signaling, -MSH also indirectly inhibits other NTS cells. These findings provide critical insight into the cellular events underlying medullary melanocortin anorexigenic effects, and expand the understanding of the circuitries involved in central melanocortin signaling.

The objectives of this study are to investigate the prevalence of Baker's cyst (BC) in patients with knee pain, and to assess the correlation between BC and severity of osteophytes and joint effusion. A retrospective study was conducted on a group of patients with knee pain referred to our outpatient clinic for ultrasonography of the knee between January 2010 and February 2011. Patients underwent an ultrasonographic exam of the knees to assess the presence of marginal femorotibial osteophytosis, joint effusion and BC. A dichotomous score was assigned to each item (1 present, 0 absent) and severity of US signs of osteoarthritis and joint effusion were also graded semiquantitatively. Collected data were processed using logistic regression analysis to evaluate the correlation between degree of osteophytosis and joint effusion and BC. Patients affected by inflammatory joint conditions or with history of joint surgery or recent trauma were excluded. A total of 399 patients with knee pain were studied (299 women), in the age range 18-89 years (mean 56.2, SD 16.3 years). 293 patients (73.4%) showed sonographic features of osteoarthritis and 251 (62.9%) joint effusion. BC was found in 102 patients (25.8%) together with a positive association with sonographic features of osteoarthritis and joint effusion. Our data show a prevalence of BC of 25.8% in a population of patients with knee pain, and suggest that BC is positively related to osteoarthritis and joint effusion. Ultrasonographic examination of knee is worthwhile in patients with painful osteoarthritis or evidence of effusion.
Motor neurons, which relay neural commands to drive skeletal muscle movements, encompass types ranging from &quot;slow&quot; to &quot;fast,&quot; whose biophysical properties govern the timing, gradation, and amplitude of muscle force. Here we identify the noncanonical Notch ligand Delta-like homolog 1 (Dlk1) as a determinant of motor neuron functional diversification. Dlk1, expressed by ~30% of motor neurons, is necessary and sufficient to promote a fast biophysical signature in the mouse and chick. Dlk1 suppresses Notch signaling and activates expression of the K(+) channel subunit Kcng4 to modulate delayed-rectifier currents. Dlk1 inactivation comprehensively shifts motor neurons toward slow biophysical and transcriptome signatures, while abolishing peak force outputs. Our findings provide insights into the development of motor neuron functional diversity and its contribution to the execution of movements.
Animal locomotion depends on proprioceptive feedback, which is generated by mechanosensory neurons. We performed a genetic screen for impaired walking in Drosophila and isolated a gene, stumble (stum). The Stum protein has orthologs in animals ranging from nematodes to mammals and is predicted to contain two transmembrane domains. Expression of the mouse orthologs of stum in mutant flies rescued their phenotype, which demonstrates functional conservation. Dendrites of stum-expressing neurons in legs were stretched by both flexion and extension of corresponding joints. Joint angles that induced dendritic stretching also elicited elevation of cellular Ca(2+) levels-not seen in stum mutants. Thus, we have identified an evolutionarily conserved gene, stum, which is required for transduction of mechanical stimuli in a specific subpopulation of Drosophila proprioceptive neurons that sense joint angles.












A plastic nervous system requires the ability not only to acquire and store but also to forget. Here, we report that musashi (msi-1) is necessary for time-dependent memory loss in C. elegans. Tissue-specific rescue demonstrates that MSI-1 function is necessary in the AVA interneuron. Using RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation (IP), we found that MSI-1 binds to mRNAs of three subunits of the Arp2/3 actin branching regulator complex in vivo and downregulates ARX-1, ARX-2, and ARX-3 translation upon associative learning. The role of msi-1 in forgetting is also reflected by the persistence of learning-induced GLR-1 synaptic size increase in msi-1 mutants. We demonstrate that memory length is regulated cooperatively through the activation of adducin (add-1) and by the inhibitory effect of msi-1. Thus, a GLR-1/MSI-1/Arp2/3 pathway induces forgetting and represents a novel mechanism of memory decay by linking translational control to the structure of the actin cytoskeleton in neurons.
The brain's response to sensory input is strikingly modulated by behavioral state. Notably, the visual response of mouse primary visual cortex (V1) is enhanced by locomotion, a tractable and accessible example of a time-locked change in cortical state. The neural circuits that transmit behavioral state to sensory cortex to produce this modulation are unknown. In vivo calcium imaging of behaving animals revealed that locomotion activates vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-positive neurons in mouse V1 independent of visual stimulation and largely through nicotinic inputs from basal forebrain. Optogenetic activation of VIP neurons increased V1 visual responses in stationary awake mice, artificially mimicking the effect of locomotion, and photolytic damage of VIP neurons abolished the enhancement of V1 responses by locomotion. These findings establish a cortical circuit for the enhancement of visual response by locomotion and provide a potential common circuit for the modulation of sensory processing by behavioral state.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), different types of neurons and different brain areas show differential patterns of vulnerability towards neurofibrillary degeneration, which provides the basis for a highly predictive profile of disease progression throughout the brain that now is widely accepted for neuropathological staging. In previous studies we could demonstrate that in AD cortical and subcortical neurons are constantly less frequently affected by neurofibrillary degeneration if they are enwrapped by a specialized form of the hyaluronan-based extracellular matrix (ECM), the so called 'perineuronal net' (PN). PNs are basically composed of large aggregating chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans connected to a hyaluronan backbone, stabilized by link proteins and cross-linked via tenascin-R (TN-R). Under experimental conditions in mice, PN-ensheathed neurons are better protected against iron-induced neurodegeneration than neurons without PN. Still, it remains unclear whether these neuroprotective effects are directly mediated by the PNs or are associated with some other mechanism in these neurons unrelated to PNs. To identify molecular components that essentially mediate the neuroprotective aspect on PN-ensheathed neurons, we comparatively analysed neuronal degeneration induced by a single injection of FeCl3 on four different mice knockout strains, each being deficient for a different component of PNs. Aggrecan, link protein and TN-R were identified to be essential for the neuroprotective properties of PN, whereas the contribution of brevican was negligible. Our findings indicate that the protection of PN-ensheathed neurons is directly mediated by the net structure and that both the high negative charge and the correct interaction of net components are essential for their neuroprotective function.
Aging refers to the physical and functional decline of the tissues over time that often leads to age-related degenerative diseases. Accumulating evidence implicates that the senescence of neural stem cells (NSCs) is of paramount importance to the aging of central neural system (CNS). However, exploration of the underlying molecular mechanisms has been hindered by the lack of proper aging models to allow the mechanistic examination within a reasonable time window. In the present study, we have utilized a hydroxyurea (HU) treatment protocol and effectively induced postnatal subventricle NSCs to undergo cellular senescence as determined by augmented senescence-associated--galactosidase (SA--gal) staining, decreased proliferation and differentiation capacity, increased G0/G1 cell cycle arrest, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) level and diminished apoptosis. These phenotypic changes were accompanied by a significant increase in p16, p21 and p53 expression, as well as a decreased expression of key proteins in various DNA repair pathways such as xrcc2, xrcc3 and ku70. Further proteomic analysis suggests that multiple pathways are involved in the HU-induced NSC senescence, including genes related to DNA damage and repair, mitochondrial dysfunction and the increase of ROS level. Intriguingly, compensatory mechanisms may have also been initiated to interfere with apoptotic signaling pathways and to minimize the cell death by downregulating Bcl2-associated X protein (BAX) expression. Taken together, we have successfully established a cellular model that will be of broad utilities to the molecular exploration of NSC senescence and aging.
Climbing fibers (CFs) are thought to contribute to cerebellar plasticity and learning by triggering a large influx of dendritic calcium in the postsynaptic Purkinje cell (PC) to signal the occurrence of an unexpected sensory event. However, CFs fire about once per second whether or not an event occurs, raising the question of how sensory-driven signals might be distinguished from a background of ongoing spontaneous activity. Here, we report that in PC dendrites of awake mice, CF-triggered calcium signals are enhanced when the trigger is a sensory event. In addition, we show that a large fraction of the total enhancement in each PC dendrite can be accounted for by an additional boost of calcium provided by sensory activation of a non-CF input. We suggest that sensory stimulation may modulate dendritic voltage and calcium concentration in PCs to increase the strength of plasticity signals during cerebellar learning.
The hallmark of the cerebral neocortex is its organization into six layers, each containing a characteristic set of cell types and synaptic connections. The transcriptional events involved in laminar development and function still remain elusive. Here, we employed deep sequencing of mRNA and small RNA species to gain insights into transcriptional differences among layers and their temporal dynamics during postnatal development of the mouse primary somatosensory neocortex. We identify a number of coding and noncoding transcripts with specific spatiotemporal expression and splicing patterns. We also identify signature trajectories and gene coexpression networks associated with distinct biological processes and transcriptional overlap between these processes. Finally, we provide data that allow the study of potential miRNA and mRNA interactions. Overall, this study provides an integrated view of the laminar and temporal expression dynamics of coding and noncoding transcripts in the mouse neocortex and a resource for studies of neurodevelopment and transcriptome.
Human RTEL1 is an essential, multifunctional helicase that maintains telomeres, regulates homologous recombination, and helps prevent bone marrow failure. Here, we show that RTEL1 also blocks trinucleotide repeat expansions, the causal mutation for 17 neurological diseases. Increased expansion frequencies of (CTGCAG) repeats occurred in human cells following knockdown of RTEL1, but not the alternative helicase Fbh1, and purified RTEL1 efficiently unwound triplet repeat hairpins in vitro. The expansion-blocking activity of RTEL1 also required Rad18 and HLTF, homologs of yeast Rad18 and Rad5. These findings are reminiscent of budding yeast Srs2, which inhibits expansions, unwinds hairpins, and prevents triplet-repeat-induced chromosome fragility. Accordingly, we found expansions and fragility were suppressed in yeast srs2 mutants expressing RTEL1, but not Fbh1. We propose that RTEL1 serves as a human analog of Srs2 to inhibit (CTGCAG) repeat expansions and fragility, likely by unwinding problematic hairpins.

Pituitary tumours, the most frequent intracranial tumour, are historically considered benign. However, various pieces of clinical evidence and recent advances in pathological and molecular analyses suggest the need to consider these tumours as more than an endocrinological disease, despite the low incidence of metastasis. Recently, we proposed a new prognostic clinicopathological classification of these pituitary tumours, according to the tumour size (micro, macro and giant), type (prolactin, GH, FSH/LH, ACTH and TSH) and grade (grade 1a, non-invasive; 1b, non-invasive and proliferative; 2a, invasive; 2b, invasive and proliferative and 3, metastatic). In addition to this classification, numerous molecular prognostic markers have been identified, allowing a better characterisation of tumour behaviour and prognosis. Moreover, clinical and preclinical studies have demonstrated that pituitary tumours could be treated by some chemotherapeutic drugs or new targeted therapies. Our improved classification of these tumours should now allow the identification of prognosis markers and help the clinician to propose personalised therapies to selected patients presenting tumours with a high risk of recurrence.











The generation of acoustic communication signals is widespread across the animal kingdom, and males of many species, including Drosophilidae, produce patterned courtship songs to increase their chance of success with a female. For some animals, song structure can vary considerably from one rendition to the next; neural noise within pattern generating circuits is widely assumed to be the primary source of such variability, and statistical models that incorporate neural noise are successful at reproducing the full variation present in natural songs. In direct contrast, here we demonstrate that much of the pattern variability in Drosophila courtship song can be explained by taking into account the dynamic sensory experience of the male. In particular, using a quantitative behavioural assay combined with computational modelling, we find that males use fast modulations in visual and self-motion signals to pattern their songs, a relationship that we show is evolutionarily conserved. Using neural circuit manipulations, we also identify the pathways involved in song patterning choices and show that females are sensitive to song features. Our data not only demonstrate that Drosophila song production is not a fixed action pattern, but establish Drosophila as a valuable new model for studies of rapid decision-making under both social and naturalistic conditions.
A hexanucleotide repeat expansion (HRE), (GGGGCC)n, in C9orf72 is the most common genetic cause of the neurodegenerative diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here we identify a molecular mechanism by which structural polymorphism of the HRE leads to ALS/FTD pathology and defects. The HRE forms DNA and RNA G-quadruplexes with distinct structures and promotes RNADNA hybrids (R-loops). The structural polymorphism causes a repeat-length-dependent accumulation of transcripts aborted in the HRE region. These transcribed repeats bind to ribonucleoproteins in a conformation-dependent manner. Specifically, nucleolin, an essential nucleolar protein, preferentially binds the HRE G-quadruplex, and patient cells show evidence of nucleolar stress. Our results demonstrate that distinct C9orf72 HRE structural polymorphism at both DNA and RNA levels initiates molecular cascades leading to ALS/FTD pathologies, and provide the basis for a mechanistic model for repeat-associated neurodegenerative diseases.

Hunger is a hard-wired motivational state essential for survival. Agouti-related peptide (AgRP)-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) at the base of the hypothalamus are crucial to the control of hunger. They are activated by caloric deficiency and, when naturally or artificially stimulated, they potently induce intense hunger and subsequent food intake. Consistent with their obligatory role in regulating appetite, genetic ablation or chemogenetic inhibition of AgRP neurons decreases feeding. Excitatory input to AgRP neurons is important in caloric-deficiency-induced activation, and is notable for its remarkable degree of caloric-state-dependent synaptic plasticity. Despite the important role of excitatory input, its source(s) has been unknown. Here, through the use of Cre-recombinase-enabled, cell-specific neuron mapping techniques in mice, we have discovered strong excitatory drive that, unexpectedly, emanates from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, specifically from subsets of neurons expressing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP, also known as ADCYAP1). Chemogenetic stimulation of these afferent neurons in sated mice markedly activates AgRP neurons and induces intense feeding. Conversely, acute inhibition in mice with caloric-deficiency-induced hunger decreases feeding. Discovery of these afferent neurons capable of triggering hunger advances understanding of how this intense motivational state is regulated.




Abnormal accumulation of A (amyloid ) within AEL (autophagy-endosomal-lysosomal) vesicles is a prominent neuropathological feature of AD (Alzheimer's disease), but the mechanism of accumulation within vesicles is not clear. We express secretory forms of human A1-40 or A1-42 in Drosophila neurons and observe preferential localization of A1-42 within AEL vesicles. In young animals, A1-42 appears to associate with plasma membrane, whereas A1-40 does not, suggesting that recycling endocytosis may underlie its routing to AEL vesicles. A1-40, in contrast, appears to partially localize in extracellular spaces in whole brain and is preferentially secreted by cultured neurons. As animals become older, AEL vesicles become dysfunctional, enlarge and their turnover appears delayed. Genetic inhibition of AEL function results in decreased A1-42 accumulation. In samples from older animals, A1-42 is broadly distributed within neurons, but only the A1-42 within dysfunctional AEL vesicles appears to be in an amyloid-like state. Moreover, the A1-42-containing AEL vesicles share properties with AD-like extracellular plaques. They appear to be able to relocate to extracellular spaces either as a consequence of age-dependent neurodegeneration or a non-neurodegenerative separation from host neurons by plasma membrane infolding. We propose that dysfunctional AEL vesicles may thus be the source of amyloid-like plaque accumulation in A1-42-expressing Drosophila with potential relevance for AD.















The macaque ventral premotor area F5 hosts two types of visuomotor grasping neurons: &quot;canonical&quot; neurons, which respond to visually presented objects and underlie visuomotor transformation for grasping, and &quot;mirror&quot; neurons, which respond during the observation of others' action, likely playing a role in action understanding. Some previous evidence suggested that canonical and mirror neurons could be anatomically segregated in different sectors of area F5. Here we investigated the functional properties of single neurons in the hand field of area F5 using various tasks similar to those originally designed to investigate visual responses to objects and actions. By using linear multielectrode probes, we were able to simultaneously record different types of neurons and to precisely localize their cortical depth. We recorded 464 neurons, of which 243 showed visuomotor properties. Canonical and mirror neurons were often present in the same cortical sites; and, most interestingly, a set of neurons showed both canonical and mirror properties, discharging to object presentation as well as during the observation of experimenter's goal-directed acts (canonical-mirror neurons). Typically, visual responses to objects were constrained to the monkey peripersonal space, whereas action observation responses were less space-selective. Control experiments showed that space-constrained coding of objects mostly relies on an operational (action possibility) rather than metric (absolute distance) reference frame. Interestingly, canonical-mirror neurons appear to code object as target for both one's own and other's action, suggesting that they could play a role in predictive representation of others' impending actions.
Variations in the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRHR1) gene have been found to interact with stress in modulating excessive alcohol consumption. However, the neural mechanisms through which CRHR1 influences this risk in humans is largely unknown. This study examined the influence of an intronic CRHR1 gene variant, rs110402, on brain responses to negative emotional words, negative emotional traits, and alcohol use in adolescents and young adults at high risk for alcoholism. Childhood stress was investigated as a potential moderator. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we found that a region in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (rVLPFC) was more engaged during negative emotional word processing in G homozygotes than in A allele carriers (p(FWE corrected) &lt; 0.01, N = 77). Moreover, an indirect effect of genotype on negative emotionality via rVLPFC activation (p &lt; 0.05, N = 69) was observed, which was further moderated by childhood stress (p &lt; 0.05, N = 63). Specifically, with low childhood stress, G homozygotes exhibited lower levels of negative emotionality associated with greater rVLPFC activation, suggesting that the rVLPFC is involved in reappraisal that neutralizes negative emotional responses. In addition, we found that genotype indirectly modulated excessive alcohol consumption (p &lt; 0.05, N = 69). Specifically, G homozygotes showed greater rVLPFC activation and had lower levels of negative emotionality, which were associated with fewer binge-drinking days and fewer alcohol related problems. This work provides support for a model in which CRHR1 gene variation modulates the risk of problem drinking via an internalizing/negative affect pathway involving rVLPFC and reappraisal of negative emotion.
TrkA is a tyrosine kinase receptor required for development and survival of the peripheral nervous system. In the adult, TrkA and its ligand NGF are peripheral pain mediators, particularly in inflammatory pain states. However, how TrkA regulates the function of nociceptive neurons and whether its activity levels may lead to sensory abnormalities is still unclear. Here we report the characterization of a 3 aa (KFG) domain that negatively regulates TrkA level and function in response to NGF. Deletion of this domain in mouse causes a reduction of TrkA ubiquitination leading to an increase in TrkA protein levels and activity. The number of dorsal root ganglia neurons is not affected by the mutation. However, mutant mice have enhanced thermal sensitivity and inflammatory pain. Together, these data suggest that ubiquitination is a mechanism used in nociceptive neurons to regulate TrkA level and function. Our results may enhance our understanding of how ubiquitination affects TrkA activation following noxious thermal stimulation and inflammatory pain.
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) plays a critical role in a number of evaluative processes, including risk assessment. Impaired discrimination between threat and safety is considered a hallmark of clinical anxiety. Here, we investigated the circuit-wide structural and functional mechanisms underlying vmPFC threat-safety assessment in humans. We tested patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; n = 32, female) and healthy controls (n = 25, age-matched female) on a task that assessed the generalization of conditioned threat during fMRI scanning. The task consisted of seven rectangles of graded widths presented on a screen; only the midsize one was paired with mild electric shock [conditioned stimulus (CS)], while the others, safety cues, systematically varied in width by 20, 40, and 60% [generalization stimuli (GS)] compared with the CS. We derived an index reflecting vmPFC functioning from the BOLD reactivity on a continuum of threat (CS) to safety (GS least similar to CS); patients with GAD showed less discrimination between threat and safety cues, compared with healthy controls (Greenberg et al., 2013b). Using structural, functional (i.e., resting-state), and diffusion MRI, we measured vmPFC thickness, vmPFC functional connectivity, and vmPFC structural connectivity within the corticolimbic systems. The results demonstrate that all three factors predict individual variability of vmPFC threat assessment in an independent fashion. Moreover, these neural features are also linked to GAD, most likely via an vmPFC fear generalization. Our results strongly suggest that vmPFC threat processing is closely associated with broader corticolimbic circuit anomalies, which may synergistically contribute to clinical anxiety.
Human memory is dynamic and flexible but is also susceptible to distortions arising from adaptive as well as pathological processes. Both accurate and false memory formation require executive control that is critically mediated by the left prefrontal cortex (PFC). Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) enables noninvasive modulation of cortical activity and associated behavior. The present study reports that tDCS applied to the left dorsolateral PFC (dlPFC) shaped accuracy of episodic memory via polaritiy-specific modulation of false recognition. When applied during encoding of pictures, anodal tDCS increased whereas cathodal stimulation reduced the number of false alarms to lure pictures in subsequent recognition memory testing. These data suggest that the enhancement of excitability in the dlPFC by anodal tDCS can be associated with blurred detail memory. In contrast, activity-reducing cathodal tDCS apparently acted as a noise filter inhibiting the development of imprecise memory traces and reducing the false memory rate. Consistently, the largest effect was found in the most active condition (i.e., for stimuli cued to be remembered). This first evidence for a polarity-specific, activity-dependent effect of tDCS on false memory opens new vistas for the understanding and potential treatment of disturbed memory control.
Rumination is a form of thought characterized by repetitive focus on discomforting emotions or stimuli. In chronic pain disorders, rumination can impede treatment efficacy. The brain mechanisms underlying rumination about chronic pain are not understood. Interestingly, a link between rumination and functional connectivity (FC) of the brain's default mode network (DMN) has been identified within the context of mood disorders. We, and others, have also found DMN dysfunction in chronic pain populations. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is a key node of the DMN that is anatomically connected with the descending pain modulatory system. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that in patients with chronic pain, the mPFC exhibits abnormal FC related to the patient's degree of rumination about their pain. Seventeen patients with idiopathic temporomandibular disorder (TMD) and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy controls underwent resting state functional MRI, and rumination about pain was assessed through the rumination subscale of the Pain Catastrophizing Scale. Compared with healthy controls, we found that TMD patients exhibited enhanced mPFC FC with other DMN regions, including the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC)/precuneus (PCu) and retrosplenial cortex. We also found that individual differences in pain rumination in the chronic pain patients (but not in healthy controls) were positively correlated to mPFC FC with the PCC/PCu, retrosplenial cortex, medial thalamus, and periaqueductal/periventricular gray. These data implicate communication within the DMN and of the DMN with the descending modulatory system as a mechanism underlying the degree to which patients ruminate about their chronic pain.
We set out to deorphanize a subset of putative Drosophila odorant receptors expressed in trichoid sensilla using a transgenic in vivo misexpression approach. We identified farnesol as a potent and specific activator for the orphan odorant receptor Or83c. Farnesol is an intermediate in juvenile hormone biosynthesis, but is also produced by ripe citrus fruit peels. Here, we show that farnesol stimulates robust activation of Or83c-expressing olfactory neurons, even at high dilutions. The CD36 homolog Snmp1 is required for normal farnesol response kinetics. The neurons expressing Or83c are found in a subset of poorly characterized intermediate sensilla. We show that these neurons mediate attraction behavior to low concentrations of farnesol and that Or83c receptor mutants are defective for this behavior. Or83c neurons innervate the DC3 glomerulus in the antennal lobe and projection neurons relaying information from this glomerulus to higher brain centers target a region of the lateral horn previously implicated in pheromone perception. Our findings identify a sensitive, narrowly tuned receptor that mediates attraction behavior to farnesol and demonstrates an effective approach to deorphanizing odorant receptors expressed in neurons located in intermediate and trichoid sensilla that may not function in the classical &quot;empty basiconic neuron&quot; system.
Aging is accompanied with behavioral and cognitive decline. Changes in the neurotransmitter level are associated with the age-related behavioral deterioration, but whether well-known longevity manipulations affect the function of neurotransmitter system in aging animals is largely unclear. Here we report that serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) level decrease with age in C. elegans. The reduction results in downregulation of the activity of neurons controlled by 5-HT/DA signaling, and deterioration of some important behaviors, including pharyngeal pumping, food-induced slowing responses, and male mating. Longevity manipulations differentially affect the age-related decline in neuronal level of 5-HT/DA. The reduction and resultant behavioral deterioration occur in long-lived worms with defective insulin signaling [daf-2(e1370), age-1(hx546)] or mitochondria function [isp-1(qm150), tpk-1(qm162)], but not in long-lived worms with dietary restriction eat-2(ad1116). A reduced expression level of dopa decarboxylase BAS-1, the shared enzyme for 5-HT/DA synthesis, is responsible for the decline in 5-HT/DA levels. RNAi assay revealed that the sustained 5-HT/DA level in neurons of aged eat-2(ad1116) worms requires PHA-4 and its effectors superoxide dismutases and catalases, suggesting the involvement of reactive oxygen species in the 5-HT/DA decline. Furthermore, we found that elevating 5-HT/DA ameliorates age-related deterioration of pharyngeal pumping, food-induced slowing responses, and male mating in both wild-type and daf-2(e1370) worms. Together, dietary restriction preserves healthy behaviors in aged worms at least partially by sustaining a high 5-HT/DA level, and elevating the 5-HT/DA level in wild-type and daf-2(e1370) worms improves their behaviors during aging.
Previous work has demonstrated an influence of the respiratory cycle and, more specifically, rhythmic nasal inspiration for the entrainment of slow oscillations in olfactory cortex during ketamine-xylazine anesthesia. This respiratory entrainment has been suggested to occur more broadly during slow-wave states (including sleep) throughout the forebrain, in particular in the frontal and parahippocampal and hippocampal cortices. Using multisite local field potential recording methods and spectral coherence analysis in the rat, we show here that no such broad forebrain coupling takes place during slow-wave activity patterns under either ketamine-xylazine or urethane anesthesia and, furthermore, that it also does not arise during natural slow-wave sleep. Therefore, respiratory-related oscillatory neural activities are likely limited to primary olfactory structures during slow-wave forebrain states.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating type of stroke that lacks a specific treatment. An intense immune response develops after ICH, which contributes to neuronal injury, disability, and death. However, the specific mediators of inflammation-induced injury remain unclear. The objective of the present study was to determine whether blood-derived CCR2+ Ly6C(hi) inflammatory monocytes contribute to disability. ICH was induced in mice and the resulting inflammatory response was quantified using flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and neurobehavioral testing. Importantly, blood-derived monocytes were distinguished from resident microglia by differential CD45 staining and by using bone marrow chimeras with fluorescent leukocytes. After ICH, blood-derived CCR2+ Ly6C(hi) inflammatory monocytes trafficked into the brain, outnumbered other leukocytes, and produced tumor necrosis factor. Ccr2(-/-) mice, which have few circulating inflammatory monocytes, exhibited better motor function following ICH than control mice. Chimeric mice with wild-type CNS cells and Ccr2(-/-) hematopoietic cells also exhibited early improvement in motor function, as did wild-type mice after inflammatory monocyte depletion. These findings suggest that blood-derived inflammatory monocytes contribute to acute neurological disability. To determine the translational relevance of our experimental findings, we examined CCL2, the principle ligand for the CCR2 receptor, in ICH patients. Serum samples from 85 patients were collected prospectively at two hospitals. In patients, higher CCL2 levels at 24 h were independently associated with poor functional outcome at day 7 after adjusting for potential confounding variables. Together, these findings suggest that inflammatory monocytes worsen early disability after murine ICH and may represent a therapeutic target for patients.
Decreased medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neuronal activity is associated with social defeat-induced depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in mice. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the decreased mPFC activity and its prodepressant role remain unknown. We show here that induction of the transcription factor FosB in mPFC, specifically in the prelimbic (PrL) area, mediates susceptibility to stress. FosB induction in PrL occurred selectively in susceptible mice after chronic social defeat stress, and overexpression of FosB in this region, but not in the nearby infralimbic (IL) area, enhanced stress susceptibility. FosB produced these effects partly through induction of the cholecystokinin (CCK)-B receptor: CCKB blockade in mPFC induces a resilient phenotype, whereas CCK administration into mPFC mimics the anxiogenic- and depressant-like effects of social stress. We previously found that optogenetic stimulation of mPFC neurons in susceptible mice reverses several behavioral abnormalities seen after chronic social defeat stress. Therefore, we hypothesized that optogenetic stimulation of cortical projections would rescue the pathological effects of CCK in mPFC. After CCK infusion in mPFC, we optogenetically stimulated mPFC projections to basolateral amygdala or nucleus accumbens, two subcortical structures involved in mood regulation. Stimulation of corticoamygdala projections blocked the anxiogenic effect of CCK, although no effect was observed on other symptoms of social defeat. Conversely, stimulation of corticoaccumbens projections reversed CCK-induced social avoidance and sucrose preference deficits but not anxiogenic-like effects. Together, these results indicate that social stress-induced behavioral deficits are mediated partly by molecular adaptations in mPFC involving FosB and CCK through cortical projections to distinct subcortical targets.
Postsynaptic calcium (Ca2+) nonlinearities allow neuronal coincidence detection and site-specific plasticity. Whether such events exist in dendrites of interneurons and play a role in regulation of synaptic efficacy remains unknown. Here, we used a combination of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and two-photon Ca2+ imaging to reveal Ca2+ nonlinearities associated with synaptic integration in dendrites of mouse hippocampal CA1 fast-spiking interneurons. Local stimulation of distal dendritic branches within stratum oriens/alveus elicited fast Ca2+ transients, which showed a steep sigmoidal relationship to stimulus intensity. Supralinear Ca2+ events required Ca2+ entry through AMPA receptors with a subsequent Ca2+ release from internal stores. To investigate the functional significance of supralinear Ca2+ signals, we examined activity-dependent fluctuations in transmission efficacy triggered by Ca2+ signals of different amplitudes at excitatory synapses of interneurons. Subthreshold theta-burst stimulation (TBS) produced small amplitude postsynaptic Ca2+ transients and triggered long-term potentiation. In contrast, the suprathreshold TBS, which was associated with the generation of supralinear Ca2+ events, triggered long-term depression. Blocking group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) during suprathreshold TBS resulted in a slight reduction of supralinear Ca2+ events and induction of short-term depression. In contrast, blocking internal stores and supralinear Ca2+ signals during suprathreshold TBS switched the direction of plasticity from depression back to potentiation. These data reveal a novel type of supralinear Ca2+ events at synapses lacking the GluA2 AMPA subtype of glutamate receptors and demonstrate a general mechanism by which Ca2+ -permeable AMPA receptors, together with internal stores and mGluRs, control the direction of plasticity at interneuron excitatory synapses.
EphA4 signaling is essential for the spatiotemporal organization of neuronal circuit formation. In mice, deletion of this signaling pathway causes aberrant midline crossing of axons from both brain and spinal neurons and the complete knock-outs (KOs) exhibit a pronounced change in motor behavior, where alternating gaits are replaced by a rabbit-like hopping gait. The neuronal mechanism that is responsible for the gait switch in these KO mice is not known. Here, using intersectional genetics, we demonstrate that a spinal cord-specific deletion of EphA4 signaling is sufficient to generate the overground hopping gait. In contrast, selective deletion of EphA4 signaling in forebrain neurons, including the corticospinal tract neurons, did not result in a change in locomotor pattern. The gait switch was attributed to the loss of EphA4 signaling in excitatory Vglut2+ neurons, which is accompanied by an increased midline crossing of Vglut2+ neurons in the ventral spinal cord. Our findings functionally define spinal EphA4 signaling in excitatory Vglut2+ neurons as required for proper organization of the spinal locomotor circuitry, and place these cells as essential components of the mammalian locomotor network.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with an elevated risk for seizures that may be fundamentally connected to cognitive dysfunction. Supporting this link, many mouse models for AD exhibit abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG) activity in addition to the expected neuropathology and cognitive deficits. Here, we used a controllable transgenic system to investigate how network changes develop and are maintained in a model characterized by amyloid  (A) overproduction and progressive amyloid pathology. EEG recordings in tet-off mice overexpressing amyloid precursor protein (APP) from birth display frequent sharp wave discharges (SWDs). Unexpectedly, we found that withholding APP overexpression until adulthood substantially delayed the appearance of epileptiform activity. Together, these findings suggest that juvenile APP overexpression altered cortical development to favor synchronized firing. Regardless of the age at which EEG abnormalities appeared, the phenotype was dependent on continued APP overexpression and abated over several weeks once transgene expression was suppressed. Abnormal EEG discharges were independent of plaque load and could be extinguished without altering deposited amyloid. Selective reduction of A with a -secretase inhibitor has no effect on the frequency of SWDs, indicating that another APP fragment or the full-length protein was likely responsible for maintaining EEG abnormalities. Moreover, transgene suppression normalized the ratio of excitatory to inhibitory innervation in the cortex, whereas secretase inhibition did not. Our results suggest that APP overexpression, and not A overproduction, is responsible for EEG abnormalities in our transgenic mice and can be rescued independently of pathology.





Members of the voltage-gated ion channel superfamily (VGIC) regulate ion flux and generate electrical signals in excitable cells by opening and closing pore gates. The location of the gate in voltage-gated sodium channels, a founding member of this superfamily, remains unresolved. Here we explore the chemical modification rates of introduced cysteines along the S6 helix of domain IV in an inactivation-removed background. We find that state-dependent accessibility is demarcated by an S6 hydrophobic residue; substituted cysteines above this site are not modified by charged thiol reagents when the channel is closed. These accessibilities are consistent with those inferred from open- and closed-state structures of prokaryotic sodium channels. Our findings suggest that an intracellular gate composed of a ring of hydrophobic residues is not only responsible for regulating access to the pore of sodium channels, but is also a conserved feature within canonical members of the VGIC superfamily.










The control of self-renewal and differentiation of neural stem and progenitor cells is a crucial issue in stem cell and cancer biology. Drosophila type II neuroblast lineages are prone to developing impaired neuroblast homeostasis if the limited self-renewing potential of intermediate neural progenitors (INPs) is unrestrained. Here, we demonstrate that Drosophila SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling Brahma (Brm) complex functions cooperatively with another chromatin remodeling factor, Histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) to suppress the formation of ectopic type II neuroblasts. We show that multiple components of the Brm complex and HDAC3 physically associate with Earmuff (Erm), a type II-specific transcription factor that prevents dedifferentiation of INPs into neuroblasts. Consistently, the predicted Erm-binding motif is present in most of known binding loci of Brm. Furthermore, brm and hdac3 genetically interact with erm to prevent type II neuroblast overgrowth. Thus, the Brm-HDAC3-Erm repressor complex suppresses dedifferentiation of INPs back into type II neuroblasts. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01906.001.

An object-centric reference frame is a spatial representation in which objects or their parts are coded relative to others. The existence of object-centric representations is supported by the phenomenon of induced motion, in which the motion of an inducer frame in a particular direction induces motion in the opposite direction in a target dot. We report on an experiment made with an induced motion display where a degree of slant is imparted to the inducer frame using either perspective or binocular disparity depth cues. Critically, the inducer frame oscillates perpendicularly to the line of sight, rather than moving in depth. Participants matched the perceived induced motion of the target dot in depth using a 3D rotatable rod. Although the frame did not move in depth, we found that subjects perceived the dot as moving in depth, either along the slanted frame or against it, when depth was given by perspective and disparity, respectively. The presence of induced motion is thus not only due to the competition among populations of planar motion filters, but rather incorporates 3D scene constraints. We also discuss this finding in the context of the uncertainty related to various depth cues, and to the locality of representation of reference frames.



Bipolar disorder (BD) is a common and highly heritable mental illness and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have robustly identified the first common genetic variants involved in disease aetiology. The data also provide strong evidence for the presence of multiple additional risk loci, each contributing a relatively small effect to BD susceptibility. Large samples are necessary to detect these risk loci. Here we present results from the largest BD GWAS to date by investigating 2.3 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a sample of 24,025 patients and controls. We detect 56 genome-wide significant SNPs in five chromosomal regions including previously reported risk loci ANK3, ODZ4 and TRANK1, as well as the risk locus ADCY2 (5p15.31) and a region between MIR2113 and POU3F2 (6q16.1). ADCY2 is a key enzyme in cAMP signalling and our finding provides new insights into the biological mechanisms involved in the development of BD.
Bicaudal-D (BICD) belongs to an evolutionary conserved family of dynein adaptor proteins. It was first described in Drosophila as an essential factor in fly oogenesis and embryogenesis. Missense mutations in a human BICD homologue, BICD2, have been linked to a dominant mild early onset form of spinal muscular atrophy. Here we further examine the in vivo function of BICD2 in Bicd2 knockout mice. BICD2-deficient mice develop disrupted laminar organization of cerebral cortex and the cerebellum, pointing to impaired radial neuronal migration. Using astrocyte and granule cell specific inactivation of BICD2, we show that the cerebellar migration defect is entirely dependent upon BICD2 expression in Bergmann glia cells. Proteomics analysis reveals that Bicd2 mutant mice have an altered composition of extracellular matrix proteins produced by glia cells. These findings demonstrate an essential non-cell-autonomous role of BICD2 in neuronal cell migration, which might be connected to cargo trafficking pathways in glia cells.


Mechanisms driving emergence from general anesthesia are not well understood. The noradrenergic brain nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) modulates arousal and may have effects on general anesthetic state. Using virally delivered designer receptors to specifically control LC norepinephrine (NE) neurons, we investigated the causal relationship between LC-NE activity and general anesthetic state under isoflurane. Selective activation of LC-NE neurons produced cortical electroencephalography (EEG) activation under continuous deep isoflurane anesthesia. Specifically, LC-NE activation reduced burst suppression in EEG and drove a rightward shift in peak EEG frequency with reduced  EEG power and increased  EEG power, measures of cortical arousal. LC-NE activation also accelerated behavioral emergence from deep isoflurane anesthesia; this was prevented with  or 1 noradrenergic antagonists. Moreover, these adrenoreceptor antagonists alone were sufficient to markedly potentiate anesthetic duration when delivered centrally or peripherally. Induction of anesthesia also was retarded by LC-NE activation. Our results demonstrate that the LC-NE system strongly modulates the anesthetic state, and that changes in LC-NE neurotransmission alone can affect the emergence from isoflurane general anesthesia. Taken together, these findings extend our understanding of mechanisms underlying general anesthesia and cortical arousal, and have significant implications for optimizing the clinical safety and management of general anesthesia.

Human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can provide a promising source of midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons for cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease. However, iPSC-derived donor cells inevitably contain tumorigenic or inappropriate cells. Here, we show that human iPSC-derived DA progenitor cells can be efficiently isolated by cell sorting using a floor plate marker, CORIN. We induced DA neurons using scalable culture conditions on human laminin fragment, and the sorted CORIN(+) cells expressed the midbrain DA progenitor markers, FOXA2 and LMX1A. When transplanted into 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, the CORIN(+) cells survived and differentiated into midbrain DA neurons invivo, resulting in significant improvement of the motor behavior, without tumor formation. In particular, the CORIN(+) cells in a NURR1(+) cell-dominant stage exhibited the best survival and function as DA neurons. Our method is a favorable strategy in terms of scalability, safety, and efficiency and may be advantageous for clinical application.
Neurons generated from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) self-organize into functional neuronal assemblies invitro, generating synchronous network activities. Intriguingly, PSC-derived neuronal assemblies develop spontaneous activities that are independent of external stimulation, suggesting the presence of thus far undetected intrinsically active neurons (IANs). Here, by using mouse embryonic stem cells, we provide evidence for the existence of IANs in PSC-neuronal networks based on extracellular multielectrode array and intracellular patch-clamp recordings. IANs remain active after pharmacological inhibition of fast synaptic communication and possess intrinsic mechanisms required for autonomous neuronal activity. PSC-derived IANs are functionally integrated in PSC-neuronal populations, contribute to synchronous network bursting, and exhibit pacemaker properties. The intrinsic activity and pacemaker properties of the neuronal subpopulation identified herein may be particularly relevant for interventions involving transplantation of neural tissues. IANs may be a key element in the regulation of the functional activity of grafted as well as preexisting host neuronal networks.
The availability of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) offers the opportunity to generate lineage-specific cells to investigate mechanisms of human diseases specific to brain regions. Here, we report a differentiation paradigm for hPSCs that enriches for hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) granule neurons. This differentiation paradigm recapitulates the expression patterns of key developmental genes during hippocampal neurogenesis, exhibits characteristics of neuronal network maturation, and produces PROX1+ neurons that functionally integrate into the DG. Because hippocampal neurogenesis has been implicated in schizophrenia (SCZD), we applied our protocol to SCZD patient-derived human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). We found deficits in the generation of DG granule neurons from SCZD hiPSC-derived hippocampal NPCs with lowered levels of NEUROD1, PROX1, and TBR1, reduced neuronal activity, and reduced levels of spontaneous neurotransmitter release. Our approach offers important insights into the neurodevelopmental aspects of SCZD and may be a promising tool for drug screening and personalized medicine.
Exposure to maternal stress (MS) and mutations in GAD1, which encodes the -aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) 67, are both risk factors for psychiatric disorders. However, the relationship between these risk factors remains unclear. Interestingly, the critical period of MS for psychiatric disorders in offspring corresponds to the period of GABAergic neuron neurogenesis and migration in the fetal brain, that is, in the late stage of gestation. Indeed, decrement of parvalbumin (PV)-positive GABAergic interneurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus (HIP) has often been observed in schizophrenia patients. In the present study, we used GAD67-green fluorescent protein (GFP) knock-in mice (that is, mice in which the Gad1 gene is heterozygously deleted; GAD67(+/GFP)) that underwent prenatal stress from embryonic day 15.0 to 17.5 and monitored PV-positive GABAergic neurons to address the interaction between Gad1 disruption and stress. Administration of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine revealed that neurogenesis of GFP-positive GABAergic neurons, but not cortical plate cells, was significantly diminished in fetal brains during MS. Differential expression of glucocorticoid receptors by different progenitor cell types may underlie this differential outcome. Postnatally, the density of PV-positive, but not PV-negative, GABAergic neurons was significantly decreased in the mPFC, HIP and somatosensory cortex but not in the motor cortex of GAD67(+/GFP) mice. By contrast, these findings were not observed in wild-type (GAD67(+/+)) offspring. These results suggest that prenatal stress, in addition to heterozygous deletion of Gad1, could specifically disturb the proliferation of neurons destined to be PV-positive GABAergic interneurons.



Evidence indicate that adenosine A2A receptor subtype is of critical importance in stroke. An overexpression of A2A adenosine receptors occurs at central level on neurons and microglia of ischemic striatum and cortex after focal ischemia. Adenosine A2A receptor subtype is localized not only at central level but also peripherally on blood cells, where it is known to exert antiinflammatory effect. Purpose of the present work was to investigate the putative neuroprotective effect of the adenosine A2A receptor agonist CGS21680 in a rat model of transient medial cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Transient cerebral ischemia was induced by 1h occlusion of MCA. CGS21680 (0.01 and 0.1mg/kg, i.p.) was administered starting 4h after ischemia according to a chronic protocol (twice/day for 7 days). CGS21680, at the dose of 0.1mg/kg transiently increased heart frequency but did not modify blood pressure. At the dose of 0.01mg/kg the drug did not modify either heart frequency or blood pressure. Following transient MCAo, CGS21680 at both doses protected from neurological deficit from the first day up to 7 days thereafter. At this time, it has reduced microgliosis, astrogliosis and improved myelin organization in the striatum and cytoarchitecture of the ischemic cortex and striatum. Two days after transient MCAo, CGS21680 has reduced the number of infiltrated granulocytes into the ischemic tissue. Data indicate that CGS21680 systemically administered is protective by immunosuppressive effects.
Reactive astrogliosis is an essential feature of astrocytic response to all forms of central nervous system (CNS) injury and disease, which may benefit or harm surrounding neural and non-neural cells. Despite extensive study, its molecular triggers remain largely unknown in term of ischemic stroke. In the current study we investigated the role p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in astrogliosis both in vitro and in vivo. In a mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), p38 MAPK activation was observed in the glia scar area, along with increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression. In primary astrocyte cultures, hypoxia and scratch injury-induced astrogliosis was attenuated by both p38 inhibition and knockout of p38 MAPK. In addition, both knockout and inhibition of p38 MAPK also reduced astrocyte migration, but did not affect astrocyte proliferation. In a mouse model of permanent MCAO, no significant difference in motor function recovery and lesion volume was observed between conditional GFAP/p38 MAPK knockout mice and littermates. While a significant reduction of astrogliosis was observed in the GFAP/p38 knockout mice compared with the littermates. Our findings suggest that p38 MAPK signaling pathway plays an important role in the ischemic stroke-induced astrogliosis and thus may serve as a novel target to control glial scar formation.


Loss- and gain-of-function mutations of the X-linked gene MECP2 (methyl-CpG binding protein 2) lead tosevere neurodevelopmental disorders in humans, such as Rett syndrome (RTT) and autism. MeCP2 ispreviously known as a transcriptional repressor bybinding to methylated DNA and recruiting histone deacetylase complex (HDAC). Here, we report that MeCP2 regulates gene expression posttranscriptionally by suppressing nuclear microRNA processing. We found that MeCP2 binds directly to DiGeorge syndrome critical region 8 (DGCR8), a critical component of the nuclear microRNA-processing machinery, and interferes with the assembly of Drosha andDGCR8 complex. Protein targets of MeCP2-suppressed microRNAs include CREB, LIMK1, and Pumilio2, which play critical roles in neural development. Gain of function of MeCP2 strongly inhibits dendritic and spine growth, which depends on the interaction of MeCP2 and DGCR8. Thus, control of microRNA processing via direct interaction with DGCR8 represents a mechanism for MeCP2 regulation of gene expression and neural development.
Pallido-pyramidal syndromes combine dystonia with or without parkinsonism and spasticity as part of a mixed neurodegenerative disorder. Several causative genes have been shown to lead to pallido-pyramidal syndromes, including FBXO7, ATP13A2, PLA2G6, PRKN and SPG11. Among these, ATP13A2 and PLA2G6 are inconsistently associated with brain iron deposition. Using homozygosity mapping and direct sequencing in a multiplex consanguineous Saudi Arabian family with a pallido-pyramidal syndrome, iron deposition and cerebellar atrophy, we identified a homozygous p.G53R mutation in C19orf12. Our findings add to the phenotypic spectrum associated with C19orf12 mutations.




Pharmacological targeting of metabolic processes in cancer must overcome redundancy in biosynthetic pathways. Deoxycytidine (dC) triphosphate (dCTP) can be produced both by the de novo pathway (DNP) and by the nucleoside salvage pathway (NSP). However, the role of the NSP in dCTP production and DNA synthesis in cancer cells is currently not well understood. We show that acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells avoid lethal replication stress after thymidine (dT)-induced inhibition of DNP dCTP synthesis by switching to NSP-mediated dCTP production. The metabolic switch in dCTP production triggered by DNP inhibition is accompanied by NSP up-regulation and can be prevented using DI-39, a new high-affinity small-molecule inhibitor of the NSP rate-limiting enzyme dC kinase (dCK). Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging was useful for following both the duration and degree of dCK inhibition by DI-39 treatment in vivo, thus providing a companion pharmacodynamic biomarker. Pharmacological co-targeting of the DNP with dT and the NSP with DI-39 was efficacious against ALL models in mice, without detectable host toxicity. These findings advance our understanding of nucleotide metabolism in leukemic cells, and identify dCTP biosynthesis as a potential new therapeutic target for metabolic interventions in ALL and possibly other hematological malignancies.



Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) have identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) which show significant association at the well-known APOE locus and at nineteen additional loci. Among the functional, disease-associated variants at these loci, missense variants are particularly important because they can be readily investigated in model systems to search for novel therapeutic targets. It is now possible to perform a low-cost search for these &quot;actionable&quot; variants by genotyping the missense variants at known LOAD loci already cataloged on the Exome Variant Server (EVS). In this proof-of-principle study designed to explore the efficacy of this approach, we analyzed three rare EVS variants in APOE, p.L28P, p.R145C and p.V236E, in our case control series of 9114 subjects. p.R145C proved to be too rare to analyze effectively. The minor allele of p.L28P, which was in complete linkage disequilibrium (D' = 1) with the far more common APOE 4 allele, showed no association with LOAD (P = 0.75) independent of the APOE 4 allele. p.V236E was significantly associated with a marked reduction in risk of LOAD (P = 7.5  10; OR = 0.10, 0.03 to 0.45). The minor allele of p.V236E, which was in complete linkage disequilibrium (D' = 1) with the common APOE 3 allele, identifies a novel LOAD-associated haplotype (APOE 3b) which is associated with decreased risk of LOAD independent of the more abundant APOE 2, 3 and 4 haplotypes. Follow-up studies will be important to confirm the significance of this association and to better define its odds ratio. The ApoE p.V236E substitution is the first disease-associated change located in the lipid-binding, C-terminal domain of the protein. Thus our study (i) identifies a novel APOE missense variant which may profitably be studied to better understand how ApoE function may be modified to reduce risk of LOAD and (ii) indicates that analysis of protein-altering variants cataloged on the EVS can be a cost-effective way to identify actionable functional variants at recently discovered LOAD loci.
















Phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) regulates lipid metabolism and plays an important role in oxidative stress. PLTP is highly expressed in blood-brain barrier (BBB), but the role of PLTP in BBB integrity is not clear. In this study, BBB permeability was detected with in vivo multiphoton imaging and Evans blue assay. We found that PLTP deficient mice exhibited increased BBB permeability, as well as decreased expression of tight junction proteins occludin, zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and claudin-5 in brain vessels. Cerebrovascular oxidative stress increased in PLTP deficient mice, including increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation marker 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. Dietary supplementation of antioxidant vitamin E increased BBB integrity and tight junction proteins expression via reducing cerebrovascular oxidative stress. These findings indicated an essential role of PLTP in maintaining BBB integrity, possibly through its ability to transfer vitamin E, and modulate cerebrovascular oxidative stress.






Circadian clocks are the endogenous oscillators that harmonize a variety of physiological processes within the body. Although many urinary functions exhibit clear daily or circadian variation in diurnal humans and nocturnal rodents, the precise mechanisms of these variations are as yet unclear. In the present study, we demonstrate that Per2 promoter activity clearly oscillates in neonate and adult bladders cultured ex vivo from Per2::Luc knock-in mice. In subsequent experiments, we show that multiple local oscillators are operating in all the bladder tissues (detrusor, sphincter and urothelim) and the lumbar spinal cord (L4-5) but not in the pontine micturition center or the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray of the brain. Accordingly, the water intake and urine volume exhibited daily and circadian variations in young adult wild-type mice but not in Per1(-/-)Per2(-/-) mice, suggesting a functional clock-dependent nature of the micturition rhythm. Particularly in PDK mice, the water intake and urinary excretion displayed an arrhythmic pattern under constant darkness, and the amount of water consumed and excreted significantly increased compared with those of WT mice. These results suggest that local circadian clocks reside in three types of bladder tissue and the lumbar spinal cord and may have important roles in the circadian control of micturition function.

Human TDP-43 represents the main component of neuronal inclusions found in patients with neurodegenerative diseases, especially frontotemporal lobar degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that the TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) Drosophila ortholog (TBPH) can biochemically and functionally overlap the properties of the human factor. The recent direct implication of the human heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) A2B1 and A1, known TDP-43 partners, in the pathogenesis of multisystem proteinopathy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis supports the hypothesis that the physical and functional interplay between TDP-43 and hnRNP A/B orthologs might play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. To test this hypothesis and further validate the fly system as a useful model to study this type of diseases, we have now characterized human TDP-43 and Drosophila TBPH similarity in terms of protein-protein interaction pathways. In this work we show that TDP-43 and TBPH share the ability to associate in vitro with Hrp38/Hrb98DE/CG9983, the fruit fly ortholog of the human hnRNP A1/A2 factors. Interestingly, the protein regions of TDP-43 and Hrp38 responsible for reciprocal interactions are conserved through evolution. Functionally, experiments in HeLa cells demonstrate that TDP-43 is necessary for the inhibitory activity of Hrp38 on splicing. Finally, Drosophila in vivo studies show that Hrp38 deficiency produces locomotive defects and life span shortening in TDP-43 with and without animals. These results suggest that hnRNP protein levels can play a modulatory role on TDP-43 functions.
To investigate a potential mechanism underlying trigeminal nerve injury-induced orofacial hypersensitivity, we used a rat model of chronic constriction injury to the infraorbital nerve (CCI-ION) to study whether CCI-ION caused calcium channel 21 (Cav21) protein dysregulation in trigeminal ganglia and associated spinal subnucleus caudalis and C1/C2 cervical dorsal spinal cord (Vc/C2). Furthermore, we studied whether this neuroplasticity contributed to spinal neuron sensitization and neuropathic pain states. CCI-ION caused orofacial hypersensitivity that correlated with Cav21 up-regulation in trigeminal ganglion neurons and Vc/C2. Blocking Cav21 with gabapentin, a ligand for the Cav21 proteins, or Cav21 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides led to a reversal of orofacial hypersensitivity, supporting an important role of Cav21 in orofacial pain processing. Importantly, increased Cav21 in Vc/C2 superficial dorsal horn was associated with increased excitatory synaptogenesis and increased frequency, but not the amplitude, of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in dorsal horn neurons that could be blocked by gabapentin. Thus, CCI-ION-induced Cav21 up-regulation may contribute to orofacial neuropathic pain states through abnormal excitatory synapse formation and enhanced presynaptic excitatory neurotransmitter release in Vc/C2.


Due to its limited capacity, visual perception depends on the allocation of attention. The resultant phenomena of inattentional blindness, accompanied by reduced sensory visual cortex response to unattended stimuli in conditions of high perceptual load in the attended task, are now well established (Lavie, 2005; Lavie, 2010, for reviews). However, the underlying mechanisms for these effects remain to be elucidated. Specifically, is reduced perceptual processing under high perceptual load a result of reduced sensory signal gain, broader tuning, or both? We examined this question with psychophysical measures of orientation tuning under different levels of perceptual load in the task performed. Our results show that increased perceptual load leads to both reduced sensory signal and broadening of tuning. These results clarify the effects of attention on elementary visual perception and suggest that high perceptual load is critical for attentional effects on sensory tuning.


Precise regulation of the chloride homeostasis crucially determines the action of inhibitory transmitters GABA and glycine and thereby endows neurons or even discrete neuronal compartments with distinct physiological responses to the same transmitters. In mammals, the signaling mediated by GABAA/glycine receptors shifts during early postnatal life from depolarization to hyperpolarization, due to delayed maturation of the chloride homeostasis system. While the activity of the secondary active, K(+)-Cl(-)-extruding cotransporter KCC2, renders GABA/glycine hyperpolarizing in auditory brainstem nuclei of altricial rodents, the mechanisms contributing to the initially depolarizing transmembrane gradient for Cl(-) in respective neurons remained unknown. Here we used gramicidin-perforated patch recordings, non-invasive Cl(-) and Ca(2+) imaging, and immunohistochemistry to identify the Cl(-)-loading transporter that renders depolarizing effects of GABA/glycine in early postnatal life of spherical bushy cells in the cochlear nucleus of gerbil. Our data identify the 1Na(+):1K(+):2Cl(-) cotransporter 1 (NKCC1) as the major Cl(-)-loader responsible for depolarizing action of GABA/glycine at postnatal days 3-5 (P3-5). Extracellular GABA/muscimol elicited calcium signaling through R-, L-, and T-type channels, which was dependent on bumetanide- and [Na(+)]e-sensitive Cl(-) accumulation. The &quot;adult like&quot;, low intracellular Cl(-) concentration is established during the second postnatal week, through a mechanism engaging the NKCC1-down regulation between P5 and P15 and ongoing KCC2-mediated Cl(-)-extrusion.
It is important to clarify the neural mechanisms underlying fatigue sensation. There have been several studies which identified brain regions in which the level of the neural activities was correlated with the subjective level of fatigue. However, the neural activity evoked when we evaluate our level of fatigue may not be related to the subjective level of fatigue. Thus, we tried to identify the neural activities caused by the evaluation of the level of fatigue, which may not be related to the subjective level of fatigue. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to measure neural activity in 10 healthy participants enrolled in our study. During MEG recordings, participants were asked to evaluate the level of physical fatigue in their right hand in time with execution cues (evaluation session) or to direct attention to their right hand in time with execution cues (control session). Equivalent current dipole (ECD) analysis was performed to localize the neural activity limited to the evaluation session. In the evaluation session, ECDs with mean latencies of approximately 380ms were observed in nine of 10 participants. These were localized in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), while in the control session, the ECDs in the same brain region were observed in only two of 10 participants. The proportion of participants in whom ECDs were observed in the PCC in the evaluation session was significantly higher than that in the control session (McNemar test). In addition, the intensities of the ECDs were positively associated with the extent to which the participants successfully evaluated the fatigue in their right hand in the evaluation session. These data suggest that the PCC is involved in the neural substrates associated with self-evaluation of physical fatigue.
We recently indicated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) enhances the excitability of small-diameter trigeminal ganglion (TRG) neurons projecting onto the trigeminal nucleus interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone via a paracrine mechanism following masetter muscle (MM) inflammation. The present study investigated whether modulation of voltage-gated potassium (K) channels by BDNF contributes to this hyperexcitability effect. To induce inflammation we injected complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the MM. The escape threshold from mechanical stimulation applied to skin above the inflamed MM was significantly lower than in nave rats. TRG neurons innervating the site of inflammation were subsequently identified by fluorogold (FG) labeling, and microbeads (MB) were used to label neurons projecting specifically to the Vi/Vc region. BDNF significantly decreased the total, transient (IA), and sustained (IK) currents in FG-/MB-labeled small-diameter TRG neurons under voltage-clamp conditions in nave and inflamed rats. The magnitude of inhibition of IA and IK currents by BDNF in FG-/MB-labeled TRG neurons was significantly greater in inflamed rats than in nave rats, and BDNF inhibited IA to a significantly greater extent than IK. Furthermore, co-administration of K252a, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, abolished the suppression of IA and IK currents by BDNF. These results suggested that the inhibitory effects of BDNF on IA and IK currents in small-diameter TRG neurons projecting onto the Vi/Vc potentiate neuronal excitability, and in turn, contribute to MM inflammatory hyperalgesia. These findings support the development of voltage-gated K(+) channel openers and tyrosine kinase inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of trigeminal inflammatory hyperalgesia.
The homeobox-containing transcription factor Otx2 controls the identity, fate and proliferation of mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) neurons. Transgenic mice, in which Otx2 was conditionally overexpressed by a Cre recombinase expressed under the transcriptional control of the Engrailed1 gene (En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+)), show an increased number of mesDA neurons during development. In adult mice, Otx2 is expressed in a subset of neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and its overexpression renders mesDA more resistant to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-HCl (MPTP) neurotoxin. Here we further investigated the neurological consequences of the increased number of mesDA neurons in En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) adult mice. Immunohistochemistry for the active, glycosylated form of the dopamine transporter (glyco-Dat) showed that En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) adult mice display an increased density of mesocortical DAergic fibers, as compared to control animals. Increased glyco-Dat staining was accompanied by a marked hypolocomotion in En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) mice, as detected in the open field test. Since conditional knockout mice lacking Otx2 in mesDA precursors (En1(Cre/+); Otx2(floxv/flox) mice) show a marked resistance to kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures, we investigated the behavioral response to KA in En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) and control mice. No difference was observed between mutant and control mice, but En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) mice showed a markedly different c-fos mRNA induction profile in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus after KA seizures, as compared to controls. Accordingly, an increased density of parvalbumin (PV)-positive inhibitory interneurons was detected in the deep layers of the frontal cortex of nave En1(Cre/+); tOtx2(ov/+) mice, as compared to controls. These data indicate that Otx2 overexpression results in increased DAergic innervation and PV cell density in the fronto-parietal cortex, with important consequences on spontaneous locomotor activity and seizure-induced gene expression. Our results strengthen the notion that Otx2 mutant mouse models are a powerful genetic tool to unravel the molecular and behavioral consequences of altered development of the DAergic system.
Eugenol is a bioactive plant extract used as an analgesic agent in dentistry. The structural similarity of eugenol to cinnamaldehyde, an active ligand for transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1), suggests that eugenol might produce its effect via TRPA1, in addition to TRPV1 as we reported previously. In this study, we investigated the effect of eugenol on TRPA1, by fura-2-based calcium imaging and patch clamp recording in trigeminal ganglion neurons and in a heterologous expression system. As the result, eugenol induced robust calcium responses in rat trigeminal ganglion neurons that responded to a specific TRPA1 agonist, allyl isothiocyanate (AITC), and not to capsaicin. Capsazepine, a TRPV1 antagonist failed to inhibit eugenol-induced calcium responses in AITC-responding neurons. In addition, eugenol response was observed in trigeminal ganglion neurons from TRPV1 knockout mice and human embryonic kidney 293 cell lines that express human TRPA1, which was inhibited by TRPA1-specific antagonist HC-030031. Eugenol-evoked TRPA1 single channel activity and eugenol-induced TRPA1 currents were dose-dependent with EC50 of 261.5M. In summary, these results demonstrate that the activation of TRPA1 might account for another molecular mechanism underlying the pharmacological action of eugenol.
Chemical and electrical stimulation of the inferior colliculus (IC) causes defensive behavior. Electrical stimulation of the IC at the escape threshold enhances dopamine (DA) release in the prefrontal cortex. Intra-ventral tegmental area injections of quinpirole at doses that act presynaptically reduce the release of DA in the terminal fields of the mesolimbic system and clearly reduce conditioned fear in several animal models of anxiety. However, little is known about the involvement of DA in the mediation of unconditioned fear, such as the reactivity to acute stressors. The present study investigated the neural substrates mediated by DA transmission associated with emotional changes triggered by the activation or inhibition of D2 receptors during conditioned and unconditioned fear. We examined the effects of systemic or local injections of the DA-receptor antagonist and agonist haloperidol and quinpirole, respectively, into the IC in rats subjected to fear-potentiated startle, a Pavlovian paradigm that uses loud sounds as the unconditioned stimulus and light previously paired with footshock as the conditioned stimulus. We also assessed auditory-evoked potentials (AEPs) recorded from electrodes implanted in the IC. Intraperitoneal haloperidol administration dose-dependently enhanced AEPs induced by loud tones and inhibited fear-potentiated startle. Intra-IC injections of quinpirole left AEPs unchanged, suggesting that an optimal level of postsynaptic D2 receptors in the IC may regulate the transmission of aversive information through the midbrain tectum. These findings provide evidence of opposing DA-mediated mechanisms in fear/anxiety processes that depend on the area under study. The activity of the neural substrates of conditioned fear was attenuated by haloperidol, whereas midbrain neural substrates of unconditioned fear were enhanced. Thus, DA appears to regulate unconditioned fear at the midbrain level, likely by reducing the sensory gating of aversive events and reducing conditioned fear by acting at more rostral levels of the brain.
Disruption in nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling via tropomyosin-related kinase A (trkA) receptors compromises the integrity of the basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic system, yielding cognitive, specifically attentional, impairments in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although normal aging is considered a risk factor for AD, the mechanisms underlying the selective vulnerability of the aging cholinergic system to trkA disruption is not clear. The levels of proNGF, a proneurotrophin that possesses higher affinity for p75 receptors, increase in aging. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that cholinergic and attentional dysfunction in aged rats with reduced BF trkA receptors occurs due to the overactivation of endogenous proNGF signaling. We employed a viral vector that produced trkA shRNA to suppress trkA receptors in the corticopetal cholinergic neurons of aged rats. BF trkA suppression impaired animals' performance on signal trials in both the sustained attention task (SAT) and the cognitively taxing distractor version of SAT (dSAT) and these deficits were normalized by chronic intracerebroventricular administration of proNGF antibody. Moreover, depolarization-evoked acetylcholine (ACh) release and the density of cortical cholinergic fibers were partially restored in these animals. However, SAT/dSAT scores reflecting overall performance did not improve following proNGF blockade in trkA knockdown rats due to impaired performance in non-signal trials. Sustained proNGF blockade alone did not alter baseline attentional performance but produced moderate impairments during challenging conditions. Collectively, our findings indicate that barring proNGF-p75 signaling may exert some beneficial effects on attentional capacities specifically when BF trkA signaling is abrogated. However, endogenous proNGF may also possess neurotrophic effects and blockade of this proneurotrophin may not completely ameliorate attentional impairments in AD and potentially hinder performance during periods of high cognitive load in normal aging.
Both neuregulin 1 (NRG1) and its receptor ErbB4 are susceptibility genes for schizophrenia. Reduced synchronization of evoked oscillations in several cortical regions, especially in the prefrontal cortex, is associated with the core symptoms of schizophrenia. Recent studies have reported that NRG1 may affect the hippocampal oscillations. However, the role of NRG1/ErbB4 signaling in the synchronization of neurons in the prefrontal cortex is unclear. Here, we found that NRG1 enhanced the synchrony of pyramidal neurons via presynaptic interneurons. Meanwhile, NRG1 also increased the synchrony between pairs of fast-spiking interneurons and pairs of fast-spiking and non-fast-spiking interneurons in the prefrontal cortex, and this effect was mediated by ErbB4 receptors. Moreover, the NRG1-enhanced synchrony of interneurons was through their mutually-inhibitory synapses but not electrical coupling. Furthermore, kainate-induced gamma oscillations in vivo were enhanced by NRG1 and did not change in Dlx5/6-ErbB4(-/-) mice in which the ErbB4 receptors were specifically knocked out in interneurons of the frontal brain. Overall, our findings suggested that NRG1/ErbB4 signaling plays an important role in the synchronized oscillations of the whole network in the prefrontal cortex that are impaired in schizophrenia.
Recent research has investigated the expression and secretion of neuropeptides by tumors, and the potential of these peptides to facilitate tumor growth and spread. In particular, substance P (SP) and its receptor NK1 have been implicated in tumor cell growth and evasion of apoptosis, although few studies have examined this relationship in vivo. The present study used both in vitro and in vivo models to characterize the role of SP in tumor pathogenesis. Immunohistochemical assessment of human primary and secondary brain tumor tissue demonstrated a marked increase in SP and its NK1 receptor in all tumor types investigated. Of the metastatic tumors, melanoma demonstrated particularly elevated SP and NK1 receptor staining. Subsequently, A-375 human melanoma cell line was examined in vitro and found to express both SP and the NK1 receptor. Treatment with the NK1 receptor antagonist Emend IV resulted in decreased cell viability and an increase in cell death in this cell line in vitro. An animal model of brain tumors using the same cell line was employed to assess the effect of Emend IV on tumor growth in vivo. Administration of Emend IV was found to decrease tumor volume and decrease cellular proliferation indicating that SP may play a role in tumor pathogenesis within the brain. We conclude that SP may provide a novel therapeutic target in the treatment of certain types of brain tumors, with further research required to determine whether the role of SP in cancer is tumor-type dependent.
In the present study we investigated the effects of anodal transcranial direct current stimulation over the auditory cortex (AC) on the perception of rapidly changing acoustic cues. For this purpose, in 15 native German speakers the left or right AC was separately stimulated while participants performed a between-channel gap detection task. Results show that stimulation of the left but not right AC deteriorated the auditory perception of rapidly changing acoustic information. Our data indicate a left hemispheric dominance for the processing of rapid temporal cues in auditory non-speech sounds. Moreover, we demonstrate the ability of non-invasive brain stimulation to change human temporal information processing in the auditory domain.
Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor subtype C (MrgC) may play an important role in pain sensation. However, the distribution of MrgC receptors in different subpopulations of rodent dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons has not been clearly demonstrated owing to a lack of MrgC-selective antibody. It is also unclear whether peripheral nerve injury induces different time-dependent changes in MrgC expression in injured and uninjured DRG neurons. Here we showed that MrgC immunoreactivity is distributed in both IB4-positive (non-peptidergic) and calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive (peptidergic) DRG neurons in mice and rats. Importantly, the MrgC mRNA level and MrgC immunoreactivity were both decreased in the injured L5 DRG compared to corresponding levels in the contralateral (uninjured) DRG in rats on days 14 and 30 after an L5 spinal nerve ligation. In contrast, mRNA and protein levels of MrgC were increased in the adjacent uninjured L4 DRG. Thus, nerve injury may induce temporal changes in MrgC expression that differ between injured and uninjured DRG neurons. In animal behavior tests, chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve induced mechanical pain hypersensitivity in wild-type mice and Mrg-cluster(-/-) mice (Mrg KO). However, the duration of mechanical hypersensitivity was longer in the Mrg KO mice than in their wild-type littermates, indicating that activation of Mrgs may constitute an endogenous mechanism that inhibits the maintenance of neuropathic pain in mice. These findings extend our knowledge about the distribution of MrgC in rodent DRG neurons and the regulation of its expression by nerve injury.
Sex differences exist in the depressive disorder prevalence and response to treatment. Several studies suggest that females respond better than males to the action of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), suggesting that gonadal hormones modulate mood and the response to these drugs. Sexual steroid hormones exert organizational actions (perennial and on early development) and activational effects (transient and on differentiated tissues). The aim of this study was to analyze sex differences in the forced swim test (FST) in animals without treatment and after fluoxetine (FLX, 0, 2.5, 5.0 and 10.0mg/kg). Initially, we compared male and female adult rats under control conditions or after altering their sexual differentiation process (at day 5 postnatally, PN, 60g of testosterone propionate to females and male castration to induce or preclude masculinization, respectively). To further analyze if the sex differences depend on organizational or activational steroid hormone action we tested the same animals before and after adult gonadectomy. To prevent variations depending upon the estrous cycle, control and masculinized females were tested in estrus. Control females showed lower immobility and required lower doses of FLX (5mg/kg), to show an antidepressant-like effect, than males (10mg/kg), even after adult gonadectomy. In control males adult orchidectomy prevented FLX's action. Neonatally masculinized females exhibited analogous levels of immobility than control ones; before ovariectomy they responded to FLX similar to controls, but after the surgery they did not respond to fluoxetine. Neonatally orchidectomized males exhibited similar immobility values and response to FLX than control females. The findings suggest that the sex difference in despair depends on the hormones organizational effects and, in males, the response to FLX relies on organizational and activational actions.
This study examined the age-related subsequent memory effect (SME) in perceptual and semantic encoding using event-related potentials (ERPs). Seventeen younger adults and 17 older adults studied a series of Chinese characters either perceptually (by inspecting orthographic components) or semantically (by determining whether the depicted object makes sounds). The two tasks had similar levels of difficulty. The participants made studied or unstudied judgments during the recognition phase. Younger adults performed better in both conditions, with significant SMEs detected in the time windows of P2, N3, P550, and late positive component (LPC). In the older group, SMEs were observed in the P2 and N3 latencies in both conditions but were only detected in the P550 in the semantic condition. Between-group analyses showed larger frontal and central SMEs in the younger sample in the LPC latency regardless of encoding type. Aging effect appears to be stronger on influencing perceptual than semantic encoding processes. The effects seem to be associated with a decline in updating and maintaining representations during perceptual encoding. The age-related decline in the encoding function may be due in part to changes in frontal lobe function.
The functional differentiation between regions of psoas major (PM) and quadratus lumborum (QL) may underlie a mechanical basis for recruitment of motor units across the muscle. These mechanically unique fascicle regions of these complex multifascicular muscles, PM and QL, are likely to be controlled independently by the central nervous system (CNS). Fine-wire electrodes recorded the electromyographic activity of the PM fascicles arising from the transverse process (PM-t) and vertebral body (PM-v) and the anterior (QL-a) and posterior (QL-p) layers of QL on the right side during a postural perturbation associated with rapid arm movements. The findings of this study indicate that the CNS coordinates the activity of specific regions of PM and QL independently as a component of the anticipatory postural adjustments that precedes the predictable challenge to the spine associated with limb movements. The spatial and temporal features of discrete activity of different regions within PM and QL matched their differing mechanical advantage predicted from their anatomy. These findings suggest that the CNS differentially activates individual regions within complex spine muscles to control the three-dimensional forces applied to the spine. The data also point to a sophisticated control of muscle activation that appears based on mechanical advantage.
Surgery induces learning and memory impairment. Neuroinflammation may contribute to this impairment. Nuclear factor B (NF-B) is an important transcription factor to regulate the expression of inflammatory cytokines. We hypothesize that inhibition of NF-B by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) reduces neuroinflammation and the impairment of learning and memory. To test this hypothesis, four-month-old male Fischer 344 rats were subjected to right carotid exploration under propofol and buprenorphine anesthesia. Some rats received two doses of 50mg/kg PDTC given intraperitoneally 30min before and 6h after the surgery. Rats were tested in the Barnes maze and fear conditioning paradigm begun 6days after the surgery. Expression of various proteins related to inflammation was examined in the hippocampus at 24h or 21days after the surgery. Here, surgery, but not anesthesia alone, had a significant effect on prolonging the time needed to identify the target hole during the training sessions of the Barnes maze. Surgery also increased the time for identifying the target hole in the long-term memory test and decreased context-related learning and memory in fear conditioning test. Also, surgery increased nuclear expression of p65, a NF-B component, decreased cytoplasmic amount of inhibitor of NF-B, and increased the expression of interleukin-1, interleukin-6, ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 and active matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9). Finally, surgery enhanced IgG extravasation in the hippocampus. These surgical effects were attenuated by PDTC. These results suggest that surgery, but not propofol-based anesthesia, induces neuroinflammation and impairment of learning and memory. PDTC attenuates these effects possibly by inhibiting NF-B activation and the downstream MMP-9 activity.
Melatonin is a neurohormone associated with circadian rhythms. A diurnal rhythm in olfactory sensitivity has been previously reported and melatonin receptor mRNAs have been observed in the olfactory bulb, but the effects of melatonin in the olfactory bulb have not been explored. First, we corroborated data from a previous study that identified melatonin receptor messenger RNAs in the olfactory bulb. We then investigated whether melatonin treatment would affect cells in the olfactory bulbs of rats. Using a combination of polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative PCR (qPCR), cell culture, and electrophysiology, we discovered that melatonin receptors and melatonin synthesis enzymes were present in the olfactory bulb and we observed changes in connexin43 protein, GluR1 mRNA, GluR2 mRNA, Per1 mRNA, Cry2 mRNA, and K(+) currents in response to 2-iodomelatonin. Via qPCR, we observed that messenger RNAs encoding melatonin receptors and melatonin biosynthesis enzymes fluctuated in the olfactory bulb across 24h. Together, these data show that melatonin receptors are present in the olfactory bulb and likely affect olfactory function. Additionally, these data suggest that melatonin may be locally synthesized in the olfactory bulb.
The interactions between the cannabinoid and opioid systems for pain modulation are reciprocal. However, the role and the importance of the cannabinoid system in the antinociceptive effects of opioids remain uncertain. We studied these interactions with the goal of highlighting the involvement of the cannabinoid system in morphine-induced analgesia. In both phases of the formalin test, intra paw and intrathecal morphine produced similar antinociceptive effects in C57BL/6, cannabinoid type 1 and type 2 receptor wild-type (respectively cnr1WT and cnr2WT) mice. In cnr1 and cnr2 knockout (KO) mice, at the dose used the antinociceptive effect of intra paw morphine in the inflammatory phase of the formalin test was decreased by 87% and 76%, respectively. Similarly, the antinociceptive effect of 0.1g spinal morphine in the inflammatory phase was abolished in cnr1KO mice and decreased by 90% in cnr2KO mice. Interestingly, the antinociceptive effect of morphine in the acute phase of the formalin test was only reduced in cnr1KO mice. Notably, systemic morphine administration produced similar analgesia in all genotypes, in both the formalin and the hot water immersion tail-flick tests. Because the pattern of expression of the mu opioid receptor (MOP), its binding properties and its G protein coupling remained unchanged across genotypes, it is unlikely that the loss of morphine analgesia in the cnr1KO and cnr2KO mice is the consequence of MOP malfunction or downregulation due to the absence of its heterodimerization with either the CB1 or the CB2 receptors, at least at the level of the spinal cord.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid- (A) peptide play central roles in the pathology and etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid-induced impairments in neurogenesis have been investigated in several transgenic mouse models but the mechanism of action remains to be conclusively demonstrated. The changes in neurogenesis during this transition of increasing A levels and plaque formation were investigated in the present study. We found that the proliferation of newborn cell in the dentate gyrus was enhanced prior to elevations in soluble A production as well as amyloid deposition in 5-week-old TgCRND8 mice, which are well-established Alzheimer's disease models, compared to non-transgenic (Non-Tg) mice. The number of BrdU-positive cells remained higher in TgCRND8 vs Non-Tg mice for a period of 8weeks. The numbers of BrdU/NeuN-positive cells were not significantly different in TgCRND8 compared to Non-Tg mice. A significant decrease in BrdU/GFAP but not in BrdU/S100 was found in Tg vs Non-Tg at 6-weeks of age. In addition, a unique observation was made using isolated neuroprogenitor cells from TgCRND8 mice which were found to be less viable in culture and produced substantial amounts of secreted A peptides. This suggests that the proliferation of neural progenitors in vivo may be modulated by high levels of APP expression and the resulting A generated directly by the progenitor cells. These findings indicate that cell proliferation is increased prior to A deposition and that cell viability is decreased in TgCRND8 mice over time.
Binge eating, a central feature of multiple eating disorders, is characterized by excessive consumption occurring during discrete, often brief, intervals. Highly palatable foods play an important role in these binge episodes - foods chosen during bingeing are typically higher in fat or sugar than those normally consumed. Multiple lines of evidence suggest a central role for signaling by endogenous opioids in promoting palatability-driven eating. This role extends to binge-like feeding studied in animal models, which is reduced by administration of opioid antagonists. However, the neural circuits and specific opioid receptors mediating these effects are not fully understood. In the present experiments, we tested the hypothesis that endogenous opioid signaling in the nucleus accumbens promotes consumption in a model of binge eating. We used an anticipatory contrast paradigm in which separate groups of rats were presented sequentially with 4% sucrose and then either 20% or 0% sucrose solutions. In rats presented with 4% and then 20% sucrose, daily training in this paradigm produced robust intake of 20% sucrose, preceded by learned hypophagia during access to 4% sucrose. We tested the effects of site-specific infusions of naltrexone (a nonspecific opioid receptor antagonist: 0, 1, 10, and 50g/side in the nucleus accumbens core and shell), naltrindole (a delta opioid receptor antagonist: 0, 0.5, 5, and 10g/side in the nucleus accumbens shell) and beta-funaltrexamine (a mu opioid receptor antagonist: 0 and 2.5g/side in the nucleus accumbens shell) on consumption in this contrast paradigm. Our results show that signaling through the mu opioid receptor in the nucleus accumbens shell is dynamically modulated during formation of learned food preferences, and promotes binge-like consumption of palatable foods based on these learned preferences.
Motor execution and imagery (ME and MI), as the basic abilities of human beings, have been considered to be effective strategies in motor skill learning and motor abilities rehabilitation. Neuroimaging studies have revealed several critical regions from functional activation for ME as well as MI. Recently, investigations have probed into functional connectivity of ME; however, few explorations compared the functional connectivity between the two tasks. With betweenness centrality (BC) of graph theory, we explored and compared the functional connectivity between two finger tapping tasks of ME and MI. Our results showed that using BC, the key node for the ME task mainly focused on the supplementary motor area, while the key node for the MI task mainly located in the right premotor area. These results characterized the connectivity patterns of ME and MI and may provide new insights into the neural mechanism underlying motor execution and imagination of movements.
The postsynaptic density is an electron dense meshwork composed of a variety of molecules facilitating neuronal signal transmission. ProSAP2/Shank3 represents a crucial player at postsynaptic sites, assembling large multimeric platforms and anchoring numerous other molecules, thereby linking the functional synapse with the cytoskeleton. ProSAP2/Shank3 is also implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases, including autism spectrum disorders. KvBeta2 (Kv2) on the other hand serves as a regulatory subunit of voltage-gated potassium channels. Kv2 is located at various sites in the neuron including the axon (binding to Kv1.2), the dendrites (binding to Kv4.2) and the synapse. Binding of Kv2 to either Kv1.2 or Kv4 modulates not only the channel conformation but directs targeting of the channel protein complex to distinct loci within the cell. Thus an interaction between ProSAP2 and Kv2 could have important roles at diverse cellular compartments and moreover during maturation stages. We report here on the direct protein-protein interaction of the postsynaptic density anchoring molecule ProSAP2 and the potassium channel subunit Kv2, initially identified in a yeast-two-hybrid-screen. Furthermore, we characterize this interaction at synapses using primary hippocampal neurons in vitro.


In this work, we design and synthesize a malonitrile-functionalized TPE derivative (TPE-DCV), which can react with thiol group through thiol-ene click reaction, leading to the fluorescence change of the system. Combined with the unique AIE property, TPE-DCV can selectively detect glutathione (GSH) but not cysteine or homocysteine. As the cleavage of GSSG with the aid of glutathione reductase produces GSH, which turns on the fluorescence of TPE-DCV, the ensemble of TPE-DCV and GSSG can thus serve as a label-free sensor for enzymatic activity assay of glutathione reductase. We also apply TPE-DCV for the detection of intracellular GSH in living cells.
Parkinson's disease (PD) alters the motor performance of affected individuals. The dopaminergic denervation of the striatum, due to substantia nigra neuronal loss, compromises the speed, the automatism and smoothness of movements of PD patients. The development of a reliable tool for long-term monitoring of PD symptoms would allow the accurate assessment of the clinical status during the different PD stages and the evaluation of motor complications. Furthermore, it would be very useful both for routine clinical care as well as for testing novel therapies. Within this context we have validated the feasibility of using a Body Network Area (BAN) of wireless accelerometers to perform continuous at home gait monitoring of PD patients. The analysis addresses the assessment of the system performance working in real environments.






Cyclosporin A (CsA) inhibits the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPTP) by interacting with cyclophilin D (CypD) and ameliorates neuronal cell death in the central nervous system against ischemic injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying CypD/MPTP opening-mediated cell death in ischemic retinal injury induced by acute intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation remain unknown. We observed the first direct evidence that acute IOP elevation significantly upregulated CypD protein expression in ischemic retina at 12h. However, CsA prevented the upregulation of CypD protein expression and promoted retinal ganglion cell (RGC) survival against ischemic injury. Moreover, CsA blocked apoptotic cell death by decreasing cleaved caspase-3 protein expression in ischemic retina. Of interest, although the expression level of Bcl-xL protein did not show a significant change in ischemic retina treated with vehicle or CsA at 12h, ischemic damage induced the reduction of Bcl-xL immunoreactivity in RGCs. More importantly, CsA preserved Bcl-xL immunoreactivity in RGCs of ischemic retina. In parallel, acute IOP elevation significantly increased phosphorylated Bad (pBad) at Ser112 protein expression in ischemic retina at 12h. However, CsA significantly preserved pBad protein expression in ischemic retina. Finally, acute IOP elevation significantly increased mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) protein expression in ischemic retina at 12h. However, CsA significantly preserved Tfam protein expression in ischemic retina. Studies on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content in ischemic retina showed that there were no statistically significant differences in mtDNA content among control and ischemic groups treated with vehicle or CsA. Therefore, these results provide evidence that the activation of CypD-mediated MPTP opening is associated with the apoptotic pathway and the mitochondrial alteration in RGC death of ischemic retinal injury. On the basis of these observations, our findings suggest that CsA-mediated CypD inhibition may provide a promising therapeutic potential for protecting RGCs against ischemic injury-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction.
Two recent papers in Nature describe a remarkable new technique for reprogramming somatic cells back to the embryonic state. Obokata etal. (2014a, 2014b) show that applying stressful stimuli can convert mature cells into progenitors capable of generating all three embryonic germ layer lineages, as well as placental tissue.






The circadian clock is a self-sustaining oscillator that controls daily rhythms. For the proper circadian gene expression, dynamic changes in chromatin structure are important. Although chromatin modifiers have been shown to play a role in circadian gene expression, the invivo role of circadian signal-modulated chromatin modifiers at an organism level remains to be elucidated. Here, we provide evidence that the lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) is phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) in a circadian manner and the phosphorylated LSD1 forms a complex with CLOCK:BMAL1 to facilitate E-box-mediated transcriptional activation. Knockin mice bearing phosphorylation-defective Lsd1(SA/SA) alleles exhibited altered circadian rhythms in locomotor behavior with attenuation of rhythmic expression of core clock genes and impaired phase resetting of circadian clock. These data demonstrate that LSD1 is a key component of the molecular circadian oscillator, which plays a pivotal role in rhythmicity and phase resetting of the circadian clock.
Mitochondrial calcium accumulation was recently shown to depend on a complex composed of an inner-membrane channel (MCU and MCUb) and regulatory subunits (MICU1, MCUR1, and EMRE). A fundamental property of MCU is low activity at resting cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations, preventing deleterious Ca(2+) cycling and organelle overload. Here we demonstrate that these properties are ensured by a regulatory heterodimer composed of two proteins with opposite effects, MICU1 and MICU2, which, both in purified lipid bilayers and in intact cells, stimulate and inhibit MCU activity, respectively. Both MICU1 and MICU2 are regulated by calcium through their EF-hand domains, thus accounting for the sigmoidal response of MCU to [Ca(2+)] in situ and allowing tight physiological control. At low [Ca(2+)], the dominant effect of MICU2 largely shuts down MCU activity; at higher [Ca(2+)], the stimulatory effect of MICU1 allows the prompt response of mitochondria to Ca(2+) signals generated in the cytoplasm.

The dendritic targeting of neurotransmitter receptors is vital for dendritic development and function. However, how such localization is established remains unclear. Here we show that semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) signalling at the axonal growth cone is propagated towards the cell body by retrograde axonal transport and drives AMPA receptor GluA2 to the distal dendrites, which regulates dendritic development. Sema3A enhances glutamate receptor interacting protein 1-dependent localization of GluA2 in dendrites, which is blocked by knockdown of cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain. PlexinA (PlexA), a receptor component for Sema3A, interacts with GluA2 at the immunoglobulin-like Plexin-transcription-factor domain (PlexA-IPT) in somatodendritic regions. Overexpression of PlexA-IPT suppresses dendritic localization of GluA2 and induces aproximal bifurcation phenotype in the apical dendrites of CA1 hippocampal neurons. Thus, we propose a control mechanism by which retrograde Sema3A signalling regulates the glutamate receptor localization through trafficking of cis-interacting PlexA with GluA2 along dendrites.
Citrullination is the post-translational conversion of an arginine residue within a protein to the non-coded amino acid citrulline. This modification leads to the loss of a positive charge and reduction in hydrogen-bonding ability. It is carried out by a small family of tissue-specific vertebrate enzymes called peptidylarginine deiminases (PADIs) and is associated with the development of diverse pathological states such as autoimmunity, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, prion diseases and thrombosis. Nevertheless, the physiological functions of citrullination remain ill-defined, although citrullination of core histones has been linked to transcriptional regulation and the DNA damage response. PADI4 (also called PAD4 or PADV), the only PADI with a nuclear localization signal, was previously shown to act in myeloid cells where it mediates profound chromatin decondensation during the innate immune response to infection. Here we show that the expression and enzymatic activity of Padi4 are also induced under conditions of ground-state pluripotency and during reprogramming in mouse. Padi4 is part of the pluripotency transcriptional network, binding to regulatory elements of key stem-cell genes and activating their expression. Its inhibition lowers the percentage of pluripotent cells in the early mouse embryo and significantly reduces reprogramming efficiency. Using an unbiased proteomic approach we identify linker histone H1 variants, which are involved in the generation of compact chromatin, as novel PADI4 substrates. Citrullination of a single arginine residue within the DNA-binding site of H1 results in its displacement from chromatin and global chromatin decondensation. Together, these results uncover a role for citrullination in the regulation of pluripotency and provide new mechanistic insights into how citrullination regulates chromatin compaction.
Opioid analgesia involves suppression of neuronal activity in central sensory pathways. We show that the classic opioid morphine reduces spinal neuronal spontaneous and evoked activity after induction of neuropathy by chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve in rats. The minimal effective dose of morphine was 0.3 mg/kg for most response parameters tested. Morphine sensitivity of spinal cord neurons is similar across neuropathic pain models. We therefore conclude that nerve damage per se rather than the experimental model determines the effectiveness of opioids in general and investigate several pain measurement endpoints which might be important to clinically determine morphine's efficacy in neuropathic pain.











The localization of high-frequency sounds in the horizontal plane uses an interaural-level difference (ILD) cue, yet little is known about the synaptic mechanisms that underlie processing this cue in the inferior colliculus (IC) of mouse. Here, we study the synaptic currents that process ILD in vivo and use stimuli in which ILD varies around a constant average binaural level (ABL) to approximate sounds on the horizontal plane. Monaural stimulation in either ear produced EPSCs and IPSCs in most neurons. The temporal properties of monaural responses were well matched, suggesting connected functional zones with matched inputs. The EPSCs had three patterns in response to ABL stimuli, preference for the sound field with the highest level stimulus: (1) contralateral; (2) bilateral highly lateralized; or (3) at the center near 0 ILD. EPSCs and IPSCs were well correlated except in center-preferred neurons. Summation of the monaural EPSCs predicted the binaural excitatory response but less well than the summation of monaural IPSCs. Binaural EPSCs often showed a nonlinearity that strengthened the response to specific ILDs. Extracellular spike and intracellular current recordings from the same neuron showed that the ILD tuning of the spikes was sharper than that of the EPSCs. Thus, in the IC, balanced excitatory and inhibitory inputs may be a general feature of synaptic coding for many types of sound processing.
-Opioid agonists have no effect on calcium currents (I(Ca)) in neurohypophysial terminals when recorded using the classic whole-cell patch-clamp configuration. However, -opioid receptor (MOR)-mediated inhibition of I(Ca) is reliably demonstrated using the perforated-patch configuration. This suggests that the MOR-signaling pathway is sensitive to intraterminal dialysis and is therefore mediated by a readily diffusible second messenger. Using the perforated patch-clamp technique and ratio-calcium-imaging methods, we describe a diffusible second messenger pathway stimulated by the MOR that inhibits voltage-gated calcium channels in isolated terminals from the rat neurohypophysis (NH). Our results show a rise in basal intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)]i) in response to application of [D-Ala(2)-N-Me-Phe(4),Gly5-ol]-Enkephalin (DAMGO), a MOR agonist, that is blocked by D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP), a MOR antagonist. Buffering DAMGO-induced changes in [Ca(2+)]i with BAPTA-AM completely blocked the inhibition of both I(Ca) and high-K(+)-induced rises in [Ca(2+)]i due to MOR activation, but had no effect on -opioid receptor (KOR)-mediated inhibition. Given the presence of ryanodine-sensitive stores in isolated terminals, we tested 8-bromo-cyclic adenosine diphosphate ribose (8Br-cADPr), a competitive inhibitor of cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPr) signaling that partially relieves DAMGO inhibition of I(Ca) and completely relieves MOR-mediated inhibition of high-K(+)-induced and DAMGO-induced rises in [Ca(2+)]i. Furthermore, antagonist concentrations of ryanodine completely blocked MOR-induced increases in [Ca(2+)]i and inhibition of I(Ca) and high-K(+)-induced rises in [Ca(2+)]i while not affecting KOR-mediated inhibition. Antagonist concentrations of ryanodine also blocked MOR-mediated inhibition of electrically-evoked increases in capacitance. These results strongly suggest that a key diffusible second messenger mediating the MOR-signaling pathway in NH terminals is [Ca(2+)]i released by cADPr from ryanodine-sensitive stores.
Rapid energy-efficient signaling along vertebrate axons is achieved through intricate subcellular arrangements of voltage-gated ion channels and myelination. One recently appreciated example is the tight colocalization of K(v)7 potassium channels and voltage-gated sodium (Na(v)) channels in the axonal initial segment and nodes of Ranvier. The local biophysical properties of these K(v)7 channels and the functional impact of colocalization with Na(v) channels remain poorly understood. Here, we quantitatively examined K(v)7 channels in myelinated axons of rat neocortical pyramidal neurons using high-resolution confocal imaging and patch-clamp recording. K(v)7.2 and 7.3 immunoreactivity steeply increased within the distal two-thirds of the axon initial segment and was mirrored by the conductance density estimates, which increased from ~12 (proximal) to 150 pS m(-2) (distal). The axonal initial segment and nodal M-currents were similar in voltage dependence and kinetics, carried by K(v)7.2/7.3 heterotetramers, 4% activated at the resting membrane potential and rapidly activated with single-exponential time constants (~15 ms at 28 mV). Experiments and computational modeling showed that while somatodendritic K(v)7 channels are strongly activated by the backpropagating action potential to attenuate the afterdepolarization and repetitive firing, axonal K(v)7 channels are minimally recruited by the forward-propagating action potential. Instead, in nodal domains K(v)7.2/7.3 channels were found to increase Na(v) channel availability and action potential amplitude by stabilizing the resting membrane potential. Thus, K(v)7 clustering near axonal Na(v) channels serves specific and context-dependent roles, both restraining initiation and enhancing conduction of the action potential.
Dopamine (DA) receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) exert powerful effects on cognition by modulating the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. The present study examined the impact of chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) exposure on cognitive function and DA receptor-mediated neurotransmission in the rat mPFC. Consistent with alterations in executive function in alcoholics, CIE-exposed rats exhibited deficits in behavioral flexibility in an operant set-shifting task. Since alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission in the mPFC have been implicated in a number of behavioral disorders including addiction, studies were then performed in the adult acute slice preparation to examine changes in DA receptor function in the mPFC following CIE exposure. In slices obtained from control rats, DA receptor stimulation was observed to exert complex actions on neuronal firing and synaptic neurotransmission that were not only dependent upon the particular receptor subtype but also whether it was a pyramidal cell or a fast-spiking interneuron. In contrast to slices from control rats, there was a near complete loss of the modulatory actions of D2/D4 receptors on cell firing and neurotransmission in slices obtained immediately, 1 and 4 weeks after the last day of CIE exposure. This loss did not appear to be associated with changes in receptor expression. In contrast, CIE exposure did not alter D1 receptor function or mGluR1 modulation of firing. These studies are consistent with the suggestion that chronic alcohol exposure disrupts cognitive function at least in part through disruption of D2 and D4 receptor signaling in mPFC.
Forming and breaking associations between emotionally salient environmental stimuli and rewarding or aversive outcomes is an essential component of learned adaptive behavior. Importantly, when cue-reward contingencies degrade, animals must exhibit behavioral flexibility to extinguish prior learned associations. Understanding the specific neural circuit mechanisms that operate during the formation and extinction of conditioned behaviors is critical because dysregulation of these neural processes is hypothesized to underlie many of the maladaptive and pathological behaviors observed in various neuropsychiatric disorders in humans. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) participates in the behavioral adaptations seen in both appetitive and aversive-cue-mediated responding, but the precise cell types and circuit mechanisms sufficient for driving these complex behavioral states remain largely unspecified. Here, we recorded and manipulated the activity of parvalbumin-positive fast spiking interneurons (PV+ FSIs) in the prelimbic area (PrL) of the mPFC in mice. In vivo photostimulation of PV+ FSIs resulted in a net inhibition of PrL neurons, providing a circuit blueprint for behavioral manipulations. Photostimulation of mPFC PV+ cells did not alter anticipatory or consummatory licking behavior during reinforced training sessions. However, optical activation of these inhibitory interneurons to cues associated with reward significantly accelerated the extinction of behavior during non-reinforced test sessions. These data suggest that suppression of excitatory mPFC networks via increased activity of PV+ FSIs may enhance reward-related behavioral flexibility.
The proper functions of cortical circuits are dependent upon both appropriate neuronal subtype specification and their maturation to receive appropriate signaling. These events establish a balanced circuit that is important for learning, memory, emotion, and complex motor behaviors. Recent research points to mRNA metabolism as a key regulator of this development and maturation process. Hu antigen D (HuD), an RNA-binding protein, has been implicated in the establishment of neuronal identity and neurite outgrowth in vitro. Therefore, we investigated the role of HuD loss of function on neuron specification and dendritogenesis in vivo using a mouse model. We found that loss of HuD early in development results in a defective early dendritic overgrowth phase and pervasive deficits in neuron specification in the lower neocortical layers and defects in dendritogenesis in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Subsequent behavioral analysis revealed a deficit in performance of a hippocampus-dependent task: the Morris water maze. Further, HuD knock-out (KO) mice exhibited lower levels of anxiety than their wild-type counterparts and were overall less active. Last, we found that HuD KO mice are more susceptible to auditory-induced seizures, often resulting in death. Our findings suggest that HuD is necessary for the establishment of neocortical and hippocampal circuitry and is critical for their function.
The ability to detect errors during cognitive performance is compromised in older age and in a range of clinical populations. This study was designed to assess the effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on error awareness in healthy older human adults. tDCS was applied over DLPFC while subjects performed a computerized test of error awareness. The influence of current polarity (anodal vs cathodal) and electrode location (left vs right hemisphere) was tested in a series of separate single-blind, Sham-controlled crossover trials, each including 24 healthy older adults (age 65-86 years). Anodal tDCS over right DLPFC was associated with a significant increase in the proportion of performance errors that were consciously detected, and this result was recapitulated in a separate replication experiment. No such improvements were observed when the homologous contralateral area was stimulated. The present study provides novel evidence for a causal role of right DLPFC regions in subserving error awareness and marks an important step toward developing tDCS as a tool for remediating the performance-monitoring deficits that afflict a broad range of populations.
Amacrine cells are the most diverse and least understood cell class in the retina. Polyaxonal amacrine cells (PACs) are a unique subset identified by multiple long axonal processes. To explore their functional properties, populations of PACs were identified by their distinctive radially propagating spikes in large-scale high-density multielectrode recordings of isolated macaque retina. One group of PACs exhibited stereotyped functional properties and receptive field mosaic organization similar to that of parasol ganglion cells. These PACs had receptive fields coincident with their dendritic fields, but much larger axonal fields, and slow radial spike propagation. They also exhibited ON-OFF light responses, transient response kinetics, sparse and coordinated firing during image transitions, receptive fields with antagonistic surrounds and fine spatial structure, nonlinear spatial summation, and strong homotypic neighbor electrical coupling. These findings reveal the functional organization and collective visual signaling by a distinctive, high-density amacrine cell population.
Selective attention modulates activity within individual visual areas; however, the role of attention in mediating the transfer of information between areas is not well understood. Here, we used fMRI to assess attention-related changes in coupled BOLD activation in two key areas of human visual cortex that are involved in motion processing: V1 and MT. To examine attention-related changes in cross-area coupling, multivoxel patterns in each visual area were decomposed to estimate the trial-by-trial response amplitude in a set of direction-selective &quot;channels.&quot; In both V1 and MT, BOLD responses increase in direction-selective channels tuned to the attended direction of motion and decrease in channels tuned away from the attended direction. Furthermore, the modulation of cross-area correlations between similarly tuned populations is inversely related to the modulation of their mean responses, an observation that can be explained via a feedforward motion computation in MT and a modulation of local noise correlations in V1. More importantly, these modulations accompany an increase in the cross-area mutual information between direction-selective response patterns in V1 and MT, suggesting that attention improves the transfer of sensory information between cortical areas that cooperate to support perception. Finally, our model suggests that divisive normalization of neural activity in V1 before its integration by MT is critical to cross-area information coupling, both in terms of cross-area correlation as well as cross-area mutual information.
Many studies have reported correlations between the activity of sensory neurons and animals' judgments in discrimination tasks. Here, we suggest that such neuron-behavior correlations may require a cortical map for the task relevant features. This would explain why studies using discrimination tasks based on disparity in area V1 have not found these correlations: V1 contains no map for disparity. This scheme predicts that activity of V1 neurons correlates with decisions in an orientation-discrimination task. To test this prediction, we trained two macaque monkeys in a coarse orientation discrimination task using band-pass-filtered dynamic noise. The two orientations were always 90 apart and task difficulty was controlled by varying the orientation bandwidth of the filter. While the trained animals performed this task, we recorded from orientation-selective V1 neurons (n = 82, n = 31 for Monkey 1, n = 51 for Monkey 2). For both monkeys, we observed significant correlation (quantified as &quot;choice probabilities&quot;) of the V1 activity with the monkeys' perceptual judgments (mean choice probability 0.54, p = 10(-5)). In one of these animals, we had previously measured choice probabilities in a disparity discrimination task in V1, which had been at chance (0.49, not significantly different from 0.5). The choice probabilities in this monkey for the orientation discrimination task were significantly larger than those for the disparity discrimination task (p = 0.032). These results are predicted by our suggestion that choice probabilities are only observed for cortical sensory neurons that are organized in maps for the task-relevant feature.
Segmenting the visual image into objects is a crucial stage of visual processing. Object boundaries are typically associated with differences in luminance, but discontinuities in texture also play an important role. We showed previously that a subpopulation of neurons in V2 in anesthetized macaques responds to orientation discontinuities parallel to their receptive field orientation. Such single-cell responses could be a neurophysiological correlate of texture boundary detection. Neurons in V1, on the other hand, are known to have contextual response modulations such as iso-orientation surround suppression, which also produce responses to orientation discontinuities. Here, we use pseudorandom multiregion grating stimuli of two frame durations (20 and 40 ms) to probe and compare texture boundary responses in V1 and V2 in anesthetized macaque monkeys. In V1, responses to texture boundaries were observed for only the 40 ms frame duration and were independent of the orientation of the texture boundary. However, in transient V2 neurons, responses to such texture boundaries were robust for both frame durations and were stronger for boundaries parallel to the neuron's preferred orientation. The dependence of these processes on stimulus duration and orientation indicates that responses to texture boundaries in V2 arise independently of contextual modulations in V1. In addition, because the responses in transient V2 neurons are sensitive to the orientation of the texture boundary but those of V1 neurons are not, we suggest that V2 responses are the correlate of texture boundary detection, whereas contextual modulation in V1 serves other purposes, possibly related to orientation &quot;pop-out.&quot;
The general effects of cocaine are not well understood at the molecular level. What is known is that the dopamine D1 receptor plays an important role. Here we show that a key mechanism may be cocaine's blockade of the histamine H3 receptor-mediated inhibition of D1 receptor function. This blockade requires the 1 receptor and occurs upon cocaine binding to 1-D1-H3 receptor complexes. The cocaine-mediated disruption leaves an uninhibited D1 receptor that activates Gs, freely recruits -arrestin, increases p-ERK 1/2 levels, and induces cell death when over activated. Using in vitro assays with transfected cells and in ex vivo experiments using both rats acutely treated or self-administered with cocaine along with mice depleted of 1 receptor, we show that blockade of 1 receptor by an antagonist restores the protective H3 receptor-mediated brake on D1 receptor signaling and prevents the cell death from elevated D1 receptor signaling. These findings suggest that a combination therapy of 1R antagonists with H3 receptor agonists could serve to reduce some effects of cocaine.
Peripheral nerve injury induces permanent alterations in spinal cord circuitries that are not reversed by regeneration. Nerve injury provokes the loss of many proprioceptive IA afferent synapses (VGLUT1-IR boutons) from motoneurons, the reduction of IA EPSPs in motoneurons, and the disappearance of stretch reflexes. After motor and sensory axons successfully reinnervate muscle, lost IA VGLUT1 synapses are not re-established and the stretch reflex does not recover; however, electrically evoked EPSPs do recover. The reasons why remaining IA synapses can evoke EPSPs on motoneurons, but fail to transmit useful stretch signals are unknown. To better understand changes in the organization of VGLUT1 IA synapses that might influence their input strength, we analyzed their distribution over the entire dendritic arbor of motoneurons before and after nerve injury. Adult rats underwent complete tibial nerve transection followed by microsurgical reattachment and 1 year later motoneurons were intracellularly recorded and filled with neurobiotin to map the distribution of VGLUT1 synapses along their dendrites. We found in control motoneurons an average of 911 VGLUT1 synapses; ~62% of them were lost after injury. In controls, VGLUT1 synapses were focused to proximal dendrites where they were grouped in tight clusters. After injury, most synaptic loses occurred in the proximal dendrites and remaining synapses were declustered, smaller, and uniformly distributed throughout the dendritic arbor. We conclude that this loss and reorganization renders IA afferent synapses incompetent for efficient motoneuron synaptic depolarization in response to natural stretch, while still capable of eliciting EPSPs when synchronously fired by electrical volleys.
Working memory functions supported by the prefrontal cortex decline in normal aging. Disruption of corticolimbic GABAergic inhibitory circuits can impair working memory in young subjects; however, relatively little is known regarding how aging impacts prefrontal cortical GABAergic signaling and whether such changes contribute to cognitive deficits. The current study used a rat model to evaluate the effects of aging on expression of prefrontal GABAergic synaptic proteins in relation to working memory decline, and to test whether pharmacological manipulations of prefrontal GABAergic signaling can improve working memory abilities in aged subjects. Results indicate that in aged medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), expression of the vesicular GABA transporter VGAT was unchanged; however, there was a significant increase in expression of the GABA synthesizing enzyme GAD67, and a significant decrease in the primary neuronal GABA transporter GAT-1 and in both subunits of the GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R). Expression of VGAT, GAD67, and GAT-1 was not associated with working memory ability. In contrast, among aged rats, GABA(B)R expression was significantly and negatively associated with working memory performance, such that lower GABA(B)R expression predicted better working memory. Subsequent experiments showed that systemic administration of a GABA(B)R antagonist, CGP55845, dose-dependently enhanced working memory in aged rats. This enhancing effect of systemic CGP55845 was reproduced by direct intra-mPFC administration. Together, these data suggest that age-related dysregulation of GABAergic signaling in prefrontal cortex may play a causal role in impaired working memory and that targeting GABA(B)Rs may provide therapeutic benefit for age-related impairments in executive functions.

In case of delayed visual feedback during visuomotor tasks, like in some sluggish computer games, humans can modulate their behavior to compensate for the delay. However, opinions on the nature of this compensation diverge. Some studies suggest that humans adapt to feedback delays with lasting changes in motor behavior (aftereffects) and a recalibration of time perception. Other studies have shown little or no evidence for such semipermanent recalibration in the temporal domain. We hypothesize that predictability of the reference signal (target to be tracked) is necessary for semipermanent delay adaptation. To test this hypothesis, we trained participants with a 200 ms visual feedback delay in a visually guided manual tracking task, varying the predictability of the reference signal between conditions, but keeping reference motion and feedback delay constant. In Experiment 1, we focused on motor behavior. Only training in the predictable condition brings about all of the adaptive changes and aftereffects expected from delay adaptation. In Experiment 2, we used a synchronization task to investigate perceived simultaneity (perceptuomotor learning). Supporting the hypothesis, participants recalibrated subjective visuomotor simultaneity only when trained in the predictable condition. Such a shift in perceived simultaneity was also observed in Experiment 3, using an interval estimation task. These results show that delay adaptation in motor control can modulate the perceived temporal alignment of vision and kinesthetically sensed movement. The coadaptation of motor prediction and target prediction (reference extrapolation) seems necessary for such genuine delay adaptation. This offers an explanation for divergent results in the literature.

Glucocorticoid (GC) plays important roles in diverse physiological processes including metabolism and immune functions. While circadian control of GC synthesis and secretion is relatively well appreciated, circadian control of GC action within target tissues remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that CLOCK/BMAL1, the core circadian clock components, reduces maximal GR transactivation (A(max)) as well as efficacy (EC) by a novel mechanism that requires binding to DNA and transactivation of target genes. Accordingly, we observe that PER1 and CRY1, the primary targets of CLOCK/BMAL1 action, reduce maximal GR transactivation while not affecting the efficacy. Moreover, we observe hyper-activations of GRE-dependent transcription in BMAL1- or PERs-deficient MEFs. In addition, endogenous GC target genes expression negatively correlates with the CLOCK/BMAL1 activity. Considering that GC sensitivity is widely implicated in human health and diseases, these results provide valuable insights into plethora of GC-related physiology and pathology.
Mammals possess two types of adipose tissue, white (WAT) and brown (BAT). The uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) is a hallmark of BAT, being the pivotal player for cold-induced thermogenesis. WAT can acquire BAT characteristics with up-regulation of UCP1 after cold exposure or adrenergic stimulation. In the present study we demonstrated that human white adipocytes express the cold-sensing receptor TRPM8 which activation by menthol and icilin induced a rise in [Ca](i) and UCP1 expression, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, glucose uptake and heat production. The induction of &quot;brown-like&quot; phenotype in human white adipocytes after TRPM8 activation was supported by ultrastructural morphological changes of mitochondrial morphology and of their intracellular localization, with no modifications of the genes regulating mitochondrial biogenesis. In conclusion human white adipocytes express the cold receptor TRPM8 which activation induces their &quot;browning&quot; supporting a possible role of this receptor in the control of adipose tissue metabolism and body energy balance.


The hippocampus is critical for human episodic memory, but its role remains controversial. One fundamental question concerns whether the hippocampus represents specific objects or assigns context-dependent representations to objects. Here, we used multivoxel pattern similarity analysis of fMRI data during retrieval of learned object sequences to systematically investigate hippocampal coding of object and temporal context information. Hippocampal activity patterns carried information about the temporal positions of objects in learned sequences, but not about objects or temporal positions in random sequences. Hippocampal activity patterns differentiated between overlapping object sequences and between temporally adjacent objects that belonged to distinct sequence contexts. Parahippocampal and perirhinal cortex showed different pattern information profiles consistent with coding of temporal position and object information, respectively. These findings are consistent with models proposing that the hippocampus represents objects within specific temporal contexts, a capability that might explain its critical role in episodic memory.
Inhibitory interneurons (INs) critically control the excitability and plasticity of neuronal networks, but whether activity can direct INs into specific circuits during development is unknown. Here, we report that in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), which relays retinal input to the cortex, circuit activity is required for the migration, molecular differentiation, and functional integration of INs. We first characterize the prenatal origin and molecular identity of dLGN INs, revealing their recruitment from an Otx2(+) neuronal pool located in the adjacent ventral LGN. Using time-lapse and electrophysiological recordings, together with genetic and pharmacological perturbation of retinal waves, we show that retinal activity directs the navigation and circuit incorporation of dLGN INs during the first postnatal week, thereby regulating the inhibition of thalamocortical circuits. These findings identify an input-dependent mechanism regulating IN migration and circuit inhibition, which may account for the progressive recruitment of INs into expanding excitatory circuits during evolution.
Dendrites from the same neuron usually develop nonoverlapping patterns by self-avoidance, a process requiring contact-dependent recognition and repulsion. Recent studies have implicated homophilic interactions of cell surface molecules, including Dscams and Pcdhgs, in self-recognition, but repulsive molecular mechanisms remain obscure. Here, we report a role for the secreted molecule Slit2 and its receptor Robo2 in self-avoidance of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs). Both molecules are highly expressed by PCs, and their deletion leads to excessive dendrite self-crossing without affecting arbor size and shape. This cell-autonomous function is supported by the boundary-establishing activity of Slit in culture and the phenotype rescue by membrane-associated Slit2 activities. Furthermore, genetic studies show that they act independently from Pcdhg-mediated recognition. Finally, PC-specific deletion of Robo2 is associated with motor behavior alterations. Thus, our study uncovers a local repulsive mechanism required for self-avoidance and demonstrates the molecular complexity at the cell surface in dendritic patterning.
Neuroinflammation is one of the most striking hallmarks of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B), a master regulator of inflammation, is upregulated in spinal cords of ALS patients and SOD1-G93A mice. In this study, we show that selective NF-B inhibition in ALS astrocytes is not sufficient to rescue motor neuron (MN) death. However, the localization of NF-B activity and subsequent deletion of NF-B signaling in microglia rescued MNs from microglial-mediated death invitro and extended survival in ALS mice by impairing proinflammatory microglial activation. Conversely, constitutive activation of NF-B selectively in wild-type microglia induced gliosis and MN death invitro and invivo. Taken together, these data provide a mechanism by which microglia induce MN death in ALS and suggest a novel therapeutic target that can be modulated to slow the progression of ALS and possibly other neurodegenerative diseases by which microglial activation plays a role.
Five canonical tastes, bitter, sweet, umami (amino acid), salty, and sour (acid), are detected by animals as diverse as fruit flies and humans, consistent with a near-universal drive to consume fundamental nutrients and to avoid toxins or other harmful compounds. Surprisingly, despite this strong conservation of basic taste qualities between vertebrates and invertebrates, the receptors and signaling mechanisms that mediate taste in each are highly divergent. The identification over the last two decades of receptors and other molecules that mediate taste has led to stunning advances in our understanding of the basic mechanisms of transduction and coding of information by the gustatory systems of vertebrates and invertebrates. In this Review, we discuss recent advances in taste research, mainly from the fly and mammalian systems, and we highlight principles that are common across species, despite stark differences in receptor types.
Two reports in this issue of Neuron, Hsieh etal. (2014) and Ezzyat and Davachi (2014), describe fMRI activity patterns in the human hippocampus that correlate with memory for temporal context. Analogous activity ofneural ensembles recorded from the rodent hippocampus suggests a general model for remembering episodes.
Motor neurons in ALS die via cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous mechanisms. Using adult human astrocytes and motor neurons, Re etal. (2014), in this issue of Neuron, discover that familial and sporadic ALS-derived human adult astrocytes secrete neurotoxic factors that selectively kill motor neurons through necroptosis, suggesting a new therapeutic avenue.
Working memory, the capacity of actively maintaining task-relevant information during a cognitive task, is a heritable trait. Working memory deficits are characteristic for many psychiatric disorders. We performed genome-wide gene set enrichment analyses in multiple independent data sets of young and aged cognitively healthy subjects (n= 2,824) and in a large schizophrenia case-control sample (n= 32,143). The voltage-gated cation channel activity gene set, consisting of genes related to neuronal excitability, was robustly linked to performance in working memory-related tasks across ages and toschizophrenia. Functional brain imaging in 707 healthy participants linked this gene setalso to working memory-related activity in the parietal cortex and the cerebellum. Gene set analyses may help to dissect the molecular underpinnings of cognitive dimensions, brain activity, and psychopathology.
Most cases of neurodegenerative diseases are sporadic, hindering the use of genetic mouse models to analyze disease mechanisms. Focusing on the motor neuron (MN) disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we therefore devised a fully humanized coculture model composed of human adult primary sporadic ALS (sALS) astrocytes and human embryonic stem-cell-derived MNs. The model reproduces the cardinal features of human ALS: sALS astrocytes, but not those from control patients, trigger selective death of MNs. The mechanisms underlying this non-cell-autonomous toxicity were investigated in both astrocytes and MNs. Although causal in familial ALS (fALS), SOD1 does not contribute to the toxicity of sALS astrocytes. Death of MNs triggered by either sALS or fALS astrocytes occurs through necroptosis, a form of programmed necrosis involving receptor-interacting protein 1 and the mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein. The necroptotic pathway therefore constitutes a potential therapeutic target for thisincurable disease.
Soluble and transmembrane neuregulin 1 isoforms can act as short-range and long-range attractants for migration of cortical and olfactory interneurons expressing ErbB4, a tyrosine kinase receptor whose characteristics are strongly affected by alternative splicing. Here, we have investigated the expression of the four ErbB4 isoforms and we found that all of them are expressed by neural progenitor cells migrating from the subventricular zone toward the olfactory bulb through the rostral migratory stream. We quantified the absolute expression of the different ErbB4 isoforms and found that all of them are highly expressed in the regions characterized by high interneuron migration, whereas in the olfactory bulb regions, where migration stops, ErbB4 isoforms containing exon JMb and lacking exon cyt1 (called 'cyt2 isoforms') are expressed more than isoforms containing exons JMa and cyt1. Indeed, we have shown previously that neural progenitor cells stably expressing ErbB4-JMb-cyt2 have a very low migratory activity. To investigate whether the different ErbB4 isoforms confer a distinct adhesion preference for transmembrane neuregulin 1, neural progenitor cells expressing these were tested in vitro in the stripe choice assay. We found that each of the four ErbB4 isoforms is able to confer cells with an adhesion preference for cells expressing the transmembrane neuregulin 1 type III.
Chronic pain with mood disorder, resulting from a peripheral nerve injury, is a serious clinical problem affecting the quality of life. A lack of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and abnormal intercellular signaling in the brain can mediate this symptom. BDNF is induced in cultured neurons by 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), but little is known about its role in pain-emotion. Thus, we characterized the actions of 4-MC on TrkB receptor-related pERK and BDNF mRNA in discreet brain regions related to pain-emotion after chronic pain in rat. Rats implanted with a stainless steel cannula into the lateral ventricular were subjected to chronic constriction injury (CCI). Pain was assessed by changes in paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to heat stimuli after CCI. Immobility time during the forced swimming testing was measured for depression-like behavior. Analgesic and antidepression modulations with 4-MC were examined by an anti-BDNF antibody (K252a, a TrkB receptor inhibitor). The animals were perfused and fixed (4% paraformaldehyde) for immunohistochemistry analysis (c-FOS/pERK). BDNF mRNA expression (anterior cingulate cortex) was determined using reverse transcription-PCR. Rats showed a sustained decrease in PWL, associated with a prolonged immobility time after CCI. 4-MC reduced decreases in PWL and increased immobility time. 4-MC reduced increases in pERK immunoreactivity and decreases in BDNF mRNA expression in regions related to pain and the limbic system. Anti-BDNF blocked effects induced by 4-MC. We suggest that a lack of BDNF associated with activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase in the pain-emotion network may be involved in depression-like behavior during chronic pain. 4-MC ameliorates pain-emotion symptoms by inducing BDNF and normalizing pERK activities.
Auditory selective attention is the ability to enhance the processing of a single sound source, while simultaneously suppressing the processing of other competing sound sources. Recent research has addressed a long-running debate by showing that endogenous attention produces effects on obligatory sensory responses to continuous and competing auditory stimuli. However, until now, this result has only been shown under conditions where the competing stimuli differed in both their frequency characteristics and, importantly, their spatial location. Thus, it is unknown whether endogenous selective attention based only on nonspatial features modulates obligatory sensory processing. Here, we investigate this issue using a diotic paradigm, such that competing auditory stimuli differ in frequency, but had no separation in space. We find a significant effect of attention on electroencephalogram-based measures of obligatory sensory processing at several poststimulus latencies. We discuss these results in terms of previous research on feature-based attention and by comparing our findings with the previous work using stimuli that differed both in terms of spatial and frequency-based characteristics.
Laboratory mice are well capable of performing innate routine behaviour programmes necessary for courtship, nest-building and exploratory activities although housed for decades in animal facilities. We found that in mice inactivation of the clock gene Period1 profoundly changes innate routine behaviour programmes like those necessary for courtship, nest building, exploration and learning. These results in wild-type and Period1 mutant mice, together with earlier findings on courtship behaviour in wild-type and period-mutant Drosophila melanogaster, suggest a conserved role of Period-genes on innate routine behaviour. Additionally, both per-mutant flies and Period1-mutant mice display spatial learning and memory deficits. The profound influence of Period1 on routine behaviour programmes in mice, including female partner choice, may be independent of its function as a circadian clock gene, since Period1-deficient mice display normal circadian behaviour.




Scanning ion conductance microscopy (SICM) offers the ability to obtain very high-resolution topographical images of living cells. One of the great advantages of SICM lies in its ability to perform contact-free scanning. However, it is not yet clear when the requirements for this scan mode are met. We have used finite element modeling (FEM) to examine the conditions for contact-free scanning. Our findings provide a framework for understanding the contact-free mode of SICM and also extend previous findings with regard to SICM resolution. Finally, we demonstrate the importance of our findings for accurate biological imaging.
Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM) achieves subdiffraction axial sectioning by confining fluorophore excitation to a thin layer close to the cell/substrate boundary. However, it is often unknown how thin this light sheet actually is. Particularly in objective-type TIRFM, large deviations from the exponential intensity decay expected for pure evanescence have been reported. Nonevanescent excitation light diminishes the optical sectioning effect, reduces contrast, and renders TIRFM-image quantification uncertain. To identify the sources of this unwanted fluorescence excitation in deeper sample layers, we here combine azimuthal and polar beam scanning (spinning TIRF), atomic force microscopy, and wavefront analysis of beams passing through the objective periphery. Using a variety of intracellular fluorescent labels as well as negative staining experiments to measure cell-induced scattering, we find that azimuthal beam spinning produces TIRFM images that more accurately portray the real fluorophore distribution, but these images are still hampered by far-field excitation. Furthermore, although clearly measureable, cell-induced scattering is not the dominant source of far-field excitation light in objective-type TIRF, at least for most types of weakly scattering cells. It is the microscope illumination optical path that produces a large cell- and beam-angle invariant stray excitation that is insensitive to beam scanning. This instrument-induced glare is produced far from the sample plane, inside the microscope illumination optical path. We identify stray reflections and high-numerical aperture aberrations of the TIRF objective as one important source. This work is accompanied by a companion paper (Pt.2/2).


Glucose-sensing neurons in the brainstem participate in the regulation of energy homeostasis but have been poorly characterized because of the lack of specific markers to identify them. Here we show that GLUT2-expressing neurons of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius form a distinct population of hypoglycemia-activated neurons. Their response to low glucose is mediated by reduced intracellular glucose metabolism, increased AMP-activated protein kinase activity, and closure of leak K(+) channels. These are GABAergic neurons that send projections to the vagal motor nucleus. Light-induced stimulation of channelrhodospin-expressing GLUT2 neurons in vivo led to increased parasympathetic nerve firing and glucagon secretion. Thus GLUT2 neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius link hypoglycemia detection to counterregulatory response. These results may help identify the cause of hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure, a major threat in the insulin treatment of diabetes.






NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) are currently regarded as paramount in the potent and selective disruption of synaptic plasticity by Alzheimer's disease amyloid -protein (A). Non-NMDAR mechanisms remain relatively unexplored. Here we describe how A facilitates NMDAR-independent long-term depression of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus in vivo. Synthetic A and A in soluble extracts of Alzheimer's disease brain usurp endogenous acetylcholine muscarinic receptor-dependent long-term depression, to enable long-term depression that required metabotropic glutamate-5 receptors (mGlu5Rs). We also find that mGlu5Rs are essential for A-mediated inhibition of NMDAR-dependent long-term potentiation in vivo. Blocking A binding to cellular prion protein with antibodies prevents the facilitation of long-term depression. Our findings uncover an overarching role for A-PrP(C)-mGlu5R interplay in mediating both LTD facilitation and LTP inhibition, encompassing NMDAR-mediated processes that were previously considered primary.




Risk taking is central to human activity. Consequently, it lies at the focal point of behavioral sciences such as neuroscience, economics, and finance. Many influential models from these sciences assume that financial risk preferences form a stable trait. Is this assumption justified and, if not, what causes the appetite for risk to fluctuate? We have previously found that traders experience a sustained increase in the stress hormone cortisol when the amount of uncertainty, in the form of market volatility, increases. Here we ask whether these elevated cortisol levels shift risk preferences. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over protocol we raised cortisol levels in volunteers over 8 d to the same extent previously observed in traders. We then tested for the utility and probability weighting functions underlying their risk taking and found that participants became more risk-averse. We also observed that the weighting of probabilities became more distorted among men relative to women. These results suggest that risk preferences are highly dynamic. Specifically, the stress response calibrates risk taking to our circumstances, reducing it in times of prolonged uncertainty, such as a financial crisis. Physiology-induced shifts in risk preferences may thus be an underappreciated cause of market instability.
We hypothesized that key signaling pathways of glioma genesis might enable the molecular classification of gliomas. Gene coexpression modules around epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (EM, 29 genes) or platelet derived growth factor receptor A (PDGFRA) (PM, 40 genes) in gliomas were identified. Based on EM and PM expression signatures, nonnegative matrix factorization reproducibly clustered 1,369 adult diffuse gliomas WHO grades II-IV from four independent databases generated in three continents, into the subtypes (EM, PM and EM(low)PM(low) gliomas) in a morphology-independent manner. Besides their distinct patterns of genomic alterations, EM gliomas were associated with higher age at diagnosis, poorer prognosis, and stronger expression of neural stem cell and astrogenesis genes. Both PM and EM(low)PM(low) gliomas were associated with younger age at diagnosis and better prognosis. PM gliomas were enriched in the expression of oligodendrogenesis genes, whereas EM(low)PM(low) gliomas were enriched in the signatures of mature neurons and oligodendrocytes. The EM/PM-based molecular classification scheme is applicable to adult low-grade and high-grade diffuse gliomas, and outperforms existing classification schemes in assigning diffuse gliomas to subtypes with distinct transcriptomic and genomic profiles. The majority of the EM/PM classifiers, including regulators of glial fate decisions, have not been extensively studied in glioma biology. Subsets of these classifiers were coexpressed in mouse glial precursor cells, and frequently amplified or lost in an EM/PM glioma subtype-specific manner, resulting in somatic copy number alteration-dependent gene expression that contributes to EM/PM signatures in glioma samples. EM/PM-based molecular classification provides a molecular diagnostic framework to expedite the search for new glioma therapeutic targets.


Proteolysis of the  C-terminal fragment (-CTF) of the amyloid precursor protein generates the A peptides associated with Alzheimer's disease. Familial mutations in the -CTF, such as the A21G Flemish mutation, can increase A secretion. We establish how the Flemish mutation alters the structure of C55, the first 55 residues of the -CTF, using FTIR and solid-state NMR spectroscopy. We show that the A21G mutation reduces  sheet structure of C55 from Leu17 to Ala21, an inhibitory region near the site of the mutation, and increases -helical structure from Gly25 to Gly29, in a region near the membrane surface and thought to interact with cholesterol. Cholesterol also increases A peptide secretion, and we show that the incorporation of cholesterol into model membranes enhances the structural changes induced by the Flemish mutant, suggesting a common link between familial mutations and the cellular environment.
Some individuals suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) exhibit lower basal salivary cortisol and higher glucocorticoid receptor (GR) sensitivity. Recent studies suggest that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the activity of cortisol and GR. As a means to combine and cross-validate those findings, we compared cortisol, GR expression and promoter methylation levels in peripheral T lymphocytes of healthy controls versus individuals endorsing a diagnosis of lifetime PTSD. Thirty subjects with lifetime (current or remitted) PTSD and 16 subjects never exposed to trauma were recruited. Salivary cortisol was collected at six time points over the course of a single weekday and analyzed utilizing a time-resolved fluorescence immunoassay. GR expression (GRtotal, 1B, 1C, 1F and 1H) was measured by quantitative RT-PCR. DNA methylation levels in human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) 1B and 1C variant's promoter were quantified by epityper in T lymphocytes isolated by magnetic-assisted cell sorting. Individuals with lifetime PTSD have lower morning cortisol release, higher mRNA expression of hGRtotal, 1B, and 1C and lower overall methylation levels in hGR 1B and 1C promoters. Cortisol levels were inversely correlated with hGR 1B mRNA expression. Moreover, overall and CpG site-specific methylation levels were inversely correlated with hGRtotal and 1B mRNA expression. There was no difference between current and remitted PTSD across cortisol, GR expression mRNA and DNA methylation data. Traumatic events induce DNA methylation alterations in distinct promoters of hGR with transcriptional modifications that associate with hypoactive hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in individuals with PTSD. Our results also point toward an important role of hGR 1B variant in PTSD.






A recent study using a novel saccade-contingent display-change technique to control the presentation of text to each eye shows a binocular advantage for both foveal and parafoveal processing of words during natural reading.
A new study reveals an unexpected genetic link between two distinct types of neuronal asymmetries in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This finding suggests a common origin of genetically determined asymmetries and raises intriguing questions about their evolution.
During the approximately 18-32 thousand years of domestication, dogs and humans have shared a similar social environment. Dog and human vocalizations are thus familiar and relevant to both species, although they belong to evolutionarily distant taxa, as their lineages split approximately 90-100 million years ago. In this first comparative neuroimaging study of a nonprimate and a primate species, we made use of this special combination of shared environment and evolutionary distance. We presented dogs and humans with the same set of vocal and nonvocal stimuli to search for functionally analogous voice-sensitive cortical regions. We demonstrate that voice areas exist in dogs and that they show a similar pattern to anterior temporal voice areas in humans. Our findings also reveal that sensitivity to vocal emotional valence cues engages similarly located nonprimary auditory regions in dogs and humans. Although parallel evolution cannot be excluded, our findings suggest that voice areas may have a more ancient evolutionary origin than previously known.


TMEM106B variants are genetically associated with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP), and are considered a major risk factor for this disease. As TMEM106B may be involved in other pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), uncovering its cellular functions has become a priority. In this issue of The EMBO Journal, Schwenk et al (2014) combine loss-of-function experiments, live imaging and proteomics to unveil the physiological roles played by TMEM106B and its binding partner MAP6 in lysosomal function and transport.


Munc18-1 is a soluble protein essential for synaptic transmission. To investigate the dynamics of endogenous Munc18-1 in neurons, we created a mouse model expressing fluorescently tagged Munc18-1 from the endogenous munc18-1 locus. We show using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching in hippocampal neurons that the majority of Munc18-1 trafficked through axons and targeted to synapses via lateral diffusion together with syntaxin-1. Munc18-1 was strongly expressed at presynaptic terminals, with individual synapses showing a large variation in expression. Axon-synapse exchange rates of Munc18-1 were high: during stimulation, Munc18-1 rapidly dispersed from synapses and reclustered within minutes. Munc18-1 reclustering was independent of syntaxin-1, but required calcium influx and protein kinase C (PKC) activity. Importantly, a PKC-insensitive Munc18-1 mutant did not recluster. We show that synaptic Munc18-1 levels correlate with synaptic strength, and that synapses that recruit more Munc18-1 after stimulation have a larger releasable vesicle pool. Hence, PKC-dependent dynamic control of Munc18-1 levels enables individual synapses to tune their output during periods of activity.
Myocardin (Myocd) and Myocd-related transcription factors (MRTFs) are robust coactivators of serum response factor (SRF). RPEL motifs are monomeric globular actin (G-actin) binding elements that regulate MRTF localization and activity. However, the function of the RPEL motif in Myocd is largely unknown because of its low affinity for G-actin. Here, we demonstrated that the Myocd RPEL motif bound to actin-related protein 5 (Arp5) instead of conventional actin, resulting in a significant suppression of Myocd activity. In addition, Arp5 bound to a DNA binding domain of SRF via its C-terminal sequence and prevented the association of the Myocd-SRF complex with the promoter regions of smooth muscle genes. Well-differentiated smooth muscle cells mainly expressed a specific splicing variant of arp5; therefore, the protein level of Arp5 was markedly reduced by partial messenger RNA decay and translational suppression. In dedifferentiated smooth muscle cells, Arp5 knockdown restored the differentiated phenotype via Myocd activation. Thus, Arp5 is a key regulator of Myocd activity.



Cancer prevalence and risk in schizophrenia (SZ) patients, as well as their implicated molecular pathways, is a debate that has become increasingly appreciated, despite lacking evidence. Since angiogenesis is imbalanced in both conditions, a non-systematic review of the existing literature using the PubMed database was performed to summarize current knowledge and to elucidate hypothesis regarding the reduced incidence of cancer in SZ, exploring possible angiogenesis biology aspects that can be interrelated both with SZ and cancer. Some lines of evidence based in epidemiology, genetic, molecular and biochemical studies suggest a putative interplay between SZ pathophysiology and angiogenesis, involving different molecular pathways and also influencing cancer biology. Studying angiogenesis in SZ and its implications to cancer is an unexplored field that could provide more insightful knowledge regarding its pathophysiology and promote the development of treatment applications.

Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a transmembrane glycoprotein proteolytically processed to release amyloid beta, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. APP is expressed throughout the developing and mature brain; however, the primary function of this protein is unknown. We previously demonstrated that APP deficiency enhances neurogenesis, but the mechanisms underlying this process are not known. Here we show that APP regulates the expression of microRNAs in the cortex and in neural progenitors, specifically repressing miR-574-5p. We also show that overexpression of miR-574-5p promotes neurogenesis, but reduces the neural progenitor pool. In contrast, the reduced expression of miR-574-5p inhibits neurogenesis and stimulates proliferation in vitro and in utero. We further demonstrate that the inhibition of miR-574-5p in APP-knockout mice rescues the phenotypes associated with APP deficiency in neurogenesis. Taken together, these results reveal a mechanism in which APP regulates the neurogenesis through miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional regulation.




Cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia (CIAS) is a major and disabling symptom domain of the disease that is generally unresponsive to current pharmacotherapies. Critically important to the discovery of novel therapeutics for CIAS is the utilization of preclinical models with robust predictive validity. We investigated the predictive validity of MK-801-induced memory impairments in mouse inhibitory avoidance (MK-IA) as a preclinical model for CIAS by investigating compounds that have been tested in humans, including antipsychotics, sodium channel blocker mood stabilizers, and putative cognitive enhancers. The atypical antipsychotic clozapine, as well as risperidone and olanzapine (see Brown et al., 2013), had no effect on MK-801-induced memory impairments. For sodium channel blockers, carbamazepine significantly attenuated memory impairments induced by MK-801, whereas lamotrigine had no effect. Nicotine, donepezil, modafinil, and xanomeline all significantly attenuated MK-801-induced memory impairments, but the magnitude of effects and the dose-responses observed varied across compounds. Clinically, only acute administration of nicotine has demonstrated consistent positive effects on CIAS, while inconsistent results have been reported for lamotrigine, donepezil, and modafinil; atypical antipsychotics produce only moderate improvements at best. A positive clinical signal has been observed with xanomeline, but only in a small pilot trial. The results presented here suggest that the MK-IA model lacks robust predictive validity for CIAS as the model is likely permissive and may indicate false positive signals for compounds and mechanisms that lack clear clinical efficacy for CIAS. Our findings also highlight the potential limitations and challenges of using NMDA receptor antagonists in rodents to model CIAS.

Cerebral asymmetries result from hemispheric specialization and interhemispheric communication pattern that develop in close gene-environment interactions. To gain a deeper understanding of developmental and functional interrelations, we investigated interhemispheric information exchange in pigeons, which possess a lateralized visual system that develops in response to asymmetrical ontogenetic light stimulation. We monocularly trained pigeons with or without embryonic light experience in color discriminations whereby they learned another pair of colors with each eye. Thereby, information from the ipsilateral eye had to be transferred. Monocular tests confronting the animals with trained and transferred color pairs demonstrated that embryonic light stimulation modulates the balance of asymmetrical handling of transfer information. Stronger embryonic stimulation of the left hemisphere significantly enhanced access to interhemispheric visual information, thereby reversing the right-hemispheric advantage that develops in the absence of embryonic light experience. These data support the critical role of environmental factors in molding a functionally lateralized brain.








Owing to its bio- and osteoconductivity, hydroxyapatite (HA) is a widely used implant material, but its osteogenic properties are only partly evaluated in vitro and in vivo. The present study focused on bone healing adjacent to HA-coated titanium (Ti) implants, with or without incorporated lithium ions (Li(+)). Special attention was given to the Wnt signaling pathway. The implants were inserted into rat tibia for 7 or 28 days and analyzed ex vivo, mainly by histomorphometry and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). HA-coated implants showed, irrespective of Li(+) content, bone-implant contact (BIC) and removal torque values significantly higher than those of reference Ti. Further, the expression of OCN, CTSK, COL1A1, LRP5/6 and WISP1 was significantly higher in implant-adherent cells of HA-coated implants, with or without Li(+). Significantly higher -catenin expression and significantly lower COL2A1 expression were observed in peri-implant bone cells from HA with 14 ng cm(-2) released Li(+). Interestingly, Ti implants showed a significantly larger bone area (BA) in the threads than HA with 39 ng cm(-2) released Li(+), but had a lower BIC than any HA-coated implant. This study shows that HA, with or without Li(+), is a strong activator of the Wnt signaling pathway, and may to some degree explain its high bone induction capacity.

We aimed to compare the association of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP) and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score with mortality risk and to determine the optimal threshold of CRP for prediction of mortality in ischemic-stroke patients. A series of 162 patients with first-ever ischemic-stroke admitted within 24 h after onset of symptoms was enrolled. CRP and NIHSS score were estimated on admission and their predictive abilities for mortality at 7 days were determined by logistic-regression analyses. Receiver-Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves were depicted to identify the optimal cut-off of CRP, using the maximum Youden-index and the shortest-distance methods. Deceased patients had higher levels of CRP and NIHSS on admission (8.87  7.11 vs. 2.20  4.71 mg/l for CRP, and 17.31  6.36 vs. 8.70  4.85 U for NIHSS, respectively, P &lt; 0.01). CRP and NIHSS were correlated with each other (r (2) = 0.39, P &lt; 0.001) and were also independently associated with increased risk of mortality [odds ratios (95 % confidence interval) of 1.16 (1.05-1.28) and 1.20 (1.07-1.35) for CRP and NIHSS, respectively, P &lt; 0.01]. The areas under the ROC curves of CRP and NIHSS for mortality were 0.82 and 0.84, respectively. The CRP value of 2.2 mg/l was identified as the optimal cut-off value for prediction of mortality within 7 days (sensitivity: 0.81, specificity: 0.80). Thus, CRP as an independent predictor of mortality following ischemic-stroke is comparable with NIHSS and the value of 2.2 mg/l yields the optimum sensitivity and specificity for mortality prediction.
The GGGGCC (G4C2) repeat expansion in C9ORF72 is the most common cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal lobar dementia (FTLD) and ALS-FTLD, as well as contributing to sporadic forms of these diseases. Screening of large cohorts of ALS and FTLD cohorts has identified that C9ORF72-ALS is represented throughout the clinical spectrum of ALS phenotypes, though in comparison with other genetic subtypes, C9ORF72 carriers have a higher incidence of bulbar onset disease. In contrast, C9ORF72-FTLD is predominantly associated with behavioural variant FTD, which often presents with psychosis, most commonly in the form of hallucinations and delusions. However, C9ORF72 expansions are not restricted to these clinical phenotypes. There is a higher than expected incidence of parkinsonism in ALS patients with C9ORF72 expansions, and the G4C2 repeat has also been reported in other motor phenotypes, such as primary lateral sclerosis, progressive muscular atrophy, corticobasal syndrome and Huntington-like disorders. In addition, the expansion has been identified in non-motor phenotypes including Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementia. It is not currently understood what is the basis of the clinical variation seen with the G4C2 repeat expansion. One potential explanation is repeat length. Sizing of the expansion by Southern blotting has established that there is somatic heterogeneity, with different expansion lengths in different tissues, even within the brain. To date, no correlation with expansion size and clinical phenotype has been established in ALS, whilst in FTLD only repeat size in the cerebellum was found to correlate with disease duration. Somatic heterogeneity suggests there is a degree of instability within the repeat and evidence of anticipation has been reported with reducing age of onset in subsequent generations. This variability/instability in expansion length, along with its interactions with environmental and genetic modifiers, such as TMEM106B, may be the basis of the differing clinical phenotypes arising from the mutation.
A hexanucleotide repeat expansion within a non-coding region of the C9ORF72 gene is the most common mutation causative of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Elucidating how this bidirectionally transcribed G4C2C4G2 expanded repeat causes &quot;C9FTLD/ALS&quot; has since become an important goal of the field. Likely pathogenic mechanisms include toxicity induced by repeat-containing RNAs, and loss of C9orf72 function due to epigenetic changes resulting in decreased C9ORF72 mRNA expression. With regards to the former, sense and antisense transcripts of the expanded repeat aberrantly interact with various RNA-binding proteins and form discrete nuclear structures, termed RNA foci. These foci have the capacity to sequester select RNA-binding proteins, thereby impairing their function. (G4C2)exp and (C4G2)exp transcripts also succumb to an alternative fate: repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation. This unconventional mode of translation, which occurs in the absence of an initiating codon, results in the abnormal production of poly(GA), poly(GP), poly(GR), poly(PR) and poly(PA) peptides, collectively referred to as C9RAN proteins. C9RAN proteins form neuronal inclusions throughout the central nervous system of C9FTLD/ALS patients and may contribute to disease pathogenesis. This review aims to summarize the important findings from studies examining mechanisms of disease in C9FTLD/ALS, and will also highlight some of the many questions in need of further investigation.
Variants in transmembrane protein 106 B (TMEM106B) modify the disease penetrance of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in carriers of progranulin (GRN) mutations. We investigated whether TMEM106B is also a genetic modifier of disease in carriers of chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9ORF72) expansions. We assessed the genotype of 325 C9ORF72 expansion carriers (cohort 1), 586 FTD patients lacking C9ORF72 expansions [with or without motor neuron disease (MND); cohort 2], and a total of 1,302 controls for TMEM106B variants (rs3173615 and rs1990622) using MassArray iPLEX and Taqman genotyping assays. For our primary analysis, we focused on functional variant rs3173615, and employed a recessive genotypic model. In cohort 1, patients with C9ORF72 expansions showed a significantly reduced frequency of carriers homozygous for the minor allele as compared to controls [11.9 vs. 19.1 %, odds ratio (OR) 0.57, p = 0.014; same direction as carriers of GRN mutations]. The strongest evidence was provided by FTD patients (OR 0.33, p = 0.009) followed by FTD/MND patients (OR 0.38, p = 0.017), whereas no significant difference was observed in MND patients (OR 0.85, p = 0.55). In cohort 2, the frequency of carriers homozygous for the minor allele was not significantly reduced in patients as compared to controls (OR 0.77, p = 0.079); however, a significant reduction was observed when focusing on those patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP; OR 0.26, p &lt; 0.001). Our study identifies TMEM106B as the first genetic factor modifying disease presentation in C9ORF72 expansion carriers. Homozygosity for the minor allele protects carriers from developing FTD, but not from developing MND; similar effects are seen in FTLD-TDP patients with yet unknown genetic causes. These new findings show that the protective effects of TMEM106B are not confined to carriers of GRN mutations and might be relevant for prognostic testing, and as a promising therapeutic target for the entire spectrum of FTLD-TDP.
GGGGCC (G4C2) hexanucleotide repeat expansion in chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9ORF72) has been identified as the most common genetic abnormality in both frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To investigate the role of C9ORF72-related G4C2 repeat expansion in ALS and FTLD, several animal and cell culture models have been generated that reveal initial insights into the disease pathogenesis of C9 ALS/FTLD. These models include neurons differentiated from patient-derived pluripotent stem cells as well as genetically engineered cells and organisms that knock down C9ORF72 orthologues or express G4C2 repeats. Targeted reduction or knockdown of C9ORF72 homologues in zebrafish and mice so far produced conflicting results which neither rule out, nor confirm reduced expression of C9ORF72 as a pathogenic mechanism in C9 ALS/FTLD. In contrast, studies using patient-derived cells, as well as Drosophila and zebrafish models overexpressing disease-related hexanucleotide expansions, can cause repeat length-dependent formation of RNA foci, which directly and progressively correlate with cellular toxicity. RNA foci formation is accompanied by sequestration of specific RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including Pur-alpha, hnRNPH and ADARB2, suggesting that G4C2-mediated sequestration and functional depletion of RBPs are cytotoxic and thus directly contribute to disease. Moreover, these studies provide experimental evidence that repeat-associated non-ATG translation of repeat-containing sense and antisense RNA leads to dipeptide-repeat proteins (DPRs) that can accumulate and aggregate, indicating that accumulation of DPRs may represent another pathogenic pathway underlying C9 ALS/FTLD. These studies in cell and animal models therefore identify RNA toxicity, RBP sequestration and accumulation of DPRs as emerging pathogenic pathways underlying C9 ALS/FTLD.






Expert musicians are able to time their actions accurately and consistently during a musical performance. We investigated how musical expertise influences the ability to reproduce auditory intervals and how this generalises across different techniques and sensory modalities. We first compared various reproduction strategies and interval length, to examine the effects in general and to optimise experimental conditions for testing the effect of music, and found that the effects were robust and consistent across different paradigms. Focussing on a 'ready-set-go' paradigm subjects reproduced time intervals drawn from distributions varying in total length (176, 352 or 704 ms) or in the number of discrete intervals within the total length (3, 5, 11 or 21 discrete intervals). Overall, Musicians performed more veridical than Non-Musicians, and all subjects reproduced auditory-defined intervals more accurately than visually-defined intervals. However, Non-Musicians, particularly with visual stimuli, consistently exhibited a substantial and systematic regression towards the mean interval. When subjects judged intervals from distributions of longer total length they tended to regress more towards the mean, while the ability to discriminate between discrete intervals within the distribution had little influence on subject error. These results are consistent with a Bayesian model that minimizes reproduction errors by incorporating a central tendency prior weighted by the subject's own temporal precision relative to the current distribution of intervals. Finally a strong correlation was observed between all durations of formal musical training and total reproduction errors in both modalities (accounting for 30% of the variance). Taken together these results demonstrate that formal musical training improves temporal reproduction, and that this improvement transfers from audition to vision. They further demonstrate the flexibility of sensorimotor mechanisms in adapting to different task conditions to minimise temporal estimation errors.
For humans and other species, the ability to estimate the physical passage of time is of fundamental importance for perceptual, cognitive or motor functions. Despite this importance, any subjective estimation of temporal durations not only depends on the temporal dynamics of the to-be-timed stimulus or event, but also can be distorted by non-temporal perceptual, cognitive, and emotional effects. This study aimed to further explore critical stimulus characteristics modulating distracter-induced distortions in human time-reproduction. To this end, we investigated whether subjectively rated distracter dimensions of arousal and valence (related to levels of emotionality), or rather stimulus complexity, as a confounder, produce distortions in participants' reproduction of a previously trained target interval. Accuracy and precision of time-reproduction have been measured in distracter-trials, and compared to timing performance in baseline-trials without any distraction. Results showed temporal overproductions in a magnitude of less than distracter duration only for complex distracters. Most importantly, arousal level and valence of distracters were not accountable for temporal distortions. Within an internal clock framework, our pattern of results can best be interpreted in the context of attention-, rather than arousal-based mechanisms of timing.
The recalibration of perceived visuomotor simultaneity to vision-lead and movement-lead temporal discrepancies is marked by an underlying causal asymmetry, if the movement (button press) is voluntary and self-initiated; a visual stimulus lagging the button press may be interpreted as causally linked sensory feedback (intentional or causal binding), a leading visual stimulus not. Here, we test whether this underlying causal asymmetry leads to directional asymmetries in the temporal recalibration of visuomotor time perception, using an interval estimation paradigm. Participants were trained to the presence of one of three temporal discrepancies between a motor action (button press) and a visual stimulus (flashed disk): 100 ms vision-lead, simultaneity, and 100 ms movement-lead. By adjusting a point on a visual scale, participants then estimated the interval between the visual stimulus and the button press over a range of discrepancies. Comparing the results across conditions, we found that temporal recalibration appears to be implemented nearly exclusively on the movement-lead side of the range of discrepancies by a uni-lateral lengthening or shortening of the window of temporal integration. Interestingly, this marked asymmetry does not lead to a significantly asymmetrical recalibration of the point of subjective simultaneity or to significant differences in discriminability. This seeming contradiction (symmetrical recalibration of subjective simultaneity and asymmetrical recalibration of interval estimation) poses a challenge to common models of temporal order perception that assume an underlying time measurement process with Gaussian noise. Using a two-criterion model of the window of temporal integration, we illustrate that a compressive bias around perceived simultaneity (temporal integration) even prior to perceptual decisions about temporal order would be very hard to detect given the sensitivity of the psychophysical procedures commonly used.
According to the model of substance abuse of Conrod, Pihl, Stewart, and Dongier (2000), four personality factors (i.e., anxiety sensitivity [AS], introversion/hopelessness [I/H], sensation seeking [SS], and impulsivity [IMP]) are associated with elevated risk for substance use/misuse, with each personality factor being related to preference for particular drugs of abuse (e.g., AS with anxiolytics). However, cannabis use has not been consistently linked to any one of these personality factors. This may be due to the heterogeneity in cannabis use motives. The present study explored the association between these four personality risk factors and different cannabis use motives. Cannabis users completed an interview about their motives for cannabis use as well as the self-report Substance Use Risk Profile Scale (SURPS; Woicik, Conrod, Stewart, &amp; Pihl, 2009), which measures the four personality risk factors. Results showed that AS was associated with conformity motives and I/H was associated with coping motives for cannabis use. SS was positively associated with expansion motives and IMP was associated with drug availability motives. Thus, personality risk factors in the model of Conrod et al. (2000) are associated with distinct cannabis use motives in a pattern consistent with theory.
Both cue-elicited craving and impulsivity have been involved in alcohol misuse. However, their role in relapse has not been very clear. In the present study, we ask whether cue-elicited craving, impulsivity, and their interaction term predict a lapse in problem drinkers. Participants (n=20) were former patients of the clinic, U-Center, in the Netherlands, who had completed a six-week alcohol treatment program and had an abstinence goal. While in treatment, they underwent a cue exposure paradigm in a real alcohol-related setting and their trait impulsivity was measured with the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale version 11 (BIS-11). During the follow-up assessment, patients were contacted again and asked about their alcohol drinking behavior during the first three months after the end of the treatment program. It was found that higher craving and lower trait impulsivity levels are associated with a higher probability of a lapse.
Sport participation can play an important and positive role in the health and development of children and youth. One area that has recently been receiving greater attention is the role that sport participation might play in preventing drug and alcohol use among youth. The current study is a systematic review of 17 longitudinal studies examining the relationship between sport participation and alcohol and drug use among adolescents. Results indicated that sport participation is associated with alcohol use, with 82% of the included studies (14/17) showing a significant positive relationship. Sport participation, however, appears to be related to reduced illicit drug use, especially use of non-cannabis related drugs. Eighty percent of the studies found sport participation associated with decreased illicit drug use, while 50% of the studies found negative association between sport participation and marijuana use. Further investigation revealed that participation in sports reduced the risk of overall illicit drug use, but particularly during high school; suggesting that this may be a critical period to reduce or prevent the use of drugs through sport. Future research must better understand what conditions are necessary for sport participation to have beneficial outcomes in terms of preventing alcohol and/or illicit drug use. This has been absent in the extent literature and will be central to intervention efforts in this area.
Orexins/hypocretins (Orx/Hcrt) are hypothalamic peptides that regulate a wide range of physiological processes and have been shown to be recruited by drugs of abuse. This study was designed to test the effect of the specific Orx/Hcrt receptor-1 (Hcrt-r1) antagonist, N-(2-methyl-6-benzoxazolyl)-N'-1,5-naphthyridin-4-yl urea (SB334867), on reinstatement elicited by ethanol (EtOH)-associated stimuli versus stimuli associated with a conventional reinforcer [i.e. SuperSac, consisting of 3% glucose and 0.125% saccharin (w/v)]. SB334867 (1-10mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently reduced reinstatement induced by the EtOH- but not SuperSac-associated stimuli. These findings support a differential role of Hcrt-r1 in mediating EtOH seeking versus natural reward seeking.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by persistent decision-making deficits, which are linked to structural and functional abnormalities in frontolimbic systems. Moral judgment is as a special instance of decision making, in which both cognitive and emotional signals must be adequately integrated to decide how to resolve moral dilemmas. Here, we employed a moral dilemmas functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task to explore possible alterations of frontolimbic systems in cocaine-dependent subjects. We also explored if these alterations relate to more basic deficits in functional connectivity within these systems during spontaneous resting-state activation. Ten cocaine-dependent subjects and 14 non-drug-using controls participated in the study. Cocaine-dependent subjects were carefully selected to discard potentially confounding co-morbidities, and they underwent a uniform supervised abstinence period of 10 days. Both groups were scanned, and fMRI maps were generated to identify (1) brain response to moral dilemmas; and (2) the strength of functional connectivity within frontolimbic systems during resting-state. During the moral dilemmas task, cocaine-dependent subjects showed reduced activation involving frontolimbic structures as the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), left insula and brain stem. Connectivity analyses showed that cocaine users had less resting-state functional connectivity between ACC, thalamus, insula and brain stem. These results demonstrate that cocaine-dependent subjects have functional alterations in the frontolimbic systems that support moral judgment and social decision making.
Chronic alcohol abuse and dependence are associated with dysfunctional dopaminergic neurotransmission in mesocorticolimbic circuits. Genetic and environmental factors have been shown to modulate susceptibility to alcohol dependence, and both may act through epigenetic mechanisms that can modulate gene expression, e.g. DNA methylation at CpG sites. Recent studies have suggested that DNA methylation patterns may change over time. However, few data are available concerning the rate of these changes in specific genes. A recent study found that hypermethylation of the promoter of the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene was positively correlated with alcohol dependence and negatively correlated with alcohol craving. The aim of the present study was to replicate these findings in a larger sample of alcohol-dependent patients and population-based controls matched for age and sex. No difference in methylation level was observed between patients and controls, and no difference in methylation level was observed before and after alcohol withdrawal in patients. However, patients with more severe craving showed a trend towards lower DAT methylation levels (P=0.07), which is consistent with previous findings. Furthermore, in our overall sample, DAT methylation levels increased with age. Interestingly, a separate analysis of patients suggested that this finding was mainly driven by the patient group. Although the present data do not clarify whether chronic alcohol abuse is responsible for this phenomenon or merely enhances an ageing-specific process, our findings suggest that hypermethylation in alcohol-dependent patients is a consequence, rather than a cause, of the disorder.
Motivation to change is believed to be a key factor in therapeutic success in substance use disorders; however, the neurobiological mechanisms through which motivation to change impacts decreased substance use remain unclear. Existing research is conflicting, with some investigations supporting decreased and others reporting increased frontal activation to drug cues in individuals seeking treatment for substance use disorders. The present study investigated the relationship between motivation to change cocaine use and cue-elicited brain activity in cocaine-dependent individuals using two conceptualizations of 'motivation to change': (1) current treatment status (i.e. currently receiving versus not receiving outpatient treatment for cocaine dependence) and (2) self-reported motivation to change substance use, using the Stages of Change Readiness and Treatment Eagerness Scale. Thirty-eight cocaine-dependent individuals (14 currently in treatment) completed a diagnostic assessment and an fMRI cocaine cue-reactivity task. Whole-brain analyses demonstrated that both treatment-seeking and motivated participants had lower activation to cocaine cues in a wide variety of brain regions in the frontal, occipital, temporal and cingulate cortices relative to non-treatment-seeking and less motivated participants. Future research is needed to explain the mechanism by which treatment and/or motivation impacts neural cue reactivity, as such work could potentially aid in the development of more effective therapeutic techniques for substance-dependent patients.



The earthworm is ideal for studying action potential conduction velocity in a classroom setting, as its simple linear anatomy allows easy axon length measurements and the worm's sparse coding allows single action potentials to be easily identified. The earthworm has two giant fiber systems (lateral and medial) with different conduction velocities that can be easily measured by manipulating electrode placement and the tactile stimulus. Here, we present a portable and robust experimental setup that allows students to perform conduction velocity measurements within a 30-min to 1-h laboratory session. Our improvement over this well-known preparation is the combination of behaviorally relevant tactile stimuli (avoiding electrical stimulation) with the invention of minimal, low-cost, and portable equipment. We tested these experiments during workshops in both a high school and college classroom environment and found positive learning outcomes when we compared pre- and posttests taken by the students.

Impaired synaptic plasticity is implicated in the functional decline of the nervous system associated with ageing. Understanding the structure of ageing synapses is essential to understanding the functions of these synapses and their role in the ageing nervous system. In this review, we summarize studies on ageing synapses in vertebrates and invertebrates, focusing on changes in morphology and ultrastructure. We cover different parts of the nervous system, including the brain, the retina, the cochlea, and the neuromuscular junction. The morphological characteristics of aged synapses could shed light on the underlying molecular changes and their functional consequences.




The central amygdala (CeA) has a unique role in integrating stress and the rewarding effects of ethanol (EtOH) and plays a major role in the development of EtOH dependence via signaling of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). A recent report by Herman and colleagues (2013) entitled &quot;Novel Subunit-Specific Tonic GABA Currents and Differential Effects of Ethanol in the Central Amygdala of CRF Receptor-1 Reporter Mice&quot; is the first study to investigate inhibitory tonic currents in relation to CRF signaling in the CeA. The findings of that study significantly enhance our understanding of inhibitory tonic currents in the CeA and give insight into how EtOH may differentially affect CRF signaling within the CeA, leading to the development of EtOH dependence. This commentary will focus on the recent findings of Herman and colleagues and will discuss the effects of EtOH on the entire anxiety/emotion circuitry.









A fall from a great height is often associated with altered mental status. Aside from the usual contributing factors, for example, alcohol consumption or mental illness, natural disease leading to a fatal fall is seldom identified by autopsy. The case described in this report is that of a 57-year-old man who had been clinically diagnosed with presenile Alzheimer disease and fell head first into a river from the bridge. These events were captured by a surveillance camera on the bridge; an acquaintance reported that he had previous suicidal ideation. At autopsy, the cervical spinal cord was determined to have been severely injured, and the sixth cervical vertebra was observed to have been fractured. Histological examination showed chronic meningoencephalitis including neuronal loss, perivascular cuffing, and the proliferation of microglia and astrocytes in the cerebral cortex. Serologic evaluation consisting of the nontreponemal antigen test (rapid plasma reagin [RPR]) and treponemal antibody test (Treponema pallidum latex agglutination) was positive in both cases (RPR: 18.2 RPR units, T. pallidum latex agglutination: 7718 U/mL). These findings suggested that the patient had been affected by a syphilis infection and that his suicidal behavior was associated with parenchymatous neurosyphilis.
This study aimed to analyze how the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) or autophagy lysosome system (autophagy) are induced in brain tissues at different intervals after traumatic intracranial injury in humans. Injured cerebral cortices of 36 forensic autopsy cases were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using antibodies as the UPS marker (ubiquitin and lysine 48-linked polyubiquitin chains [K48]) and autophagy marker (lysine 63-linked polyubiquitin chains [K63], p62/sequestome 1 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 [LC3]). The number of neurons and glial cells with cytoplasmic inclusions that stained positive for ubiquitin, K48, and p62 began to increase within 1 hour after intracranial injury, particularly at contusion sites. From 3.5 hours onward, an increase in cytoplasmic inclusions that stained positive for K63 and LC3 began to be detected. LC3-positive cytoplasmic inclusions were not identified after 37 days; however, the increased immunoreactivity to ubiquitin and anti-K48 antibody was maintained for 7 months. These results suggest that the UPS is activated earlier and lasts longer than autophagy, that autophagy is activated for a relatively short term (between a few hours and approximately 1 month), and that the activation occurs especially in severely damaged brain tissues following head trauma in humans.

The developmental course of cognitive deficits in individuals with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is unclear. The objectives of this study were to determine the natural history of cognitive function and MRI T2-hyperintesities (T2H) from childhood to adulthood and to examine whether the presence of discrete T2H in childhood can predict cognitive performance in adulthood. We present cognitive and structural neuroimaging data from 18 patients with NF1 and five sibling controls assessed prospectively across an 18-year period. Longitudinal analyses revealed a significant increase in general cognitive function in patients with NF1 over the study period. Improvements were limited to individuals with discrete T2H in childhood. Patients without lesions in childhood exhibited a stable profile. The number of T2H decreased over time, particularly discrete lesions. Lesions located within the cerebral hemispheres and deep white matter were primarily stable, whereas those located in the basal ganglia, thalamus and brainstem tended to resolve. Our results support the hypothesis that resolution of T2H is accompanied by an improvement in general cognitive performance, possibly as a result of increased efficiency within white matter tracts.
Current clinical parameters used for diagnosis and phenotypic definitions of psychopathology are both highly variable and subjective. Intensive research efforts for specific and sensitive biological markers, or biomarkers, for psychopathology as objective alternatives to the current paradigm are ongoing. While biomarker research in psychiatry has focused largely on functional neuroimaging methods for identifying the neural functions that associate with psychopathology, scalp electroencephalography (EEG) has been viewed, historically, as offering little specific brain source information, as scalp appearance is only loosely correlated to its brain source dynamics. However, ongoing advances in signal processing of EEG data can now deliver functional EEG brain-imaging with distinctly improved spatial, as well as fine temporal, resolution. One computational approach proving particularly useful for EEG cortical brain imaging is independent component analysis (ICA). ICA decomposition can be used to identify distinct cortical source activities that are sensitive and specific to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders. Given its practical research advantages, relatively low cost, and ease of use, EEG-imaging is now both feasible and attractive, in particular for studies involving the large samples required by genetically informative designs to characterize causal pathways to psychopathology. The completely non-invasive nature of EEG data acquisition, coupled with ongoing advances in dry, wireless, and wearable EEG technology, makes EEG-imaging increasingly attractive and appropriate for psychiatric research, including the study of developmentally young samples. Applied to large genetically and developmentally informative samples, EEG imaging can advance the search for robust diagnostic biomarkers and phenotypes in psychiatry.


Amisulpride has been used to treat psychotic disorders and more recently even chronic fatigue. We describe 2 cases with somatoform disorders and who responded to low-dose amisulpride.
Insulin-producing cells are transplanted by portal vein injection as an alternative to pancreas transplantation in both clinical and preclinical trials. Two of the main limitations of portal vein transplantation are the prompt activation of the innate immunity and concomitant loss of islets and a small but significant risk of portal vein thrombosis. Furthermore, to mimic physiological release, the insulin-producing cells should instead be located in the pancreas. The trans-vessel wall approach is an endovascular method for penetrating the vessel wall from the inside. In essence, a working channel is established to the parenchyma of organs that are difficult to access by percutaneous technique. In this experiment, we accessed the extra-vascular pancreatic parenchyma in swine by microendovascular technique and injected methylene blue, contrast fluids and insulin-producing cells without acute adverse events. Further, we evaluated the procedure itself by a 1-year angiographical follow-up, without adverse events. This study shows that the novel approach utilizing endovascular minimal invasiveness coupled to accurate trans-vessel wall placement of an injection in the pancreatic parenchyma with insulin-producing cells is possible. In clinical practice, the potential benefits compared to portal vein cell transplantation should significantly improve endocrine function of the graft and potentially reduce adverse events.
The Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVLS) is a rare neurological disorder characterized by progressive pontobulbar palsy, sensorineural deafness and mixed spinal and upper motor neuropathy. Mutations in the C20orf54 gene have been linked to the disease and recently we reported the first Italian case of a BVVLS family with an intriguing C20orf54 genotype. However, the pathomechanisms underlying BVVLS are still unknown. Here we present the particular disease course with partial response to immunosuppressive therapy of our BVVLS patient for whom we hypothesize that dysimmune factors may have played a role in disease physiopathology.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a multisystem disease that overlaps with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Although FTD patients exhibit prominent deficits in emotion perception and social cognition, these domains have received relatively little attention in ALS. Moreover, direct comparisons between ALS and FTD on emotion processing tasks remain lacking. Twenty-nine patients with ALS (16 with coexisting FTD (FTD-ALS) and 13 without dementia), 25 behavioural variant FTD patients and 30 healthy controls completed neuropsychological and emotion tasks (Ekman Caricatures and the TASIT). Both ALS and FTD patient groups showed significant deficits on the emotion tasks compared to controls. After dividing ALS patients into those with and without FTD, only the patients with coexisting FTD (FTD-ALS) were impaired. FTD-ALS and FTD patient groups displayed similar levels of impairment, even after controlling for measures of general cognition, and demonstrated similar profiles across different types of emotions. We conclude that patients with FTD-ALS and FTD show similar, significant impairments in emotional processing. By contrast, ALS patients without dementia exhibit preserved emotion processing. Performance on emotion processing tasks may provide a useful clinical tool in identifying those with early FTD-ALS.



Repeated acquisition and discrimination reversal tasks are often used to examine behavioral relations of, respectively, learning and cognitive flexibility. Surprisingly, despite their frequent use in cognitive neuroscience and behavioral pharmacology, variables that control performance under these two tasks have not been widely studied. The present studies were conducted to directly investigate the controlling variables in nonhuman primates. Squirrel monkeys were trained with a touchscreen variant of the repeated acquisition task in which a novel pair of S(+)/S(-) stimuli was presented daily. Subjects learned to discriminate the two stimuli (acquisition) and, subsequently, with the contingencies switched (reversal). Results indicate that rates of both acquisition and reversal learning increased across successive sessions, but that rate of reversal learning remained slower than acquisition learning, i.e., more trials were needed for mastery. Subsequent experiments showed this difference between the rate of learning novel discriminations and reversal was reliable for at least 5 days between acquisition and reversal and notwithstanding the interpolation of additional discriminations. Experimental analysis of the S(+)/S(-) elements of the tasks revealed that the difference in the rate of learning could not be attributed to a relatively aversive quality of the S(-) or to a relatively appetitive quality of the S(+), but, rather, to contextual control by the S(+)/S(-) stimulus complex. Thus, if either element (S(+) or S(-)) of the stimulus complex was replaced by a novel stimulus, the rate of acquisition approximated that expected with a novel stimulus pair. These results improve our understanding of fundamental features of discrimination acquisition and reversal.



Despite medications, resective surgery, and vagal nerve stimulation, some patients with epilepsy continue to have seizures. In these patients, other approaches are urgently needed. The biological basis of stimulation of anterior thalamic nucleus and epileptogenic focus is presented. Results from two large randomized controlled trials Stimulation of Anterior Nucleus of Thalamus for Epilepsy (SANTE) and Neuropace pivotal trial are discussed. Neuromodulation provides effective treatment for a select group of refractory epilepsy patients. Future investigations into the mechanism underlying 'response' to brain stimulation are desired.
There are 50 million people living with epilepsy worldwide, and most of them reside in developing countries. About 10 million persons with epilepsy are there in India. Many people with active epilepsy do not receive appropriate treatment for their condition, leading to large treatment gap. The lack of knowledge of antiepileptic drugs, poverty, cultural beliefs, stigma, poor health infrastructure, and shortage of trained professionals contribute for the treatment gap. Infectious diseases play an important role in seizures and long-term burden causing both new-onset epilepsy and status epilepticus. Proper education and appropriate health care services can make tremendous change in a country like India. There have been many original researches in various aspects of epilepsy across India. Some of the geographically specific epilepsies occur only in certain regions of our country which have been highlighted by authors. Even the pre-surgical evaluation and epilepsy surgery in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy is available in many centers in our country. This article attempts to provide a complete preview of epilepsy in India.
While there are over one million people with drug-resistant epilepsy in India, today, there are only a handful of centers equipped to undertake presurgical evaluation and epilepsy surgery. The only solution to overcome this large surgical treatment gap is to establish comprehensive epilepsy care centers across the country that are capable of evaluating and selecting the patients for epilepsy surgery with the locally available technology and in a cost-effective manner. The National Epilepsy Surgery Support Activity (NESSA) aims to provide proper guidance and support in establishing epilepsy surgery programs across India and in neighboring resource-poor countries, and in sustaining them.
During the colloquium on drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE) at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore on August 16-18, 2013, a number of presentations were made on the surgically remediable lesional epilepsy syndromes, presurgical evaluation, surgical techniques, neuropathology of drug resistance focal epilepsy and surgical outcome. This pictorial essay with the illustrative case examples provides an overview of the various surgical techniques for the management of drug-resistant focal epilepsy.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) non-invasively measures the magnetic field generated due to the excitatory postsynaptic electrical activity of the apical dendritic pyramidal cells. Such a tiny magnetic field is measured with the help of the biomagnetometer sensors coupled with the Super Conducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) inside the magnetically shielded room (MSR). The subjects are usually screened for the presence of ferromagnetic materials, and then the head position indicator coils, electroencephalography (EEG) electrodes (if measured simultaneously), and fiducials are digitized using a 3D digitizer, which aids in movement correction and also in transferring the MEG data from the head coordinates to the device and voxel coordinates, thereby enabling more accurate co-registration and localization. MEG data pre-processing involves filtering the data for environmental and subject interferences, artefact identification, and rejection. Magnetic resonance Imaging (MRI) is processed for correction and identifying fiducials. After choosing and computing for the appropriate head models (spherical or realistic; boundary/finite element model), the interictal/ictal epileptiform discharges are selected and modeled by an appropriate source modeling technique (clinically and commonly used - single equivalent current dipole - ECD model). The equivalent current dipole (ECD) source localization of the modeled interictal epileptiform discharge (IED) is considered physiologically valid or acceptable based on waveform morphology, isofield pattern, and dipole parameters (localization, dipole moment, confidence volume, goodness of fit). Thus, MEG source localization can aid clinicians in sublobar localization, lateralization, and grid placement, by evoking the irritative/seizure onset zone. It also accurately localizes the eloquent cortex-like visual, language areas. MEG also aids in diagnosing and delineating multiple novel findings in other neuropsychiatric disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinsonism, Traumatic brain injury, autistic disorders, and so oon.




Results obtained in various species, from mammals to invertebrates, show that arrest in the cell cycle of mature oocytes is due to a high ERK activity. Apoptosis is stimulated in these oocytes if fertilization does not occur. Our previous data suggest that apoptosis of unfertilized sea urchin eggs is the consequence of an aberrant short attempt of development that occurs if ERK is inactivated. They contradict those obtained in starfish, another echinoderm, where inactivation of ERK delays apoptosis of aging mature oocytes that are nevertheless arrested at G1 of the cell cycle as in the sea urchin. This suggests that the cell death pathway that can be activated in unfertilized eggs is not the same in sea urchin and in starfish. In the present study, we find that protein synthesis is necessary for the survival of unfertilized sea urchin eggs, contrary to starfish. We also compare the effects induced by Emetine, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, with those triggered by Staurosporine, a non specific inhibitor of protein kinase that is widely used to induce apoptosis in many types of cells. Our results indicate that the unfertilized sea urchin egg contain different mechanisms capable of leading to apoptosis and that rely or not on changes in ERK activity, acidity of intracellular organelles or intracellular Ca and pH. We discuss the validity of some methods to investigate cell death such as measurements of caspase activation with the fluorescent caspase indicator FITC-VAD-fmk or acidification of intracellular organelles, methods that may lead to erroneous conclusions at least in the sea urchin model.
Negative emotions trigger eating in some individuals (emotional eaters) possibly by influencing stress hormones that contribute to eating regulation (e.g., cortisol), or eating-related peptides (e.g., ghrelin) signaling food initiation. The present study assessed whether stressor-elicited cortisol and ghrelin changes would differ between emotional and non-emotional eaters, and whether eating would influence these neuroendocrine responses. Undergraduate women (N=103) who completed measures of emotional eating, were assigned to anticipate either a stressful (public speaking) or non-stressful event. During this period, participants were or were not offered food. Blood samples were taken continuously over a 40-min period to assess changes of cortisol and ghrelin levels, and mood was assessed after the anticipation period. Baseline ghrelin levels were lower in emotional than non-emotional eaters, and this relation was mediated by percent body fat. Ghrelin levels were elevated among women anticipating a stressor, compared to those in the control condition. Additionally, the normal decline of ghrelin following food consumption was not apparent among emotional eaters. Although food intake was not tied to hormone responses, reported hunger was associated with greater food intake for women in the stressor condition. It was suggested that emotional eating coupled with subjective feelings of hunger, might contribute to eating in response to an acute stressor. Additionally, feedback mechanisms controlling the normalization of ghrelin levels might be disturbed in emotional eaters. The similarity of the ghrelin profile of emotional eaters to that of binge eaters and obese individuals, raises the possibility that disturbed ghrelin response might be a risk factor for such conditions.
In the first of two experiments, we compared the accuracy of the P300 concealed information test protocol as a function of numbers of trials experienced by subjects and ERP averages analyzed by investigators. Contrary to Farwell et al. (Cogn Neurodyn 6(2):115-154, 2012), we found no evidence that 100 trial based averages are more accurate than 66 or 33 trial based averages (all numbers led to accuracies of 84-94 %). There was actually a trend favoring the lowest trial numbers. The second study compared numbers of irrelevant stimuli recalled and recognized in the 3-stimulus protocol versus the complex trial protocol (Rosenfeld in Memory detection: theory and application of the concealed information test, Cambridge University Press, New York, pp 63-89, 2011). Again, in contrast to expectations from Farwell et al. (Cogn Neurodyn 6(2):115-154, 2012), there were no differences between protocols, although there were more irrelevant stimuli recognized than recalled, and irrelevant 4-digit number group stimuli were neither recalled nor recognized as well as irrelevant city name stimuli. We therefore conclude that stimulus processing in the P300-based complex trial protocol-with no more than 33 sweep averages-is adequate to allow accurate detection of concealed information.
Chondrocyte mechanotransduction is the process by which cartilage cells transduce mechanical loads into biochemical and biological signals. Previous studies have identified several pathways by which chondrocytes transduce mechanical loads, yet a general understanding of which signals are activated and in what order remains elusive. This study was performed to identify candidate mediators of chondrocyte mechanotransduction using SW1353 chondrocytes embedded in physiologically stiff agarose. Dynamic compression was applied to cell-seeded constructs for 0-30min, followed immediately by whole-cell metabolite extraction. Metabolites were detected via LC-MS, and compounds of interest were identified via database searches. We found several metabolites which were statistically different between the experimental groups, and we report the detection of 5 molecules which are not found in metabolite databases of known compounds indicating potential novel molecules. Targeted studies to quantify the response of central energy metabolites to compression found a transient increase in the ratio of NADP+ to NADPH and a continual decrease in the ratio of GDP to GTP, suggesting a flux of energy into the TCA cycle. These data are consistent with the remodeling of cytoskeletal components by mechanically induced signaling, and add substantial new data to a complex picture of how chondrocytes transduce mechanical loads.
TDP-43 is a nuclear protein whose abnormal aggregates are implicated in ALS and FTLD. Recently, an Asn/Gln rich C-terminal segment of TDP-43 has been shown to produce aggregation in vitro and reproduce most of the protein's pathological hallmarks in cells, but little is known about this segment's structure. Here, CD and 2D heteronuclear NMR spectroscopies provide evidence that peptides corresponding to the wild type and mutated sequences of this segment adopt chiefly disordered conformations that, in the case of the wild type sequence, spontaneously forms a -sheet rich oligomer. Moreover, MD simulation provides evidence for a structure consisting of two -strands and a well-defined, yet non-canonical structural element. Furthermore, MD simulations of four pathological mutations (Q343R, N345K, G348V and N352S) occurring in this segment predict that all of them could affect this region's structure. In particular, the Q343R variant tends to stabilize disordered conformers, N345K permits the formation of longer, more stable -strands, and G348V tends to shorten and destabilize them. Finally, N352S acts to alter the -stand register and when S352 is phosphorylated, it induces partial unfolding. Our results provide a better understanding of TDP-43 aggregation process and will be useful to design effectors capable to modulate its progression.
The multivesicular body (MVB) sorting pathway is a mechanism for delivering transmembrane proteins into the lumen of the lysosome for degradation. ESCRT-III is the final complex in the pathway that assembles on endosomes and executes membrane scission of intraluminal vesicles. In addition, proteins of this complex are involved in other topologically similar processes such as cytokinesis, virus egress and autophagy. Here we show that protein kinase CK2 is involved in the phosphorylation of the ESCRT-III subunits CHMP3 and CHMP2B, as well as of VPS4B/SKD1, an ATPase that mediates ESCRT-III disassembly. This phosphorylation is observed both in vitro and in cells. While we do not observe recruitment of CK2 to endosomes, we demonstrate the localization of CK2 to midbodies during cytokinesis. Phosphomimetic and non-phosphorylatable mutants of ESCRT-III proteins can still bind endosomes and localize to midbodies, indicating that CK2 does not regulate ESCRT-III localization. Finally, we analyzed two cellular functions where CHMP3, CHMP2B and VPS4 are known to be involved, epidermal growth factor degradation and cytokinetic abscission. We demonstrate that the former is impaired by CK2 downregulation whereas the latter is not affected. Taken together, our results indicate that CK2 regulates the function of ESCRT-III proteins in MVB sorting.
Recovery from mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is primarily based on the resolution of post-concussive symptoms back to a premorbid level. However, the &quot;good old days&quot; bias means fewer premorbid symptoms are retrospectively recalled, thus skewing the determination of recovery relative to pre-injury. The objectives of this study were to investigate the &quot;good old days&quot; bias in pediatric mTBI and demonstrate the implications of this bias on perceived recovery. Children and adolescents 2-18 years old (mean = 10.9, SD = 4.4, N = 412) were recruited after sustaining an mTBI. Ratings of premorbid symptoms were provided: (a) in the Emergency Department (ED; by parents), (b) retrospectively at a 1-month follow-up (by parents and adolescents), and (c) retrospectively at a 3-month follow-up (by parents and adolescents). Parent ratings of premorbid symptoms decreased by 80% from the ED to 1-month post-injury (p &lt; .001) but were stable from 1 to 3 months post-injury (p &lt; .05). Adolescents premorbid ratings declined from 1 to 3 months post-injury. Slow recovery did not have a differential impact on premorbid reporting. Using premorbid ratings obtained in the ED, instead of retrospective symptom reporting at the time of follow-up, suggests that a significant minority of patients believed to be &quot;not recovered&quot; actually have the &quot;same or lower&quot; symptom ratings at 1 (29%) and 3 months (41%) post-injury compared with before the injury. The &quot;good old days&quot; bias is present in pediatric mTBI by 1-month post-injury, influences retrospective symptom reporting, and has measureable implications for determining recovery in research and clinical practice.



Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most highly heritable behavioral disorders in childhood, with heritability estimates between 60 and 90 %. Family, twin and adoption studies have indicated a strong genetic component in the susceptibility to ADHD. The synaptosomal-associated protein of molecular weight 25 kDa (SNAP25) is a plasma membrane protein known to be involved in synaptic and neural plasticity. Animal model studies have shown that SNAP25 gene is responsible for hyperkinetic behavior in the coloboma mouse. In recent studies, several authors reported an association between SNAP25 and ADHD. In this study, we used a case-control approach to analyze the possible association of two polymorphisms of SNAP25 for possible association with ADHD in a sample of 73 cases and 152 controls in a Colombian children population. Polymorphisms are located in 3' untranslated region of SNAP25, positions T1065G and T1069C. We found a significant association with the GT haplotype (rs3746554|rs1051312) of SNAP25 (p = 0.001). Evidence of association was also found for the G/G genotype of rs3746554 (p = 0.002) and C/C genotype of rs1051312 (p = 0.009). This is the first study in a Latin American population. Similar to other studies, we found evidence of the association of SNAP25 and ADHD.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most common neurobehavioral disorder of childhood. There is an increasing need to find objective measures and markers of the disorder in order to assess the efficacy of the therapy and to improve follow-up strategies. Actigraphy is an objective method for recording motor activity and sleep parameters using small, computerized, watch-like devices worn on the body, and it has been used in many clinical trials to assess methylphenidate efficacy and adverse effects in ADHD. Our article aim is to systematically review and perform a meta-analysis of the current evidence on the role of actigraphy in both the detection of changes in activity and in sleep patterns in randomized clinical trials that compared methylphenidate against placebo in the treatment of ADHD. A comprehensive literature search of PubMed/MEDLINE, Scopus, Embase, Cochrane Library, CINHAL and PsycINFO databases was carried out to find randomized clinical trials comparing methylphenidate versus placebo in children with ADHD, using actigraphic measures as an outcome. No start date limit was used and the search was updated until June 2013. The primary outcome measures were 'total sleep time' and daytime 'activity mean'. As secondary outcomes, we analyzed 'sleep onset latency', 'sleep efficiency' and 'wake after sleep onset'. Eight articles comprising 393 patients were included in the analysis. Children with ADHD using MPH compared to placebo have a significant difference of a large effect with a diminishing value in the activity mean. For the total sleep time, we found a significant and large effect in the decrease in sleep in MPH group. This study shows that MPH may effectively reduce mean activity in ADHD children, but it may negatively affect total sleep time.
The objective of this study is to identify prognostic factors of treatment response to atomoxetine in improvement of health-related quality of life (HR-QoL), measured by the Child Health and Illness Profile-Child Edition Parent Report Form (CHIP-CE PRF) Achievement and Risk Avoidance domains, in children and adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Pooled data from 3 placebo-controlled trials and separate data from 3 open-label trials of atomoxetine in children and adolescents with ADHD were analyzed using logistic regression methods. Based on baseline impairment in the Achievement and/or Risk Avoidance domains (CHIP-CE PRF &lt; 40 points), 2 subsamples of subjects were included. Treatment outcome was categorized as &lt;5 points or 5 points increase in the CHIP-CE PRF Achievement and Risk Avoidance domains. Data of 190 and 183 subjects from the pooled sample, and 422 and 355 subjects from the open-label trials were included in the analysis of Achievement and Risk Avoidance domains. Baseline CHIP-CE subdomain scores proved to be the most robust prognostic factors for treatment outcome in both domains, based on data from the pooled sample of double-blind studies and from the individual open-label studies (odds ratios [OR] 0.74-1.56, p &lt; 0.05; OR &lt; 1, indicating a worse baseline score associated with worse odds of responding). Initial treatment response (25 % reduction in ADHD Rating Scale scores in the first 4-6 weeks) was another robust prognostic factor, based on data from the open-label studies (OR 2.99-6.19, p &lt; 0.05). Baseline impairment in HR-QoL and initial treatment response can be early prognostic factors of atomoxetine treatment outcome in HR-QoL in children and adolescents with ADHD.


The proteins that comprise the Atg1 kinase complex constitute a key set of components that participate in macroautophagy (hereafter autophagy). Among these proteins, Atg13 plays a particularly important, although as yet undefined role, in that it is critical for the proper localization of Atg1 to the phagophore assembly site (PAS) and its efficient kinase activity. Atg13 is hyperphosphorylated in vegetative conditions when autophagy occurs at a basal level, and is largely dephosphorylated upon the induction of autophagy. Inhibitory phosphorylation of Atg13 reflects the activity of TOR complex 1 (TORC1) and protein kinase A. Accordingly, monitoring the phosphorylation state of Atg13 provides a convenient way to follow early steps of autophagy induction as well as the activity of some of the upstream nutrient-sensing kinases. However, the detection of Atg13 by western blot can be problematic. Here, we present a detailed protocol for sample preparation and detection of the Atg13 protein from yeast.
Murine models are commonly used to evaluate progression of Alzheimer's disease. APPSwe/PS1E9 (APPxPS1) mice have previously been reported to demonstrate impaired learning and memory in the Morris water maze test. However, this paradigm introduces a variety of behaviours that may confound performance of the mice, thus an alternative was sought. A battery of behavioural tests (light-dark test, elevated plus maze, novel object recognition task, social recognition test, cheeseboard task and prepulse inhibition) was used to investigate various behavioural and cognitive domains with relevance to Alzheimer's disease. We found 9-month old female APPxPS1 mice exhibited impaired spatial memory in the reversal cheeseboard task. In addition, task-dependent hyperlocomotion and anxiolytic-like behaviours were observed in the light-dark test. Female APPxPS1 demonstrated intact object recognition memory and sensorimotor gating was not significantly decreased compared to control mice except for one particular interstimulus interval. The social recognition test failed to detect preference for social novelty in control females. In conclusion, this is the first study to describe a memory deficit in female APPxPS1 mice in the hidden cheeseboard task. Transgenic females also exhibited task-dependent reduction in anxiety behaviours and hyperlocomotion. These novel findings enhance our understanding of the behavioural phenotype of APPxPS1 females and present the cheeseboard as a valid alternative to other established spatial memory tests. Furthermore, the task-dependency of some of our findings suggests that behavioural profiling of APPxPS1 transgenic mice should be assessed using a variety of behavioural paradigms.
While the neuronal basis of spatial memory consolidation has been thoroughly studied, the substrates mediating the process of extinction remain largely unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the functional contribution of selected brain regions during the extinction of a previously acquired spatial memory task in the Morris water maze. For that purpose, we used adult male Wistar rats trained in a spatial reference memory task. Learning-related changes in c-Fos inmunoreactive cells after training were evaluated in cortical and subcortical regions. Results show that removal of the hidden platform in the water maze induced extinction of the previously reinforced escape behavior after 16 trials, without spontaneous recovery 24h later. Extinction was related with significantly higher numbers of c-Fos positive nuclei in amygdala nuclei and prefrontal cortex. On the other hand, the lateral mammillary bodies showed higher number of c-Fos positive cells than the control group. Therefore, in contrast with the results obtained in studies of classical conditioning, we show the involvement of diencephalic structures mediating this kind of learning. In summary, our findings suggest that medial prefrontal cortex, the amygdala complex and diencephalic structures like the lateral mammillary nuclei are relevant for the extinction of spatial memory.
Endogenous opioid activity plays an important role in ethanol consumption and reinforcement in infant rats. Opioid systems are also involved in mediation and regulation of stress responses. Social isolation is a stressful experience for preweanling rats and changes the effects of ethanol through opioid-dependent mechanisms. The present study assessed effects of intracisternal (i.c.) administration of a selective mu-opioid antagonist (CTOP) and i.p. administration of a nonspecific opioid antagonist (naloxone) on voluntary intake and behavior in socially isolated 12-day-old (P12) pups treated with 0.5 g/kg ethanol. Voluntary intake of 0.1% saccharin or water, locomotion, rearing activity, paw licking and grooming were assessed during short-term isolation from littermates (STSI; 8-min duration). Thermal nociceptive reactivity was measured before and after this intake test, with normalized differences between pre- and post-test latencies of paw withdrawal from a hot plate (49C) used as an index of isolation-induced analgesia (IIA). Results indicated several effects of social isolation and ethanol mediated through the mu-opioid system. Effects of low dose ethanol (0.5 g/kg) and voluntary consumption of saccharin interacted with endogenous mu-opioid activity associated with STSI. Blockade of mu-opioid receptors on saccharin consumption and paw licking-grooming affected intoxicated animals. Low dose ethanol and ingestion of saccharin blunted effects of CTOP on rearing behavior and nociceptive reactivity. Central injections of CTOP stimulated paw licking and grooming dependent on ethanol dose and type of fluid ingested. Ethanol selectively increased saccharin intake during STSI in females, naloxone and CTOP blocked ethanol-mediated enhancement of saccharin intake. We suggest that enhancement of saccharin intake by ethanol during STSI is the product of synergism between isolation-induced mu-opioid activity that increases the pup's sensitivity to appetitive taste stimulation and the anxiolytic effects of 0.5 g/kg ethanol that decreases behaviors otherwise competing with independent ingestive activity.
The playful, experimenter-administered manual somatosensory stimulation of rats results in a positive affect that triggers emission of ~50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), which have been proposed to index positive emotions akin to human joy and laughter. Our earlier findings showed that restraint stress decreased rat's tendency to emit 50-kHz USVs. Here we investigated whether the effects of stress on &quot;tickling&quot;-induced vocalizations could be alleviated by the glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor, metyrapone. After the daily tickling sessions carried out until the USV response to tickling has stabilized, the rats were subjected to either handling, handling and metyrapone treatment, restraint stress lasting one week or the restraint stress and metyrapone treatment. Our results confirmed that animals exposed to restraint stress diminish the number of &quot;tickling&quot;-induced vocalizations as compared to the &quot;tickled&quot; but handled conspecifics. Metyrapone treatment prevented this effect in stressed animals having no effects in handled rats. The off-line analysis revealed that the majority (82-88%) of &quot;tickling&quot;-induced USVs were of the 50-kHz frequency modulated type and that the flat USVs appeared much less frequently (8.5-12%) while the 22-kHz alarm calls appeared sporadically (0.3-8%). Moreover, the acoustic parameters of the 50-kHz frequency modulated and flat USVs resembled the calls described earlier in adult rats. The results of the present study offer a way of identifying anti-stress and perhaps anti-depressant action of novel compounds based on the measurement of a positive affect of animals.
Postnatal maternal separation (PMS) has been shown to be associated with an increased vulnerability to psychiatric illnesses in adulthood. However, the underlying neurological mechanisms are not well understood. Here we evaluated its effects on neurogenesis and tonic GABA currents of cortical layer 5 (L5) pyramidal neurons. PMS not only increased cell proliferation in the subventricular zone, cortical layer 1 and hippocampal dentate gyrus in the adult brain, but also promoted the newly generated cells to differentiate into GABAergic neurons, and PMS adult brain maintained higher ratios of GABAergic neurons in the survival of newly generated cells within 5 days immediately post PMS. Additionally, PMS increased the tonic currents at P7-10 and P30-35 in cortical L5 pyramidal cells. Our results suggest that the newly generated GABAergic neurons and the low GABA concentration-activated tonic currents may be involved in the development of psychiatric disorders after PMS.
Heterozygous (HZ) missense mutations in the gene encoding syntaxin binding protein 1 (Stxbp1 or Munc18-1), a presynaptic protein essential for neurotransmitter release, causes early infantile epileptic encephalopathy, abnormal brain structure and mental retardation in humans. Here we investigated whether the mouse model mimics symptoms of the human phenotype. The effects of the deletion of munc18-1 were studied in HZ and wild-type (WT) mice based on heart rate (HR) and its variability (HRV) as independent measures to expand previous behavioral results of enhanced anxiety and impaired emotional learning suggesting mild cognitive impairments. HR responses were assessed during novelty exposure, during the expression and extinction of conditioned tone-dependent fear and during the diurnal phase. Novelty exposure yielded no differences in activity patterns between the two genotypes, while maximum HR differed significantly (WT: 770 bpm; HZ: 790 bpm). Retention tests after both auditory delay and trace fear conditioning showed a delayed extinction of the conditioned HR response in HZ mice compared to WT mice. Since the HR versus HRV correlation and HR dynamics assessed by nonlinear methods revealed similar function in HZ and WT mice, the higher HR responses of munc18-1 HZ mice to different emotional challenges cannot be attributed to differences in autonomic nervous system function. Thus, in contrast to the adverse consequences of deletion of a single allele of munc18-1 in humans, C57BL/6J mice show enhanced anxiety responses based on HR adjustments that extend previous results on the behavioral level without support of cognitive impairment, epileptic seizures and autonomic dysregulation.
Circadian fluctuations of fear and anxiety symptoms are observable in persons with post-traumatic stress disorder, generalized anxiety, and panic disorder; however, the underlying neurobiological mechanisms are not sufficiently understood. In the present study, we investigated the putative role of inhibitory neurotransmission in the circadian fluctuation of fear symptoms, using mice with genetic ablation of the -amino butyric acid (GABA) synthesizing isoenzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD65. We observed in these mutant mice an altered expression of conditioned fear with a profound reduction of freezing, and an increase of hyperactivity bouts occurring only when both fear conditioning training and retrieval testing were done at the beginning of their active phase. Mutants further showed an increased arousal response at this time of the day, although, circadian rhythm of home cage activity was unaltered. Hyperactivity and reduced freezing during fear memory retrieval were accompanied by an increased induction of the immediate early gene cFos suggesting hyperactivation of the hippocampus, amygdala, and medial hypothalamus. Our data suggest a role of GAD65-mediated GABA synthesis in the encoding of circadian information to fear memory. GAD65 deficits in a state-dependent manner result in increased neural activation in fear circuits and elicit panic-like flight responses during fear memory retrieval.
The role of the avian hippocampal formation (HF) in spatial cognition is well demonstrated. However, it remains uncertain if the avian hippocampus, like its mammalian counterpart, has a role in the integration of elements that could compose a memory independent of space. The two experiments in the current study examined whether the HF of homing pigeons (Columba livia) was required to encode into memory a discriminative representation of food quality (Experiment 1) and quantity (Experiment 2) with different food bowl-features. Pigeons were exposed to an array of different colored bowls, two of which contained food rewards differing in preferred quality or quantity. To render space irrelevant for memory encoding, the location of the food-rewarded bowls was altered between each trial, while the features of the rewarded bowls remained constant. Both groups learned the feature-based quality and quantity discrimination tasks and no difference in performance between control pigeons and those with bilateral lesions of the hippocampus were found. The findings do not support the hypothesis that the avian HF is recruited when only non-spatial elements are integrated into a unified memory. From the current study, and the literature as a whole, it appears that the avian HF, unlike the mammalian hippocampus, may play no necessary role in memory processes where space is irrelevant.
Previous work examining animal models of cognitive flexibility have focused on tasks where animals are required to shift between cues in order to reach a food reward from among a limited set of choices. Performance by nonhuman animals on these tasks, including reversal learning, intradimensional set-shifting, and extradimensional set-shifting, are affected by pharmacological action on serotonergic, dopaminergic, and alpha-adrenergic, but not beta-adrenergic receptors. However, beta-adrenergic antagonists, such as propranolol, are widely utilized for conditions such as test anxiety. Propranolol improves performance in humans during cognitive flexibility tasks where there is a broad set of potential solutions. The current investigation utilized a digging task where the rodent must develop a novel solution in order to obtain a reward. Similar to the effects observed in humans, propranolol improved performance on this task, while not affecting performance on set-shifting tasks, as with previous animal studies. This may allow future investigation of the neurobiological mechanism by which propranolol affects context-specific anxiety, and could provide insight into the neurobiology of creativity.
Contextual stimuli present during nicotine exposure can come to act as conditioned stimuli and have been shown to play an important role in ongoing nicotine self-administration. In the present study, we characterized the effects of contextual stimuli previously paired with non-contingent nicotine exposure injections on subsequent nicotine self-administration. Rats were exposed to five injections of either saline or nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) in either their home cage or a self-administration chamber with the levers retracted. Two weeks later, they were allowed to self-administer nicotine (30 g/kg/infusion, IV) under fixed ratio (FR) schedules of reinforcement across 12 consecutive sessions. Lastly, responding under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule was assessed. Rats exposed to nicotine in the self-administration chamber subsequently increased their intake of nicotine across the FR test days, obtaining more infusions on average by days 7-12 compared to their saline exposed controls. This increase was not due to nicotine exposure alone as rats exposed to nicotine in the home cage did not show this effect. It was also not due to differences in the final ratio achieved between nicotine and saline exposed rats. Although rats exposed to nicotine in the self-administration chambers displayed reduced discrimination between the active and inactive levers during FR testing, they showed increased motivation to self-administer nicotine under the PR schedule. These results indicate that exposure to nicotine can enhance its subsequent self-administration and highlight the contribution of nicotine-associated contextual stimuli to the work output rats ultimately emit to obtain the drug.
Social isolation prior to stroke leads to poorer outcomes after an ischemic injury in both animal and human studies. However, the impact of social isolation following stroke, which may be more clinically relevant as a target for therapeutic intervention, has yet to be examined. In this study, we investigated both the sub-acute (2 weeks) and chronic (7 weeks) effects of social isolation on post-stroke functional and histological outcome. Worsened histological damage from ischemic injury and an increase in depressive-like behavior was observed in isolated mice as compared to pair-housed mice. Mice isolated immediately after stroke showed a decrease in the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). These changes, both histological and behavioral, suggest an overall negative effect of social isolation on stroke outcome, potentially contributing to post-stroke depression and anxiety. Therefore, it is important to identify patients who have perceived isolation post-stroke to hopefully prevent this exacerbation of histological damage and subsequent depression.
Orexin-deficient mice express narcoleptic episodes which mirror some of the main symptoms of human narcolepsy. Therefore, they are often used in narcolepsy research. However, little is known about some behavioral characteristics of narcoleptic episodes, e.g. about episode types, duration, and variability. In the present study, 351 narcoleptic episodes of orexin-deficient mice were behaviorally characterized. Based on this data, we describe different onset and progression episodes types. These episode types affected episode duration, i.e. abrupt onsets and 'shaking'-like movements increased episode duration. Our data suggests that promoting motor activity enhances the frequency of narcoleptic episode. Inter-individual variability of episode frequency and duration was large; however, the intra-individual frequency was relatively stable. Based on these findings we suggest the following to increase the statistical power of experiments in orexin-deficient mice: Using a pre-screen and selecting the mice with decent episode frequency, using an enriched environment as well as using repeated-measure designs.
One class of model relating to animal contest behaviour assumes that individuals gather information concerning their opponents' competitive ability; these models argue that such a process allows contestants to avoid engaging in dangerous fighting behaviour with a superior opponent. The brain hemispheres of vertebrates are lateralised in that they are specialised for processing different type of information. Within the context of the current study, we might expect that lateralisation would play a role in facilitating the assessment of opponent quality; nevertheless, the degree of lateralisation shown by individuals can vary suggesting that contest behaviour might also vary based on the ability to process information about competitor quality. The current study tests this hypothesis by predicting that the duration that individuals engage in fighting and the rate of aggressive contest actions should decrease as lateralisation increases. There was a positive relationship between two laterality indices and the duration spent in antler contact; thus lateralised individuals experienced greater time costs. Further, lateralised individuals also experienced a greater disparity in contest actions: there was a negative relationship between lateralisation and the difference in the mean number of backward pushes achieved during fights. When only opponent signal rate was considered there was no effect of lateralisation, therefore, there is support for a mutual assessment process. These results suggest that information gathering via lateral displays may be disadvantageous to lateralised individuals during escalated fighting.
We studied the behavioural response of European starlings to a socially mediated predation event. Adult starlings were exposed to either a video of a flock attacked by a peregrine falcon or a video of a flock not under attack. We investigated whether the social condition affected the anti-predator response under the hypothesis that in such a gregarious species singletons would increase their anti-predator behaviour more than individuals in groups, to compensate for potential increased risk. The video of the flock under attack caused an increase in immobility and vigilance, more marked in singletons, both during and after the exposure. The video of the non-threatened flock caused an increase in activity levels, especially during the exposure. Furthermore, we observed a marked increase in comfort activities in singletons as well as in social interactions and vocalizations in mini-flocks. Only birds in mini-flocks vocalized, which may be explained by an audience effect, a process of social cognition mediated by the social context, and not only by the stimulus. The results are in line with previous field studies, which showed that isolated starlings are exposed to a higher risk of predation compared to individuals in flocks.
Mate choice is a primary mechanism driving the evolution of sexually selected traits such as elaborate displays and ornaments. In a majority of taxa studied to date, females are seen to actively sample and evaluate multiple males, presumably to optimize mating opportunities. During this process females may encounter males both familiar and novel, a distinction that might influence how mate choice proceeds. Using a socially monogamous passerine, the blue-black grassquit (Volatinia jacarina), we studied how females respond to novel versus familiar (&quot;paired&quot;) males, and how encounters with novel males influence subsequent interactions with their paired males. Additionally, we measured the hormonal response of males after visualizing their paired females interacting with novel males. We found that females were attentive to novel males irrespective of these males' phenotypic attributes, suggesting that in these interactions novelty is highly relevant. After exposure to novel males, females tended to respond aggressively towards their paired males; by contrast, the behaviour of males towards their paired females did not change. Moreover, we did not detect any hormonal responses of males to viewing their paired females interacting with novel males. Together these results suggest that the distinction between familiarity and novelty may hold special relevance for females in mate choice, a finding that bears upon our understanding of the evolution of extra-pair paternity and reproductive behaviour.
Discovering a food source may invoke either competition or cooperation, depending on many factors such as divisibility and accessibility. We experimentally investigated the influence of effort to procure food on the tolerance towards others during feeding. Nine sub-adult captive ravens were tested in different foraging contexts that differed in foraging effort, namely three string-pulling conditions and two without pulling requirement. We expected that the effort to gain access to food would positively affect the tolerance towards others at feeding. As predicted, we found fewer agonistic interactions, fewer displacements of subordinates from food and prolonged feeding bouts in the three string-pulling conditions compared to the two conditions when no pulling was involved. Further, in the string pulling tasks interactions occurred mostly on the perch before pulling and only rarely was pulling interrupted by agonistic interactions. The rate of interactions did not change over trials. Our data suggests that perceived effort influences social behaviour.
Although the cerebral networks involved in sensory perception are of general interest in neuroscience, registration of the effects of olfactory stimulation, especially in a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) environment, presents particular problems and constraints. This article presents details of a reliable and portable system for olfactory stimulation that is modular in design and based on microcontroller technology. It has the following characteristics: (1) It is under software control; (2) the presentation of olfactory stimulation can be synchronized with respiration; (3) it can be manually controlled; and (4) it is fully compatible with an MRI environment. The principle underlying this system is to direct an odor to the subject's nostrils by switching airflow to different odor diffusers. The characteristics of this system were established using (1) ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, to measure its response time, and (2) gas chromatography, to measure the repeatability of odor presentation in terms of gas concentration. A response time of 200  25 ms was obtained for the system, and the standard deviations of the gas concentration delivered during stimulation ranged from 1.5% to 22%, depending on the odor, the airflow, and the dilution of the odor used. Since it is portable, controlled by software, and reliable, on the basis of the results we obtained, this system will lend itself to a wide range of applications in olfactory neuroscience.
Hyperacusis, defined as unusual intolerance to ordinary environmental sounds, is a common problem for which there are no controlled trials on psychological treatment. Given the avoidance strategies present in hyperacusis, and similarities with problems such as tinnitus and chronic pain, cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) is hypothesized to be helpful for patients with hyperacusis. In this randomized controlled study of 60 patients with hyperacusis, CBT was compared with a waiting list control group using the Loudness Discomfort Level test (LDL), the Hyperacusis Questionnaire, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scales, the Quality of Life Inventory and an adapted version of the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia. There were significant between-group effects in favour of the CBT group on all measures except for the HADS anxiety scale. Between-group effect sizes were moderate to high, with Cohen's d=0.67 and 0.69 per ear, respectively, for the primary measure LDL, and ranging from d=0.32 to 1.36 for the secondary measures. The differences between groups ceased to exist when the waiting list group was treated later with CBT, and the treatment results were largely maintained after 12 months. In conclusion, CBT is a promising treatment for hyperacusis, although more research is necessary.

Patient preferences are increasingly recognized as important in clinical research and the delivery of evidence based practice in psychology. Although the prevention of depressive relapse/recurrence among perinatal women is an important public health goal, little is known about pregnant women's preferences and attitudes toward relapse/recurrence prevention interventions. Such information is important given low rates of care seeking among this population, and the potential for a relapse/recurrence prevention to avert negative outcomes among both vulnerable women and their offspring. Pregnant women seeking routine prenatal care in obstetric clinics (n=200) were surveyed to assess their preferences for and attitudes about psychotherapy and pharmacological approaches to relapse/recurrence prevention. Women preferred psychotherapy (mindfulness based cognitive therapy and interpersonal therapy) more so than pharmacotherapy and reported significantly more favorable perceptions of the psychotherapy as compared to pharmacotherapy approaches to depression relapse/recurrence prevention. Results suggest also that depression history is important to consider in evaluating women's preferences and attitudes. Clinical and research implications of these findings are discussed.
It has been shown recently that PrP (prion protein) and the calcium channel auxiliary 2 subunits interact in neurons and expression systems [Senatore, Colleoni, Verderio, Restelli, Morini, Condliffe, Bertani, Mantovani, Canovi, Micotti, Forloni, Dolphin, Matteoli, Gobbi and Chiesa (2012) Neuron 74, 300-313]. In the present study we examined whether there was an effect of PrP on calcium currents. We have shown that when PrP is co-expressed with calcium channels formed from CaV2.1/ and 2-1 or 2-2, there is a consistent decrease in calcium current density. This reduction was absent when a PrP construct was used lacking its GPI (glycosylphosphatidylinositol) anchor. We have reported previously that 2 subunits are able to form GPI-anchored proteins [Davies, Kadurin, Alvarez-Laviada, Douglas, Nieto-Rostro, Bauer, Pratt and Dolphin (2010) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 107, 1654-1659] and show further evidence in the present paper. We have characterized recently a C-terminally truncated 2-1 construct, 2-1C, and found that, despite loss of its membrane anchor, it still shows a partial ability to increase calcium currents [Kadurin, Alvarez-Laviada, Ng, Walker-Gray, D'Arco, Fadel, Pratt and Dolphin (2012) J. Biol. Chem. 1287, 33554-33566]. We now find that PrP does not inhibit CaV2.1/ currents formed with 2-1C, rather than 2-1. It is possible that PrP and 2-1 compete for GPI-anchor intermediates or trafficking pathways, or that interaction between PrP and 2-1 requires association in cholesterol-rich membrane microdomains. Our additional finding that CaV2.1/1b/2-1 currents were inhibited by GPI-GFP, but not cytosolic GFP, indicates that competition for limited GPI-anchor intermediates or trafficking pathways may be involved in PrP suppression of 2 subunit function.
Pre-diabetes, a risk factor for type 2 diabetes development, leads to metabolic changes at testicular level. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  coactivator 1  (PGC-1) and Sirtuin 3 (Sirt3) are pivotal in mitochondrial function. We hypothesized that pre-diabetes disrupts testicular PGC-1/Sirt3 axis, compromising testicular mitochondrial function. Using a high-energy-diet induced pre-diabetic rat model, we evaluated testicular levels of PGC-1 and its downstream targets, nuclear respiratory factors 1 (NRF-1) and 2 (NRF-2), mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) and Sirt3. We also assessed mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content, mitochondrial function, energy levels and oxidative stress parameters. Protein levels were quantified by Western Blot, mtDNA content was determined by qPCR. Mitochondrial complex activity and oxidative stress parameters were spectrophotometrically evaluated. Adenine nucleotide levels, adenosine and its metabolites (inosine and hypoxanthine) were determined by reverse-phase HPLC. Pre-diabetic rats showed increased blood glucose levels and impaired glucose tolerance. Both testicular PGC-1 and Sirt3 levels were decreased. NRF-1, NRF-2 and TFAM were not altered. Testicular mtDNA content was decreased. Mitochondrial complex I activity was increased, whereas mitochondrial complex III activity was decreased. Adenylate energy charge was decreased in pre-diabetic rats, as were ATP and ADP levels. Conversely, AMP levels were increased, evidencing a decreased ATP/AMP ratio. Concerning to oxidative stress pre-diabetes decreased testicular antioxidant capacity and increased lipid and protein oxidation. In sum, pre-diabetes compromises testicular mitochondrial function by repressing PGC-1/Sirt3 axis and mtDNA copy number, declining respiratory capacity and increasing oxidative stress. This study gives new insights into overall testicular bioenergetics at this prodromal stage of disease.
The orexins are neuropeptides with critical functions in the central nervous system. These neuropeptides have important roles in energy balance and obesity, and therefore on the accumulation of adipose tissue. Rodents lacking orexins, typically through genetic knockouts, experience increased weight gain and accumulation of adipose tissue. Evidence indicates that the lack of the orexins increase adiposity as a result of decreased energy expenditure, principally through a reduction of physical activity. Different lines of evidence suggest that other mechanisms are likely also in play, and neural influences on both white and brown adipose tissues remain to be fully and functionally defined. In addition, the orexin peptides and their receptors are expressed in adipose tissue, with little available information as to their significance. This review summarizes our current understanding of how the orexin peptides affect adipose tissue. We provide a brief introduction to the physiology of orexins and their effects on white and brown adipose tissues in the context of energy balance. We conclude this review by integrating this information in the context of the known physiology of the orexins. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Modulation of Adipose Tissue in Health and Disease.
In the healthy state, both circadian rhythm and mood are stable against perturbations, yet they are capable of adjusting to altered internal cues or ongoing changes in external conditions. The dual demands of stability and flexibility are met by the collective properties of complex neural networks. Disruption of this balance underlies both circadian rhythm abnormality and mood disorders. However, we do not fully understand the network properties that govern the crosstalk between the circadian system and mood regulation. This puzzle reflects a challenge at the center of neurobiology, and its solution requires the successful integration of existing data across all levels of neural organization, from molecules, cells, circuits, network dynamics, to integrated mental function. This essay discusses several open questions confronting the cross-level synthesis, and proposes that circadian regulation, and its role in mood, stands as a uniquely tractable system to study the causal mechanisms of neural adaptation. Also watch the Video Abstract. Editor's suggested further reading in BioEssays Major depressive disorder: A loss of circadian synchrony?Abstract.
Control of cell migration is important in numerous key biological processes, and is implicated in pathological conditions such as cancer metastasis and inflammatory diseases. Many previous studies indicated that cell migration could be guided by micropatterns fabricated on cell culture surfaces. In this study, we designed a polydimethylsiloxane cell culture substrate with gratings punctuated by corners and ends, and studied its effects on the behavior of MC3T3-E1 osteoblast cells. MC3T3-E1 cells elongated and aligned with the gratings, and the migration paths of the cells appeared to be guided by the grating pattern. Interestingly, more than 88% of the cells cultured on these patterns were observed to reverse their migration directions at least once during the 16h examination period. Most of the reversal events occurred at the corners and the ends of the pattern, suggesting these localized topographical features induce an abrupt loss in directional persistence. Moreover, the cell speed was observed to increase temporarily right after each directional reversal. Focal adhesion complexes were more well-established in cells on the angular gratings than on flat surfaces, but the formation of filipodia appeared to be imbalanced at the corners and the ends, possibly leading to the loss of directional persistence. This study describes the first engineered cell culture surface that consistently induces changes in the directional persistence of adherent cells. This will provide an experimental model for the study of this phenomenon and a valuable platform to control the cell motility and directionality, which can be used for cell screening and selection.

Evidence is rapidly accumulating that rare, recurrent copy number variants represent large effect risk factors for neuropsychiatric disorders. 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) (velocardiofacial syndrome or DiGeorge syndrome) is the most common known contiguous gene deletion syndrome and is associated with diverse neuropsychiatric disorders across the life span. One of the most intriguing aspects of the syndrome is the variability in clinical and cognitive presentation: children with 22q11DS have high prevalence of autism spectrum, attention deficit, and anxiety disorders, as well as psychotic-like features, and up to 30% of adolescents and adults develop schizophrenia-like psychosis. Recently, cases of early-onset Parkinson's disease in adults have been reported, collectively suggesting a role for disrupted dopaminergic neurotransmission in the observed neuropsychiatric phenotypes. There is also some evidence that 22q11DS-associated autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia represent two unrelated phenotypic manifestations, consistent with a neuropsychiatric pleiotropy model. This genetic lesion thus provides a unique model for the discovery of specific genomic risk and (potentially) protective factors for neuropsychiatric disease. Here, we provide an overview of neuropsychiatric findings to date, which highlight the value of this syndrome in mapping the developmental trajectory of dimensional phenotypes that traverse multiple diagnostic categories. Potential sources of genetic variability that may contribute to the disorder's heterogeneous presentation are reviewed. Because of its known genetic etiology, animal models can readily be developed that recapitulate specific aspects of the syndrome. Future research directions involve translational models and potential for drug screenable targets in the context of this human model system.




People often report word-finding difficulties and other language disturbances when put in a stressful situation. There is, however, scant empirical evidence to support the claim that stress affects speech productivity. To address this issue, we measured speech and language variables during a stressful Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) as well as during a less stressful &quot;placebo&quot; TSST (Het et al., 2009). Compared to the non-stressful speech, participants showed higher word productivity during the TSST. By contrast, participants paused more during the stressful TSST, an effect that was especially pronounced in participants who produced a larger cortisol and heart rate response to the stressor. Findings support anecdotal evidence of stress-impaired speech production abilities.
A defined xeno-free system for patient-specific iPSC derivation and differentiation is required for translation to clinical applications. However, standard somatic cell reprogramming protocols rely on using MEFs and xenogeneic medium, imposing a significant obstacle to clinical translation. Here, we describe a well-defined culture system based on xeno-free media and LN521 substrate which supported i) efficient reprogramming of normal or diseased skin fibroblasts from human of different ages into hiPSCs with a 15-30 fold increase in efficiency over conventional viral vector-based method; ii) long-term self-renewal of hiPSCs; and iii) direct hiPSC lineage-specific differentiation. Using an excisable polycistronic vector and optimized culture conditions, we achieved up to 0.15%-0.3% reprogramming efficiencies. Subsequently, transgene-free hiPSCs were obtained by Cre-mediated excision of the reprogramming factors. The derived iPSCs maintained long-term self-renewal, normal karyotype and pluripotency, as demonstrated by the expression of stem cell markers and ability to form derivatives of three germ layers both in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, we demonstrated that Parkinson's patient transgene-free iPSCs derived using the same system could be directed towards differentiation into dopaminergic neurons under xeno-free culture conditions. Our approach provides a safe and robust platform for the generation of patient-specific iPSCs and derivatives for clinical and translational applications.
Brain tissue engineering has the potential to harness existing elements of neurogenesis within the adult brain to overcome a microenvironment that is otherwise inhibitory to regeneration, especially following severe tissue damage. This study investigates the ability of electrospun poly -caprolactone (PCL) to re-direct the migratory pathway of endogenous neuroblasts from the disrupted subventricular zone (SVZ). A small molecule non-peptide ligand (BDNF-mimetic) that mimicked the trophic properties of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was incorporated into electrospun PCL scaffolds to improve neuroblast survival and promote neuroblast migration towards the implant. PCL scaffolds were able to support neuroblast infiltration and migration along the implant tract. In the presence of the BDNF-mimetic, neuroblasts were able to migrate towards the implant via the parenchyma, and their persistence within the implants was prolonged. In addition, the BDNF-mimetic improved implant integration and increased local neuronal plasticity by increasing neurite sprouting at the tissue-implant interface. SMI32+ neurites were observed inside scaffolds at 21 days but not 8 days post implantation, indicating that at least some of the infiltrated neuroblasts had differentiated into neurons.
While neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) show promise for traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI), their efficacy in cervical SCI remains to be established. Moreover, their application to SCI is limited by the challenges posed by the lesion including the glial scar and the post-traumatic cavitation. Given this background, we sought to examine the synergistic effect of self-assembling peptide (SAP) molecules, designed to optimize the post-traumatic CNS microenvironment, and NSCs in a clinically-relevant model of contusive/compressive cervical SCI. We injected K2(QL)6K2 (QL6) SAPs into the lesion epicenter 14 days after bilateral clip compression-induced cervical SCI in rats, combined with simultaneous transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) intraspinally adjacent to the lesion epicenter. The QL6 SAPs reduced the volume of cystic cavitation in the spinal cord lesion. Simultaneously engrafted NPCs preserved motor neurons and attenuated perilesional inflammation. The combination of QL6 and NPCs promoted forelimb neurobehavioral recovery and was associated with significant improvement in forelimb print area and stride length. In summary, we report for the first time histologic and functional benefits in a clinically-relevant model of cervical SCI through the synergistic effects of combined SAP and NPCs.
This article reviews and discusses the approved and emerging therapies for multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a chronic and disabling immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that affects mainly young adults. MS imposes a huge economic burden on healthcare systems and the society. Although the last 20 years have brought a continuous expansion in therapeutic options, there are still unmet needs in MS management. Available MS drugs have varying degrees of efficacy in reducing relapse risk. The long-term term effects of these treatments are incompletely known. New therapies, along with variations of currently available treatments, may prove more effective and tolerable than the available drugs. Treatments for MS differ with respect to the mode of administration, tolerability and likelihood of treatment adherence, side effects, and risk of major toxicity. The armamentarium of approved disease-modifying therapies in MS and those in development include: (1) the first approved, moderately effective, injectable interferon- and glatiramer acetate; (2) oral drugs (fingolimod, laquinimod, teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate); (3) monoclonal antibodies (rituximab, ocrelizumab, ofatumumab, daclizumab, alemtuzumab); and (4) immunosuppressive agents (e.g. mitoxantrone). The place of each drug in the therapeutic algorithm is dependent on its specific risk-benefit profile. Patients' clinical and paraclinical phenotypes and biomarker profile may help to elucidate disease subtypes and response to therapy in the future, thus allowing treatment individualization.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system in which destruction of myelin and nerve axons has been shown to be mediated by immune mechanisms. Although the focus of research has been traditionally on T cells as key mediators of the immunopathology, more recent efforts at understanding this complex disorder have been directed increasingly at other cellular and humoral elements of the immune response. This review is a reappraisal of the crucial role of T cells, in particular the CD4+ helper T-cell subset, in multiple sclerosis. Recent evidence is discussed underlining the predominant contribution of T-cell-associated genes to the genome-wide association study results of multiple sclerosis susceptibility, the loss of T-cell quiescence in the conversion from clinically isolated syndrome to clinically definite multiple sclerosis, and the fact that T cells represent the main target of effective immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive treatments in multiple sclerosis.
Zebrafish has rapidly evolved as a powerful vertebrate model organism for studying human diseases. Here we first demonstrate a new label-free approach for in vivo imaging of microvasculature, based on the recent discovery and detailed characterization of the two-photon excited endogenous fluorescence in the blood plasma of zebrafish. In particular, three-dimensional reconstruction of the microvascular networks was achieved with the depth-resolved two-photon excitation fluorescence (TPEF) imaging. Secondly, the blood flow images, obtained by perpendicularly scanning the focal point across the blood vessel, provided accurate information for characterizing the hemodynamics of the circulatory system. The endogenous fluorescent signals of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) enabled visualization of the circulating granulocytes (neutrophils) in the blood vessel. The development of acute sterile inflammation could be detected by the quantitative counting of circulating neutrophils. Finally, we found that by utilizing a short wavelength excitation at 650 nm, the commonly used fluorescent proteins, such as GFP and DsRed, could be efficiently excited together with the endogenous fluorophores to achieve four-color TPEF imaging of the vascular structures and blood cells. The results demonstrated that the multi-color imaging could potentially yield multiple view angles of important processes in living biological systems.
Comprehensive structure activity relationship (SAR) studies were conducted on a focused screening hit, 2-(methylthio)-3-(phenylsulfonyl)-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-imine (1, IC50: 4.0 nM), as 5-HT6 selective antagonists. Activity was improved some 2-4 fold when small, electron-donating groups were added to the central core as observed in 19, 20 and 26. Molecular docking of key compounds in a homology model of the human 5-HT6 receptor was used to rationalize our structure-activity relationship (SAR) findings. In pharmacokinetic experiments, compound 1 displayed good brain uptake in rats following intra-peritoneal administration, but limited oral bioavailability.
A series of 3-(hetero)aryl substituted 3-[(prop-2-ynyloxy)(thiophen-2-yl)methyl]pyridine derivatives were designed as potential anticancer agents. These compounds were conveniently prepared by using Pd/C-Cu mediated Sonogashira type coupling as a key step. Many of these compounds were found to be promising when tested for their in vitro anti-proliferative properties against six cancer cell lines. All these compounds were found to be selective towards the growth inhibition of cancer cells with IC50 values in the range of 0.9-1.7 M (against MDA-MB 231 and MCF7 cells), comparable to the known anticancer drug doxorubicin.

Bone homeostasis is maintained by the balance between bone resorption by osteoclasts and bone formation by osteoblasts. Dysregulation in the activity of the bone cells can lead to osteoporosis, a disease characterized by low bone mass and an increase in bone fragility and risk of fracture. Kalirin is a novel GTP-exchange factor protein that has been shown to play a role in cytoskeletal remodeling and dendritic spine formation in neurons. We examined Kalirin expression in skeletal tissue and found that it was expressed in osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Furthermore, micro-CT analyses of the distal femur of global Kalirin knockout (Kal-KO) mice revealed significantly reduced trabecular and cortical bone parameters in Kal-KO mice, compared to WT mice, with significantly reduced bone mass in 8, 14 and 36week-old female Kal-KO mice. Male mice also exhibited a decrease in bone parameters but not to the level seen in female mice. Histomorphometric analyses also revealed decreased bone formation rate in 14week-old female Kal-KO mice, as well as decreased osteoblast number/bone surface and increased osteoclast surface/bone surface. Consistent with our in vivo findings, the bone resorbing activity and differentiation of Kal-KO osteoclasts was increased in vitro. Although alkaline phosphatase activity by Kal-KO osteoblasts was increased in vitro, Kal-KO osteoblasts showed decreased mineralizing activity, as well as decreased secretion of OPG, which was inversely correlated with ERK activity. Taken together, our findings suggest that deletion of Kalirin directly affects osteoclast and osteoblast activity, leading to decreased OPG secretion by osteoblasts which is likely to alter the RANKL/OPG ratio and promote osteoclastogenesis. Therefore, Kalirin may play a role in paracrine and/or endocrine signaling events that control skeletal bone remodeling and the maintenance of bone mass.
Osteosarcoma is a highly metastatic tumor affecting adolescents, for which there is no second-line chemotherapy. As suggested for most tumors, its capability to overgrow is probably driven by cancer stem cells (CSCs), and finding new targets to kill CSCs may be critical for improving patient survival. TP53 is the most frequently mutated tumor suppressor gene in cancers and mutant p53 protein (mutp53) can acquire gain of function (GOF) strongly contributing to malignancy. Studies thus far have not shown p53-GOF in osteosarcoma. Here, we investigated TP53 gene status/role in 3AB-OS cells-a highly aggressive CSC line previously selected from human osteosarcoma MG63 cells-to evaluate its involvement in promoting proliferation, invasiveness, resistance to apoptosis and stemness. By RT-PCR, methylation-specific PCR, fluorescent in situ hybridization, DNA sequence, western blot and immunofluorescence analyses, we have shown that-in comparison with parental MG63 cells where TP53 gene is hypermethylated, rearranged and in single copy-in 3AB-OS cells, TP53 is unmethylated, rearranged and in multiple copies, and mutp53 (p53-R248W/P72R) is post-translationally modified and with nuclear localization. p53-R248W/P72R-knockdown by short-interfering RNA reduced the growth and replication rate of 3AB-OS cells, markedly increasing cell cycle inhibitor levels and sensitized 3AB-OS cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis by DR5 up-regulation; moreover, it strongly decreased the levels of stemness and invasiveness genes. We have also found that the ectopic expression of p53-R248W/P72R in MG63 cells promoted cancer stem-like features, as high proliferation rate, sphere formation, clonogenic growth, high migration and invasive ability; furthermore, it strongly increased the levels of stemness proteins. Overall, the findings suggest the involvement of p53-R248W/P72R at the origin of the aberrant characters of the 3AB-OS cells with the hypothesis that its GOF can be at the root of the dedifferentiation of MG63 cells into CSCs.







There is increasing concern that a reliance on the descriptive, syndrome-based diagnostic criteria of ICD and DSM is impeding progress in research. The USA's major funder of psychiatric research, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), have stated their intention to encourage more research across diagnostic categories using a novel framework based on findings in neuroscience.

In the field of cognitive neuroscience, it is increasingly accepted that mentalizing is subserved by a complex frontotemporoparietal cortical network. Some researchers consider that this network can be divided into two distinct but interacting subsystems (the mirror system and the mentalizing system per se), which respectively process low-level, perceptive-based aspects and high-level, inference-based aspects of this sociocognitive function. However, evidence for this type of functional dissociation in a given neuropsychological population is currently lacking and the structural connectivities of the two mentalizing subnetworks have not been established. Here, we studied mentalizing in a large sample of patients (n = 93; 46 females; age range: 18-65 years) who had been resected for diffuse low-grade glioma-a rare tumour that migrates preferentially along associative white matter pathways. This neurological disorder constitutes an ideal pathophysiological model in which to study the functional anatomy of associative pathways. We mapped the location of each patient's resection cavity and residual lesion infiltration onto the Montreal Neurological Institute template brain and then performed multilevel lesion analyses (including conventional voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping and subtraction lesion analyses). Importantly, we estimated each associative pathway's degree of disconnection (i.e. the degree of lesion infiltration) and built specific hypotheses concerning the connective anatomy of the mentalizing subnetworks. As expected, we found that impairments in mentalizing were mainly related to the disruption of right frontoparietal connectivity. More specifically, low-level and high-level mentalizing accuracy were correlated with the degree of disconnection in the arcuate fasciculus and the cingulum, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, our findings constitute the first experimental data on the structural connectivity of the mentalizing network and suggest the existence of a dual-stream hodological system. Our results may lead to a better understanding of disorders that affect social cognition, especially in neuropathological conditions characterized by atypical/aberrant structural connectivity, such as autism spectrum disorders.
Wernicke's aphasia occurs after a stroke to classical language comprehension regions in the left temporoparietal cortex. Consequently, auditory-verbal comprehension is significantly impaired in Wernicke's aphasia but the capacity to comprehend visually presented materials (written words and pictures) is partially spared. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural basis of written word and picture semantic processing in Wernicke's aphasia, with the wider aim of examining how the semantic system is altered after damage to the classical comprehension regions. Twelve participants with chronic Wernicke's aphasia and 12 control participants performed semantic animate-inanimate judgements and a visual height judgement baseline task. Whole brain and region of interest analysis in Wernicke's aphasia and control participants found that semantic judgements were underpinned by activation in the ventral and anterior temporal lobes bilaterally. The Wernicke's aphasia group displayed an 'over-activation' in comparison with control participants, indicating that anterior temporal lobe regions become increasingly influential following reduction in posterior semantic resources. Semantic processing of written words in Wernicke's aphasia was additionally supported by recruitment of the right anterior superior temporal lobe, a region previously associated with recovery from auditory-verbal comprehension impairments. Overall, the results provide support for models in which the anterior temporal lobes are crucial for multimodal semantic processing and that these regions may be accessed without support from classic posterior comprehension regions.
Heterozygous mutations in GBA1, the gene encoding lysosomal glucocerebrosidase, are the most frequent known genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease. Reduced glucocerebrosidase and -synuclein accumulation are directly related in cell models of Parkinson's disease. We investigated relationships between Parkinson's disease-specific glucocerebrosidase deficits, glucocerebrosidase-related pathways, and -synuclein levels in brain tissue from subjects with sporadic Parkinson's disease without GBA1 mutations. Brain regions with and without a Parkinson's disease-related increase in -synuclein levels were assessed in autopsy samples from subjects with sporadic Parkinson's disease (n = 19) and age- and post-mortem delay-matched controls (n = 10). Levels of glucocerebrosidase, -synuclein and related lysosomal and autophagic proteins were assessed by western blotting. Glucocerebrosidase enzyme activity was measured using a fluorimetric assay, and glucocerebrosidase and -synuclein messenger RNA expression determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Related sphingolipids were analysed by mass spectrometry. Multivariate statistical analyses were performed to identify differences between disease groups and regions, with non-parametric correlations used to identify relationships between variables. Glucocerebrosidase protein levels and enzyme activity were selectively reduced in the early stages of Parkinson's disease in regions with increased -synuclein levels although limited inclusion formation, whereas GBA1 messenger RNA expression was non-selectively reduced in Parkinson's disease. The selective loss of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase was directly related to reduced lysosomal chaperone-mediated autophagy, increased -synuclein and decreased ceramide. Glucocerebrosidase deficits in sporadic Parkinson's disease are related to the abnormal accumulation of -synuclein and are associated with substantial alterations in lysosomal chaperone-mediated autophagy pathways and lipid metabolism. Our data suggest that the early selective Parkinson's disease changes are likely a result of the redistribution of cellular membrane proteins leading to a chronic reduction in lysosome function in brain regions vulnerable to Parkinson's disease pathology.
Data on familial recurrence rates of complex diseases such as multiple sclerosis give important hints to aetiological factors such as the importance of genes and environment. By linking national registries, we sought to avoid common limitations of clinic-based studies such as low numbers, poor representation of the population and selection bias. Through the Swedish Multiple Sclerosis Registry and a nationwide hospital registry, a total of 28 396 patients with multiple sclerosis were identified. We used the national Multi-Generation Registry to identify first and second degree relatives as well as cousins, and the Swedish Twin Registry to identify twins of patients with multiple sclerosis. Crude and age corrected familial risks were estimated for cases and found to be in the same range as previously published figures. Matched population-based controls were used to calculate relative risks, revealing lower estimates of familial multiple sclerosis risks than previously reported, with a sibling recurrence risk (s = 7.1; 95% confidence interval: 6.42-7.86). Surprisingly, despite a well-established lower prevalence of multiple sclerosis amongst males, the relative risks were equal among maternal and paternal relations. A previously reported increased risk in maternal relations could thus not be replicated. An observed higher transmission rate from fathers to sons compared with mothers to sons suggested a higher transmission to offspring from the less prevalent sex; therefore, presence of the so-called 'Carter effect' could not be excluded. We estimated the heritability of multiple sclerosis using 74 757 twin pairs with known zygosity, of which 315 were affected with multiple sclerosis, and added information from 2.5 million sibling pairs to increase power. The heritability was estimated to be 0.64 (0.36-0.76), whereas the shared environmental component was estimated to be 0.01 (0.00-0.18). In summary, whereas multiple sclerosis is to a great extent an inherited trait, the familial relative risks may be lower than usually reported.
Improving neurological outcome after spinal cord injury is a major clinical challenge because axons, once severed, do not regenerate but 'dieback' from the lesion site. Although microglia, the immunocompetent cells of the brain and spinal cord respond rapidly to spinal cord injury, their role in subsequent injury or repair remains unclear. To assess the role of microglia in spinal cord white matter injury we used time-lapse two-photon and spectral confocal imaging of green fluorescent protein-labelled microglia, yellow fluorescent protein-labelled axons, and Nile Red-labelled myelin of living murine spinal cord and revealed dynamic changes in white matter elements after laser-induced spinal cord injury in real time. Importantly, our model of acute axonal injury closely mimics the axonopathy described in well-characterized clinically relevant models of spinal cord injury including contusive-, compressive- and transection-based models. Time-lapse recordings revealed that microglia were associated with some acute pathophysiological changes in axons and myelin acutely after laser-induced spinal cord injury. These pathophysiological changes included myelin and axonal spheroid formation, spectral shifts in Nile Red emission spectra in axonal endbulbs detected with spectral microscopy, and 'bystander' degeneration of axons that survived the initial injury, but then succumbed to secondary degeneration. Surprisingly, modulation of microglial-mediated release of neurotoxic molecules failed to protect axons and myelin. In contrast, sterile stimulation of microglia with the specific toll-like receptor 2 agonist Pam2CSK4 robustly increased the microglial response to ablation, reduced secondary degeneration of central myelinated fibres, and induced an alternative (mixed M1:M2) microglial activation profile. Conversely, Tlr2 knock out: Thy1 yellow fluorescent protein double transgenic mice experienced greater axonal dieback than littermate controls. Thus, promoting an alternative microglial response through Pam2CSK4 treatment is neuroprotective acutely following laser-induced spinal cord injury. Therefore, anti-inflammatory treatments that target microglial activation may be counterintuitive after spinal cord injury.
Neuropathic pain is a widespread and highly debilitating condition commonly resulting from injury to the nervous system, one main sequela of which is tactile allodynia, a pain induced by innocuous mechanical stimulation of the skin. Yet, the cellular mechanisms and neuronal substrates underlying this pathology have remained elusive. We studied this by quantifying and manipulating behavioural and neuronal nociceptive thresholds in normal and pathological pain conditions. We found that, in both control rats and those with pain hypersensitivity induced by nerve injury, the nociceptive paw withdrawal threshold matches the response threshold of nociceptive-specific deep spinothalamic tract neurons. In contrast, wide dynamic range or multimodal spinothalamic tract neurons showed no such correlation nor any change in properties after nerve injury. Disrupting Cl(-) homeostasis by blocking K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter 2 replicated the decrease in threshold of nociceptive-specific spinothalamic tract neurons without affecting wide dynamic range spinothalamic tract cells. Accordingly, only combined blockade of both GABAA- and glycine-gated Cl(-) channels replicated the effects of nerve injury or K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter 2 blockade to their full extent. Conversely, rescuing K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter 2 function restored the threshold of nociceptive-specific spinothalamic tract neurons to normal values in animals with nerve injury. Thus, we unveil a tight association between tactile allodynia and abnormal sensory coding within the normally nociceptive-specific spinothalamic tract. Thus allodynia appears to result from a switch in modality specificity within normally nociceptive-specific spinal relay neurons rather than a change in gain within a multimodal ascending tract. Our findings identify a neuronal substrate and a novel cellular mechanism as targets for the treatment of pathological pain.


Background: Changes in fiber tract architecture have gained attention as a potentially important aspect of schizophrenia neuropathology. Although the exact pathogenesis of these abnormalities yet remains to be elucidated, a genetic component is highly likely. Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) is one of the best-validated schizophrenia susceptibility genes. We here report the impact of the Neuregulin-1 rs35753505 variant on white matter structure in healthy young individuals with no family history of psychosis. Methods: We compared fractional anisotropy in 54 subjects that were either homozygous for the risk C allele carriers (n=31) for rs35753505 or homozygous for the T allele (n=23) using diffusion tensor imaging with 3T. Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS), a method especially developed for diffusion data analysis, was used to improve white matter registration and to focus the statistical analysis to major fiber tracts. Results: Statistical analysis showed that homozygous risk C allele carriers featured elevated fractional anisotropy (FA) in the right perihippocampal region and the white matter proximate to the left area 4p as well as the right hemisphere of the cerebellum. We found three clusters of reduced FA values in homozygous C allele carriers: in the left superior parietal region, the right prefrontal white matter and in the deep white matter of the left frontal lobe. Conclusion: Our results highlight the importance of Neuregulin-1 for structural connectivity of the right medial temporal lobe. This finding is in line with well known neuropathological findings in this region in patients with schizophrenia.

BackgroundThe purpose of this study was to characterize hepatitis C virus (HCV)-associated differences in the expression of 47 inflammatory factors and to evaluate the potential role of peripheral immune activation in HCV-associated neuropsychiatric symptoms-depression, anxiety, fatigue, and pain. An additional objective was to evaluate the role of immune factor dysregulation in the expression of specific neuropsychiatric symptoms to identify biomarkers that may be relevant to the treatment of these neuropsychiatric symptoms in adults with or without HCV. MethodsBlood samples and neuropsychiatric symptom severity scales were collected from HCV-infected adults (HCV+, n=39) and demographically similar noninfected controls (HCV-, n=40). Multi-analyte profile analysis was used to evaluate plasma biomarkers. ResultsCompared with HCV- controls, HCV+ adults reported significantly (P&lt;0.050) greater depression, anxiety, fatigue, and pain, and they were more likely to present with an increased inflammatory profile as indicated by significantly higher plasma levels of 40% (19/47) of the factors assessed (21%, after correcting for multiple comparisons). Within the HCV+ group, but not within the HCV- group, an increased inflammatory profile (indicated by the number of immune factors&gt;the LDC) significantly correlated with depression, anxiety, and pain. Within the total sample, neuropsychiatric symptom severity was significantly predicted by protein signatures consisting of 4-10 plasma immune factors; protein signatures significantly accounted for 19-40% of the variance in depression, anxiety, fatigue, and pain. ConclusionsOverall, the results demonstrate that altered expression of a network of plasma immune factors contributes to neuropsychiatric symptom severity. These findings offer new biomarkers to potentially facilitate pharmacotherapeutic development and to increase our understanding of the molecular pathways associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms in adults with or without HCV.
Microglia are unique cells within the central nervous system because of their biophysical independence. As a result of this unusual property the cells must undergo significant structural remodelling in order to engage and connect with other elements within the central nervous system. Efficient remodelling is required for all activities that microglia are involved in ranging from monitoring synaptic information flow through to phagocytosis of tissue debris. Despite the fact that morphological remodelling is a pre-requisite to all microglial activities, relatively little research has been undertaken on the topic. This review examines what is known about how microglia transform themselves during development, under physiological conditions in response to changes in neuronal activity, and under pathological circumstances. Specific attention is given to exploring a variety of models that have been proposed to account for microglial transformation as well as the signals that are known to trigger these transformations.
Microglia act as sensors of inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) and respond to many stimuli. Other key players in neuroinflammatory diseases are CD4+ T helper cell (Th) subsets that characteristically secrete IFN- (Th1) or IL-17 (Th17). However, the potential of a distinct cytokine milieu generated by these effector T cell subsets to modulate microglial phenotype and function is poorly understood. We therefore investigated the ability of factors secreted by Th1 and Th17 cells to induce microglial activation. In vitro experiments wherein microglia were cultured in the presence of supernatants derived from polarized Th1 or Th17 cultures, revealed that Th1-associated factors could directly activate and trigger a proinflammatory M1-type gene expression profile in microglia that was cell-cell contact independent, whereas Th17 cells or its associated factors did not have any direct influence on microglia. To assess the effects of the key Th17 effector cytokine IL-17A in vivo we used transgenic mice in which IL-17A is specifically expressed in astrocytes. Flow cytometric and histological analysis revealed only subtle changes in the phenotype of microglia suggesting only minimal effects of constitutively produced IL-17A on microglia in vivo. Neither IL-23 signaling nor addition of GM-CSF, a recently described effector molecule of Th17 cells, changed the incapacity of Th17 cells to activate microglia. These findings demonstrate a potent effect of Th1 cells on microglia, however, the mechanism of how Th17 cells achieve their effect in CNS inflammation remains unclear.
The &quot;widowhood effect&quot; (i.e., morbidity/mortality in recently bereaved spouses) may be related to changes in immune function, but little is known about the impact of bereavement on gene transcription in immune cells. This study examined how Complicated Grief and Non-complicated Grief responses to bereavement differentially affect leukocyte gene expression. Genome-wide transcriptional profiling and bioinformatic analyses were completed on 63 older adults. Thirty-six of them had lost their spouse/partner on average 2years ago, and 27 were nonbereaved, married controls. Twelve of the bereaved participants met criteria for Complicated Grief. Compared to nonbereaved controls, bereavement (both Complicated Grief and Non-complicated Grief) was associated with upregulated expression of genes involved in general immunologic activation and a selective downregulation of genes involved in B lymphocyte responses. However, Complicated Grief and Non-complicated Grief differed markedly in their expression of Type I interferon-related transcripts, with Non-complicated Grief subjects showing substantial upregulation relative to nonbereaved controls and Complicated Grief subjects showing substantial downregulation. Bereavement significantly modulates immune function gene expression. The magnitude of bereavement-related distress (i.e., Complicated Grief vs. Non-complicated Grief) is linked to differential patterns of transcription factor activation and gene expression involved in innate antiviral responses. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding the health effects of bereavement, as well as new insights into the particular gene modules that are most sensitive to the individual's psychological response to loss.

There is converging evidence that prenatal maternal infection can increase the risk of occurrence of neuropsychiatric disorders like schizophrenia, autism, anxiety and depression in later life. Experimental studies have shown conflicting effects of prenatal maternal immune activation on anxiety-like behavior and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis development in offspring. We investigated the effects of maternal immune activation during pregnancy on anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in pregnant mice and their offspring to determine whether these effects are dependent on strain. NMRI and C57BL/6 pregnant mice were treated with either saline or lipopolysaccharide on gestational day 17 and then interleukin (IL)-6 and corticosterone (COR) levels; anxiety or depression in the pregnant mice and their offspring were evaluated. The results indicate that maternal inflammation increased the levels of COR and anxiety-like behavior in NMRI pregnant mice, but not in C57BL/6 dams. Our data also demonstrate that maternal inflammation elevated the levels of anxiety-and depression-like behaviors in NMRI offspring on the elevated plus-maze, elevated zero-maze, tail suspension test and forced swimming test respectively, but not in the open field and light-dark box. In addition, we did not find any significant change in anxiety- and depression-like behaviors of adult C57BL/6 offspring. Our findings suggest that prenatal maternal immune activation can alter the HPA axis activity, anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in a strain- and task-dependent manner in offspring and further comprehensive studies are needed to prove the causal relationship between the findings found here and to validate their relevance to neuropsychiatric disorders in humans.

Environmental chemical exposures during critical windows of development may contribute to the escalating prevalence of obesity. We tested the hypothesis that prenatal exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP), a primary component of air pollution, would prime microglia long-term, resulting in exacerbated metabolic and affective outcomes following exposure to a high-fat diet in adulthood. Time-mated mouse dams were intermittently exposed to respiratory instillations of either vehicle (VEH) or DEP throughout gestation. Adult male and female offspring were then fed either a low-fat diet (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 9 weeks. The male offspring of DEP-exposed dams exhibited exaggerated weight gain, insulin resistance, and anxiety-like behavior on HFD compared to the male offspring of VEH-exposed dams, whereas female offspring did not differ according to prenatal treatment. Furthermore, HFD induced evidence of macrophage infiltration of both adipose tissue and the brain in both sexes, but these cells were more activated specifically in DEP/HFD males. DEP/HFD males also expressed markedly higher levels of microglial/macrophage, but not astrocyte, activation markers in the hippocampus, whereas females exhibited only a suppression of astrocyte activation markers due to HFD. In a second experiment, DEP male offspring mounted an exaggerated peripheral IL-1 response to an LPS challenge at postnatal day (P)30, whereas their central IL-1 response did not differ from VEH male offspring, which is suggestive of macrophage priming due to prenatal DEP exposure. In sum, prenatal air pollution exposure &quot;programs&quot; offspring for increased susceptibility to diet-induced metabolic, behavioral, and neuroinflammatory changes in adulthood in a sexually dimorphic manner.
During pathogen exposure or some forms of stress, proinflammatory processes induce an array of motivated and behavioral adjustments termed &quot;sickness behaviors&quot;. Although withdrawal from social interactions is a commonly observed sickness behavior, the relation between social behavior and sickness is much more complex. Sickness can suppress or stimulate social behavior. Sickness can serve as a social cue. Stressors that are social in nature can induce sickness behaviors, and sickness behavior can be readily suppressed by meaningful social stimuli. The nature, context, and timing of these effects together suggest that cytokine-induced behavior may play a role in mediating social interactions in various non-pathological conditions.
The present study used event related potentials (ERPs) in a spatial cueing procedure to investigate the stages of processing influenced by intervening events presented between cues and targets, when they produce maximal behavioural modulations (i.e., facilitation in the absence of the intervening event, and inhibition of return - IOR, when the intervening event is presented). Our data challenge the traditional orienting-reorienting hypothesis, leading to alternative explanations of cueing effects that are beyond the orienting of attention. Peripheral cues always produced a detection cost (reflected in a reduced amplitude of the P100 component for cued as compared to uncued trials), independently on the behavioural effect that was measured. In contrast, facilitation was associated to modulations of later-stage components, such as N100, Nd, and P300. The N2pc component, usually associated to spatial selection, was the only component reflecting opposite and significant modulations associated to the behavioural effect. The present results suggest that facilitation and IOR can arise from changes at different stages of processing. We propose that the perceptual detection cost (reflected on the P100), and the hindered spatial selection (reflected on the N2pc) at the cued location determine the IOR effect at least in discrimination tasks, while the contribution of the later-stage components, beside attentional processes, determines other facilitatory effects of cueing, which altogether determine the behavioural effect that is measured.
Our subjective confidence about particular events is related to but independent from the objective certainty of the stimuli we encounter. Surprisingly, previous investigations of the neurophysiological correlates of confidence and uncertainty have largely been carried out separately. After systematically reviewing the blood oxygenation-level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD fMRI) literature, and splitting studies on the basis of their task requirements, a voxel-based meta-analysis was performed to identify: (i) those regions which are replicably modulated by the uncertainty of environmental conditions; (ii) those regions whose activity is robustly affected by our subjective confidence; and (iii) those regions differentially activated at these contrasting times. In further meta-analyses the consistency of activation between these judgement types was assessed. Increased activation was consistently observed in the salience (anterior cingulate cortex and insula) and central executive network (dorsolateral prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices) in conditions of increased uncertainty; by contrast, default mode network (midline cortical and medial temporal lobe) regions robustly exhibited a positive relationship with subjective confidence. Regions including right parahippocampal gyrus were positively modulated by magnitude across both certainty and confidence judgements. This region was also shown to be more significantly modulated by confidence magnitude as compared with degree of environmental certainty. The functional and methodological implications of these findings are discussed with a view to improving future investigation of the neural basis of metacognitive judgement.
Patients with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) often experience motor deficits, yet little is known of the impact of FLE on the activity of motor networks in the brain. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has previously demonstrated an association between cognitive deficits in temporal lobe epilepsy patients and disruption of activity within pertinent brain networks. Hence, in the present study, rs-fMRI was used to determine whether FLE is associated with motor network disruption. Seven right-hemisphere FLE patients, six left-hemisphere FLE patients, and nine control subjects underwent rs-fMRI. Functional connectivity was computed between the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the seizure focus and each voxel in the brain, and then compared voxel-by-voxel between patient groups and controls. A laterality index (LI) of connectivity between contralateral and ipsilateral sensorimotor cortices was calculated to investigate its association with epilepsy duration and seizure frequency. Positive laterality indices indicate reduced connectivity, and zero values indicate strong connectivity. Connectivity between the left and right sensorimotor cortices was significantly reduced in FLE patients compared with controls (p&lt;0.05), and LI was positively correlated with the number of lifetime seizures (left FLE: rs=0.89, right FLE: rs=1.00). Patients with FLE exhibit decreased connectivity within the motor network, in correlation with the number of lifetime seizures, thus demonstrating a potential relationship between seizure activity and changes in motor network organization. These findings suggest that motor network disturbances may in part be responsible for the motor deficits observed in FLE patients.
Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) and Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are the most common comorbid conditions associated with childhood epilepsy. The co-occurrence of an epilepsy/autism phenotype or an epilepsy/ADHD phenotype has a complex and heterogeneous pathogenesis, resulting from several altered neurobiological mechanisms involved in early brain development, and influencing synaptic plasticity, neurotransmission and functional connectivity. Rare clinically relevant chromosomal aberrations, in addition to environmental factors, may confer an increased risk for ASDs/ADHD comorbid with epilepsy. The majority of the candidate genes are involved in synaptic formation/remodeling/maintenance (NRX1, CNTN4, DCLK2, CNTNAP2, TRIM32, ASTN2, CTNTN5, SYN1), neurotransmission (SYNGAP1, GABRG1, CHRNA7), or DNA methylation/chromatin remodeling (MBD5). Two genetic disorders, such as Tuberous sclerosis and Fragile X syndrome may serve as models for understanding the common pathogenic pathways leading to ASDs and ADHD comorbidities in children with epilepsy, offering the potential for new biologically focused treatment options.
A variety of exciting scientific achievements have been made in the last few decades in brain encoding and decoding via functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). This trend continues to rise in recent years, as evidenced by the increasing number of published papers in this topic and several published survey papers addressing different aspects of research issues. Essentially, these survey articles were mainly from cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging perspectives, although computational challenges were briefly discussed. To complement existing survey articles, this paper focuses on the survey of the variety of image analysis methodologies, such as neuroimage registration, fMRI signal analysis, ROI (regions of interest) selection, machine learning algorithms, reproducibility analysis, structural and functional connectivity, and natural image analysis, which were employed in previous brain encoding/decoding research works. This paper also provides discussions of potential limitations of those image analysis methodologies and possible future improvements. It is hoped that extensive discussions of image analysis issues could contribute to the advancements of the increasingly important brain encoding/decoding field.
Specific language impairment is associated with enduring problems in language-related functions. We followed the spatiotemporal course of cortical activation in SLI using magnetoencephalography. In the experiment, children with normal and impaired language development heard spoken real words and pseudowords presented only once or two times in a row. In typically developing children, the activation in the bilateral superior temporal cortices was attenuated to the second presentation of the same word. In SLI children, this repetition effect was nearly nonexistent in the left hemisphere. Furthermore, the activation was equally strong to words and pseudowords in SLI children whereas in the typically developing children the left hemisphere activation persisted longer for pseudowords than words. Our results indicate that the short-term maintenance of linguistic activation that underlies spoken word recognition is defective in SLI particularly in the left language-dominant hemisphere. The unusually rapid decay of speech-evoked activation can contribute to impaired vocabulary growth.










This study compares the cytoarchitectonic parcellation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the mouse as presented in publications that are commonly used for identifying brain areas. Agreement was found to be greater for boundaries in the medial PFC than in the lateral PFC and lowest for those in the orbital areas of the PFC. In this review, we explain and illustrate in a selected series of photographs and stereotactic pictures the differences in location and terminology of the different prefrontal cortical areas. The significance of cytoarchitectonic parcellation is discussed.
The functional specificity of brain areas is diminished with age and accompanied by the recruitment of additional brain regions in healthy older adults. This process has repeatedly been demonstrated within distinct functional domains, in particular the visual system. However, it is yet unclear, whether this phenomenon in healthy aging, i.e., a reduced activation of task-associated areas and increased activation of additional regions, is also present across different functional systems. In the present functional imaging study, comprising 102 healthy subjects, we therefore assessed two distinct tasks engaging the sensory-motor system and the visual attention system, respectively. We found a significant interaction between age and task in the parietal operculum bilaterally. This area as a part of the sensory-motor system showed an age-related decrease in its BOLD-response to the motor task and an age-related increase of neural activity in response to the visual attention task. The opposite response pattern, i.e., reduced visual attention activation and increased response to the motor task, was observed for regions associated with the visual task: the superior parietal area 7A and the dorsal pre-motor cortex. Importantly, task performance was not correlated with age in either task. This age-by-task interaction indicates that a reduction of functional specificity in the aging brain may be counteracted by the increased recruitment of additional regions not only within, but also across functional domains. Our results thus emphasize the need for comparisons across different functional domains to gain a better understanding of age-related effects on the specificity of functional systems.
Researchers working with rodent models of neurological disease often require an accurate map of the anatomical organization of the white matter of the rodent brain. With the increasing popularity of small animal MRI techniques, including diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), there is considerable interest in rapid segmentation methods of neurological structures for quantitative comparisons. DTI-derived tractography allows simple and rapid segmentation of major white matter tracts, but the anatomic accuracy of these computer-generated fibers is open to question and has not been rigorously evaluated in the rat brain. In this study, we examine the anatomic accuracy of tractography-based segmentation in the adult rat brain. We analysed 12 major white matter pathways using semi-automated tractography-based segmentation alongside manual segmentation of Gallyas silver-stained histology sections. We applied four fiber-tracking algorithms to the DTI data-two integration methods and two deflection methods. In many cases, tractography-based segmentation closely matched histology-based segmentation; however different tractography algorithms produced dramatically different results. Results suggest that certain white matter pathways are more amenable to tractography-based segmentation than others. We believe that these data will help researchers decide whether it is appropriate to use tractography-based segmentation of white matter structures for quantitative DTI-based analysis of neurologic disease models.
Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) are a hallmark of psychotic experience. Various mechanisms including misattribution of inner speech and imbalance between bottom-up and top-down factors in auditory perception potentially due to aberrant connectivity between frontal and temporo-parietal areas have been suggested to underlie AVH. Experimental evidence for disturbed connectivity of networks sustaining auditory-verbal processing is, however, sparse. We compared functional resting-state connectivity in 49 psychotic patients with frequent AVH and 49 matched controls. The analysis was seeded from the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), thalamus, angular gyrus (AG) and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) as these regions are implicated in extracting meaning from impoverished speech-like sounds. Aberrant connectivity was found for all seeds. Decreased connectivity was observed between the left MTG and its right homotope, between the left AG and the surrounding inferior parietal cortex (IPC) and the left inferior temporal gyrus, between the left thalamus and the right cerebellum, as well as between the left IFG and left IPC, and dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC/VLPFC). Increased connectivity was observed between the left IFG and the supplementary motor area (SMA) and the left insula and between the left thalamus and the left fusiform gyrus/hippocampus. The predisposition to experience AVH might result from decoupling between the speech production system (IFG, insula and SMA) and the self-monitoring system (DLPFC, VLPFC, IPC) leading to misattribution of inner speech. Furthermore, decreased connectivity between nodes involved in speech processing (AG, MTG) and other regions implicated in auditory processing might reflect aberrant top-down influences in AVH.
The type 2 potassium-chloride cotransporter (KCC2) is the main regulator of intracellular chloride concentration in CNS neurons, and plays a crucial role in spine development that is independent of its ion cotransport function. The expression pattern of KCC2 is upregulated during postnatal development showing area and layer-specific differences in distinct brain areas. We examined the regional and ultrastructural localisation of KCC2 in various areas of developing neocortex and paleocortex during the first two postnatal weeks. Light-microscopy examination revealed diffuse neuropil and discrete funnel-shaped dendritic labelling in the piriform and entorhinal cortices at birth. Subsequently, during the beginning of the first postnatal week, diffuse KCC2 labelling gradually started to appear in the superficial layers of the neocortex while the punctate-like labelling of dendrites in the piriform, entorhinal and perirhinal cortices become more pronounced. By the end of the first postnatal week, discrete dendritic expression of KCC2 was visible in all neocortical and paleocortical areas. The expression level did not change during the second postnatal week suggesting that, in contrast to hippocampus, adult pattern of KCC2 in the cortical cells is already established by the end of the first postnatal week. Quantitative electron microscopy examination revealed that in superficial layers of both neo- and paleocortex, the majority of KCC2 signal was plasma membrane associated but the number of transport vesicle-associated immunosignal increased with development. In deep layers, KCC2 immunolabeling was evenly distributed in plasma membrane and transport vesicles showing no obvious change with maturation. The number of KCC2 immunogold particles increased in dendritic spines with no association with synapses. This observation points to the dual role of KCC2 in spine genesis and ion cotransport.
Transgenic mice with Alzheimer's disease (AD) mutations have been widely used to model changes in neuronal structure and function. While there are clear gross structural changes in post-mortem brains of AD patients, most mouse models of AD do not recapitulate the considerable loss of neurons. Furthermore, possible connections between early subtle structural changes and the loss of neurons are difficult to study. In an attempt to start unraveling how neurons are affected during the early stages of what becomes full neurodegeneration, we crossed a mouse model of familial AD, which displays massive neocortical neurodegeneration (the 5xFAD mouse), with the fluorescent H-line YFP mouse. This novel bigenic mouse model of AD, which we have named the 5XY mouse, expresses YFP in principal neurons in the cortex such that even fine details of cells are clearly visible. Such bright fluorescence allowed us to use high-resolution confocal microscopy to quantify changes in spine density in the somatosensory cortex, prefrontal cortex, and hippocampus at 2, 4, and 6months of age. A significant loss of spines on basal dendrites in the somatosensory and prefrontal cortices of 6-month-old 5XY female mice was found. There was no observed spine loss at 6months of age on the oblique dendrites of the hippocampus in the same mice. These data suggest that spine loss is an early event in the degeneration of the neocortical neurons in 5xFAD mice and a likely contributor to the cognitive impairments reported previously in this AD mouse model.
Sensorimotor transformation for reaching movements in primates requires a large network of visual, parietal, and frontal cortical areas. We performed intrinsic optical imaging over posterior parietal cortex including areas 7a and the dorsal perilunate in macaque monkeys during visually guided hand movements. Reaching was performed while foveating one of nine static reach targets; thus eye-position-varied concurrently with reach position. The hemodynamic reflectance signal was analyzed during specific phases of the task including pre-reach, reach, and touch epochs. The eye position maps changed substantially as the task progressed: First, direction of spatial tuning shifted from a weak preference close to the center to the lower eye positions in both cortical areas. Overall tuning strength was greater in area 7a. Second, strength of spatial tuning increased from the early pre-reach to the later touch epoch. These consistent temporal changes suggest that dynamic properties of the reflectance signal were modulated by task parameters. The peak amplitude and peak delay of the reflectance signal showed considerable differences between eye position but were similar between areas. Compared with a detection task using a lever response, the reach task yielded higher amplitudes and longer delays. These findings demonstrate a spatially tuned topographical representation for reaching in both areas and suggest a strong synergistic combination of various feedback signals that result in a spatially tuned amplification of the hemodynamic response in posterior parietal cortex.
Although cognitive neuroscience has made valuable progress in understanding the role of the prefrontal cortex in human intelligence, the functional networks that support adaptive behavior and novel problem solving remain to be well characterized. Here, we studied 158 human brain lesion patients to investigate the cognitive and neural foundations of key competencies for fluid intelligence and working memory. We administered a battery of neuropsychological tests, including the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and the N-Back task. Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain error-free scores of fluid intelligence and working memory, followed by voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. The observed latent variable modeling and lesion results support an integrative framework for understanding the architecture of fluid intelligence and working memory and make specific recommendations for the interpretation and application of the WAIS and N-Back task to the study of fluid intelligence in health and disease.
Several studies showed that in the human brain specific premotor and parietal areas are activated during the execution and observation of motor acts. The activation of this premotor-parietal network displaying the so-called Mirror Mechanism (MM) was proposed to underpin basic forms of action understanding. However, the functional properties of the MM in children are still largely unknown. In order to address this issue, we recorded high-density EEG from 12 children (6 female, 6 male; average age 10.5, SD 2.15). Data were collected when children observed video clips showing hands grasping objects in two different experimental conditions: (1) Full Vision, in which the motor act was fully visible; (2) Hidden, in which the interaction between the hand and the object was not visible. Event-related potentials (ERPs) and topographic map analyses were used to investigate the temporal pattern of the ERPs and their brain source of localization, employing a children template of the Montreal Neurological Institute. Results showed that two different parieto-premotor circuits are activated by the observation of object-related hand reaching-to-grasping motor acts in children. The first circuit comprises the ventral premotor and the inferior parietal cortices. The second one comprises the dorsal premotor and superior parietal cortices. The activation of both circuits is differently lateralized and modulated in time, and influenced by the amount of visual information available about the hand grasping-related portion of the observed motor acts.
Multi-channel receive array rf-coils have become widely available for fMRI. The improved SNR and possibility of acquisition acceleration through parallel imaging are especially beneficial for high-resolution studies. In this study, an 8-channel and a 32-channel coil were compared in a high-resolution finger tapping fMRI experiment at 7 T. 1.3 mm(3) resolution data acquired with the 32-channel coil provided higher image- and temporal SNR and yielded higher BOLD sensitivity measures, notably higher cluster sizes in MI/SI and increased z-scores, though not an increase in percent signal change. For sub-millimeter resolution fMRI data acquired with the 32-channel coil smaller clusters were found, though percent signal changes were significantly larger, due to reduced partial volume effects. These results demonstrate the utility of the use of an array coil with a large number of receive elements for high-resolution fMRI at ultra-high field.
The objectives of this study were to examine the association of stride time variability (STV) with gray and white matter volumes in healthy older adults, and to determine the specific location of any parenchymal loss associated with higher STV. A total of 71 participants (mean age 69.0  0.8 years; 59.7 % female) were included in this study. All participants had a 1.0 Tesla 3D T1-weighted MRI of the brain to measure gray and white matter volumes. STV was measured at steady-state self-selected walking speed using an electronic footswitch system. We found an association between higher STV and lower gray matter volume in the right parietal lobe (e.g., angular gyrus, Brodmann area 39, cluster corrected pFWE = 0.035). There were no significant associations between STV and higher gray matter volume or change in white matter volume. To the best of our knowledge this study is the first to identify a significant association of higher STV with lower right parietal gray matter volume in healthy older adults.
The diet of the cancer patient is a major focus of prevention and treatment strategy of the recent plans that fight against cancer. It is sometimes reduced to a rapid series of more or less general advice, often interfered by other sources of information, more or less conventional. In this pathological situation where the nutritional status of the patient is paramount, it seems crucial to understand the different modalities of how the food behavior is implemented. This article describes the construction modalities of the cancer eater decisions. The goal of the socio-anthropological analysis proposed in this article is to initiate a reflection on the under nutrition problem by focusing on the approach of the eater diagnosed with cancer. The aim is to help identify ways of action to fight against under nutrition and improve the quality of life of the patient.
Inherited retinal dystrophies are Mendelian neurodegenerative conditions classified as pigmentary retinopathies, macular dystrophies and others. Over a 21-year period, from 1990 to 2011, we have screened in Montpellier 107 genes in 609 families and have identified a causal mutation in 68.5% of them. Following a gene candidate approach, we established that RPE65, the isomerohydrolase of the visual cycle, is responsible for severe childhood blindness (Leber congenital amaurosis or early onset retinal dystrophy). In an ongoing study, we screened the genes in a series of 283 families with dominant retinitis pigmentosa and we have estimated that 80% of the families have a mutation in a known gene. A similar study is currently undergoing for autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Finally, we have identified IMPG1 as a responsible gene for rare cases of macular vitelliform dystrophy with a dominant or recessive inheritance.
Analysis of combinations of genetic changes that occur exclusively in patients may be a supplementary strategy to the single-locus strategy used in many genetic studies. The genotypes of 16 SNPs within susceptibility loci for neuroblastoma (NB) were analyzed in a previous study. In the present study, combinations of these genotypes have been analyzed. The theoretical number of combinations of 3 SNP genotypes taken from 16 SNPs is 15,120. Of these, 14,307 were found in 370 patients and 803 controls; 12,772 combinations were common to both patients and controls; 1,213 were found in controls only; and 322 combinations were found in patients only. Among the latter, a cluster of 24 combinations was found to be significantly associated with NB (P &lt; 0.00001).

Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by the selective vulnerability and progressive loss of discrete neuronal populations. Non-neuronal cells appear to significantly contribute to neuronal loss in diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson, and Alzheimer's disease. In ALS, there is deterioration of motor neurons in the cortex, brainstem, and spinal cord, which control voluntary muscle groups. This results in muscle wasting, paralysis, and death. Neuroinflammation, characterized by the appearance of reactive astrocytes and microglia as well as macrophage and T-lymphocyte infiltration, appears to be highly involved in the disease pathogenesis, highlighting the involvement of non-neuronal cells in neurodegeneration. There appears to be cross-talk between motor neurons, astrocytes, and immune cells, including microglia and T-lymphocytes, which are subsequently activated. Currently, effective therapies for ALS are lacking; however, the non-cell autonomous nature of ALS may indicate potential therapeutic targets. Here, we review the mechanisms of action of astrocytes, microglia, and T-lymphocytes in the nervous system in health and during the pathogenesis of ALS. We also evaluate the therapeutic potential of these cellular populations, after transplantation into ALS patients and animal models of the disease, in modulating the environment surrounding motor neurons from pro-inflammatory to neuroprotective. We also thoroughly discuss the recent advances made in the field and caveats that need to be overcome for clinical translation of cell therapies aimed at modulating non-cell autonomous events to preserve remaining motor neurons in patients.
Understanding how thousands of different neuronal types are generated in the CNS constitutes a major challenge for developmental neurobiologists and is a prerequisite before considering cell or gene therapies of nervous lesions or pathologies. During embryonic development, spinal motor neurons (MNs) segregate into distinct subpopulations that display specific characteristics and properties including molecular identity, migration pattern, allocation to specific motor columns, and innervation of defined target. Because of the facility to correlate these different characteristics, the diversification of spinal MNs has become the model of choice for studying the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the generation of multiple neuronal populations in the developing CNS. Therefore, how spinal motor neuron subpopulations are produced during development has been extensively studied during the last two decades. In this review article, we will provide a comprehensive overview of the genetic and molecular mechanisms that contribute to the diversification of spinal MNs.
Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is encoded by Fmr1 gene in which mutation is known to cause fragile X syndrome characterized by mental impairment and other psychiatric symptoms similar to autism spectrum disorders. FMRP plays important roles in cellular mRNA biology such as transport, stability, and translation as an RNA-binding protein. In the present study, we identified potential role of FMRP in the neural differentiation, using cortical neural progenitor cells from Sprague-Dawley rat. We newly found NeuroD1, an essential regulator of glutamatergic neuronal differentiation, as a new mRNA target interacting with FMRP in co-immunoprecipitation experiments. We also identified FMRP as a regulator of neuronal differentiation by modulating NeuroD1 expression. Down-regulation of FMRP by siRNA also increased NeuroD1 expression along with increased pre- and post-synaptic development of glutamatergic neuron, as evidenced by Western blot and immunocytochemistry. On the contrary, cells harboring FMRP over-expression construct showed decreased NeuroD1 expression. Treatment of cultured neural precursor cells with a histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproic acid known as an inducer of hyper-glutamatergic neuronal differentiation, down-regulated the expression of FMRP, and induced NeuroD1 expression. Our study suggests that modulation of FMRP expression regulates neuronal differentiation by interaction with its binding target mRNA, and provides an example of the gene and environmental interaction regulating glutamatergic neuronal differentiation.
ERK pathway plays a critical role in the cellular adaptive responses to environmental changes. Stressful conditions can induce the activation of activate ERK, and its downstream targets, CREB and c-fos, in neural cells. Exposure to opioids has the same effect. In this study, we investigated the effects of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) on p-ERK/ERK ratio, p-CREB/CREB ratio and c-fos level in the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system including the nucleus accumbens (NAc), amygdala (AMY), striatum (Str), and prefrontal cortex (PFC).Our aim was to determine if acute and subchronic stress would affect these alterations. Male Wistar rats were divided into two saline- and morphine-treated groups. Each group contained of control, acute stress, and subchronic stress subgroups. The CPP procedure was performed for all of the rats. We dissected out the NAc, AMY, Str, and PFC regions and measured the mentioned ratios and c-fos level by Western blot analysis. The results revealed that in saline-treated animals, all factors enhanced significantly after performing acute and subchronic stress while there was an exception in p-ERK/ERK ratio in the Str and PFC; the changes were not significant during acute stress. Conditioning score decreased after applying the subchronic but not acute stress. In morphine-treated animals, all factors were increased after application of acute and subchronic stress, and conditioning scores also decreased after stress. Our findings suggest that in saline- or morphine-treated animals, acute and subchronic stress increases p-ERK, p-CREB, and c-fos levels in the mesocorticolimbic system. It has been shown that morphine induces the enhancement of the mentioned factors; on the other hand, our result demonstrates that stress can amplify these changes.
Some data suggest that morphine induces apoptosis in neurons, while other evidences show that morphine could have protective effects against cell death. In this study, we suggested that there is a parallel role of morphine in reward circuitry and apoptosis processing. Therefore, we investigated the effect of morphine on modifications of apoptotic factors in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and hippocampus (HPC) which are involved in the reward circuitry after the acquisition and extinction periods of conditioned place preference (CPP). In behavioral experiments, different doses of morphine (0.5, 5, and 10mg/kg) and saline were examined in the CPP paradigm. Conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software after acquisition on the post-conditioning day, and days 4 and 8 of extinction periods. In order to investigate the molecular mechanisms in each group, we then dissected the brains and measured the expression of apoptotic factors in the VTA and HPC by western blotting analysis. All of the morphine-treated groups showed an increase of apoptotic factors in these regions during acquisition but not in extinction period. In the HPC, morphine significantly increased the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2, caspases-3, and PARP by the lowest dose (0.5mg/kg), but, in the VTA, a considerable increase was seen in the dose of 5mg/kg; promotion of apoptotic factors in the HPC and VTA insinuates that morphine can affect the molecular mechanisms that interfere with apoptosis through different receptors. Our findings suggest that a specific opioid receptor involves in modification of apoptotic factors expression in these areas. It seems that the reduction of cell death in response to high dose of morphine in the VTA and HPC may be due to activation of low affinity opioid receptors which are involved in neuroprotective features of morphine.
Rho-kinase (ROCK) as well as extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) control actin cytoskeletal organization thereby regulating dynamic changes of cellular morphology. In neurons, motility processes such as axonal guidance and neurite outgrowth demand a fine regulation of upstream pathways. Here we demonstrate a bilateral ROCK-ERK information flow in neurons. This process is shifted towards an unidirectional crosstalk in a model of the neurodegenerative disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), ultimately leading to neurite outgrowth dysregulations. As both pathways are of therapeutic relevance for SMA, our results argue for a combinatorial ROCK/ERK-targeting as a future treatment strategy.

In the past decade, the cell-type specific connectivity and activity of local cortical networks have been characterized experimentally to some detail. In parallel, modeling has been established as a tool to relate network structure to activity dynamics. While available comprehensive connectivity maps ( Thomson, West, et al. 2002; Binzegger et al. 2004) have been used in various computational studies, prominent features of the simulated activity such as the spontaneous firing rates do not match the experimental findings. Here, we analyze the properties of these maps to compile an integrated connectivity map, which additionally incorporates insights on the specific selection of target types. Based on this integrated map, we build a full-scale spiking network model of the local cortical microcircuit. The simulated spontaneous activity is asynchronous irregular and cell-type specific firing rates are in agreement with in vivo recordings in awake animals, including the low rate of layer 2/3 excitatory cells. The interplay of excitation and inhibition captures the flow of activity through cortical layers after transient thalamic stimulation. In conclusion, the integration of a large body of the available connectivity data enables us to expose the dynamical consequences of the cortical microcircuitry.
Participants are more accurate at remembering faces of their own relative to another ethnic group (own-race bias, ORB). This phenomenon has been explained by reduced perceptual expertise, or alternatively, by the categorization of other-race faces into social out-groups and reduced effort to individuate such faces. We examined event-related potential (ERP) correlates of the ORB, testing recognition memory for Asian and Caucasian faces in Caucasian and Asian participants. Both groups demonstrated a significant ORB in recognition memory. ERPs revealed more negative N170 amplitudes for other-race faces in both groups, probably reflecting more effortful structural encoding. Importantly, the ethnicity effect in left-hemispheric N170 during learning correlated significantly with the behavioral ORB. Similarly, in the subsequent N250, both groups demonstrated more negative amplitudes for other-race faces, and during test phases, this effect correlated significantly with the ORB. We suggest that ethnicity effects in the N170 reflect an early categorization of other-race faces into a social out-group, resulting in less efficient encoding and thus decreased memory. Moreover, ethnicity effects in the N250 may represent the &quot;tagging&quot; of other-race faces as perceptually salient, which hampers the recognition of these faces.
The cerebellum is believed to play an essential role in a variety of motor and cognitive functions through reciprocal interaction with the cerebral cortex. Recent findings suggest that cerebellar involvement in the network specialized for visual body motion processing may be mediated through interaction with the right superior temporal sulcus (STS). Yet, the underlying pattern of structural connectivity between the STS and the cerebellum remains unidentified. In the present work, diffusion tensor imaging analysis on seeds derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging during a task on point-light biological motion perception uncovers a structural pathway between the right posterior STS and the left cerebellar lobule Crus I. The findings suggest existence of a structural loop underpinning bidirectional communication between the STS and cerebellum. This connection might also be of potential value for other visual social abilities.
The ability to actively maintain information in working memory (WM) is vital for goal-directed behavior, but the mechanisms underlying this process remain elusive. We hypothesized that successful WM relies upon a correspondence between the neural processes associated with stimulus encoding and the neural processes associated with maintenance. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we identified regional activity and inter-regional connectivity during stimulus encoding and the maintenance of those stimuli when they were no longer present. We compared correspondence in these neural processes across encoding and maintenance epochs with WM performance. Critically, greater correspondence between encoding and maintenance in 1) regional activity in the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and 2) connectivity between lateral PFC and extrastriate cortex was associated with increased performance. These findings suggest that the conservation of neural processes across encoding and maintenance supports the integrity of representations in WM.
In the monkey, 3 motor areas have been identified in the cortex occupying the banks of the cingulate sulcus (cgs): A rostral cingulate motor area and 2 caudal cingulate motor areas, 1 located in the dorsal bank and the other in the ventral bank of the sulcus. The homologs of these 3 cingulate motor areas in the human brain are poorly understood. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study examined the anatomo-functional organization of the cingulate motor areas in the human brain. A subject by subject analysis revealed the existence of 3 motor areas along the cgs and these areas appear to be somatotopically organized. Importantly, these 3 motor areas relate to the specific morphological features of the cingulate/paracingulate cortex. These results demonstrate the location and organization of the 3 cingulate motor areas in the human brain and suggest a well-preserved organization of these motor areas from the monkey to the human brain.
Childhood cruelty to animals is thought to indicate that a child may have been maltreated. This study examined: (a) prevalence of cruelty to animals among 5- to 12-year-old children; (b) the association between cruelty to animals, child physical maltreatment, and adult domestic violence; and (c) whether cruelty to animals is a marker of maltreatment taking into account age, persistence of cruelty, and socioeconomic disadvantage. Data were from the Environmental Risk (E-Risk) Longitudinal Twin Study, an epidemiological representative cohort of 2,232 children living in the United Kingdom. Mothers reported on cruelty to animals when children were 5, 7, 10, and 12 years, on child maltreatment up to age 12, and adult domestic violence. Nine percent of children were cruel to animals during the study and 2.6% persistently (2 time-points). Children cruel to animals were more likely to have been maltreated than other children (OR=3.32) although the majority (56.4%) had not been maltreated. Animal cruelty was not associated with domestic violence when maltreatment was controlled for. In disadvantaged families, 6 in 10 children cruel to animals had been maltreated. In other families, the likelihood of maltreatment increased with age (from 3 in 10 5-year-olds to 4.5 in 10 12-year-olds) and persistence (4.5 in 10 of those persistently cruel). Although childhood cruelty to animals is associated with maltreatment, not every child showing cruelty had been maltreated. The usefulness of cruelty to animals as a marker for maltreatment increases with the child's age, persistence of behavior, and poorer social background.


Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) reflects pathophysiological aspects of neurological diseases, where neuroprotective strategies and biomarkers are urgently needed. Therefore, biobanking is very relevant for biomarker discovery and evaluation of neurological diseases. Important and unique features of CSF biobanking are intensive collaboration in international networks and the tight application of standardized protocols. The current adoption of standardized protocols for CSF and blood collection as presented in this review enables biomarker studies in large cohorts of patients and controls. Another topic of this review is the selection of control groups, which influences the outcome of biomarker investigations. Control groups in CSF biobanks mainly consist of different disease controls. This is in part due to the fact that lumbar punctures are mostly performed for clinical indications and rarely for research purposes only, as it is a relatively invasive procedure. Moreover, there is a lack of homogenous criteria and definition of control groups. We therefore propose uniform consensus definitions for such control groups in biomarker research, i.e. Healthy controls (HC), Spinal anesthesia subjects (SAS), Symptomatic controls (SC), Inflammatory Neurological Disease Controls (CINDC), Peripheral Inflammatory Neurological Disease Controls (PINDC) and Non-inflammatory Neurological Disease Controls (NINDC). Another important aspect of CSF biobanking is quality control. Systematic studies to address effects of pre-analytical and storage variation on a broad range of CSF proteins are needed. In conclusion, biomarker research in neurodegenerative diseases has entered a new era due to the collaborative and multicenter efforts of many groups. The streamlining of biobanking procedures, including quality control, and the selection of optimal control groups for investigating biomarkers are important improvements to perform high quality biomarker studies.
The self-conscious emotions of guilt, shame, and pride typically occur when people evaluate their own self through the eyes of another person. This article will first of all discuss the nature and function of self-conscious emotions, and describe their developmental course in children and adolescents. Then, a number of variables are discussed that are thought to increase young people's proneness to experience self-conscious emotions. Following this, the empirical evidence on the relationships between guilt, shame, and pride and various types of psychopathology in children and adolescents will be summarized. A model is presented to explain why these self-conscious emotions are associated with a diversity of psychopathological outcomes. Finally, recommendations for clinical practice are made in terms of assessment and interventions targeting the origins and sequelae of self-conscious emotions.














The incidence of preterm birth is on the rise. The outcome of premature birth can vary widely, spanning completely normal development to severe neurologic deficits, with most children showing mild to moderate cognitive delay and increased incidence of neuropsychiatric conditions such as anxiety, attention deficit hyperactivity, and autism spectrum disorders. Several animal models have been employed to study the consequences of prematurity, one of the most promising being chronic perinatal hypoxia in mouse, which recapitulates the cognitive impairments, partial recovery over time and enhanced recovery with environmental enrichment.
This article introduces the basic concepts of modeling neonatal brain injury and provides background information regarding each of the commonly used types of stem cells. It summarizes the findings of preclinical research testing the therapeutic potential of stem cells in animal models of neonatal brain injury, reports briefly on the status of clinical trials, and discusses the important ongoing issues that need to be addressed before stem cell therapy is used to repair the injured brain.
Chorioamnionitis (or placental infection) is suspected to be a risk factor for brain injury in premature infants. The suggested association between chorioamnionitis and cystic periventricular leukomalacia and cerebral palsy is uncertain because of the variability of study designs and definitions of chorioamnionitis. Improvements in neonatal intensive care may have attenuated the impact of chorioamnionitis on brain health outcomes. Large multicenter studies using rigorous definitions of chorioamnionitis on placental pathologies and quantitative magnetic resonance techniques may offer the optimal way to clarify the complex role of chorioamnionitis in modifying brain health and long-term outcomes.
Increasing numbers of preterm neonates survive with motor and cognitive disabilities related to less destructive forms of cerebral injury that still result in reduced cerebral growth. White matter injury results in myelination disturbances related to aberrant responses to death of pre-myelinating oligodendrocytes (preOLs). PreOLs are rapidly regenerated but fail to mature to myelinating cells. Although immature projection neurons are more resistant to hypoxia-ischemia than preOLs, they display widespread disturbances in dendritic arbor maturation, which provides an explanation for impaired cerebral growth. Thus, large numbers of cells fail to fully mature during a critical window in development of neural circuitry. These recently recognized forms of cerebral gray and white matter dysmaturation suggest new therapeutic directions centered on reversal of the processes that promote dysmaturation.

Recent years have seen a near-doubling of the number of studies examining the effects of psychotherapies for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. The present article integrates this new evidence with the older literature through a quantitative meta-analysis. A total of 41 studies (with 2132 patients meeting diagnostic criteria for GAD) were identified through systematic searches in bibliographical databases, and were included in the meta-analysis. Most studies examined the effects of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT). The majority of studies used waiting lists as control condition. The pooled effect of the 38 comparisons (from 28 studies) of psychotherapy versus a control group was large (g=0.84; 95% CI: 0.71-0.97) with low to moderate heterogeneity. The effects based on self-report measures were somewhat lower than those based on clinician-rated instruments. The effects on depression were also large (g=0.71; 95% CI: 0.59-0.82). There were some indications for publication bias. The number of studies comparing CBT with other psychotherapies (e.g., applied relaxation) or pharmacotherapy was too small to draw conclusions about comparative effectiveness or the long-term effects. There were some indications that CBT was also effective at follow-up and that CBT was more effective than applied relaxation in the longer term.

Although recent studies have shown that catatonia can occur in patients with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), the overlap of the behavioral features between these disorders raises many diagnostic challenges. In fact, in clinical practice it is common to misinterpret catatonic symptoms, including mutism, stereotypic speech, repetitive behaviors, echolalia, posturing, mannerisms, purposeless agitation and rigidity, as features of ASDs. The current medical treatment algorithm for catatonia in ASDs recommends the use of benzodiazepines. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is indicated when patients are unresponsive, or insufficiently responsive, to benzodiazepines. Other pharmacological options are also described for the treatment of catatonic patients resistant to benzodiazepines and ECT, and there is evidence for the effectiveness of a psychological treatment, co-occurring with medical treatments, in order to support the management of these patients. In this article we provide a summary of studies exploring catatonia in ASDs and our clinical experience in the management and treatment of this syndrome through the presentation of three brief case studies. Moreover, we review the mechanisms underlying symptoms of catatonia in ASDs, as well as the diagnostic challenges, providing an outline for the management and treatment of this syndrome in this clinical population.
Despite its widespread use, the underlying mechanism of deep brain stimulation (DBS) remains unknown. Once thought to impart a &quot;functional inactivation&quot;, there is now increasing evidence showing that DBS actually can both inhibit neurons and activate axons, generating a wide range of effects. This implies that the mechanisms that underlie DBS work not only locally but also at the network level. Therefore, not only may DBS induce membrane or synaptic plastic changes in neurons over a wide network, but it may also trigger cellular and molecular changes in other cells, especially astrocytes, where, together, the glial-neuronal interactions may explain effects that are not clearly rationalized by simple activation/inhibition theories alone. Recent studies suggest that (1) high-frequency stimulation (HFS) activates astrocytes and leads to the release of gliotransmitters that can regulate surrounding neurons at the synapse; (2) activated astrocytes modulate synaptic activity and increase axonal activation; (3) activated astrocytes can signal further astrocytes across large networks, contributing to observed network effects induced by DBS; (4) activated astrocytes can help explain the disparate effects of activation and inhibition induced by HFS at different sites; (5) astrocytes contribute to synaptic plasticity through long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD), possibly helping to mediate the long-term effects of DBS; and (6) DBS may increase delta-opioid receptor activity in astrcoytes to confer neuroprotection. Together, the plastic changes in these glial-neuronal interactions network-wide likely underlie the range of effects seen, from the variable temporal latencies to observed effect to global activation patterns. This article reviews recent research progress in the literature on how astrocytes play a key role in DBS efficacy.
Why is it that behaviors that rely on control, so striking in their diversity and flexibility, are also subject to such striking limitations? Typically, people cannot engage in more than a few-and usually only a single-control-demanding task at a time. This limitation was a defining element in the earliest conceptualizations of controlled processing; it remains one of the most widely accepted axioms of cognitive psychology, and is even the basis for some laws (e.g., against the use of mobile devices while driving). Remarkably, however, the source of this limitation is still not understood. Here, we examine one potential source of this limitation, in terms of a trade-off between the flexibility and efficiency of representation (&quot;multiplexing&quot;) and the simultaneous engagement of different processing pathways (&quot;multitasking&quot;). We show that even a modest amount of multiplexing rapidly introduces cross-talk among processing pathways, thereby constraining the number that can be productively engaged at once. We propose that, given the large number of advantages of efficient coding, the human brain has favored this over the capacity for multitasking of control-demanding processes.

Isolating the short-term storage component of working memory (WM) from the myriad of associated executive processes has been an enduring challenge. Recent efforts have identified patterns of activity in visual regions that contain information about items being held in WM. However, it remains unclear (1) whether these representations withstand intervening sensory input and (2) how communication between multimodal association cortex and the unimodal perceptual regions supporting WM representations is involved in WM storage. We present evidence that the features of a face held in WM are stored within face-processing regions, that these representations persist across subsequent sensory input, and that information about the match between sensory input and a memory representation is relayed forward from perceptual to prefrontal regions. Participants were presented with a series of probe faces and indicated whether each probe matched a target face held in WM. We parametrically varied the feature similarity between the probe and target faces. Activity within face-processing regions scaled linearly with the degree of feature similarity between the probe face and the features of the target face, suggesting that the features of the target face were stored in these regions. Furthermore, directed connectivity measures revealed that the direction of information flow that was optimal for performance was from sensory regions that stored the features of the target face to dorsal prefrontal regions, supporting the notion that sensory input is compared to representations stored within perceptual regions and is subsequently relayed forward. Together, these findings indicate that WM storage operations are carried out within perceptual cortex.
A major difference between humans and other animals is our capacity to maintain information in working memory (WM) while performing secondary tasks, which enables sustained, complex cognition. A common assumption is that the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) is critical for WM performance in the presence of distracters, but direct evidence is scarce. We assessed the relationship between fMRI activity and WM performance within subjects, with performance matched across distracter and no-distracter conditions. Activity in the ventrolateral PFC during WM encoding and maintenance positively predicted performance in both conditions, whereas activity in the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) predicted performance only under distraction. Other parts of the dorsolateral and ventrolateral PFCs predicted performance only in the no-distracter condition. These findings challenge a lateral-PFC-centered view of distracter resistance, and suggest that the lateral PFC supports a type of WM representation that is efficient for dealing with task-irrelevant input but is, nonetheless, easily disrupted by dual-task demands.
The idea that similarity might be an engine of inductive inference dates back at least as far as David Hume. However, Hume's thesis is difficult to test without begging the question, since judgments of similarity may be infected by inferential processes. We present a one-parameter model of category-based induction that generates predictions about arbitrary statements of conditional probability over a predicate and a set of items. The prediction is based on the unconditional probabilities and similarities that characterize that predicate and those items. To test Hume's thesis, we collected brain activation from various regions of the ventral visual stream during a categorization task that did not invite comparison of categories. We then calculated the similarity of those activation patterns using a simple measure of vectorwise similarity and supplied those similarities to the model. The model's outputs correlated well with subjects' judgments of conditional probability. Our results represent a promising first step toward confirming Hume's thesis; similarity, assessed without reference to induction, may well drive inductive inference.
The goals of the present study were to assess the interrelationships among tasks from the MATRICS and CNTRACS batteries, to determine the degree to which tasks from each battery capture unique variance in cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia, and to determine the ability of tasks from each battery to predict functional outcome. Subjects were 104 schizophrenia patients and 132 healthy control subjects recruited as part of the CNTRACS initiative. All subjects completed four CNTRACS tasks and two tasks from the MATRICS battery: Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia Symbol Coding and the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test. Functional outcome was also assessed in the schizophrenia subjects. In both the patient and control groups, we found significant intercorrelations between all higher order cognitive tasks (episodic memory, goal maintenance, processing speed, verbal learning) but minimal relationships with the visual task. For almost all tasks, scores were significantly related to measures of functional outcome, with higher associations between CNTRACS tasks and performance-based measures of function and between one of the MATRICS tasks and self-reported functioning, relative to the other functioning measures. After regressing out variance shared by other tasks, we continued to observe group differences in performance among task residuals, particularly for measures of episodic memory from both batteries, although these residuals did not correlate as robustly with functional outcome as raw test scores. These findings suggest that there exists both shared and specific variance across cognitive tasks related to cognitive and functional impairments in schizophrenia and that measures derived from cognitive neuroscience can predict functional capacity and status in schizophrenia.
Behavioral research has revealed that some cognitive features may be similar between creative and psychotic/schizophrenic-like thoughts. In this study, we addressed the potential link between creativity and schizotypy at the level of the brain by investigating functional patterns of brain activity (using functional magnetic resonance imaging) during creative cognition in preselected groups with low versus high psychometrically determined schizotypy. Our findings revealed an association between the originality component of creativity and reduced deactivation of right parietal brain regions and the precuneus during creative cognition, congruent with the idea that more-creative people may include many more events/stimuli in their mental processes than do less-creative people. Similarly, the high-schizotypy group showed weaker deactivation of the right precuneus during creative cognition. The fact that originality and schizotypy show similar functional brain activity patterns during creative ideation (i.e., reduced deactivation of the right precuneus) strongly supports the contention that similar mental processes may be implicated in creativity and in psychosis proneness.
Empathy is a highly flexible and adaptive process that allows for the interplay of prosocial behavior in many different social contexts. Empathy appears to be a very situated cognitive process, embedded with specific contextual cues that trigger different automatic and controlled responses. In this review, we summarize relevant evidence regarding social context modulation of empathy for pain. Several contextual factors, such as stimulus reality and personal experience, affectively link with other factors, emotional cues, threat information, group membership, and attitudes toward others to influence the affective, sensorimotor, and cognitive processing of empathy. Thus, we propose that the frontoinsular-temporal network, the so-called social context network model (SCNM), is recruited during the contextual processing of empathy. This network would (1) update the contextual cues and use them to construct fast predictions (frontal regions), (2) coordinate the internal (body) and external milieus (insula), and (3) consolidate the context-target associative learning of empathic processes (temporal sites). Furthermore, we propose these context-dependent effects of empathy in the framework of the frontoinsular-temporal network and examine the behavioral and neural evidence of three neuropsychiatric conditions (Asperger syndrome, schizophrenia, and the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia), which simultaneously present with empathy and contextual integration impairments. We suggest potential advantages of a situated approach to empathy in the assessment of these neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as their relationship with the SCNM.
Fundamental biases in affective information processing are modulated by individual differences in the emotional response to environmental stimuli that may be partly based on the individual's genetic make-up. To extend prior dot probe studies on attention genetics, we used a visual-search paradigm (VSP) with pictures of angry and happy faces of both sexes as targets, neutral faces as distractors, and a varying set size. Participants were selected a priori depending on their 5-HTTLPR (s/s, s/l, l/l; on a constant rs25531 A-allele background) and COMTval158met (val/val, valmet, met/met) genotypes and were matched for sex and age. We demonstrate a bias towards angry male faces (as opposed to happy male faces) irrespective of 5-HTTLPR genotype in the first experimental block that was maintained during the second experimental block only in carriers of the s-allele, which implies differential habituation processes. While a bias towards angry male faces was observed irrespective of COMTval158met genotype, only individuals with the val/val genotype exhibited a bias towards a happy female face (as opposed to an angry female face). In sum, our results both replicate and extend prior findings in the field of attention genetics and add important pieces of information to the research on attentional biases in emotion processing.
It has been proposed that we make sense of the movements of others by observing fluctuations in the kinematic properties of their actions. At the neural level, activity in the human motion complex (hMT+) and posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) has been implicated in this relationship. However, previous neuroimaging studies have largely utilized brief, diminished stimuli, and the role of relevant kinematic parameters for the processing of human action remains unclear. We addressed this issue by showing extended-duration natural displays of an actor engaged in two common activities, to 12 participants in an fMRI study under passive viewing conditions. Our region-of-interest analysis focused on three neural areas (hMT+, pSTS, and fusiform face area) and was accompanied by a whole-brain analysis. The kinematic properties of the actor, particularly the speed of body part motion and the distance between body parts, were related to activity in hMT+ and pSTS. Whole-brain exploratory analyses revealed additional areas in posterior cortex, frontal cortex, and the cerebellum whose activity was related to these features. These results indicate that the kinematic properties of peoples' movements are continually monitored during everyday activity as a step to determining actions and intent.
Little is known about the time course of processes supporting episodic cued recall. To examine these processes, we recorded event-related scalp electrical potentials during episodic cued recall following pair-associate learning of unimodal object-picture pairs and crossmodal object-picture and sound pairs. Successful cued recall of unimodal associates was characterized by markedly early scalp potential differences over frontal areas, while cued recall of both unimodal and crossmodal associates were reflected by subsequent differences recorded over frontal and parietal areas. Notably, unimodal cued recall success divergences over frontal areas were apparent in a time window generally assumed to reflect the operation of familiarity but not recollection processes, raising the possibility that retrieval success effects in that temporal window may reflect additional mnemonic processes beyond familiarity. Furthermore, parietal scalp potential recall success differences, which did not distinguish between crossmodal and unimodal tasks, seemingly support attentional or buffer accounts of posterior parietal mnemonic function but appear to constrain signal accumulation, expectation, or representational accounts.
Failing to remember whether we performed, or merely imagined performing, an everyday action can occasionally be inconvenient, but in some circumstances it can have potentially dangerous consequences. In this fMRI study, we investigated the brain activity patterns, and objective and subjective behavioral measures, associated with recollecting such everyday actions. We used an ecologically valid &quot;reality-monitoring&quot; paradigm in which participants performed, or imagined performing, specified actions with real objects drawn from one of two boxes. Lateral brain areas, including prefrontal cortex, were active when participants recollected both the actions that had been associated with objects and the locations from which they had been drawn, consistent with a general role in source recollection. By contrast, medial prefrontal and motor regions made more specific contributions, with supplementary motor cortex activity being associated with recollection decisions about actions but not locations, and medial prefrontal cortex exhibiting greater activity when remembering performed rather than imagined actions. These results support a theoretical interpretation of reality monitoring that entails the fine-grained discrimination between multiple forms of internally and externally generated information.
In two experiments, we demonstrated that an asymmetric effect of the brain electric activity that is elicited by nonattended visual stimuli is similar to the one found in responses observed in the performance of visual search tasks. The automatic detection of violated sequential regularities was investigated by measuring the visual mismatch negativity (vMMN) component of event-related brain potentials (ERPs). In Experiment 1, within a sequence of stimulus displays with O characters, infrequently presented Q characters elicited an earlier vMMN than did infrequent O characters within a sequence of Q characters. In Experiment 2, similar asymmetric results emerged if only 16% of the characters were different within an infrequent display. In both experiments, these stimuli were irrelevant; during the stimulus sequences, participants performed a demanding videogame. We suggest that the underlying match/mismatch and decision processes are similar in the vMMN and in the attention-related visual search paradigm, at least in the case of the stimuli in the present experiments.
Clinical analyses of patients with acquired dysgraphia provide unique opportunities to understand the cognitive and neural organization of written language production. We report J.B., a 50-year-old woman with peripheral dysgraphia who had prominent dissociations in her ability to write in lowercase versus uppercase and print versus cursive. We gave J.B. a series of tasks that evaluated her skills at writing uppercase and lowercase print and cursive, spelling aloud and in writing, writing numbers and symbols, and visual letter recognition and imagery. She was impaired in printing letters, with lowercase more affected than uppercase, but her cursive writing was relatively intact. This pattern was consistent across letter, word, and nonword writing tasks. She was unimpaired on tasks assessing her visual recognition and imagery of lowercase and uppercase letters. Her writing of numbers was preserved. J.B.'s handwriting disorder was accompanied by a central phonological dysgraphia. Our findings indicate functional independence of graphomotor programs for print and cursive letter styles and for letters and numbers. We discuss the relationship between peripheral and central writing disorders.


From 1868, when Charcot first described the clinical features and the pathologic correlates, up till the present day, multiple sclerosis (MS) has commonly been characterized by the symptoms caused by inflammatory plaques in the white matter of the brain and spinal cord. Early use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to diagnose MS focused on detecting these white matter lesions. By the 1990s, researchers recognized that many patients with MS have cognitive deficits that can cause severe disability, and also determined the associated pathology; these findings shed more light on both the pathogenesis and progression. Since 2004, several lines of evidence have shown that the extent of white matter plaques identified on MRI does not correlate well with cognitive deficits. High-resolution MRI and advances in immunohistochemical techniques have enabled detection of cortical demyelination early in the course, correlating with cognitive deficits. Late in the course, pathologic changes in normal-looking white and gray matter correlate more closely with progressive cognitive deficits than with visual, sensory, and motor symptoms. This finding implies the need to redefine the disease and its progression. In this review, we discuss the histopathologic studies of cortical plaques in MS and early indications about their role in disease definition and progression, describe the role of high-resolution MRI in staging and determining progression of cognitive symptoms, and discuss how advances in these areas are forcing us to rethink diagnosis and determination of progression.
Numerical skills have been extensively studied in terms of their development and pathological decline, but whether they change in healthy ageing is not well known. Longer exposure to numbers and quantity-related problems may progressively refine numerical skills, similar to what happens to other cognitive abilities like verbal memory. Alternatively, number skills may be sensitive to ageing, reflecting either a decline of number processing itself or of more auxiliary cognitive abilities that are involved in number tasks. To distinguish between these possibilities we tested 30 older and 30 younger participants on an established numerosity discrimination task requiring to judge which of two sets of items is more numerous, and on arithmetical tasks. Older participants were remarkably accurate in performing arithmetical tasks although their numerosity discrimination (also known as 'number acuity') was impaired. Further analyses indicate that this impairment was limited to numerosity trials requiring inhibiting information incongruent to numerosity (e.g., fewer but larger items), and that this also correlated with poor inhibitory processes measured by standard tests. Therefore, rather than a numerical impairment, poor numerosity discrimination is likely to reflect elderly's impoverished inhibitory processes. This conclusion is supported by simulations with a recent neuro-computational model of numerosity perception, where only the specific degradation of inhibitory processes produced a pattern that closely resembled older participants' performance. Numeracy seems therefore resilient to ageing but it is influenced by the decline of inhibitory processes supporting number performance, consistent with the 'Inhibitory Deficit' Theory.
Movies, vacations, and meals are all examples of events composed of a sequence of smaller events. How do we go from our evaluations of each scene in a movie to an evaluation of the sequence as a whole? In theory, we should simply average the values of the individual events. In practice, however, we are biased towards sequences where each element tends to be better than the previous, where the last value is large, and we overweight the best (or worst) part of the sequence. To study how general these biases are we examined monkeys' preferences for sequences of rewards in a novel reward repeat task. Monkeys were first given a sequence of rewards and then chose between repeating the sequence or receiving a standard comparator sequence. We found that, like humans, monkeys overweight events that happen later in a sequence, so much so that adding a small reward to the end of a sequence can paradoxically reduce its value. Monkeys were also biased towards sequences with large peak values (the highest value in the sequence), but only following a working memory challenge, suggesting that this preference may be driven by memory limitations. These results demonstrate the cross-species nature of biases in preferences for sequences of outcomes. In addition, monkeys' consistent preference for sequences in which large values occur later challenges the generality of discounting models of intertemporal choice in animals.
The uncanny valley hypothesis states that the acceptability of an artificial character will not increase linearly in relation to its likeness to human form. Instead, after an initial rise in acceptability there will be a pronounced decrease when the character is similar, but not identical to human form (Mori, 1970/2012). Moreover, it has been claimed but never directly tested that movement would accentuate this dip and make moving characters less acceptable. We used a number of full-body animated computer characters along with a parametrically defined motion set to examine the effect of motion quality on the uncanny valley. We found that improving the motion quality systematically improved the acceptability of the characters. In particular, the character classified in the deepest location of the uncanny valley became more acceptable when it was animated. Our results showed that although an uncanny valley was found for static characters, the deepening of the valley with motion, originally predicted by Mori (1970/2012), was not obtained.
The Cell screening facility for personalized medicine (CSFPM) at Tel Aviv University in Israel is devoted to screening small molecules libraries for finding new drugs for rare diseases using human cell based models. The main strategy of the facility is based on smartly reducing the size of the compounds collection in similarity clusters and at the same time keeping high diversity of pharmacophores. This strategy allows parallel screening of several patient derived - cells in a personalized screening approach. The tested compounds are repositioned drugs derived from collections of phase III and FDA approved small molecules. In addition, the facility carries screenings using other chemical libraries and toxicological characterizations of nanomaterials.



Previous studies have shown that the amygdala (AMG) plays a role in how affective signals are processed. Animal research has allowed this role to be better understood and has assigned to the basolateral amygdala (BLA) an important role in threat perception. Here we show that, when passively exposed to bodily threat signals during a facial expressions recognition task, humans with bilateral BLA damage but with a functional central-medial amygdala (CMA) have a profound deficit in ignoring task-irrelevant bodily threat signals.

The physiological basis for musical hallucinations (MH) is not understood. One obstacle to understanding has been the lack of a method to manipulate the intensity of hallucination during the course of experiment. Residual inhibition, transient suppression of a phantom percept after the offset of a masking stimulus, has been used in the study of tinnitus. We report here a human subject whose MH were residually inhibited by short periods of music. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) allowed us to examine variation in the underlying oscillatory brain activity in different states. Source-space analysis capable of single-subject inference defined left-lateralised power increases, associated with stronger hallucinations, in the gamma band in left anterior superior temporal gyrus, and in the beta band in motor cortex and posteromedial cortex. The data indicate that these areas form a crucial network in the generation of MH, and are consistent with a model in which MH are generated by persistent reciprocal communication in a predictive coding hierarchy.
The aims of this study were to investigate regional white matter microstructural differences between very preterm (VPT) (&lt;30 weeks' gestational age and/or &lt;1250g) and full term (FT) (37 weeks' gestational age) infants at term corrected age with diffusion tensor imaging, and to explore perinatal predictors of diffusion measures, and the relationship between regional diffusion measures and neurodevelopmental outcomes at age 7 years in VPT children. Mean (MD) (p=.003), axial (AD) (p=.008), and radial diffusivity (RD) (p=.003) in total white matter were increased in VPT compared with FT infants, with similar fractional anisotropy (FA) in the two groups. There was little evidence that group-wise differences were specific to any of the 8 regions studied for each hemisphere. Perinatal white matter abnormality and intraventricular hemorrhage (grade III or IV) were associated with increased diffusivity in the white matter of VPT infants. Higher white matter diffusivity measures of the inferior occipital and cerebellar region at term-equivalent age were associated with increased risk of impairments in motor and executive function at 7 years in VPT children, but there was little evidence for associations with IQ or memory impairment. In conclusion, myelination is likely disrupted or delayed in VPT infants, especially those with perinatal brain abnormality (BA). Altered diffusivity at term-equivalent age helps explain impaired functioning at 7 years. This study defines the nature of microstructural alterations in VPT infant white matter, assists in understanding the associated risk factors, and is the first study to reveal an important link between inferior occipital and cerebellar white matter disorganization in infancy, and executive and motor functioning 7 years later.




A surfeit of errors and an absence of sufficiently rigorous neuroscience theory have led to failures of neuroscience drug developments and to less effective patient care. Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires systematic grounding of drug developments with mechanistic explanations to replace current trial and error approaches to the development of potential drug products. We foresee the need for regulatory revisions that will provide better balanced supports for advancing the AD scientific knowledge required to more effectively develop clinically useful drugs and for provisions to patients of drug candidates soundly predicted, based on documented effects on AD neuropathologies and safety, to slow or arrest the progression of persons at-risk to AD dementia. We propose that investigators and regulators focus AD clinical research on understanding the inductions of reversible and irreversible neuropathologies and their roles in generating clinical dementia. In support of this, we foresee the need for regulatory changes to create a vehicle for these clinical studies; for example, conditional drug approvals based on drug induced neuropathological changes.
It is now widely accepted that the brain makes important contributions to the dysregulated glucose metabolism, altered feeding behaviors, and the obesity often seen in type 2 diabetes (T2D). Although studies focusing on genetic, cellular, and molecular regulatory elements in pancreas, liver, adipose tissue etc provide a good understanding of how these processes relate to T2D, our knowledge of how brain wiring patterns are organized is much less developed. This article discusses animal studies that illustrate the importance of understanding the network organization of those brain regions most closely implicated in T2D. It will describe the brain networks, as well as the methodologies used to explore them. To illustrate some of the gaps in our knowledge, we will discuss the connectional network of the ventromedial nucleus and its adjacent cell groups in the hypothalamus; structures that are widely recognized as key elements in the brain's ability to control glycemia, feeding, and body weight.
Huntington's disease (HD) clinical manifestations begin insidiously and are progressively incapacitating. Symptomatic therapies, in particular dopamine blockers and neuroleptics, are presently the only treatment for HD. Identification of neuropathological mechanisms that underlie the selective striatal and cortical neurodegeneration has allowed for the development of novel neuroprotective therapies that may improve HD patients' quality of life and enhance their survival. In this review we describe the symptomatic and neuroprotective therapies in HD that are currently in a preclinical or clinical stage. Neuroprotective therapies can act at several stages of HD, namely through: i) transcription modulation, ii) regulation of neurotrophic factors levels, iii) inhibition of metabolic dysfunction through metabolic enhancers, iv) apoptosis inhibition, v) autophagy regulation, vi) transglutaminase inhibition, and/or vii) modulation of neurotransmitter receptors. Moreover, emerging therapies in HD, including gene therapy using siRNA and shRNA to silence CAG repeats or deep brain stimulation, have shown promising results. Although most of the therapies are at a pre-clinical stage, phase II-III clinical trials have been performed for each pathophysiological mechanism of the disease. Thus, efforts should continue to ensure that effective therapies are studied and tested to help mitigate HD.
Stress initiates a cascade of complex neural and peripheral changes that promote healthy adaption to stress, but when unabated, leads to pathology. Fascinating individual differences arise in the ability to cope with a stressor, rendering an individual more or less likely to develop stress-induced pathologies such as depression, anxiety, and cardiovascular disease. In this review we evaluate recent findings that investigate the neural underpinnings of adopting a passive or active coping response during social defeat stress. Because passive coping is associated with vulnerability to stress-related pathologies and active coping confers resiliency, understanding neurobiological adaptations associated with these diverse coping strategies may reveal biomarkers or targets impacting stress susceptibility. The co-occurrence of stress-induced depression and cardiovascular disease is becoming increasingly clear. Therefore this review focuses on the central mechanisms capable of contributing to psychopathology and cardiovascular disease such as corticotropin releasing factor, neuropeptide Y, monoamines, cytokines and oxidative stress. The impetus for this review is to highlight neurobiological systems that warrant further evaluation for their contribution to the pathophysiology of depression-cardiovascular disease comorbidity.


